March 11, 2021||Business||Telecom companies will be allowed to install only govt approved gears from June 15||NEW DELHI: The government on Wednesday amended telecom licence norms that will enable it to control the installation of network equipment from non-trusted sources. With effect from June 15, telecom operators will be required to take permission from the National Cyber Security Coordinator (NCSC) for up-gradation of existing networks, utilising the telecom equipment not designated as trusted products. According to the license amendment, the NCSC will be the designated authority that can impose conditions for the procurement of telecom equipment on the grounds of "Defence of India" or matters directly related to national security. "Designated authority shall notify the categories of equipment for which the security related to Trusted sources are applicable. For the said categories of equipment designated authority shall notify the trusted sources along with the associated telecommunication equipment (trusted products)," according to the amendment. It will help the government control sourcing of products from China and other non-friendly countries. The NCSC may also notify a list of designated sources from whom no procurement can be done. "With effect from June 15, 2021, the licences, shall only connect trusted products in its network and also seek permission from the designated authority for up-gradation of an existing network utilising the telecommunication equipment not designated as trusted products. "However, these directions will not affect ongoing annual maintenance contracts or updates to existing equipment already induced in the network as on date of effect," the amendment notification said. While the government has not barred procurement of equipment from Chinese companies, it amended the general financial rules (GFR) 2017 to enable the imposition of restrictions on bidders in public procurement from countries that share a land border with India on grounds of defence of India, or matters directly or indirectly related thereto, including national security. Public companies need to scrap tenders if a qualified bidder is from a country that shares a land border with India, which includes China. J Sagar Associates partner Tony Verghese said that the amendment of the telecom licenses by the DoT regarding the procurement of telecom equipment was an expected move in light of the 5G auctions. "The recent incidents allegedly by Chinese hackers have definitely hastened the process with the government inclined towards a new national strategy to strengthen the country's security. "Telecom equipment's play a vital role in telecom connectivity and data transfer, which has a direct impact on the national security of India. Therefore, such a policy decision, which definitely impacts significant market players, clearly conveys the government's stand on national security," Verghese said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/telecom-companies-will-be-allowed-to-instal-only-govt-approved-gears-from-june-15/articleshow/81437200.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Business||Dow hits record high as inflation fears recede after data||NEW DELHI: The blue-chip Dow index hit a record high on Wednesday after tepid consumer prices data for February eased concerns about a spike in inflation and elevated bond yields. Accelerated vaccine rollouts and a monster fiscal stimulus on the horizon have raised bets on higher inflation, triggering a spike in Treasury yields that pushed the tech-heavy Nasdaq down as much as 12% from its February 12 record close last week. On Wednesday, the 10-year US Treasury yield slipped from its session highs after data indicated the core consumer prices index, which excludes volatile items such as food and energy, rose less than expected last month. Focus is on an auction of US 10-year bonds later in the day for clues to where yields in the recently volatile market may be headed. “Markets are rising on three factors - tame inflation, passage of the coronavirus aid package and a strong rally in tech stocks in the previous session,” said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Spartan Capital Securities in New York. “We have a bond auction up ahead which is expected to go well. If it’s a sloppy auction we could see yields rise again and that could take some enthusiasm out of the market.” Meanwhile, bank strategists are raising their estimates for U.S. corporate profitability this year following surprisingly strong fourth-quarter earnings and growing optimism about an economic rebound. At 11:46 am ET, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 376.12 points, or 1.18%, to 32,208.86, the S&P 500 gained 23.42 points, or 0.60%, to 3,898.86 and the Nasdaq Composite gained 28.50 points, or 0.21%, to 13,102.33. The Nasdaq extended gains after logging its best one-day percentage jump in four months on Tuesday, helped by a rise in momentum stocks that had recently taken a beating due to higher yields. Amazon.com Inc, Microsoft Corp and Tesla Inc extended gains by 0.3% to 1.7% from the previous session, while economy-linked industrial, materials and financial indexes hovered near record highs. The chunk of a $1.9 trillion relief aid, which could win final approval at the US House of Representatives on Wednesday, could end up in the stock market and could provide a boost for GameStop and other stocks popular among retail investors active in online social media forums. Shares of GameStop jumped another 33%, setting the videogame retailer on track for its longest streak of daily gains in six months and extending a rally that has already doubled the company’s market value. Among other “meme” stocks, Koss Corp and AMC Entertainment jumped 104% and 13%. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by a 2.6-to-1 ratio on the NYSE and by a 1.9-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq. The S&P 500 posted 30 new 52-week highs and no new lows, while the Nasdaq recorded 302 new highs and 27 new lows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/dow-hits-record-high-as-inflation-fears-recede-after-data/articleshow/81437346.cms||---
March 11, 2021||World||UK rejects EU claims of vaccine blocking||LONDON: Britain's Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday rejected claims from European Council chief Charles Michel that the country had imposed a ban on Covid vaccine exports. "Let me be clear, we have not blocked the export of a single Covid-19 vaccine or vaccine components," he told parliament. "This pandemic has put us all on the same side in the battle for global health. We oppose vaccine nationalism in all its forms." Johnson's comments came after London summoned an EU diplomat and wrote to Michel to protest about his claim made in a newsletter. Michel wrote that the UK and US had "imposed an outright ban on the export of vaccines or vaccine components produced on their territory". Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab called the claims "completely false" and Michel later backtracked. But Nicole Mannion, deputy head of the EU mission to the UK, was summoned to the foreign ministry for a meeting to "set the record straight" on Wednesday morning. A European official told AFP on condition of anonymity that a response was being prepared. The EU maintains that while it exports 30 percent of its vaccines, Britain has failed to publish any data for its own deliveries elsewhere. The UK insists it is one of the leading donors to the UN's Covax vaccination programme, which has started rolling out in Africa. The row is the latest in a series of ugly vaccine spats since Britain fully completed its EU departure in January. More than 22.5 million people have so far received a first jab in Britain -- one of the highest numbers in the world. But the EU is under pressure over its own inoculation strategy, and has partly blamed the Anglo-Swedish firm AstraZeneca for failing to fulfil its order because of production issues. Brussels, Dublin and London were plunged into chaos on January 29 when the EU unveiled plans to unilaterally undo elements of the Brexit deal governing Northern Ireland to stop vaccines from leaving the bloc. The special post-Brexit trade rules -- painstakingly negotiated since Britain's 2016 decision to split from the bloc to guarantee peace in Northern Ireland -- had been operating for less than one month. An outcry from Britain, Ireland and Northern Ireland forced the EU into a speedy U-turn -- reversing a plan now widely considered to have been a diplomatic bungle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-rejects-eu-claims-of-vaccine-blocking/articleshow/81438065.cms||---
March 11, 2021||India||Farmers call for Bharat bandh on March 26 to mark 4 months of protest: Key developments||NEW DELHI: To mark completion of four months of their agitation against the three Central farm laws, the protesting farmers on Wednesday gave a call for Bharat bandh on March 26. The farmers will observe “Mandi bachao, kheti bachao’ on March 19. Meanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said he would visit West Bengal, which is going to polls, later this week and appeal to the farmers to defeat the BJP. Here are the key developments of the day: 1. Farmer unions called for a Bharat bandh on March 26, when their protest at Delhi's borders against the Centre's three new farm laws completes four months. Farmer leader Buta Singh Burjgill said farmers along with trade unions will protest the hike in fuel prices and privatisation of railways on March 15. "We will observe a complete Bharat bandh on March 26, when our protest against the three farm laws completes four months. The peaceful bandh will remain effective from morning till evening," he told reporters at the Singhu border. On March 19, the farmers will observe "Mandi Bachao-Kheti Bachao" day, he said. The farmer unions have also decided to celebrate ‘Shaheedi divas' of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev, Burjgill added. Farmers leaders also said that copies of the new farm laws will be burnt during ‘Holika Dahan' on March 28. 2. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said he will go to Kolkata this week to urge farmers to defeat the BJP in the West Bengal Assembly elections, but claimed he is not supporting any political party. Farmers are distressed, and election will be discussed with them, Tikait said, adding that he is not going to West Bengal to seek votes. "I will go to Kolkata on March 13. The clarion call for a decisive struggle will come from Kolkata. We will talk to farmers there and urge them to defeat the BJP," the BKU leader said. He was in Ballia to address a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat'. Replying to a query if he would meet West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Tikait said there was no such programme. The farmer leader said a call has already been made to defeat the BJP in the five Assembly elections scheduled to begin from March 27, but asserted that he would not support any political party. 3. The Delhi Police has strengthened security along the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border to prevent any possible repeat of the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade on January 26, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy said. The minister's written reply in the Rajya Sabha came in response to a question from AAP member Narain Dass Gupta on whether nails were fixed on the road at the farmers' protest site near the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. Reddy said the Delhi Police has informed that on January 26, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha broke the barricades, in violation of permission granted for taking out Kisan tractor parade on a mutually accepted route and it proceeded towards central Delhi despite being stopped at other barricades inside the city and broke those barricades as well. "In view of this experience, and the manner in which the protesting farmers used tractors as weapons for breaking the barricades and injuring policemen, the barricades at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border were strengthened to prevent any possible repeat of the conduct displayed on January 26," he said. 4. Senior BJP leader Harjit Singh Grewal accused the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), the apex religious body of Sikhs, of going against its mandate by getting involved in the ongoing farmers' agitation and giving it a religious colour. SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur hit back saying the religious body is well aware of its duties and that Grewal should keep his advice to himself. In a letter to Kaur, a copy of which was released to the media, Grewal took strong exception to her recent announcement that the SGPC will set up tin sheds and provide fans for the convenience of farmers protesting at Delhi borders. The BJP leader said, "The prime role of the SGPC is to manage the affairs of the gurdwaras. Being a purely religious body, by getting involved in the farmers' agitation, which comprises farmers from all religions and castes, the SGPC is going completely against the mandate given to it under 'The Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925' and 'Punjab Act 8 of 1925'... Not only the SGPC is going beyond its brief by doing all this but it is also giving the farmers' agitation a religious colour, which is extremely unfortunate and uncalled for." 5. The Punjab Assembly passed a resolution condemning the ED raid on rebel AAP member Sukhpal Singh Khaira. The resolution was brought by parliamentary affairs minister Brahm Mohindra in the Budget session in Chandigarh. Mohindra said the resolution was brought with the permission of chief minister Amarinder Singh. "This house expresses concern on the current role of the central agencies such as CBI, ED which have been set up to ensure transparency in public life. Unfortunately, there have been apparent instances wherein these agencies have been used to harass innocent people including farmers, artists and politically elected representatives and even some government officials," said Mohindra. 6. Rajya Sabha proceedings were disrupted for the third day in a row as the Congress and other opposition parties created an uproar demanding a discussion on three new farm laws of the Centre. The proceedings were first adjourned till 12 noon and then again till 2 pm after the opposition members trooped into the Well of the House raising slogans. Repeated pleas by chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and then by deputy chairman Harivansh to restore order went unheeded as the opposition members continued to create a ruckus in the House. The House will meet next on Monday. Soon after the laying of papers, leader of opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said notices have been given under Rule 267 for the suspension of the listed business for the day to discuss the three farm laws and issues related to farmers. As the opposition members raised slogans demanding withdrawal of the three farm laws, the chairman "disallowed" the notices, saying the issue was discussed in the first leg of the ongoing Budget Session. He asked the agitating members to return to their seats and said the farmers' issue could be discussed during the debate on appropriation bills and finance bills. "I request you to allow under Rule 267 to discuss this issue...till then it will not be fair...without taking notice of this, we cannot proceed. So we request that you suspend all the rules and take it," Kharge said. Naidu said he has gone through the notices given by Deepender Singh Hooda, Rajeev Satav, Partap Singh Bajwa (all three from the Congress), Manoj Kumar Jha (RJD) and Tiruchi Siva (DMK) about the need to discuss the farmers' issue and to suspend all other business of the House. "About these notices, I would like to say that this House, in this session itself, in the first part, has discussed farmers' issues and the farmers' agitation...I have disallowed the notice," the chairman said. 7. The Congress accused the government of disregarding parliamentary convention by not allowing the opposition to raise issues and said violation of the practice is striking at the root of democracy. It alleged that the opposition's voice was being "throttled" in Parliament and the government was not cooperating but instead throwing the constitutional rules and procedures in "tatters". Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge, who is also the leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha, attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accusing him of indulging in "self promotion" and said "there was a limit to getting oneself photographed". Congress leader Deepender Hooda said matters of urgent national importance are taken up under Rule 267. "Government has not said one word of sympathy for the protesting farmers who died during the agitation. No condolence should be shown to them," he said referring to around 300 farmers who died. Hooda alleged that the government first dubbed farmers as terrorists, then no condolences were given, their demands were trashed and today even the demand for a discussion was not taken up. 8. The three farm laws enacted by the Centre are aimed at benefitting big businessmen, former Rajya Sabha MP and in-charge of Himachal Pradesh Congress Rajeev Shukla said in Shimla. Addressing the party's “Jan Aakrosh Rally” at Chaura Maidan, Shukla also accused the central government of doing injustice to farmers. He said a large number of farmers have been camping at Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protests against the farm laws for over 100 days, but the Narendra Modi government has been oblivious of their plight. Recalling Prime Minister Modi's slogan “Desh nahi bikane dunga”, Shukla said the central government is now trying to sell public sector units created with people's money in the last 70 years. 9. Delhi Police has registered 38 cases against people, including foreigners, following the January 26 violence in the capital during the farmers' protests, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy informed the Lok Sabha. Delhi Police has informed that no road has been dug up at the city's borders in view of the agitation but security is strengthened, the minister said. "The Delhi Police has informed that 38 cases have been registered against the persons, including foreigners, who violated various legal provisions, including cyber crime, recently in Delhi, while protesting in the name of farm laws," he said replying to a written question. The minister said Delhi Police had informed that the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha broke barricades on Republic Day in violation of the permission granted for taking out a tractor parade on a mutually accepted route. He said the protestors proceeded towards Central Delhi despite being stopped at other barricades inside the city and broke those barricades as well. (With agency inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-call-for-bharat-bandh-on-march-26-to-mark-4-months-of-protest/articleshow/81438734.cms||---
March 11, 2021||India||‘Dark horse’ Tirath Singh Rawat is Uttarakhand’s 10th CM||DEHRADUN: The five-day-long political turmoil that led to Trivendra Singh Rawat resigning from the CM’s post on Tuesday ended with Pauri MP Tirath Singh Rawat taking over as the 10th CM of Uttarakhand. He was administered the oath of office by governor Baby Rani Maurya on Wednesday evening. Earlier, amid intense speculations on who would be chosen by the BJP leadership for the top post, Rawat, 56, emerged as the dark horse. Other names in circulation for the CM’s chair were those of Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj and higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat among others. Tirath Rawat, whose name was proposed by Trivendra Rawat at the legislative party meeting held at the BJP office in Balbir Road, is a close aide of former CM BC Khanduri and a former member of RSS and ABVP. Regarded as a grassroot politician, he is said to have a good understanding of the party’s organisational set-up, which is why as per insiders he was chosen for the key post just as the BJP is gearing up for assembly polls to be held next year. Rawat has served as the first education minister of Uttarakhand, BJP state president, the party’s state general secretary as well as BJP’s national secretary. He was MLA from Chaubattakhal in Pauri from 2012 to 2017, and opted out of the race in favour of Satpal Maharaj in the 2017 assembly polls. In 2019, he was fielded as BJP candidate from Pauri Lok Sabha seat against his mentor BC Khanduri’s son Manish Khanduri who was fighting on a Congress ticket. He won the seat with over 3 lakh votes, one of the biggest victory margins during the polls. Soon after being named CM, Tirath Rawat said, “I am grateful to the Prime Minister and my party for giving me this opportunity. I will make my best efforts to live up to their expectations and continue the positive works done by Trivendra Singh Rawat in the last four years.” PM Narendra Modi, while congratulating Tirath Rawat, said in a tweet: “He brings with him vast administrative and organisational experience. I am confident under his leadership, Uttarakhand will continue to scale new heights of progress.” After being administered the oath of office, Tirath Rawat chaired a meeting of officials during which he reviewed preparations for the first shahi snan at the Haridwar Maha Kumbh on the occasion of Maha Shivaratri on Thursday.  In his first decision as CM, Tirath Rawat said, “Flower petals would be showered from a helicopter on devotees coming for the first shahi snan.” He also instructed officials to take all possible precautions in the conduct of the festival while ensuring that devotees as well as seers are not inconvenienced. Watch Tirath Singh Rawat takes oath as Uttarakhand chief minister||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dark-horse-tirath-singh-rawat-is-uttarakhands-10th-cm/articleshow/81439028.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 11, 2021||Business||Government seeks to firewall telecom infra from Chinese threat||NEW DELHI: In a move that will restrict the business of top Chinese vendors such as Huawei and ZTE in India’s 4G telecom expansion and the upcoming 5G, the government on Wednesday took decisive steps towards securing the mobile eco-system by making amendments to the license rules, mandating that post June 15, equipment can be procured only from ‘trusted’ sources that have been approved by a Designated Authority. The move comes amidst growing concerns in the government over “meddling by Chinese elements” into India’s critical infrastructure. “The current amendments have been necessitated by the need to secure the vital and burgeoning Indian telecom space from untrusted vendors and unwanted elements,” top officials told TOI, requesting anonymity. Also, the government is said to be unhappy with some Indian mobile telecom operators who continued to source telecom network gear from Chinese companies despite the growing tensions between the two countries and in the face of clear indication from the telecom department to go slow on business and collaborations with the neighbouring nation, the officials added. The amendment issued by the Department of Telecom (DoT) on Wednesday said, “With effect from June 15, the licensee (telecom companies) shall only connect ‘trusted products’ in its network and also seek permission from the Designated Authority for upgradation of existing network utilising the telecom equipment not designated as trusted sources.” In December, the government had said that it would prepare a list of “trusted sources”, a move aimed at countering the rising threat of Chinese equipment, after the cabinet committee on security approved the National Security Directive for telecom. As part of the policy, the National Cyber Security Coordinator will act as the Designated Authority and also notify a list of sources from whom “no procurement” can be done. The notification regarding the amendment said, “The government through the Designated Authority will have the right to impose conditions for procurement of telecommunication equipment on grounds of defence of India, or matters directly or indirectly related to thereto, for national security.” Amendment won’t hit ongoing contractsThe Designated Authority will soon be notifying the categories of equipment for which the security requirement related to trusted sources are applicable. Also, it would notify the associated telecommunication equipment or the so-called ‘trusted products’ that can be deployed. All the telecom companies are mandated to provide any type of information that would be sought on the matter. The amendment, however, said that the changes would not impact ongoing annual maintenance contracts or updates to existing equipment already inducted in the network. The move will effectively keep the Chinese vendors out of the 4G expansion space following the purchase of spectrum worth nearly Rs 78,000 crore by telecom companies. Also, if branded untrusted, the Chinese makers will be out of the lucrative 5G space where auctions may be held in fiscal 2021-22, and network gear deployment thereafter. “It is a very timely decision that has come at a very opportune time when our telecom sector is facing threats of cyber attacks, particularly from our neighbouring country. This step will boost our national security and make our telecom and IT networks more robust and safe,” local body Telecom Export Promotion Council (TEPC) chairman Sandeep Aggarwal said. Tony Verghese, Partner at law firm J Sagar Associates, said the amendment comes in as an “expected move” in light of the 5G auctions. “The curbs imposed by Press Note 3 on FDI, is prompting policy changes in various sectors. The recent incidents allegedly by Chinese hackers, has definitely hastened the process with the government inclined towards a new national strategy to strengthen the country’s security,” Varghese said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-seeks-to-firewall-telecom-infra-from-chinese-threat/articleshow/81439866.cms||Pankaj Doval
March 11, 2021||World||Biden's $1.9 trillion Covid-19 bill wins final approval in House||WASHINGTON: The House of Representatives gave final approval on Wednesday to one of the largest economic stimulus measures in US history, a sweeping $1.9 trillion Covid-19 relief bill that gives President Joe Biden his first major victory in office. The measure provides $400 billion for $1,400 direct payments to most Americans, $350 billion in aid to state and local governments, an expansion of the child tax credit and increased funding for vaccine distribution. Forecasters expect it to supercharge the US economic recovery. "Help is here," Biden wrote in a tweet after the vote. The White House said he plans to sign the bill on Friday. Approval by a 220-211 vote in the Democratic-controlled chamber came with zero Republican support after weeks of partisan debate and wrangling in Congress. Democrats described the legislation as a critical response to a pandemic that has killed more than 528,000 people and thrown millions out of work. "This is a historic day. It is the beginning of the end of the great Covid depression," Democratic Representative Jan Schakowsky said. Republicans said the measure was too costly and was packed with wasteful progressive priorities. They said the worst phase of the largest public health crisis in a century has largely passed and the economy is headed toward a rebound. "It's the wrong plan at the wrong time for so many wrong reasons," Republican Representative Jason Smith said. Democrats were eager to get the final bill to Biden's desk for his signature before current enhanced federal unemployment benefits expire on March 14. The House rejected an effort by Republican Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene to delay proceedings by asking for an adjournment - something she has attempted four times since taking office in January. The House voted 235-149 to plow ahead, with 40 Republicans joining Democrats in rejecting Greene's effort. Popular supportAlthough many Republicans supported coronavirus relief under former President Donald Trump's administration, no Republican lawmaker voted for the bill in the House or Senate. But the bill is popular with the public. A Reuters/Ipsos national opinion poll, conducted March 8-9, showed that 70% of Americans support the plan, including majorities of Democrats and Republicans. Among Republicans, five out of 10 say they support the plan, while nine out of 10 Democrats supported it. The legislation could have high stakes for both parties. If it succeeds in giving the economy a major boost, it also could improve Democrats' political fortunes as they attempt to hold onto their slim majorities in Congress going into the 2022 midterm elections. "We think it will have significant consequences for the American people, economically, politically and even going to their faith in government," Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer said after the vote. Only one House Democrat, Jared Golden of Maine, voted against the package, saying the high cost endangered the recovery. "Borrowing and spending hundreds of billions more in excess of meeting the most urgent needs poses a risk to both our economic recovery and the priorities I would like to work with the Biden administration to achieve," Golden said. Democrats hold a narrow 221-211 majority in the House and, without Republican support, could afford to lose few Democratic votes.] The version passed by the Senate in an marathon weekend session had removed a $15-per-hour federal minimum wage increase by 2025; tightened the eligibility for $1,400 direct payments, capping them at those earning below $80,000, cut the unemployment insurance payment to $300 per week from the House's $400, and targeted some of the state and local government aid to smaller communities. States that voted for Trump in the November election are due to get a larger amount of education and child-care aid per resident than those that backed Biden, according to estimates from two congressional committees. Residents of Republican-leaning states, which tend to have lower household incomes, also are likely to get larger stimulus checks and tax breaks as well, according to an independent research group. The massive spending push is seen as a major driver, coupled with a quickening pace of Covid-19 vaccinations and a slowing infection rate, in a rapidly brightening outlook for the nation's economy. Private- and public-sector economists have been marking up their growth estimates, with Morgan Stanley this week pegging 2021 economic output growth at 8.1%. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development on Tuesday predicted US growth would top 6% this year, up from an estimate of around 3% just three months ago. With the Covid-19 aid bill now completed, attention turns to the next round of major legislation Biden aims to push, including massive infrastructure investments, immigration reforms and climate change initiatives. While fiscal conservatives bridled at the $1.9 trillion cost of the Covid-19 bill, it could be possible to get Republican buy-in on immigration and climate change legislation in the Senate, said Paul Sracic, a political science professor at Youngstown State University. But getting enough Republican support for Democratic initiatives to propel them to passage will be a challenge and "anything that gets 60 votes in the Senate is likely to be a problem with progressive Democrats in the House," Sracic added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/bidens-1-9-trillion-covid-19-bill-wins-final-approval-in-house/articleshow/81440235.cms||---
March 11, 2021||India||JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh to contest Bengal polls on CPM ticket||NEW DELHI: JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh, whose photographs of bandaged forehead became one of the most powerful images of the 2020 fee hike movement, will be contesting the West Bengal assembly election on CPM ticket from Jamuria. The 25-year-old from Durgapur is pursuing MPhil/Phd from the School of International Relations. Ghosh joins a long list of ex-JNUSU presidents who graduated to state and national politics: DP Tripathi, Prakash Karat, Sitaram Yechuri, Chandrashekhar Prasad, Shakeel Ahmed Khan, Tanvir Akhtar and Kanhaiya Kumar. With the exception of Tanveer who won as an NSUI candidate, the others represented Left student bodies of different hues. Ghosh is probably the first sitting JNUSU president to contest assembly polls. A member of SFI, the student wing of CPM, she became the president in 2019. The top post was claimed by SFI after a 13-year gap though it was a Left coalition at work. Ghosh graduated in political science from Delhi University’s Daulat Ram College. She was involved in student politics from her college days. She moved to JNU for her masters. The 2020 fee hike protest had started during her tenure as president, but it was after the January 5 violence when she received injury in the head and hand that she gained larger prominence. Ghosh led from the front demanding justice and action against the perpetrators. Even when her candidature was announced, she was participating in a JNU protest demanding the re-opening of campus and library facilities. She came back to the university on March 8. She comes from a family of Leftists. Her father Debasish Ghosh, an employee of Damodar Valley Corporation, has been associated with the Centre for Indian Trade Unions (CITU), the labour wing of CPM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jnusu-president-aishe-ghosh-to-contest-bengal-polls-on-cpm-ticket/articleshow/81440439.cms||---
March 11, 2021||---||JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh to contest Bengal polls on CPM ticket||NEW DELHI: JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh, whose photographs of bandaged forehead became one of the most powerful images of the 2020 fee hike movement, will be contesting the West Bengal assembly election on CPM ticket from Jamuria. The 25-year-old from Durgapur is pursuing MPhil/Phd from the School of International Relations. Ghosh joins a long list of ex-JNUSU presidents who graduated to state and national politics: DP Tripathi, Prakash Karat, Sitaram Yechuri, Chandrashekhar Prasad, Shakeel Ahmed Khan, Tanvir Akhtar and Kanhaiya Kumar. With the exception of Tanveer who won as an NSUI candidate, the others represented Left student bodies of different hues. Ghosh is probably the first sitting JNUSU president to contest assembly polls. A member of SFI, the student wing of CPM, she became the president in 2019. The top post was claimed by SFI after a 13-year gap though it was a Left coalition at work. Ghosh graduated in political science from Delhi University’s Daulat Ram College. She was involved in student politics from her college days. She moved to JNU for her masters. The 2020 fee hike protest had started during her tenure as president, but it was after the January 5 violence when she received injury in the head and hand that she gained larger prominence. Ghosh led from the front demanding justice and action against the perpetrators. Even when her candidature was announced, she was participating in a JNU protest demanding the re-opening of campus and library facilities. She came back to the university on March 8. She comes from a family of Leftists. Her father Debasish Ghosh, an employee of Damodar Valley Corporation, has been associated with the Centre for Indian Trade Unions (CITU), the labour wing of CPM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/jnusu-president-aishe-ghosh-to-contest-bengal-polls-on-cpm-ticket/articleshow/81440427.cms||---
March 11, 2021||India||Expert panel recommends dropping ‘clinical trial mode’ tag for Covaxin||NEW DELHI: In a move likely to boost the use of Bharat Biotech’s anti-Covid vaccine Covaxin, the drug regulator's subject expert committee (SEC) on Wednesday recommended doing away with the “clinical trial mode” for its use and making it a case of regular emergency use authorisation. Omission of the condition means the vaccine can be administered without an informed consent from the recipient and also removal of compensation provision in case of adverse event under the clinical trial protocol, an official said. This, however, does not mean there will be no compensation for an adverse event, but it will be under a different set of rules. Once the proposal gets a final nod from the Drugs Controller General of India, Bharat Biotech will have to make relevant changes to its fact-sheet and protocol, an official said. The SEC’s recommendations are based on interim findings from Phase 3 trials of Covaxin which showed that the vaccine had an efficacy of 80.6%. A more detailed study based on Phase 3 trials is awaited. Removal of the “clinical trial mode” is expected to increase acceptance of Covaxin, which is the first locally developed and manufactured vaccine against Covid-19, for which Bharat Biotech collaborated with ICMR. Covaxin is also the first vaccine to have come out with Phase 3 data locally. The vaccine based on whole-inactivated virus also has higher chances to be effective against mutations, experts say. Apart from its efficacy and safety, Covaxin also has other advantages. For instance, it is stable at 2-8 degree Celsius – which is normal refrigerator temperature. It also comes in a ‘ready to use’ liquid formulation that allows distribution using the existing cold chain and supply machinery. Both Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, were given emergency use authorisation for restricted use in January. While Covishield’s interim efficacy data from outside India was considered for its approval, Covaxin was criticised as the drug regulator allowed it for emergency use under “clinical trial mode” based on Phase 1 and 2 data. Despite the government running an intensive awareness campaign to remove vaccine hesitancy and standing firm endorsing safety and efficacy of both the vaccines, states like Chhattisgarh refused supplies of Covaxin, partly, it is felt by the Centre, for political reasons. Though the acceptance of Covaxin has improved significantly, with PM Narendra Modi himself receiving the vaccine earlier this month, removal of the “clinical trial mode” is a validation of the vaccine. The Phase 3 results of Covaxin showing nearly 81% efficacy is seen by the Centre as a major validation of the scientific process and regulatory decision-making while granting emergency use authorisation, that helped in a timely rollout of the nationwide vaccination programme on January 16. Till Wednesday evening, over 2.52 crore doses of the two vaccines had been given to people across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/expert-panel-recommends-dropping-clinical-trial-mode-tag-for-covaxin/articleshow/81440518.cms||Sushmi Dey
March 11, 2021||India||No need for state nod to probe Bengal coal scam: CBI||NEW DELHI: Upping the ante against West Bengal, CBI on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that the state government’s nod was not needed to probe allegations of illegal coal mining in the state despite the Trinamool government withdrawing in 2018 general consent to the agency for investigation of crimes committed in the state. SG Tushar Mehta, appearing for CBI, said the place of occurrence of the alleged offence comes within the area of the railways for which the state’s consent was not needed. Also it was a multi-state scam with one FIR filed recently in UP and hence it is not practical to get the nod of all states concerned to start the probe, he said. “The present offence has admittedly taken place within the ‘railway areas’ which forms the exclusive domain of the respondent (CBI) to investigate upon. It is submitted that in respect of conducting investigation into offences that have been committed in ‘Railway Areas’, it is inconsequential whether the state government concerned has accorded its consent or not, as the DSPE Act unequivocally grants the power to investigate in such cases to the agency,” the affidavit said. "It has been succinctly noted by the high court that the ‘railway areas’ constitute one of the major parts of the instant investigation, as the coal was illegally removed from the mines and transported through railways, starting from the railway siding in the mining area to different places," the agency said while pleading a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah that the court reject the appeal of one of the accused challenging the jurisdiction of CBI. West Bengal had granted a general consent in 1989 to allow CBI to conduct investigation within its territorial jurisdiction but in November 2018, the state withdrew its consent. "It is submitted that the said withdrawal has no bearing on the power of CBI to register FIRs in relation to offences in railway areas and take consequential steps in pursuance to such investigation. It is submitted that the respondent was well within the powers conferred to it, while initiating and continuing to conduct the instant investigation," the agency said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-need-for-state-nod-to-probe-bengal-coal-scam-cbi/articleshow/81440656.cms||---
March 11, 2021||India||Tendulkar satire lost on ban-happy culture cops||MUMBAI: Hounded often by the Shiv Sena during his lifetime, Vijay Tendulkar, one of India’s great modern playwrights, now faces an extra-legal ban in Madhya Pradesh posthumously. The annual IPTA (Indian People’s Theatre Association) festival in MP’s Chattarpur town was recently cancelled by its organizers after Bajrang Dal objected to the staging of his play ‘Jaat Hi Pucho Sadhu Ki,’ saying it was “anti-Hindu and anti-Indian culture.” Tendulkar’s ‘Jaat Hi…’ is the Hindi version of his Marathi original, titled ‘Pahije Jatiche’ (‘Wanted: Of the same caste’). The Marathi play debuted in 1976, with Nana Patekar essaying one of the key characters, and has been performed in Marathi and Hindi over the decades. The play is not about “sadhus” or religion but is a sardonic take on India’s education system and on casteism. Its central character, Mahipati Porparnekar, who describes himself at the beginning as “M.A., Unemployed,” lands a job with great difficulty but goes through a series of experiences which cast light on inherent biases in an entrenched social order. The play also mocks self-proclaimed intellectuals for their vague concerns and indifference to what’s close at hand. Theatre veterans, including Rohini Hattangady, Lillete Dubey and Atul Kumar have signed a petition protesting the “unofficial ban” on the play. The online petition, launched by art entrepreneur Sanjoy Roy, said the “cancellation of the play and festival is a huge loss to all theatre lovers” and called for it to be staged “without any hassles.” While IPTA general secretary for MP Shivendra Shukla and director of ‘Jaat hi…’ Shantanu Pandey alleged they had received threats from Bajrang Dal but no police protection, Bajrang Dal district chief Surendra Shivhare said the outfit had “not issued any threats but had written to the police and administration calling for two plays – the other being ‘Besharam Mev Jayate’ written by Hindi playwright Prem Janmejaya -- to be cancelled. IPTA said the plays were purely satirical and the “objectors” admitted they hadn’t read or seen them. Bajrang Dal’s Shivhare told TOI the title of Tendulkar’s play was “clear. Why should the word ‘sadhu’ be part of it?” The play’s director said “sadhu” here meant a “sajjan (gentleman), which is how the word is often used in Hindi,” and had nothing to do with faith. Shivhare however said, “The tukde-tukde gang is spreading propaganda under the pretext of art. This is an attempt to brainwash the young.” Shukla said IPTA’s “left-wing ideology” was the reason Bajrang Dal had a problem. Preeta Thakur of the Ank theatre group, who has done “400 to 500 shows” of ‘Jaat hi…’ across India, said there was “nothing in the play to be offended about.” “It’s not about religion and not at all anti-Hindu, but Tendulkar beautifully highlights the helplessness of a man and a woman. In fact, the play is a laugh riot and a telling comment on society.” She said over decades, “five sets” of actors have done the play for Ank (whose team is different from the one doing it in Chattarpur). Tendulkar, though, has been nearly synonymous with controversy. Several of his plays, including ‘Ghashiram Kotwal,’ ‘Sakharam Binder’ and ‘Gidhade,’ were illegally proscribed in the 1970s and 80s following opposition from the Sena, though he and Sena founder Bal Thackeray had begun their journalistic career together in the 1950s and Tendulkar had later, in the words of Balasaheb, helped him with headline suggestions for Thackeray’s weekly Marmik. The Sena had in the 1970s hatched a plan to stop the ‘Ghashiram’ contingent from going to the US for a performance before the party finally abandoned the idea. Later in the 1990s, Thackeray also appeared in a TV show run by Tendulkar and his daughter Priya, but relations remained cool. Girish Karnad, another star playwright of the generation, had written in TOI after ‘Gidhade’ unleashed a storm in 1970 that Tendulkar had “consistently refused to flatter the middle-classes… and paid the price.” Karnad had further stated, “Tendulkar, like Ibsen, takes elements forbidden in the theatre to take the audience deeper into the human soul than it has ever been taken before.” Known for highlighting women’s issues in his plays like ‘Shantata Court Chalu Aahe,’ in the play currently embroiled in controversy too, Tendulkar depicts the dilemmas of a woman bound by the fetters of tradition and hierarchies. On the organizers’ charge that police had not offered them protection, Chhindwara SP Sachin Sharma told TOI, “There was no communication or application from the organisers. Permission is required for the auditorium and event.” -Inputs by P Naveen in Bhopal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/culture-activists-ban-skips-tendulkar-satire/articleshow/81440664.cms||Vaibhav Purandare
March 11, 2021||Business||Now hiring: ‘Temp CXOs’ for India Inc||NEW DELHI: A mid-sized manufacturing company wanted to consolidate its business by shutting down one of its factories. But it didn’t have a person in a senior leadership position who could handle the various aspects of a closure, including labour and compliance issues. Hunting for a full-time top exec would have cost the firm time and money. It, therefore, roped in a ‘temp CEO’, who not only finished the job in about nine months but also found a buyer for the unit. The trend of ‘temp CXOs’ is gathering momentum as companies become conscious of fixed costs, taking advantage of a large pool of ‘super specialists’ looking for short job stints during the pandemic, say executive search firms. Claricent Partners recently placed temp CEOs in the education and food space, said its managing partner, Jyoti Bowen Nath. In fact, inquiries from organisations and the CXO level talent led Claricent to set up a vertical to cater to the demand. Sectors that are drawing talent for specialised temp roles are mining and metals, renewable energy, defence and the ‘tech’ space that includes edutech, financial and consumer tech. “Globally, this trend is well established. In India, it’s picking up pace as a good number of talented senior professionals are looking to progress in a rather gig manner,” said Bowen Nath. There are more examples of companies hiring CXOs for a short stint and for a specific purpose. A mid-sized consumer products company wanted to hit the market but did not have any internal resource that could get the IPO ready. They went for a ‘temp CFO’. The new chief financial officer started working a couple of weeks with the internal team at a fractional cost to get the processes in place, including Sebi and investor relations matters. There’s a strong business case that allows companies to hire in this model. “When a company recruits a senior leader in a full-time role, it has to have the visibility on culture fit, strategy road map, business environment and his/her performance plan aligned with targets, over the next 4-5 years. If the assignment is only for 6-12 months, and there’s no insider who can handle this, it doesn’t merit going for a full-time executive, and many times the cost can be prohibitive,” said Suresh Raina, managing partner, Hunt Partners. “We do anywhere between 8-12 assignments in a year and we expect it to grow because companies have become much more conscious of fixed costs post-Covid,” he added. Hunt Partners started its interim management practice, ELAN, three years ago in India in a tie-up with EIM, the top interim management firm based in Europe. Temp CXOs are usually above 50 years of age, come with rich work experience and seem to have lost interest in the corporate rat race. They are not hung up on designations and are okay with being called a project lead or an adviser. “The available talent pool for interim assignments is growing because there are a lot more people deciding not to work full-time beyond a certain age. They are not waiting to turn 60 and retire, but rather take control of their lives, start pursuing hobbies, passions that they had put aside while on the corporate treadmill,” said Raina. XpertReach, a technology-enabled platform providing independent senior-level professionals, recently helped a financial services company to hire a team of senior consultants. “We have seen many CXOs open for advisory roles, including a past CEO of a financial services company. There’s been a positive uptick in registrations of professionals at the senior management and CXO levels as independent consultants across functions and industries,” said XpertReach founder Anil Sahgal. BTI Executive Search MD James Agrawal, who has received a couple of inquiries on temp CEOs, said, “Whenever there’s a mission-critical project, it makes sense for the organisation to look at temp CXOs. We see an increasing trend where career professionals are seriously considering freelance or independent consulting opportunities as an alternative to full-time roles.” Moreover, an interim super-specialist can hit the ground running and the company is almost assured of the outcome. It could also be in a transition role when a CEO has suddenly resigned and someone needs to hold the fort for six months. Or, it could be a change agenda that needs an outsider to execute in a strategic and methodical manner. “An internal person could come with biases and may not be able to take hard decisions,” said Raina. At times, temp CXOs can also get converted into a full-time position. “In the last three months, at least a couple of such candidates have got absorbed,” said Agrawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/now-hiring-temp-cxos-for-india-inc/articleshow/81440683.cms||Namrata Singh
March 11, 2021||India||Isro develops radar, ships it to Nasa for world's 1st twin-radar sat mission; NISAR launch in 2023, says Sivan||NEW DELHI: Seven years after India and the US signed an agreement in 2014 to jointly develop the world’s first earth observation satellite with two different radars that can produce very high-resolution images, the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has achieved a key milestone by making the S-band Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) and shipping it to Nasa for integration with the L-band payload being developed by the US agency. Once the integration of the two radars is done, Nasa will send them to India where other parts of the Nasa-Isro SAR (NISAR) satellite will be built. Isro will then use its GSLV Mk-II rocket to launch NISAR from the Sriharikota launchpad. The satellite will be the world’s first-of-its-kind that will operate on two radio frequencies with capability to collect data day and night and in all weather, including during cloudy days. “Its data can help people worldwide better manage natural resources and hazards like earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanoes and landslides, as well as provide information to better understand the effects and pace of climate change. It will also add to our understanding of the planet’s hard outer layer (crust),” according to Nasa. Besides supporting a host of applications, NISAR, which will be able to “measure changes in the Earth’s surface less than a centimeter across”, will also help measure and study dynamic surfaces, ice masses like Himalayan glaciers, sea level rise and groundwater level. On March 4, the Isro chairman flagged off the S-band SAR from the agency’s Ahmedabad-based Space Applications Centre through virtual mode to Nasa’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California’s Pasadena. Isro chairman K Sivan told TOI: “Nasa will integrate our S-band and their L-band radars and sent the integrated module back to India in the first quarter of next year and the complete satellite will be ready by 2022-end. We will then target to launch NISAR in early 2023.” NISAR will have an imaging swath — the width of the strip of data collected along the length of the orbit track — greater than 240 km and will therefore observe Earth’s land and ice-covered surfaces globally with 12-day regularity. Over the course of multiple orbits, the radar images will allow users to track changes in crop-lands and hazard sites, as well as monitor ongoing crises such as volcanic eruptions. “As the mission continues for years, the data will allow for better understanding of the causes and consequences of land surface changes, increasing our ability to manage resources and prepare for and cope with global change,” Nasa said. NISAR, which will weigh 2,800 kg, is estimated to be the world’s most expensive imaging satellite. The total cost of the project includes Isro’s work share cost of about Rs 788 crore and about $808 million (nearly Rs 5,890 cr) of Nasa. As per the partnership, Nasa has to provided the satellite mission's L-band SAR, a high-rate communication subsystem for science data, GPS receivers, a solid-state recorder and payload data subsystem while Isro will make arrangement for the spacecraft bus, S-band radar, the launch vehicle (GSLV) and associated launch services for the mission. Nasa administrator Charles Bolden and the then Isro chairman K Radhakrishnan had signed the NISAR partnership agreement in Toronto on September 30, 2014. Since then, both space agencies have been working hard on this sophisticated satellite mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/isro-develops-radar-ships-it-to-nasa-for-worlds-1st-twin-radar-sat-mission-nisar-launch-in-2023-says-sivan/articleshow/81440719.cms||Surendra Singh
March 11, 2021||India||Supreme Court seeks govt’s reply on uniform succession law||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought the Union government’s stand on the need for a gender and religion neutral uniform law conferring succession and inheritance rights on citizens while entertaining a PIL, the fourth in the last three months on issues which together constitute the spectrum to be covered by a uniform civil code (UCC). All four PILs have been filed by advocate Ashwini Upadhyay. With this, the SC has moved closer to adjudicating whether the time has come for the country to adopt a UCC in keeping with Article 44 of the Constitution which says, “The state shall endeavour to secure for the citizens a uniform civil code throughout the territory of India.” Three of the PILs filed by Upadhyay deal with the issues of uniform adoption laws; uniform divorce, maintenance and alimony law; and succession and inheritance rights. The fourth one seeks transfer of petitions from various high courts to the SC on the issue of uniform minimum age for marriage for all religious communities. Read AlsoParental-side kin can inherit property of Hindu widow: Supreme CourtThe Supreme Court has said family members on the parental side of a Hindu widow can’t be held to be ‘strangers’ and her property can devolve upon them under the Hindu Succession Act. Referring to Section 15(1)(d) of the Act, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy said the heirs of theIn its famous Shah Bano judgment in 1985, the SC had said, “A common civil code will help the cause of national integration by removing disparate loyalties to law which have conflicting ideologies.” A decade later, in the Sarla Mudgal case, it had said, “Where more than 80% of citizens have already been brought under codified personal law, there is no justification whatsoever to keep in abeyance, any more, the introduction of uniform civil code for all citizens in India.” In its 2003 judgment in Vallamattom case, the SC had highlighted the desirability of achieving the goal set by Article 44 of the Constitution. Upadhyay’s counsel, senior advocate Geeta Luthra, told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that the SC could not remain a mute spectator to discrimination of women on the basis of gender and religion in getting equal succession and inheritance rights. The denial of these basic rights even 70 years after the Constitution came into force showed the failure of successive governments to enforce the right to equality and right against discrimination guaranteed by the Constitution under the fundamental rights chapter, she argued. The petitioner also sought to do away with the three different categories of inheritors prescribed under the Hindu Succession Act, which through the 2005 amendment allowed daughters to be coparceners. In Muslim personal law, the petitioner said, the share of a female heir was half of the male heir. "A childless Muslim widow is entitled to one-fourth of the property of the deceased husband, but a widow who has children or grandchildren is entitled to one-eighth of the husband's property," he said, demanding uniformity in inheritance rights for all women irrespective of the religious community they belonged to. The petitioner recalled that in the Jose Paulo Coutinho judgment in September 2019, the SC had regretted the failure of the government to promulgate a UCC. “It is interesting to note that whereas the founders of the Constitution in Article 44 in Part IV dealing with Directive Principles of State Policy had hoped and expected that the state shall endeavour to secure for the citizens a uniform civil code throughout the territories of India, till date no action has been taken in this regard," he said. In the Coutinho case from Goa, the SC had said the small state was a shining example of practising UCC as no one could practice polygamy there, irrespective of the religion they professed. It had said, “Though Hindu laws were codified in the year 1956, there has been no attempt to frame a uniform civil code applicable to all citizens of the country despite exhortations of the Supreme Court in the cases of Shah Bano and Sarla Mudgal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-seeks-govts-reply-on-uniform-succession-law/articleshow/81440739.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 11, 2021||---||EC seeks info; questions over CM’s security team, says BJP||NEW DELHI: Soon after Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee complained of being injured, the Election Commission sought reports from state chief secretary Allapan Bandyopadhyay as well as its own special observers Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dubey on the incident. Sources said the reports must be submitted by 5pm on Friday. BJP Bengal in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya said it was a serious incident and must be probed thoroughly. “There should not be politics over the incident. Rather, I urge the EC to conduct a high level inquiry into the incident,” he added. BJP social media head and Bengal co in-charge Amit Malviya said, “The CM was accompanied by a large number of police personnel and other officials in civil dress when she came to Nandigram... If the attack has happened, as claimed by the CM, it raises questions on her security team.” Some in BJP, however, expressed doubts and shared media reports claiming that the CM was not attacked and that her car window was hit by a pole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/ec-seeks-info-questions-over-cms-security-team-says-bjp/articleshow/81440764.cms||---
March 11, 2021||India||EC seeks info; questions over CM’s security team, says BJP||NEW DELHI: Soon after Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee complained of being injured, the Election Commission sought reports from state chief secretary Allapan Bandyopadhyay as well as its own special observers Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dubey on the incident. Sources said the reports must be submitted by 5pm on Friday. BJP Bengal in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya said it was a serious incident and must be probed thoroughly. “There should not be politics over the incident. Rather, I urge the EC to conduct a high level inquiry into the incident,” he added. BJP social media head and Bengal co in-charge Amit Malviya said, “The CM was accompanied by a large number of police personnel and other officials in civil dress when she came to Nandigram... If the attack has happened, as claimed by the CM, it raises questions on her security team.” Some in BJP, however, expressed doubts and shared media reports claiming that the CM was not attacked and that her car window was hit by a pole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ec-seeks-info-questions-over-cms-security-team-says-bjp/articleshow/81440767.cms||---
March 11, 2021||India||Bengal politics reverberates in SC||NEW DELHI: The high-stakes political battle for control of Bengal reverberated in the Supreme Court on Wednesday with lawyers, arrayed on opposite sides in a case concerning a CBI probe into illegal coal mining in the state, making more of political statements than legal arguments. As a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah took up the plea of one of the suspects in an illegal coal mining case challenging CBI’s jurisdiction to register FIR, senior advocate Harish Salve told the court that Eastern Coalfield Limited has also filed application in the case and pleaded that the matter be adjourned. He said that all the pleas filed in the case, including that of his client, be taken together. But Salve’s plea was stiffly opposed by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appearing for petitioner Anup Majhee. He told the bench ECL was never aparty in the case when it was heard by a single and division bench of the Calcutta HC. As the order of the HC has not been stayed and CBI is pressing ahead with the probe, the accused is apprehending arrest at a time when the battle for Bengal has been joined. This case assumes significance as the wife of Abhishek Banerjee, nephew of Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, has also come under CBI’s scanner and was recently summoned. Sensing that the matter would be adjourned, Rohatgi alleged ECL decided to approach the SC only to support the stand of CBI and the Centre while it had preferred to be silent in HC. He said ECL’s plea was a ploy to delay hearing in the SC “for political reasons due to the assembly election”. Responding to Rohatgi's allegation, Salve quipped, “My friend’s nervousness gives me great confidence.” Agreeing with Salve’s plea. the bench then deferred the hearing for March 15. “Special Leave Petition has been filed by ECL. The Registry is requested to list the petition together with the present SLP since it is directed against the order of the single judge of the Calcutta HC which has been called into question in other SLPs, which are pending before this court,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengal-politics-reverberates-in-sc/articleshow/81440790.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
March 11, 2021||---||Bengal politics reverberates in SC||NEW DELHI: The high-stakes political battle for control of Bengal reverberated in the Supreme Court on Wednesday with lawyers, arrayed on opposite sides in a case concerning a CBI probe into illegal coal mining in the state, making more of political statements than legal arguments. As a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah took up the plea of one of the suspects in an illegal coal mining case challenging CBI’s jurisdiction to register FIR, senior advocate Harish Salve told the court that Eastern Coalfield Limited has also filed application in the case and pleaded that the matter be adjourned. He said that all the pleas filed in the case, including that of his client, be taken together. But Salve’s plea was stiffly opposed by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appearing for petitioner Anup Majhee. He told the bench ECL was never aparty in the case when it was heard by a single and division bench of the Calcutta HC. As the order of the HC has not been stayed and CBI is pressing ahead with the probe, the accused is apprehending arrest at a time when the battle for Bengal has been joined. This case assumes significance as the wife of Abhishek Banerjee, nephew of Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, has also come under CBI’s scanner and was recently summoned. Sensing that the matter would be adjourned, Rohatgi alleged ECL decided to approach the SC only to support the stand of CBI and the Centre while it had preferred to be silent in HC. He said ECL’s plea was a ploy to delay hearing in the SC “for political reasons due to the assembly election”. Responding to Rohatgi's allegation, Salve quipped, “My friend’s nervousness gives me great confidence.” Agreeing with Salve’s plea. the bench then deferred the hearing for March 15. “Special Leave Petition has been filed by ECL. The Registry is requested to list the petition together with the present SLP since it is directed against the order of the single judge of the Calcutta HC which has been called into question in other SLPs, which are pending before this court,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/bengal-politics-reverberates-in-sc/articleshow/81440788.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
March 11, 2021||India||Won’t insist on Mehbooba Mufti's presence: ED to HC||NEW DELHI: The enforcement directorate on Wednesday told the Delhi high court that it won’t insist on the personal appearance of former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti before it in a money laundering case for now. Its stand came after the court told the agency not to press for her personal appearance till the court hears her petition next on March 18. A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani was hearing Mehbooba’s plea, challenging the validity of the summons issued by the agency for appearing before it on March 15 without specifying the case she was being investigated in. The summons was issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act but the case under which she was asked to appear was missing from the notice, the plea has argued. “The petitioner is not the subject of probe, nor is she an accused, in any of the scheduled offences to the best of her knowledge,” the plea said, adding that since her release from preventive detention following the nullification of Article 370, “there have been a series of hostile acts by the state against her, her acquaintances and old family friends, who have all been summoned by the ED”. Mufti has also challenged the validity of Section 50 of PMLA under which she had been summoned and said the section was in violation of her fundamental rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wont-insist-on-mehbooba-muftis-presence-ed-to-hc/articleshow/81440796.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: TDP MLA in custody for alleged poll rule violation||VISAKHAPATNAM: Tension prevailed in Chinna Waltair in Vizag city after TDP MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu of Visakha East constituency and Telugu Nadu Students Federation (TNSF) state president Pranav Gopal were taken into custody by police at a polling booth. Sources said the MLA had entered the polling booth in Andhra University English Medium School under ward number 21 by violating rules. Only candidates and voters of the concerned ward are allowed in a particular polling booth. Other persons should stay at a distance of 200 meters from the booth as per election rules. Police said TNSF functionary Pranav Gopal had informed the MLA about alleged rigging with the help of polling officers in the polling booth. Upon learning this, the MLA rushed to the school and entered the polling booth where cops obstructed him before taking him and Pranav Gopal into custody. A senior police officer A Anand Reddy said despite section 30 of the Police Act and section 144 of the CrPC being in force, the MLA reached the polling booth with a large number of cadre. Police shifted Ramakrishna Babu to Three Town police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tdp-mla-in-custody-for-alleged-poll-rule-violation/articleshow/81436940.cms||Siva G
March 11, 2021||Business||IDBI exits RBI’s list of lenders facing curbs||MUMBAI: IDBI Bank has finally managed to get out of the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI’s) watchlist for troubled banks after four years. With this, the bank is no longer subject to the restriction on large loans, dividend payment, expansion of business or salary hikes. The move comes at a time when the government has announced its intent to divest stake in the bank as part of its privatisation programme. The RBI had first placed IDBI Bank under its prompt corrective action (PCA) framework in May 2017 after it exceeded the limits set by the central bank for bad loans and its capital position weakened. Since then, the government sold its stake to LIC, which invested Rs 21,524 crore in the bank to pick up a 49.2% stake. The government retained45.5%. LIC’s investment in the bank continues to be in the red even after an over 5% rise in the bank’s share price to over Rs 38 on Wednesday. IDBI Bank has a market valuation of Rs 41,128 crore. This values LIC’s stake at Rs 20,250 crore. The bank has been held back because of the PCA framework as its expertise lay in its legacy business of project and corporate loans, which it was barred from under the restrictions. According to the RBI, the performance of IDBI Bank was reviewed by the financial supervision board on February 18, 2021. The board considered the results for the quarter ended December 2020, where the bank had reported a net profit of Rs 378 crore and qualified to exit the RBI’s PCA framework. IDBI Bank also provided a written commitment to the RBI, stating that it would ensure that its financial ratios are within the prescribed parameters. It also highlighted the structural changes that have been put in place to improve the performance of the bank. “Taking all the above into consideration, it has been decided that IDBI Bank Limited be taken out of the PCA framework, subject to certain conditions and continuous monitoring,” the RBI said. Last month, finance ministry officials had indicated that they expected three more public sector banks — Indian Overseas Bank, Central Bank and UCO Bank — to exit the RBI’s PCA framework soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/idbi-exits-rbis-list-of-lenders-facing-curbs/articleshow/81438043.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Patna||Railways diverts 10 special trains till March 16||PATNA: The railways has diverted the routes of 10 special passenger trains due to panel interlocking work being carried out at Kusunda station under the Dhanbad division of the East Central Railway (ECR) till March 16. These trains, either originating from or passing through stations under the ECR’s jurisdiction in Bihar, will be diverted to Dhanbad-Gomoh-Chandrapura route instead of the original Dhanbad-Kusunda-Katrasgarh-Chandrapura route. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the Raxaul-Hyderabad (07006), Alleppey-Dhanbad (03351/03352) and Kolkata-Madar Junction (09607/09608) specials will be diverted from March 14. The Darbhanga-Secunderabad special (07008) will be diverted from March 12 and the Malda Town-Surat special (03425) from March 13,” the CPRO said, adding that the Howrah-Jabalpur (01448) and Howrah-Ranchi Shatabdi (02019/02020) specials were also diverted on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the Bihar Daily Passengers Association has welcomed the restoration of 13 pairs of MEMU trains on different routes of the ECR. However, the association has urged the railways to make changes in their scheduled departure for the sake of daily commuters. Mock drill conducted: The emergency and medical teams of the railways participated in a mock drill jointly conducted by the Danapur division and the 9th battalion of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Wednesday.The exercise was performed on the Danapur-Varanasi Intercity special to check the alertness of the railway staff and NDRF personnel during an emergency. Speaking on the occasion, Danapur divisional railway manager Sunil Kumar said that the emergency staff gave siren calls and called a medical relief train. The NDRF team was also informed about the mishap on time. “Both the teams managed the situation and saved the lives of passengers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlys-diverts-10-spl-trains-till-march-16/articleshow/81436340.cms||Kumod Verma
March 11, 2021||Patna||Odisha bullion trader killer, 2 others nabbed||PATNA: Three persons, including notorious criminal Kishori Mahto, were arrested from different locations in Gopalganj and Siwan Tuesday evening. Kishori was allegedly involved in the loot of gold ornaments worth around Rs 40 lakh after killing a bullion trader Rohit Verma (26) in Odisha on March 1. Gopalganj SP Anand Kumar said Kishori was arrested from Bishambharapur under Manjhagarh police station area of Gopalganj. “Later, on Kishori’s confession, his brother Anil Mahto and the latter’s wife Prabha Devi were arrested from their rented accommodation at Mahadeva village in neighbouring Siwan district,” he said. Kumar said 325gm of looted gold ornament, Rs2.7 lakh, an electronic machine for weighing gold, a countrymade semi-automatic pistol, two magazines, 13 live cartridges and five cellphones were seized from their possession. The SP said Kishori confessed to killing the bullion trader after looting more than 800gm of gold ornaments from him with help of his gang members under Badgaon police station area of Sundargarh district in Odisha on March 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/odisha-bullion-trader-killer-2-others-nabbed/articleshow/81435614.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata's New Town gets second Covid vaccination centre||KOLKATA: NKDA opened its second Covid vaccination centre for senior citizens at the community hall in CB Block market in New Town on Wednesday. Officials said 69 senior citizens took the jab at the centre on Wednesday. The authorities held a meeting with representatives of private hospitals in New Town and requested them to see if arrangements could be made for walk-in vaccinations for the elderly. A 24-hour helpline number (1800-103-7652) has also been introduced for registration. “The plan is to send all those registering through the helpline to CB market community hall and those registering through Co-Win to the safe-house vaccination centre in Action Area IID,” said an NKDA official. Officials said there are plans to increase the inoculation units in the safe-house vaccination centre from two to three. “The safe-house vaccination centre was witnessing huge crowds. There was a need for another vaccine centre,” said Samaresh Das, chairperson of New Town Forum and News, a local NGO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-gets-second-vax-centre/articleshow/81436939.cms||Suman Chakraborti
March 11, 2021||Business||M&M lets about 150 executives go in last 12 months||Chennai: Mahindra & Mahindra has clarified that in the last 12 months it has let go ‘48 associates due to redundancies’ and in addition another ‘98 associates have been given 6 months to find a role’. The combined total across all levels is “1.3% of white collar associates in auto and farm sectors,” said the company in a stock market notification. The clarification came on the back of news reports that M&M had fired 300 executives. The company also said that there have been no blue collar lay offs and no salary cuts. In fact it has given out salary hikes across the board and paid full performance pay. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mm-lets-about-150-executives-go-in-last-12-months/articleshow/81438108.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Varanasi||Now, get KVT Mahashivratri ‘prasad’ through Speed Post for Rs 251||Varanasi: The postal department will arrange to provide Mahashivratri prasad of Kashi Vishwanath Temple at the doorstep of the devotees. Now, one could can get the prasad at home through Speed Post after paying Rs. 251. Postmaster general of Varanasi region Krishna Kumar Yadav said on Wednesday that under an agreement between the department of posts and Shri Kashi Vishwanath Temple Trust, prasad of the temple in new format will be made available to the people through Speed Post Service. “Under this scheme, an e-money order of Rs. 251 has to be sent to the senior superintendent of post offices, Varanasi (East) Division from the nearest post office. The prasad would be sent to the addressee immediately as soon as the e-money order is received. The prasad will be in the temper proof envelope with proper packaging, and it will not be tampered with in any way,” he added. According to him, the prasad will include the image of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Jyotirlinga, Mahamrityunjaya Yantra, Shri Shiva Chalisa, 108 beads of rudraksha garland, bel patra, coin having Bhole Baba’s image inscribed with Mata Annapurna, dry fruits ,bhasma, sandalwood, Raksha Sutra and mishri packets. Senior superintendent of post offices, Varanasi East Division, Sumit Kumar Gatt, said “The Prasad can also be obtained from the counter of Varanasi city post office for just Rs. 201. Apart from this, special stalls will be set up for prasad at Dashashwamedh Ghat, Assi Ghat by the postal department during the festival of Mahashivratri.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/now-get-kvt-mahashivratri-prasad-through-speed-post-for-rs-251/articleshow/81436041.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||Old habits die hard, new buys lie unused during fire-fighting||Kolkata: In recent years, the fire brigade has acquired modern equipment like robots, foam-making tools, breathing apparatus to prevent fire fighters from inhaling noxious fumes and various personal protective equipment (PPE) to fight fire with precision. But when it comes to fighting a devastating blaze, like the one at New Koilaghat building, fire fighters still tend to jump into the battle armed with only hosepipe and water. None of the four fire fighters, who went up in an elevator as an advance team to set up the fire-fighting system at New Koilaghat building, wore PPE, nor did they have breathing apparatus set with them. If they had, they could have prevented themselves. In the last financial year, the fire service department spent more Rs 18 crore to acquire these equipment. However, in most of the cases, fire-fighters are ill-trained to handle them. This is the reason why the new director general of fire service, Jawed Shamim, put maximum impetus on training and use of modern equipment in fighting fire. “Fire fighters do not get enough training. Moreover, they don't undergo orientation programmes to familiarise themselves with modern equipment and emerging techniques of fire-fighting,” said an officer at its training institute at Behala Silpara. “Since fire-fighting techniques are passed on from one generation to another, the traditional techniques are getting ingrained. Fire personnel often show reluctance and resistance to new technology and techniques. Only a thorough training and proper orientation can change this,” said a former fire brigade chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/old-habits-die-hard-new-buys-lie-unused-during-fire-fighting/articleshow/81436829.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||Covaxin to make its debut in community inoculation at some Kolkata centres from today||KOLKATA: Some vaccination centres in the city will start offering the option of Covaxin to senior citizens and those above 45 with co-morbidities from Thursday. The move came after the state health department officials asked some hospitals to gradually introduce Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin into the community vaccination programme. So far, the home-grown vaccine was only being offered to willing healthcare and frontline workers. “We are expecting to get an equal number of Covishield and Covaxin doses from Thursday. In order to inform recipients, we will put up posters announcing the availability of Covaxin. At the same time, we will have informative posters on this indigenous vaccine which will help people decide for themselves,” said nuclear cardiologist Alok Roy, chairman of Medica Group of Hospitals. At Medica, hoardings will be put up at strategic places specifying which counter recipients should head to if they want Covaxin and which counter to approach in case their preference is Covishield. “We are ready to provide Covaxin to people who turn up at Fortis from Thursday as has been advised by health department officials,” said Pratyush Srivastava, zonal director, Fortis Hospitals. According to health department officials, for now, Covaxin will be provided to hospitals that have more than one vaccination booth where they can spare one booth exclusively for this vaccine. Since the vaccine is still being administered under the clinical trial mode, recipients need to sign a consent form unlike with Covishield. “We will be starting Covaxin for senior citizens and those above 45 with co-morbidities at our Dhakuria unit. We already have a dedicated session site for Covaxin. But those who choose Covishield will also continue to get it from the other booth. We have started getting queries about Covaxin from people who are convinced about the vaccine’s efficacy,” said a source at AMRI Hospitals. As Covaxin was rolled out on the clinical trial mode, many had raised questions about its efficacy and lack of data. A recently published interim report based on this phase III trial rates the vaccine’s efficacy at 81%. “I am quite confident that there will be many takers for this home-grown vaccine. Of course, we are also going to tell people that both vaccines are good while leaving the choice to them,” said Roy, who also chairs the FICCI Health Services Committee. Health department sources said Covaxin has to be gradually introduced into the community vaccination programme as the Union health ministry is likely to give more stress on this indigen-ous vaccine. “So far, we have not been told to start offering Covaxin to recipients who turn up at our hospital. But that may change in future and we will do accordingly,” said Sudipta Mitra, CEO, Peerless Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covaxin-to-make-its-debut-in-community-inoculation-at-some-centres-from-today/articleshow/81436873.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 11, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot to get tertiary treatment plant for non-potable water||RAJKOT: Raiya is set to get its first-ever tertiary treatment plant (TTP) to treat sewage water and make it usable for non-potable activities of the residents of the smart city including washing clothes, vehicles and also for flushing. While the tender for the 7 MLD capacity plant, being installed at the cost of Rs 19 crore, has already been issued, the TTP is likely to start operation by 2022 end. Tertiary treatment removes suspended solid and turbidity from the waste water automatically reducing its biological oxygen demand (BOD) level and also eliminates the stench, explained an official. BOD is the amount of oxygen required by the micro-organisms in the stabilization of organic matter in the wastewater effluents. Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) has several sewage treatment plants (STPs) functioning currently including Madhapar, Gauridad, Raiya and Raiyadhar, Kothariya having capacity of 300 MLD. These plants are working on sequence badge reactor (SBR) technology which has a high level of BOD. That is why the water can’t be reused for many purposes. This treated water is released in Nyari-2 dam. Despite the civic body making several attempts to convince builders to use this TTP water in construction work, the efforts have gone in vain. Only a few farmers have purchased this treated water. Even its earlier attempts to transport this water to industries in Jamnagar, Jetpur and Morbi failed on the transportation cost. According to officials, heavy odour from high levels of BOD keeps people away from using the water in their homes. General manager of Rajkot Smart City Development Limited (RSDL), the special purpose vehicle under RMC, Bhavesh Joshi said, “Looking at the growing need for water, we need such a plant. We don’t have a water-based industry like in Surat and so, we are trying to convince people to use this treated water for non-essential purposes.” Of Raiya smart city’s 4 lakh population’s requirement of 22MLD water, RMC is planning to provide 7 MLD treated water. The smart city is being developed in 950 acre land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-to-get-tertiary-treatment-plant-for-non-potable-water/articleshow/81435963.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||False HIV +ve report: Doctor & lab ordered to pay Rs 50,000 compensation||AHMEDABAD: A consumer court has ordered a doctor and laboratory owners to pay a compensation of Rs 50,000 to one Chirantan Joshi for a false HIV positive report. When the laboratory report reflected that Joshi was HIV positive, he panicked. He immediately got his wife tested and when tested negative, Joshi doubted his HIV positive report. In a couple of days, Joshi underwent three tests at different laboratories and all showed him as HIV negative. Joshi sued the laboratory. His legal battle culminated in the Gujarat State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission ordering that Joshi be paid Rs 50,000 compensation with 6% interest for the mental trauma the family underwent due to false report and towards expenditure he incurred on multiple tests. Joshi, a resident of Sathamba from Sabarkantha district, was referred to Dr Kamlesh Shah at Kapadvanj town in July 2005 after he fell sick. He was hospitalized and various tests were conducted. The doctor could not reach any conclusion and prescribed an HIV test. On July 18, Kalpana Pathology Laboratory, owned by pathologists R C Patel and Kalpana Patel, gave a report which reflected Joshi’s HIV status as positive. As soon as the result was communicated to him, he panicked. His wife also took the test immediately the next day and she was found to be HIV negative. On July 20, just two days after the report showed him HIV positive, Joshi got himself discharged from the hospital against medical advice. He rushed to Ahmedabad and went to Apollo Hospital, Sterling Hospital and Sarvoday Laboratory for check-up. All three reports said that he was HIV negative. Joshi consulted a doctor in Ahmedabad and was finally treated for tuberculosis. Upset with the brief disturbance in his life, he sued the doctor and the laboratory owners of Kapadvanj with the Consumer Dispute Redressal Forum, Kheda district and sought Rs 10 lakh compensation for the false report. His complaint was rejected in 2011 and he filed an appeal before the commission. The doctor and the pathologists defended themselves that Joshi ought to have waited for confirmation of his HIV status with Western Blot Test, which he was advised to undergo. But he chose to leave the hospital. On the other hand, Joshi’s advocate submitted that it was faulty on part of the doctor and pathologists that they communicated the result without confirmation. They should have waited for confirmation by Western Blot Test before intimating him and causing unnecessary trouble to him and his family. The consumer commission concluded that it was a clear mistake on part of the doctor that he informed him about his HIV status straightaway without due confirmation. The laboratory was careless in its report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/false-hiv-ve-report-doctor-lab-ordered-to-pay-rs50k-compensation/articleshow/81438165.cms||Saeed Khan
March 11, 2021||Patna||Bihar records 2nd highest turnout to get vaccinated||PATNA: Altogether 52,230 people on Wednesday took the Covid-19 vaccines, which was the second-highest turnout on a single day so far in Bihar. Altogether 37,763 of them received the first dose and 14,467 got their second shot. In the priority group, 30,554 were senior citizens and 3,217 above 45 years with comorbidities. The rise in turnout is because health and wellness centres across the state have also started the inoculation drive for priority groups, including senior citizens. As per the data provided by the state health department, a total of 2,58,105 senior citizens and 43,045 people above 45 years with comorbidities had been inoculated in the state till Wednesday. So far, 9,13,667 persons took the first jab and 2,58,863 were administered the second dose. No adverse event following immunization (AEFI) case was reported on Wednesday. However, 91 such cases have been reported in state so far. The officials at health department said no case of serious/severe AEFI is attributable to vaccination till date. Meanwhile, 44 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the corresponding tally to 2,62,864 in Bihar. One more coronavirus death was reported, taking the toll to 1,548 in Bihar. Officially, the Covid death was reported in Bhagalpur, taking the district death toll to 83. There were 302 active cases in the state as total 2,61,013 people had recovered, taking the recovery rate up to 99.3%. The number of tests further declined to 25,256. So far 2,27,06,935 samples have been tested in the state since March last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-records-2nd-highest-turnout-to-get-vaccinated/articleshow/81435765.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Patna||Opposition parties hold farmers’ meet in Purnia||PURNIA: Farmer leaders and members of various political parties are holding ‘kisan panchayats’ in different blocks of the district to create awareness against the three farm laws passed by the Centre as well as the minimum support price (MSP) of farm products.  As a part of the ongoing agitation, a farmers’ meeting was held in Jhunni panchayat under K-Nagar block of the district on Tuesday. At least 300 farmers and political leaders belonging Congress, RJD, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Left attended the meeting. AAP state spokesperson Nyaz Ahmad said, “We organise farmers’ meetings under the banner of Kisan Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti, Purnia unit, from time to time. We have convened such meetings at 7-8 places like Purnia town, Kasba and Danghara.” He added: “The MSP for maize crop has been fixed at Rs1860, but farmers of Seemanchal are forced to sell their produce at Rs1,000-1,200 per quintal. Now, we have adopted a strategy. Farmers will not sell their produce to middlemen at a throwaway price. Instead, we will lay siege to Purnia collectorate with maize crop.” Prof Alok Kumar, president of Purnia Kisan Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti, said the Narendra Modi-government is anti-farmer. Md Islamuddin, district president of the farmers’ forum, said, “The present dispensation is working against farmers and labourers of the country. The farmers’ agitation on Delhi borders have got support in other countries as well. But, Modi government doesn’t pay attention to the farmers’ woes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/oppn-parties-hold-farmers-meet-in-purnia/articleshow/81435741.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Vijayawada||High-decibel campaign in Vij, but turnout lower than in 2014||Vijayawada: Despite awareness campaigns by the State Election Commission (SEC) and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC), polling percentage in the city stood at 62.88%, marginally below 63.10% registered in the 2014 municipal elections. Machilipatnam Municipal Corporation registered 72.53% polling while Pedana municipality ranked first in the district with an 80.55% polling percentage. Given the high polling percentage in the recent gram panchayat elections, district authorities had made ample arrangements for municipal elections, anticipating a high turnout. The ground situation in Vijayawada, however, turned out to be quite different. From early on Wednesday till 9 am, the polling percentage stood at a mere 9.10% and gradually rose to 38.14% by 1 pm. Officials had estimated that voter turnout would increase after 2 pm but polling reached only 48.97% by 3 pm. Voter turnout increased in the last hour with many queueing up beyond 5 pm. Many candidates blamed the change in boundaries of wards and allotment of polling booths at a distance from their residence for the low polling percentage. “Delimitation process was done without proper planning. Though we are residing in the same house, my vote is registered at one booth and the rest of my family members were allocated to other booths, which are miles away from my home. This happened in many areas in the city. Many voters faced difficulty and hesitated to come forward for voting. Officials have to bear this blame,” TDP mayoral candidate Kesineni Swetha said. The scorching heat also had an impact on the polling percentage. With the city registering a temperature of 37 degrees Centigrade and a high UV index on Wednesday, many middle-aged and elderly voters decided to skip exercising their franchise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-decibel-campaign-in-vij-but-turnout-lower-than-in-2014/articleshow/81436817.cms||Venu Lanka
March 11, 2021||Business||Aditya Birla Health to offer mental health counselling to poliycholders||Mumbai: Aditya Birla Health Insurance has started to provide mental health counselling under its high-end cover. Policyholders can get counselling and therapy using a company helpline in total confidentiality. Speaking to TOI, Mayank Bhatwal, MD & CEO, Aditya Birla Health Insurance said that during the pandemic the company had received several inquiries from customers seeking assistance on mental healthcare. “At that time counselling was not covered. Now under the new policy, in collaboration with Mpower, we have embedded this as a feature in the new version of its Active Health policy. Although the regulator Irdai has mandated insurance companies to cover mental healthcare, many are providing this as a part of their hospitalisation cover while most of the mental health expenses are for consulting, counselling, and therapy. In the case of Aditya Birla Health, the counsellors will either address the issue on their own or if required refer the policyholders to mental health experts. According to Bhatwal, this is a part of the Aditya Birla Health’s promotional and preventive approach to healthcare as stress can cause complications in future if not addressed in time. The company’s policy also addresses chronic issues of disease like asthama, blood pressure, cholesterol and diabetes, where policyholders are put in a managed program to ensure that work toward meeting the parameters prescribed by their physician. The new policy providers for return of 100% of the health insurance premium through a cash equivalent which can be used for health-related expenses or for meeting the next year’s premium. “We are moving beyond the hospitalisation cover to provide day-care treatments and counselling for homeopathy,” said Bhatwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/aditya-birla-health-to-offer-mental-health-counselling-to-poliycholders/articleshow/81438700.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Lucknow||Stories beyond numbers: Disease left behind trail of death, trauma & devastated families||Lucknow: In September last year, advocate Vijay Kumar Dubey (55) lost his younger sister (52) and elder brother (66) to Covid-19 in just three days. Dubey along with his wife and daughter also tested positive for the disease. After the tragedy, his 86-year-old mother lost her vision while his 92-year-old father was unable to understand what had actually befallen his household. Things have not been the same since then. Dubey says he does not want to recount the trauma but also adds that he cannot forget it for the rest of his life. “My sister died on September 10 due to negligence of staff of a private hospital. The hospital did not even wait for us to take her body and cremated her without prior information. My elder brother died on September 13 at a hospital. He was on ventilator support and was also in the last stage of Parkinson’s disease,” says Dubey, recalling the horror. “I was admitted to a third hospital at that time while my wife and daughter, both positive, were in home isolation. My elderly parents were living in a separate house not fully understanding what was going on,” says Dubey.  Dubey recalls how he was left on his own and those he had helped all through his life, almost boycotted the family because of the disease. “I realised that doing anything for anyone in the society does not bear any fruit. My family was boycotted. No one even asked if we had water at our homes or how the family members were dealing with the loss or if any help was required. My wife had to do everything on her own from the house and I could just pitch in over phone calls from the hospital,” he says. “Those who did not get infected were fortunate but the danger still lurks for all of us and precaution is the only way to stay safe. I also request that non-Covid families should help those who get infected. Do not leave them to fend for themselves but support them in whichever way possible,” he says. Like Dubey, many families in the city saw death from close quarters. Besides trauma, the financial and emotional loss still haunts them. Eight-year-old Prabal is one of them. The young boy lost his mother, Bina Devi, a school teacher, to Covid-19 in August last year. Still not able to come to terms with the harsh reality, the boy pines for her. Twelve days ago, he returned to Lucknow from his grandparents’ home in Khairabad (Sitapur), where he had been living since his mother’s demise. He is still unable to deal with the tragedy. The family is not only going through emotional loss but has also been struck financially as the only earning member is no more. Prabal’s father, who is physically-challenged and unemployed, had to take loan to pay his child’s school fee. Saim Jafri (40), who is in the business of pharmaceuticals, lost his wife Alisha Jafri (35) to the virus. “I loved my wife too much to leave her in the hospital or in home isolation alone. I brought her from Sitapur to Lucknow in the car with an oxygen cylinder wearing a full PPE kit. ,” he breaks down recalling the trauma. “Later, I tested positive too. I left my nine-year-old son, Arhan, with my sister. After a week of hospital stay, my wife died after her oxygen level dropped. I was in hospital, my mother was positive too and my son was away from all of us,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stories-beyond-numbers-disease-left-behind-trail-of-death-trauma-devastated-families/articleshow/81440063.cms||Yusra Husain
March 11, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Nonagenarians brave ill-health to cast vote||Visakhapatnam: Nonagenarians across the state ensured that they exercised their franchise on Wednesday, irrespective of ill-health and physical disabilities. Polling booths in several districts saw the elderly, in wheelchairs and even being carried on a cot, turn up at polling booths and assisted by police personnel who helped carry many of them. At Jalaripeta in Vizag, 90-year-old P Appiyyamma reached the polling booth in a cot that was carried by her relatives and neighbours. Appiyyamma, a fisherwoman, has been confined to bed for the past 40 days due to high blood pressure and other age-related ailments. “She wished to cast her vote and asked her family members, who supported her decision. We were stunned upon seeing the woman brought to the polling booth,” said V Danayya, a fisherman from Jalaripeta. Locals added that staff at the polling booth helped them as well. The humanitarian side of the police was on display in Vizianagaram and Krishna districts as well, where cops on duty ensured that no person wishing to cast their vote was left out. Ninety-five-year-old Azmatullah of Pedana in Krishna district, who is paralysed and bed-ridden, was brought to the polling booth in ward number 4. Police personnel helped Azmatullah exercise his franchise. At Avanigadda and Machilipatnam, police personnel carried a Divyang person and an elderly woman who wanted to cast their votes to the polling booth. At both places, their efforts were appreciated by voters at the polling booths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nonagenarians-brave-ill-health-to-cast-vote/articleshow/81436882.cms||Siva G
March 11, 2021||Business||2 white label ATM cos’ permit revoked||Mumbai: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has said that it has revoked the authorisation granted to two companies to operate white label ATM networks. These are RiddiSiddhi Bullions and AGS Transact Technologies. RBI’s move follows their non-compliance with the central bank’s regulatory requirements. Both were granted a licence to set up, own and operate white label ATMs(WLAs). WLA companies are service providers who can set up independent ATM networks, which plug into the banking network and allow customers of any bank to withdraw funds. In return, they would get a fee from the card-issuing bank. The RBI had set stringent conditions in respect of the number of machines that these operators were expected to set up in rural and semi-urban areas. Last year, the central bank had also eased guidelines allowing the operators to source cash directly from the RBI and offer non-bank services like bill payments and advertise even non-financial products in their premises to diversify their revenue. Until last year, there were eight WLA operators. The remaining six are BTI Payments, Hitachi Payment Services, Muthoot Finance, SREI Infrastructure, Tata Communications Payment Solutions, and Vakrangee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/2-white-label-atm-cos-permit-revoked/articleshow/81438169.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Business||Indospace takes 55 acres in Haryana from RIL for warehouse||TNN Mumbai: Indospace — a partnership between private equity fund Everstone, real estate operator Realterm and logistics solution provider GLP — has taken 55 acres in Farukhnagar, Haryana, from Reliance Industries (RIL) on lease. RIL has developed an economic township in Farukhnagar, attracting several companies such as Panasonic, AllCargo and Denso. Indospace plans to develop a warehouse facility in the 55 acres for e-commerce and retail players. In 2017, Indospace had taken 120 acres on lease from RIL in Badli, also in Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indospace-takes-55-acres-in-haryana-from-ril-for-warehouse/articleshow/81438111.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Patna||Experts stress on child issues||PATNA: All key stakeholders should create an enabling environment for 47 million children, who constitute 46% of the state population, UNICEF Bihar chief Nafisa Binte Shafique said on Wednesday. Speaking at an event titled ‘From Advocacy to Action – CSOs unite for Child Rights’, organised by UNICEF and Child Rights Centre, Chanakya National Law University (CNLU), Nafisa said, “As shown in NFHS-5, Bihar has progressed a lot in terms of various indicators. However, the marriage of more than 40% girls before the age of 18 is a big concern. We all can be changemakers. By keeping our voices together in raising the child issues at different levels, we can realise ‘bachche aage Bihar aage’." CNLU vice-chancellor Justice (retired) Mridula Mishra said: “Every child comes in this world with human rights. They have right to live and to be protected. Once educated, they get aware of their lives and rights. Till then, the onus is on the educated persons of the society to take stand.” Nipurnh Gupta, communication specialist, UNICEF Bihar, in her presentation on ‘Advocacy as a tool for social change’, said the purpose is not just to raise the issue, but to bring about changes at the individual, society and policy level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/experts-stress-on-child-issues/articleshow/81436258.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Patna||Rs 5,803 crore RCD budget passed in assembly||PATNA: The Road construction department minister, Nitin Nabin, said in the state assembly on Wednesday that his department has devised a five-point work plan to facilitate reaching Patna in five hours from any part of the state, fulfiling CM Nitish Kumar's dream. Later, the House passed the Rs 5,803.60 crore budget of the department for the next fiscal. Nabin said the department plans to construct elevated roads, railway over-bridges, bypasses and greenfield roads to smoothen vehicle mobility at identified “black spots”, which are accident-prone and encumber vehicle movement. “In the first phase, when the plan was conceptualised an expansive network of national and state highways, major district and rural roads, were taken up under the PM Gram Sadak Yojana,” Nabin said. As to the second phase, the elevated roads will be constructed in new towns such as Gopalganj, Begusarai, Tajpur, Musrigharari, Dalsingaray, Bharsharif, Harnaut, among others, while the construction in Kishanganj is nearing completion. The work on the four-lane 8km elevated road between Mithapur and Mahuli in Patna and the double-decker flyover at Chhapra is underway. Nabin said 34 ROBs were constructed between 2005 and 2015, and the work on 14 new ROBs was at various stages of execution, while more than 50 other ROBs are on the cards. Following an intensive survey on the national and state highways, as many as 120 places have been identified that will have bypass roads to remove traffic jams. The Centre has given the sanction for a 189km greenfield road between Aamas and Darbhanga. The Munger, Bhagalpur and -Mirzachowki section (124km) of the national highway 80 has also got the nod. Similarly, restructuring of the 120 accident-prone “black spots” has been initiated. Panchayat tax net:Panchayati Raj minister Samrat Choudhary has said that commercial units in rural areas such as mobile phone-cum-internet towers, and commercial shops among others, would be brought under the tax net. The department has been planning to provide civic facilities such as solid waste management, community halls, Panchayat Sarkar Bhavans in every panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-5803cr-rcd-budget-passed-in-assembly/articleshow/81435632.cms||Abhay Singh
March 11, 2021||Patna||BJP legislator expresses concern over rising incidents of crime in Sitamarhi||PATNA: Sitamarhi town BJP MLA Mithilesh Kumar turned to social media on Tuesday to express his concern over the rising incidents of crime in Sitamarhi and in the state also. In a video grab which went viral on social media, the lawmaker said that he was perplexed over the failure of police to check criminal activities despite the issue raised by him in the assembly and outside. “The situation can be gauged from the fact that three serious incidents took place in Sitamarhi district in a day. Now people prefer to not to send their children out of home after sunset,” he said. “It's high time that senior police officers should intervene,” he added. On Tuesday, the MLA's confidante Dhirendra Kumar Pankaj alias Guddu Jha was shot at and critically injured when he had gone for morning walk in Raghunathpur locality under Mehsaul police outpost in Sitamarhi town. Guddu, (45), a social worker and a resident of Chak Fateha village in Sheohar district, received three bullet injuries. Earlier, a trader Rakesh Jha was killed in Bairgania and a five-year old boy's body was recovered from Riga police station areas. Reacting to the BJP MLA's allegation, the JD(U) said that action had been taken by the police in most of the cases. " Police personnel are alert and the culprits will not be spared whosoever they may be,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. The BJP MLA too admitted that the Sitamarhi police have arrested the accused in some cases. Yet the incidents have not stopped as criminals have no fear of law," he told this newspaper. Recently a sub-inspector of police was killed and a village chowkidar was seriously injured during a police operation under Majorganj police station area in Sitamarhi district. The police later arrested two of the named accused. Sitamarhi SP Anil Kumar said that the SHOs have already been alerted and asked to intensify patrolling in sensitive areas under their jurisdiction. Except a few cases, action has been initiated against the perpetrators of crime, he asserted. (With inputs from Shyam Kishore Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-legislator-expresses-concern-over-rising-incidents-of-crime-in-sitamarhi/articleshow/81418408.cms||Ramashankar
March 11, 2021||Patna||Patna: Temples illuminated with lights, security tightened||PATNA: Temples across the city were adorned with flowers and illuminated with colourful lights on Wednesday in the run-up to Mahashivaratri celebrations on Thursday. A large number of devotees were seen making last-minute purchases. Dhananjaya Upadhyay, a priest, said, “Mahashivaratri refers to the convergence of Shiva and Shakti — the masculine and feminine energies that balance the world.” Another priest, Arun Prasad, pointed out, “Mahashivaratri falls on the Chaturdashi tithi of Krishna paksha in the month of Phalguna.” He added, “People worship Lord Shiva by offering him ‘bel’ leaves, flowers, honey, milk, water and fruits.” Rituals like ‘jalabhishek’ and ‘rudrabhishek’ will also be performed on Mahashivaratri. Secretary of the Mahavir Temple’s trust committee, Acharya Kunal Kishore, told this newspaper that nearly 60 bookings for ‘rudrabhishek’ had been made so far. Thousands of devotees will also throng the Khajpura Shiva Temple where ‘jalabhishek’, ‘bhajan-kirtan’, ‘Shiva charcha’ and ‘Shiva vivah’ will begin from 6am on Thursday. Besides, ‘shobha yatras’ will be taken out by the members of different puja committees on the occasion. Digha MLA Sanjeev Chaurasiya said, “The ‘yatras’ will culminate near the Khajpura temple where Ganga aarti will be performed live. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, his deputies and other ministers will attend the event.” Although the Jaleshwar Mahadev Temple in Kankarbagh has been decorated with lights and flowers, no ‘shobha yatra’ will be taken out due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, additional forces will be deployed on the routes from where the ‘shobha yatras’ will pass. The district administration will tighten the security measures and ensure that the Covid safety protocols are followed everywhere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/temples-illuminated-with-lights-security-tightened/articleshow/81435916.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Patna||JNU award in name of ex-IAS officer Manoj Kumar Srivastava||PATNA: Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has instituted Manoj Kumar Srivastava Memorial Gold Medal Award in the name of 1980-batch Bihar cadre IAS officer, who died while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in Delhi in August last. A certificate and a gold medal will be awarded to the topper of MA in sociology programme of the Centre for the Study of Social Systems (CSSS) every year from the batch of 2020-22, as per information shared by the JNU on its website. Born in 1954 in Bihar, Manoj had graduated from St Xavier’s College, Ranchi, in physics before joining JNU and completing his MA in sociology. Manoj had served at important positions in the state government before he superannuated from service in 2015 from the rank equivalent to chief secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jnu-award-in-name-of-ex-ias-officer-manoj/articleshow/81435785.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Patna||34 vending zones coming up in Patna: Deputy CM||PATNA: Deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, who also holds charge of the urban development and housing department (UDHD), told the state legislative council on Wednesday that 34 vending zones will be created in the state capital, adding that regular anti-encroachment drives are undertaken to address the issue of encroachment. Responding to a short-notice question raised by MLC Kedar Nath Pandey, Prasad said out of the 34 proposed vending zones, 13 are complete, two have already been handed over to the beneficiaries, and two others are under construction. “I have told to complete all vending zones soon, which will sort out the issue of encroachment, as well as livelihood. Our department is serious about it,” the deputy CM said. However, several MLCs, including BJP's Sanjay Mayukh and Congress's Prem Chandra Mishra, raised concern over long-pending vending zones construction and demanded a permanent solution to encroachment, which they said leads to traffic congestion in Patna. RJD MLC Ram Chandra Purbey raised the issue of contamination of drinking water because of waterlogging. The UDHD minister said due to heavy rainfall in 2019, followed by waterlogging, dirty water had entered several pump houses, after which the borewells were cleaned and water tested. Another RJD MLC Sunil Kumar Singh raised the issue of several co-operative banks not having chief executive officers, because of which, he said, their functioning was getting hampered. He said the district cooperative officer was holding the charge of managing director in several of the banks. Replying to Singh, agriculture minister Amrendra Pratap Singh said as per the recommendation of the Vaidyanathan Committee, co-operative banks have now the autonomy to hire employees and decide on their service condition and matters related to finance and internal administrative matters. “As per this, the managing committee of cooperative banks is capable to decide about hiring CEOs,” Amrendra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/34-vending-zones-coming-up-in-patna-dy-cm/articleshow/81435661.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 11, 2021||Business||Kotak seeks more Indian money in equity mkts||Mumbai: Veteran banker and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) chief, Uday Kotak, has called for channeling more domestic savings into equity to counterbalance the dominance of foreign funds in Indian markets. He said that, while foreign capital is welcome, “we cannot depend on foreign capital for our destiny”. “If you look at India’s savings rate, it has been declining, but it is still high. What has been happening is that the bulk of it has been risk-averse and the amount of money that has gone into equity risk has been relatively lower. As a result, what you see in capital markets is a disproportionate prevalence of international savers in many of our blue-chip companies,” said Kotak. He, however, cautioned that promoting the equity culture should happen with improved governance in Indian corporates. “What we need to do and develop is a stronger equity and risk culture combined with cutting-edge governance. The worst thing we could do is to build a risk and equity culture and have people lose money,” said Kotak. He was speaking at a virtual conference on ‘Regaining growth: From crisis to opportunities’. Kotak highlighted the long-term private equity and venture capital industry, which was dominated by foreign investors. “We have seen the development of mutual funds and increased equity exposure, but long-term savings into risk capital is where we should do more. This will take a mindset change, both for the policymakers and the savers. That is where domestic capital must supplement global capital,” he said. Citing the Cold War between the US and the Soviet Union, Kotak said that the leadership of the world will be decided by not just military power — it will be decided by technology and economic power. He said that India must go beyond ‘Jugaad’ and lead in technology. “Indian business had an approach known as ‘Jugaad’. To be the economic leader, we have to lead in research and technology.” According to Kotak, following the pandemic, the barrier between the physical and digital world has been broken and the boundaries of state and country are not what they used to be.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-seeks-more-indian-money-in-equity-mkts/articleshow/81438007.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Patna||Shiva temples decked up for Mahashivaratri||PATNA: Temples in different districts, including Madhepura, Gaya, Bhagalpur and Purnia, were decked up on Wednesday for Mahashivaratri festivities on Thursday. Thousands of devotees are likely to visit Madhepura-based Baba Singheshwar Sthan on Mahashivaratri. Legend has it that King Dasharatha of Ayodhya had performed ‘yajna’ at the temple in order to be blessed with sons. The Covid-19 pandemic has, however, led to cancellation of the month-long Singheshwar fair. A large number of people will also throng the Koteshwarnath Temple and Markandeya Temple in Gaya to perform puja on Thursday. The 300-year-old Shiva temple on the Ramshila Hills, which is popular for a one-foot tall ‘shivaling’ made of rock crystal stone, will attract devotees too. According to a priest, Navin Chandra Mishra, performing puja when the ‘Dhanishta’ and ‘Shatabhisha’ nakshatras come together will be very fruitful this year. In Bhagalpur the centre of attraction will be the Vriddheshwarnath Mahadev Temple where thousands of devotees come together to seek Lord Shiva’s blessing and witness his wedding with Goddess Parvati. Arrangements for Mahashivaratri celebrations have also been made at the Shiva Shakti Temple in Adampur, Kuppeshwar Nath Temple in Champanagar and Dugdheshwar Nath Temple in Variety Chowk. Recitation of the ‘Ramcharitmanas’ began at many Shiva temples in Purnia on Wednesday. The Thakurbari Mandir in Lakhan Chowk and Shiva temple in Polytechnic Chowk wore a festive look. Shivnarayan Giri, a devotee of Lord Shiva, said, “Mahashivaratri is a special occasion when people forget everything. All they remember is Lord Shiva and soak in his divinity.” (With inputs from D N Saha, Alok Kumar, Kumar Rajesh and Sanjeev Mishra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shiva-temples-decked-up-for-mahashivaratri/articleshow/81435940.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Business||Axis Bank launches contactless wearable payment devices||MUMBAI: Axis Bank has launched a range of wearable payment devices like wristbands, keychains and watch loops that can facilitate contactless payments without a card or a phone. The private bank has partnered with Thales and Tappy Technologies to design and create these products, which are exclusively available on the Mastercard platform and are available at a fee point of Rs 750. The wearables are directly linked to the customers’ bank account and function like a regular debit card and can be used with any merchant, who accepts contactless transactions. “We see a huge opportunity in contactless payments, which will continue to grow, given the post-pandemic situation and the need for social distancing,” said Sanjeev Moghe, EVP & head (cards & payments), Axis Bank. Earlier, SBI had partnered with Titan to launch Titan Pay by incorporating payments in the company’s smartwatches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/axis-bank-partners-mastercard-to-launch-wearable-pay/articleshow/81438098.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Now, anyone can live in GIFT City||AHMEDABAD: Paving the way for any individual to own and occupy a residential property, the Gujarat government has issued a resolution allowing those not working at GIFT City (Gujarat International Finance Tec-City) to reside within it. So far, only those employed at GIFT City were allowed to stay in residential units within the city, which is on the outskirts of Gandhinagar. This relaxation, however, is limited to the first 5,000 residential units or for units whose construction begins before March 31, 2023, whichever is earlier. Initially, only those working at GIFT City could own and occupy residential units there. A few years ago, the government permitted any individual or investors— not employed in the city — to develop and own residential units but the right to stay in such dwellings was reserved for only those working within GIFT City. “With this relaxation both ownership and occupancy conditions are no longer restrictive and open to all,” GIFT City said in a statement. The move is expected to open up new opportunities for real estate developers and investors. “This amendment will encourage more investments in the residential sector of the city and will help leveraging the city’s top-of-the-line quality of life. It will bring vibrancy to GIFT City with more people living in it and create new avenues for employment,” said Tapan Ray, MD and Group CEO, GIFT City. Of the proposed 62 million square feet of vertical development at GIFT City, residential area of 14 million square feet is planned, which accounts for 22% of the total development. “We already have reputed developers whose residential projects are at various stages of development at GIFT City. We now invite other real estate players and investors to consider this new business opportunity,” added Ray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-anyone-can-live-in-gift-city/articleshow/81437527.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Free and fair elections held, no need for re-polling: SEC||Amaravati: State election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar has said that elections to municipal corporations and municipalities/nagar panchayats were held in a free and fair manner, barring a few stray incidents. “This is the first time in the history that both gram panchayats as well as municipal elections could be held without going for re-polling,” said Ramesh Kumar in a statement. He thanked all stakeholders for the restraint exercised to facilitate an incident-free poll. However, he said the commission is taking instances of violence seriously and seeking time-bound reports from the concerned district collectors and SPs/CPs. The SEC said the success of the municipal polls can be attributed largely due to distribution of voter slips and adherence to the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) by all political parties. Senior officers, including district collectors, superintendents of police/commissioners of police have led from the front, he said, and showed necessary grit as well as leadership. The SEC said voting percentage in municipal corporations is 57.14% and 70.65% in municipalities/nagar panchayats, which is satisfactory. Counting will take place on March 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/free-and-fair-elections-held-no-need-for-re-polling-sec/articleshow/81437018.cms||Samdani MN
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||Colleges extend jab help to staff||Kolkata: Some of the city colleges are doing their part to ensure their employee get vaccinated against Covid. Bhowanipore Gujarati Education Society has announced that all teachers and support staff taking the vaccine will be reimbursed from the college fund. The authorities will also bear the cost of the vaccination for their parents and children. The reimbursement form has been distributed. Miraj Shah, vice-chairman of The Bhawanipur Education Society College, said, “Our society took this initiative to support our national mission on Covid vaccination. Reimbursement of vaccine costs for the family was to ensure we all fight Covid together and win this battle.” St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) Kolkata is mulling the possibility of setting up a vaccination centre on campus for employees, including the professors. “We won’t force people to get the vaccine. But, as an educational institute, we are concerned about both teaching and support staff. So we will make the facility available. Some people are complaining about the difficulty to register for the vaccine. Thus, if we can arrange for a vaccination centre, then they can get the benefit,” said principal Fr Dominic Savio. Though a government-run institute, principal of Lady Brabourne College Siuli Sarkar said if the teachers demand, the request would be sent to the health department and higher education department authorities. “Most of the teaching and non-teaching staff of the college who have been scheduled for election duty have compulsorily been given the vaccine. If the rest approach us to hold a vaccination camp, the suggestion shall be forwarded,” she said. A school principal who runs a chain of educational institutes in the state said a meeting is on the cards to decide if a vaccination camp can be arranged for teachers and support staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/colleges-extend-jab-help-to-staff/articleshow/81436923.cms||Somdatta Basu
March 11, 2021||Business||Rising two-wheeler prices impact entry-level demand||Chennai: Multiple price increases in less than a year has made entry level bikes pricier by at least 10%, thereby denting demand in the belly of the market — 70% of all two wheeler sales are in the sub-125 cc category. Part of this hike is due to the BS6 shift but even after May there have been 2-3 hikes. Dealers say the 16% drop in two wheeler retail sales as announced by FADA (Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations) is topped by an 18% drop in entry level motorcycle sales which is the most price sensitive. For example: the price of Hero Splendor, the top selling two wheeler in India, has gone up by nearly Rs 9,000 between last February and now while HMSI’s Activa scooter, its arch rival for the top selling spot, has become dearer by nearly Rs 11,000. TVS Jupiter 125 cc is pricier by just over Rs 11,000. Hero HF Deluxe Self has seen a mark up of just over Rs 10,000 while the Honda Shine SP is up around Rs 10,000.Two wheeler dealers say this markup has hit the demand in a segment notoriously price sensitive. “Two wheeler prices went up by Rs 1,500-Rs 7,000 during the BS6 shift last May but the hikes since then means that even an entry level vehicle of around Rs 50,000 is now pricier by Rs 9000-Rs 10,000 The ability of customers to absorb that kind of hike is better in scooters and bigger bikes. That's why the entry level motorcycle segment has contracted by 17-18%,” said FADA president Vinkesh Gulati. Dealers say a number of factors have added to this squeeze. “Adding to the cost of acquisition, fuel prices have gone up by 20-22% so the uptick we saw in July-August has now tapered off,” said Nikunj Sanghi, MD, JS 4Wheel Motor.Auto industry insiders say two wheeler sales picked up first because of pent up demand and no public transport options. But, said Hetal Gandhi, director Crisil, “The pandemic hit discretionary spending at the bottom of the pyramid and rural money was routed towards buying tractors and farm implements. “That’s why, she added, even when the sales pick up speed in FY22, “absolute two wheeler volumes will still be 15% lower than FY19. There has been a large proportion of impact on the economy two wheeler segment due to the price increases,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rising-two-wheeler-prices-impact-entry-level-demand/articleshow/81437698.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
March 11, 2021||Kanpur||Cops file chargesheet in a rape case in 48 hours||Kanpur: The city police filed chargesheet in the Barra rape case on Wednesday, within 48 hours of registration of the first information report (FIR). Circle Officer Govind Nagar Vikas Kumar Pandey said, “The FIR in the case was registered on March 7 and the accused was arrested on the same day.” Subsequently, the statements of the survivor were recorded and the chargesheet was presented in the court on Wednesday. “The charges against the accused were found to be true under sections 363 (kidnapping) and 376 (rape) of India Penal Code and POCSO Act,” said Pandey. The CO added that the case has been taken on priority in order to ensure maximum punishment at the earliest. An eight-year-old minor in Barra police area of the city was allegedly raped by her 55-year-old neighbour on March 7 when she had gone to play outside with other children, the police said. According to a complaint given by the family members of the survivor, she was abducted by their neighbour Shiv Das Verma, who over the pretext of giving her toffee lured her and later took her to his house and raped her. The man later dropped her at her house. The girl in the night started profusely bleeding from her private parts and gradually narrated her ordeal to her parents after which they went to the Barra police station to register an FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cops-file-chargesheet-in-a-rape-case-in-48-hours/articleshow/81436198.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Patna||‘Mega skill centre to come up in every district’||PATNA: The labour resources department minister, Jibesh Kumar, said on Wednesday that mega skill centres would be set up in each district headquarters town to impart training to those who missed the opportunity to get into a government polytechnic college or an Industrial Training Institute (ITI). Highlighting the department's achievement the after completion of 100 days in office, the minister told the media that the students enrolled in the mega skill centres would undergo training in short courses so that they could be able to get jobs based on their skills. Earlier, ITIs for women got set up in every district, and ITIs for male students was opened at the subdivisional level as part of CM Nitish Kumar's Saat Nischay' Part-I scheme. The process of turning these ITIs into the centres of excellence has already started, the minister said. "All 149 government-run ITIs have been affiliated to the NCVT, Delhi. As a result, the certificates issued by Bihar-based ITIs were recognised at the national level," Kumar said, adding only 45 ITIs were affiliated to the NCVT, Delhi when he assumed charge in November last year. Kumar revealed that the department recently signed an MOU with Tata Technologies Ltd to impart training to 15,000 students in 23 new trades, which are in great demand in the country and abroad. A sum of Rs 2,186 crore would be spent on the project. While Tata Technology will invest 88% of the total amount, the remaining 12% will be borne by the state government. The MOU has been signed under the centre of excellence project of the government. In the first phase, 60 government-run ITIs, including 8 women ITIs, have been included in the project. Tata Technologies Ltd will also provide 120 trainers for the purpose. The minister said each ITI would get Rs.36.48 lakh for purchasing new equipment. New trades such as robotics and solar energy would be part of the new courses, the BJP MLA from Jale said. Referring to the state government's commitment to providing 20 lakh jobs, the minister said around one lakh people would get jobs through the Panchayati raj department. Around 44,000 trained plumbers were required to deal with the 'Har Ghar Nal Jal' scheme in Altogether 59,079 wards. Around 8,000 of them will be trained as plumbers as well as electricians at the government-run training institutes. "Plumbers and electricians will be hired on a monthly remuneration of Rs 8,000 by respective panchayats," the minister said, adding that the department has so far registered 14 lakh workers with their Aadhar cards linked to the official website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mega-skill-centre-to-come-up-in-every-district/articleshow/81435775.cms||Ramashankar
March 11, 2021||Patna||Two direct flights launched from Darbhanga to Ahmedabad & Mumbai||PATNA: Budget carrier SpiceJet launched two direct flights from Darbhanga to Ahmedabad and Mumbai on Wednesday. The Ahmedabad-Darbhanga flight (SG-119), which was scheduled to arrive at 10.45am, landed at the Darbhanga airport at 12.40pm. It was diverted to Varanasi due to bad weather in Darbhanga. Later, SG-120 left for Ahmedabad at 1.40pm instead of 11.15am. SpiceJet officials told this newspaper that the flight was rerouted due to a sudden drop in visibility at the Darbhanga airport for a short period of time. The Mumbai-Darbhanga-Mumbai flight (SG-157/158), on the other hand, reached Darbhanga on its scheduled time at 4pm and left for Mumbai at 4.30pm. Airport director Biplab Kumar Mondal said the number of flights operating from Darbhanga had increased to six from four, including three under the Centre’s Regional Connectivity Scheme. “With rise in air traffic, adequate steps have been taken to ensure smooth passenger flow. Now, the Airports Authority of India is planning to increase the capacity of the security hold area till the time a permanent building comes up. Extra chairs have added and more security personnel deployed to assist the passengers,” the airport director added. The Darbhanga airport, which is operating fights on the Delhi (2), Mumbai (2), Ahmedabad (1) and Bengaluru (1) routes at present, has handled around 1.12 lakh passengers and 650 flights in the last four months. The number of flights will increase to eight by March-end with two more fights to Kolkata and Pune. Bookings have already begun. Flight operations at the airport were launched on November 8 last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-direct-flights-launched-from-darbhanga-to-ahmedabad-mumbai/articleshow/81435744.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 11, 2021||Patna||Nalanda coaching institute owner, brother injured in bomb attack||BIHARSHARIF: Miscreants on Wednesday hurled bomb at a coaching institute located at Nala road locality under the Laheri police station area in Biharsharif in which the institute’s owner and his brother sustained critical injuries. They also pelted stones and created a huge ruckus. According to the owner of institute, Amish Kumar, “Some miscreants thrashed him and his brother Nishant Kumar on Wednesday morning and later hurled bombs.” He said that a few days ago he had refused to admit some youth after they were found misbehaving with girls of the coaching institute. Police later got the injured admitted to Biharsharif sadar hospital. Laheri police station house officer (SHO) Virendra Yadav said the investigation was underway and the miscreants would soon be arrested. According to local sources, the entire incident has been captured in CCTV cameras installed at the coaching institute and it’s vicinity. Road blocked: Hundreds of women and children blocked movement of vehicular traffic for over five hours near Soeva Pul on NH-130 under Asthawan police station on Wednesday causing a huge traffic snarl on the highway. They were demanding immediate recovery of a youth Madhu Yadav of Asthan village, who went missing from a nearby village, where he had gone to attend a function on March 6. A kin of the missing youth said, “Madhu had gone to a nearby village to attend some function on March 6. But unfortunately, he did not return home that night and his cellphone was also found switched off. His family members then lodged an FIR on March 7. Police are clueless even after four days.” The protesters lifted the blockade only after Biharsharif sadar SDPO Shibli Nomani assured them of action in this regard. In the last one week, at least four persons including an LIC officer and husband of a Silao ward member were killed in different parts of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nalanda-coaching-institute-owner-brother-injured-in-bomb-attack/articleshow/81435690.cms||Farrukh Nadim
March 11, 2021||Patna||Traders keep shutters down in Darbhanga, Laheriasarai||DARBHANGA: All business establishments and shops in the twin cities of Darbhanga and Laheriasarai remained closed on Wednesday in protest against the killing of a fruit trader, Deepu Sah, on Monday night. The bandh call was given by Darbhanga division chamber of commerce and fruit & vegetable sellers’ association. Traders led by the chamber’s president Pawan Kumar Sureka staged a dharna at Darbhanga Tower. Later, a delegation led by Sureka met Darbhanga SSP Babu Ram and submitted a memorandum drawing his attention to the rising incidents of crime in the town. The incident is related to Monday night when bike-borne criminals snatched the bag containing cash and keys of Narayan Gami while he was on way to his residence after closing his shop at Masaraf Bazar under the Town police station area. Gami had raised an alarm and Deepu chased the criminals and caught hold of one of them. In panic, the unidentified criminal shot at Deepu leading to his death. Enraged over the incident, the local residents had thrashed the criminal mercilessly, leading to his death while his associate managed to escape on the bike. The traders, in the memorandum, alleged that the Town police station failed to react though it is located just 10 yards away from the crime scene. According to Sureka, the SSP told the delegation that five criminals were involved in the incident and raids were on to arrest them. The SSP also assured the delegation that more policemen will be posted against the vacant posts in the Town police station. Raj Kumar Sah, president of fruit sellers’ association, and Sushil Jain, principal secretary of chamber of commerce among others were part of the delegation, which met the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/traders-keep-shutters-down-in-darbhanga-laheriasarai/articleshow/81435720.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
March 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada readies for a Covid-cautious Shivratri||VIJAYAWADA: Residents of Vijayawada are gearing up to celebrate Maha Shivratri on a grand scale on Thursday. Amid concerns over a surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, the district administration has imposed restrictions on festivities following directions from the health department. An important ritual on the day is taking a holy dip in the Krishna river. In 2020, around one lakh devotees took the holy dip, which has been prohibited this year to contain the spread of Covid-19. Officials have also urged devotees to not come to the river ghats to offer ‘Pinda Pradanam’ and other rituals that commemorate one’s ancestors. Meanwhile, all temples of Lord Shiva have been illuminated and decorated, welcoming devotees. Authorities of the Kanaka Durga temple have made elaborate arrangements at the Lord Malleswara Swamy temple (Shivalayam). Officials will be monitoring queues at Old Shivalayam in the city and providing darshan based on time slots. Temple managements have been directed to not permit devotees without masks. Police pickets have been deployed at temples to regulate crowds and maintain physical distancing in queues. The Ramalingeswara Swamy temple on the hill top of Yanamalakuduru has been decorated for the Shivratri Prabhotsavam. Decorated chariots (Prabhalu) 100-feet in height from nearby villages will be brought to the temple on the night of Shivratri. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy will attend Shivratri celebrations organised by civil supplies minister Kodali Nani at NTR Stadium in Gudivada and offer special prayers. The district administration has made arrangements for the chief minister’s visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vijayawada-readies-for-a-covid-cautious-shivratri/articleshow/81436976.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Patna||Set up dairy societies for rural women: CM||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Wednesday directed the officials of the animal and fisheries resources department to set up separate dairy cooperative societies for women in villages across the state. During presentation of significant development works undertaken by the COMFED, the CM asked the officials concerned to strengthen the dairy cooperative society network right from the district to the village level. He also directed them to include women associated with Jeevika in the dairy business. “Expansion of the dairy network in remote villages will boost the economic condition of the people and provide them with job opportunities,” the CM said. Nitish also underlined the need to accelerate the process of setting up animal hospitals in every 10 panchayats to ensure free treatment and medicines. Referring to ‘Saat Nischay 2.0’, the CM said, “The ambitious scheme talks about conservation of ‘desi’ breeds of cows and the need for research on the uses of their milk.” Animal and fisheries resources department minister Mukesh Sahani, chief secretary Arun Kumar and development commissioner Amir Subhani were also present on the occasion. Earlier, secretary of the department, N Saravana Kumar, made a presentation before the CM on the development works in the field of dairy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/set-up-dairy-societies-for-rural-women-cm/articleshow/81435601.cms||Ramashankar
March 11, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Congress to observe March 20 as ‘Respect for Democracy Day’||BHOPAL: Congress on Wednesday said the party will observe one year of the fall of Kamal Nath government on March 20 as “Respect for Democracy Day”.  Speaking to reporters at the PCC office here, party organisational vice-president Chandra Prabhash Shekhar said, “After 15 years, people of Madhya Pradesh decided to change the regime and bring a Congress government led by Kamal Nath to power.” He alleged that the BJP with its money-power and horse-trading humiliated the people’s mandate and democratic values of the nation. “Former chief minister Kamal Nath kept himself away from horse-trading practices. Showing faith in democracy and belief in Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar’s Constitution, he sacrificed the government and stepped down,” Chandra Prabhash Sekhar said. On March 20 last year, former chief minister Kamal Nath resigned after the Supreme Court ordered a floor test in the state assembly. Twenty-two Congress MLAs, who were followers of Jyotiraditya Scindia, left the party and joined the BJP. Congress on Wednesday claimed that Kamal Nath’s policies and schemes were becoming popular with the masses and if he completed the five-year tenure, the BJP’s future in the state would have been in danger. “Flustered with the Kamal Nath government’s development policies, the BJP throttled democratic tenets and formed an undemocratic, unconstitutional government,” Shekhar said. “Kamal Nath’s contempt for horse-trading and his resignation on March 20 last year will be observed as Loktantra Samman Diwas (Respect for Democracy Day) this year,” he said. PCC office said the party will hold marches with the Tricolour at all district headquarters, pay floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar, hold discussions on the provisions of the Constitution and a video message from PCC chief Nath will be broadcasted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-to-observe-march-20-as-respect-for-democracy-day/articleshow/81437112.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Nashik||Home quarantine patients under watch||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) and the Nashik rural health department have decided to come down heavily on asymptomatic Covid-19 patients found violating the home-isolation rule. Both the agencies would institutionally quarantine such patients if they are found by the surveillance teams in public spaces. NMC has also decided to initiate legal action against such violators and slap fines on them, although the quantum of the fine is yet to be decided. The central health ministry team, which had visited Nashik on Tuesday, had directed the civic body and district health department to take all measures to contain the spread of the infection. NMC health officials said apart from sealing buildings with more than five Covid-positive patients, the civic body would also seal specific zones if the number of cases rises above 20. “The central health team members have instructed us to strictly implement the rules in the containment zones. Some measures of the measures will be implemented in the city immediately,” said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, the NMC medical superintending officer. “We will start putting stamps to identify Covid-positive patients under home isolation. We will take legal action and also slap a fine on such patients if they found violating the protocol. Moreover, they will be quarantined institutionally,” Nagargojesaid. “We have appointed squads that will keep an eye on such patients. We appeal to the citizens to inform the civic body if they come across any asymptomatic patient — who should be isolating at home — outside. We will also start a helpline number for the purpose,” he added Ratna Raokhande, the Nashik civil surgeon, said some positive patients were not adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour. “Such patients are mingling with others without thinking about the consequences. It has been decided that patients who opt for home quarantine will be stamped with a “home quarantine” sign. if such patients are seen outside their residences, they would be forcefully admitted to Covid care centres for institutional quarantine,” said Raokhande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/home-quarantine-patients-under-watch/articleshow/81435090.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 11, 2021||Varanasi||Prez likely to visit Kashi on March 13||Varanasi: The President Ram Nath Kovind is expected to visit Varanasi on March 13. The local administration has geared up for the preparations in view of the President’s proposed three-day visit to the city. Regarding the same, the divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal held a meeting of the officials on Tuesday and issued directives for all the arrangements. The President is expected to be in Varanasi from March 13 to 15. The district administration received a telephonic intimation of the President’s visit to the city. During his stay, the President will offer prayers at Kashi Vishwanath Temple and witness the Ganga Aarti. The commissioner instructed the officials to make foolproof arrangements of security, route plan, cleanliness, lighting, and other necessary things for the visit. The meeting was attended by many officials including vice chairman of Varanasi Development Authority, municipal commissioner, and the officials of other departments -police, airport, PWD, BLW, and tourism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/prez-likely-to-visit-kashi-on-march-13/articleshow/81432959.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Will shift Nanar project out of Konkan: CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Days after MNS chief Raj Thackeray took up the issue of revival of the Nanar project, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said that the proposed oil refinery will be shifted outside the Konkan as the locals are opposing it. An oil refinery project worth Rs 3 lakh crore had been proposed in Ratnagiri district during the erstwhile Fadnavis regime, but the Sena was against the project citing locals’ opposition to it. On Wednesday, speaking to the media, CM Thackeray said the Shiv Sena does not change its views. “We do not support or oppose a refinery or an industry just because we feel so, but because local people are against it for the environment. Even though we knew that the project would be beneficial for the state, we cannot go against locals,” said Thackeray. Former MLA Ashish Deshmukh also wrote to the CM demanding that the project be shifted to Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-will-shift-nanar-project-out-of-konkan-in-mumbai/articleshow/81440694.cms||---
March 11, 2021||India||In graft fight, J&K lets people e-track funds||NEW DELHI: The J&K government, in a significant crackdown against corruption and to ensure transparency in utilisation of public funds allocated for development works at all levels of administration, has introduced the Budget Estimation Allocation Monitoring System (BEAMS) which puts release of funds for various works in public domain.  All one has to do is go to the J&K BEAMS website — beamsjk.gov.in — and click on the ‘Empowerment’ icon. Empowerment, incidentally, is an acronym for ‘Enabling Monitoring and Public Overview of Works being Executed and Resources for Meaningful Transparency’. The click will throw up a dashboard showing the complete list of ongoing works in the UT at the district, block and village level, along with the amount approved, amount released and the expenditure. As per the website, BEAMS is an application for online budgeting and flow of resources. It is designed to capture flow of funds to each individual project under execution on real-time basis. Citizens can view projects that are being funded in their area. The J&K government has launched the ‘Empowerment’ initiative to enable people’s participation during execution of projects. A senior J&K government official told TOI that the online tracking system for public works in the UT was to let people at the village level see what is happening in their area. “We have made the UT of J&K fully transparent and this has reduced corruption immensely. I have checked systems in other states and UTs. No one has such a transparent system,” the officer claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-graft-fight-jk-lets-people-e-track-funds/articleshow/81440802.cms||Bharti Jain
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||BJP files police complaint||Hyderabad: Alleging that miscreants have been spreading rumours on social media against party’s state president Bandi Sanjay, BJP workers lodged a complaint with the cyber crime police on Wednesday. Based on the complaint, the police registered a case under section 469 of the IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-files-police-complaint/articleshow/81440122.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi’s first wildlife rehab centre may open in 4 months||NEW DELHI: After Ridge Management Board recently gave clearance to Delhi’s first wildlife rescue-cum-rehabilitation centre at Rajokri, forest officials said the facility was expected to become operational by July. The project has been pending for over three years. “We will make a fresh detailed project report to chalk out the capacity and other requirements,” said a senior forest official. Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority had sanctioned a budget of nearly Rs 1 crore for the project, the official added. As the Delhi forest department lacks proper manpower and equipment to help wild animals in need, most of the cases are transferred to two NGOs. Some cases were reported last year when the forest department could not immediately rescue or treat injured wild animals after they strayed out of its habitat. At times, the rescue operation stretches days. “The forest and wildlife department does not have its own veterinarian and rescue vehicle. The department seeks help of National Zoological Park and the process of treatment at times gets delayed in coordinating with the Delhi zoo. If a big animal is rescued, the forest department faces difficulty in shifting the animal without a proper rescue vehicle,” said an official. According to the department, it had received 141 calls on its helpline number from September 2020 to this February about wildlife in distress. As the forest department seeks NGOs’ help, many local people often directly contact them. Most of the complaints for animal rescue are received in the monsoon due to the rise in man-reptile cases. “When our rescue centre will be operational, the number of calls may increase,” said an official. National Green Tribunal had created the post of a veterinarian and two compounders for the centre. “As these two are new posts, the appointment process is yet to begin,” said an official. According to sources, a monkey rescue centre at Rajokri is lying abandoned for the past many years and it was announced in 2017 that a bird rescue centre would come up. However, a committed constituted by the Supreme Court had pointed out that a bird rescue centre was not required as just a few species like kites and pigeons would be treated. Rather, as a large number of reptiles enter human habitation during monsoon while wild animals, including nilgai and mongoose, stray into the city, there is a need for a wildlife rescue centre, it had added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/citys-first-wildlife-rehab-centre-may-open-in-4-months/articleshow/81438518.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
March 11, 2021||Varanasi||Man held for performing CM’s ‘pind daan’ in Ballia||Varanasi: The Ballia police arrested an alleged Samajwadi Party (SP) worker Brijesh Yadav and sent him to jail on Tuesday for allegedly performing ‘pind daan’ (last rites) of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday and posting its video on social media. On the complaint of a priest, Sudhakar Mishra, the police had lodged an FIR against Yadav under sections 420 (cheating), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of IPC and 66 IT Act. Police said Yadav, a resident of Dalchapra village in Revati police station area of Ballia district, had performed the rituals on the bank of Ganga after befooling five priests, including the complainant, Mishra. Yadav also uploaded the video of the ritual on social media. Mishra, in his complaint alleged that Yadav took the priests for puja at Pachrukhiya ghat on the bank of the Ganga. After puja, he performed the last rite ritual after placing a photo of the CM at the place. Revati SO Yadvendra Pandey said the accused, who claims himself to be a SP worker, has been arrested and sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-held-for-performing-cms-pind-daan-in-ballia/articleshow/81432993.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Man trying to circulate fake currency notes held||Coimbatore: The city police arrested a 24-year-old man for attempting to circulate counterfeit currency notes at Gandhipuram in the city on Tuesday night. Police identified the accused as Mohammed Junaid, of Kozhikode in Kerala. He had returned from Saudi Arabia, where he was working as a car driver, 20 days ago. “Junaid and his friend Fazil tried to pay their bill at a fruit shop at the central bus stand using two counterfeit currency notes of 500 denominations. The shopkeeper found that the notes were counterfeit and managed to catch Junaid,” a police officer said. Fazil, a resident of Manjeri in Malappuram district, escaped from the spot. Later, Junaid was handed over to the Kattoor police. Police registered a case against Junaid under Section 489 (b) (c ) (using as genuine, forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank notes) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him. They seized 100 counterfeit currency notes of 500 denominations from him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-trying-to-circulate-fake-currency-notes-held/articleshow/81438547.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||KTR backs VSP staff agitation, slams Centre||Hyderabad: Days after AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi expressed support to the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant employees’ stir, TRS working president KT Rama Rao has also joined ‘save the VSP’ chorus. Expressing solidarity with the employees who took to the streets against privatisation of the steel plant, KTR said TRS would oppose disinvestment of public sector undertakings. “If required, a delegation will visit Visakhapatnam to express our support with the employees of VSP after taking permission from TRS chief K Chandrasekhar Rao,” KTR said. KTR said it would be foolish to think that Centre will not privatise other PSUs. “Tomorrow, Centre may privatise BHEL and Singareni Collieries. Centre may go to extreme lengths to privatise state governments on the grounds that they may not be required,” KTR, who is also industries minister, said in a sarcastic tone. Addressing correspondents and teachers of Recognised Schools Managements Association as part of campaigning for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar MLC constituency, KTR called upon Andhra people to support Telangana if any attempt to sell PSUs in Telangana is made. KTR said the Centre had promised to set up an integrated steel plant at Bayyaram in Bhadradri Kothagudem in the AP Reorganisation Act. Similarly, a rail coach factory in Kazipet and a tribal university at Mulugu were promised. Apart from ignoring to sanction new educational institutions, financial assistance to Mission Bhagiratha and Mission Kakatiya was not granted despite recommendation from Niti Aayog.  “Legal share in taxes such as GST arrears was not given to the state,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-backs-vsp-staff-agitation-slams-centre/articleshow/81438550.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 11, 2021||Kanpur||Arjun Dam almost ready, will invite PM for opening: Yogi||Jhansi: On the second day of his visit to Bundelkhand, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath inspected the work of Arjun Dam Project on river Dhasan in Mahoba on Wednesday and said the dam will be ready soon and he will invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi for its inauguration. Addressing a gathering, Yogi said, “The work is almost complete and will finish in a couple of months. It is a matter of pride to be associated with development of Mahoba as it is important spiritually and historically. The dam will help in providing potable water to Mahoba, Banda and Hamirpur and will irrigate 15,000 hectares of land.” Our government will ensure supply of potable water to each house in Bundelkhand since many common diseases are due to consuming impure water, he added. Hailing Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh, the CM quipped in a lighter vein, “Earlier, he was popular as hand-pipe minister, but now he is also known as Jal Shakti minister for the way he is managing the work of potable water and irrigation.” He said youths who want to do ITI after Class XII can be provided plumbing training so that they get jobs under Jal Jeevan Mission. Later on, the CM visited Chitrakoot where he inaugurated and laid the foundation of 229 development projects worth Rs 924 crore. He also reviewed the work of Rasin dam and Chillamal project. Addressing the people, he said, “These dam projects worth Rs 200 crore will help in irrigating 5,000 hectares and will also create employment opportunities for locals. There are immense opportunities of investment in Bundelkhand, but the previous governments never cared. Bundelkhand will see development which is its right.” “This is the land where Maharishi Valmiki wrote Ramayana and Tulsidas wrote Ramcharitmanas. People of this land are happiest on seeing the Ram Temple being constructed in Ayodhya,” CM Yogi added. He extended greetings for Shivratri and Holi and appealed to people to follow Covid norms during celebrations. “PM Modi has provided free Covid vaccination to the poor and aged and everyone should get vaccinated and be safe from corona,” Yogi added. Later, in a review meeting of development work and law and order in Banda, Yogi ordered strict action against mafias and illegal mining. He told officials to speed-up work under Jal Jeewan Mission and complete the projects within stipulated time. He also ordered setting up of 200-bed hospitals in Mahoba and Hamirpur and to develop them as medical colleges later. He appealed to party workers to motivate people to get vaccinated against Covid. He also instructed the DMs to be a part of monthly monitoring meetings of the districts and do special review of crime against women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/arjun-dam-almost-ready-will-invite-pm-for-opening-yogi/articleshow/81436220.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Varanasi||Youth kidnaps 14-yr-old girl,marries her after conversion||Gorakhpur: A youth kidnapped a 14 years old Hindu girl living in the neigbourhood, forcefully married her and gave her the ‘nikahnama’ before leaving her near her home and threatening her not to reveal it to anyone in her family. Police lodged a case on the complaint of the girl’s mother and arrested the accused youth Tabarak Khan from his residence in Shahpur police station area of Gorakhpur and booked him under the anti-conversion law and on charges of kidnapping. The girl’s mother told police that Tabarak Khan had been harassing and stalking her daughter who studies in Class VI. On Sunday, she found a document in Urdu language from her daughter’s bag and on inquiring came to know that it was a ‘nikahnama’ (certificate of marriage). When she questioned her daughter she revealed Tabarak kidnapped her on March 1, married her and threatened to kill her if she told anyone in her family before dropping her near her home. The woman took the ‘nikahnama’ to the police station and lodged a complaint. “On the complaint of the girl’s mother, we lodged an FIR under sections of kidnapping and UP Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020 on Sunday. The medical report of the girl is awaited. Other sections would be added after the statement of the girl is recorded in court,” said SHO Shahpur, SK Singh. “In the nikahnama, the name of girl is changed,” he added. Police officials said they are looking for the person who helped Tabarak in conversion of the girl and in performing ‘nikah’. The girl’s family is very poor and her parents are labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/youth-kidnaps-14-yr-old-girlmarries-her-after-conversion/articleshow/81436068.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Kanpur||Rly min flags off BLW loco for export to Mozambique||Times News Network Varanasi: Railway minister Piyush Goyal flagged off a 3000 HP cape gauge locomotive, manufactured at Banaras Locomotive Works (BLW), which will be exported to Mozambique, through video conferencing on Wednesday. The flagging off ceremony was also virtually attended by Janfar Abdulai, minister of transport and communications, government of Mozambique. Indian Railways is exporting the first batch of two locomotives as part of a total order of six locomotives of 3000 HP cape gauge locomotive and 90 stainless steel passenger coaches to Mozambique. These locomotives are developed indigenously by BLW under Make in India Scheme and they are being exported through Rites Limited, an Indian Railways’ PSU. Speaking on the occasion, Goyal said that with significant innovation, re-modelling and upgradation, Indian Railways wishes to become the preferred supplier for Mozambique and countries around the world for their requirements. “We are willing to support the development of the rail network in Mozambique. By 2030, we plan to become a net-zero Railway and power our entire electricity requirements through renewable energy. We will be the first large railway in the world to become 100% electric traction driven,” he said. BLW general manager Anjali Goyal said, "BLW has already exported 165 locomotives to many countries. BLW had exported loco to Tanzania in March 1976 and since then locomotives have been exported to various countries like Tanzania, Vietnam, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Senegal, Sudan, Angola, Mali, Mozambique and Malaysia." Even after switching over to electric locomotives, BLW continues to make diesel locomotives for export and non-railway customers. “We are also manufacturing diesel locomotives for non-railway customers. BLW has sold 459 diesel locomotives to mining and other companies,” said the GM. BLW’s electric locomotive production line has 98% indigenous material input, supporting MSMEs and the domestic manufacturing sector in a big way. BLW is planning to step up manufacture of 6000 HP freight locomotives of WAG9 class in a big way to meet requirements to run faster and heavier trains. BLW has been certified with International Railways Industry Standard (IRIS), and has become the first locomotive production unit of Indian Railways to get the certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/rly-min-flags-off-blw-loco-for-export-to-mozambique/articleshow/81436045.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Lucknow||Development, tap water will halt migration from Bundelkhand: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Promising piped water supply to each household very soon under the ‘Har Ghar Nal, Har Ghar Jal’ scheme, chief minister Yogi Adityanath told the people of Chitrakoot that the development work by the government would stop migration from the region. The CM inaugurated and laid foundation of 229 projects worth Rs 924 crore in Chitrakoot on Wednesday and said his government is making all efforts to promote religious tourism in Chitrakoot, the land where Maharishi Balmiki composed the Ramayana and Tulsidas composed the Ramcharitamanas. “This is the holy land where Maharishi Valmiki wrote Ramayan and Tulsidas wrote Ramcharitmanas and therefore, the people of Chitrakoot are the happiest on seeing the Ram Temple being constructed in Ayodhya. Lord Ram lives in our each and every breath and nobody can separate us from him,” said Yogi, adding that air services would be started from Chitrakoot and Jhansi very soon to further promote religious tourism. The CM said the Bundelkhand Expressway is already half complete and once it becomes functional, it would take only 5.5 to 6 hours to reach Delhi from Chitrakoot. Accusing Opposition parties of having done nothing for the development of the region, the CM said that the Narendra Modi government in centre and his government in the state had done more for Chitrakoot in the past few years than all the other governments had done in the past 70 years. “Other politicians made money, bought property, sent their children abroad but ignored the development of Bundelkhand,” Yogi said. During his two-day visit to Bundelkhand, the CM inaugurated schemes worth Rs 3,000 crore. On Wednesday, he launched the Rasin Dam and Chillimal Yojana in Chitrakoot. He also distributed certificates of the PM Awas Yojana (Rural) to 667 beneficiaries and PM Awas Yojana (Urban) to 2,673 beneficiaries. Under the Rural Livelihood Mission Express scheme, the CM gave keys of e-rickshaws to eight women of self-help groups, tractors to three farmers, tri-cycles to three specially-abled persons and bicycles to 21 girls. He also launched 201 community toilets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/development-tap-water-will-halt-migration-from-bkhand-yogi/articleshow/81440197.cms||Neha Lalchandani
March 11, 2021||Kanpur||Rape survivor’s dad crushed by truck on highway, day after cop's son death threat||Kanpur: A rape survivor’s father was crushed to death by a speeding truck on Kanpur-Sagar highway, just metres away from Ghatampur community health centre, where his 13-year-old daughter was undergoing medical examination for sexual assault early Wednesday. And the horror unfolded before a posse of policemen escorting the man and his daughter, who was gang-raped by two youths, including a policeman's son late Monday.  After the man lay sprawled in blood on the highway, police swiftly took him to Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital, Kanpur, where doctors declared him dead. Family members blocked the busy Anupur crossing on the highway for five hours, alleging it was not an accident, but murder engineered by the influential accused, who had earlier threatened the family against moving police. While the main accused, Golu Yadav, has been arrested, sub-inspector Devendra Yadav’s two sons — Deepu Yadav and Saurabh Yadav — are on the run. While Deepu is accused of abduction and rape, his brother Saurabh allegedly threatened to eliminate the survivor’s family while they were on way to lodge a complaint. According to the FIR lodged at Sajeti police station, the accused told girl’s kin — ‘We will again commit rape, this time in public. You should know my father is a daroga and you cannot touch us.’ The cop is currently posted in Kannauj district. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced compensation of Rs 5 lakh, besides sanctioning of five bigha agricultural land on lease to the family. The police brass directed Kanpur cops to expedite investigations and seize the killer truck and arrest the driver. District magistrate Alok Tiwari said, “We are planning to invoke National Security Act and Gangster Act against the accused. Also, if they amassed property illegally or encroached upon government land, it will be seized or demolished. Both cases will be investigated thoroughly and no one will be spared.” Recounting the incident on Monday night, IG (range) Mohit Agarwal said, “The girl was returning home from the fields when accused Deepu and Golu Yadav abducted her, took her to a desolate spot and took turns to rape her and threatened to kill her if she raised an alarm. The girl somehow managed to wriggle out of their clutches and returned home at night and narrated her ordeal.” Talking to TOI, SSP, Kanpur, Preetinder Singh, said, “The rape survivor’s father was run over by a truck, when he was standing outside the Ghatampur health centre, while the medical examination of his daughter was underway. We are trying to nab the other two rape accused and the truck driver.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/rape-survivors-dad-crushed-by-truck-on-highway-day-after-cops-son-death-threat/articleshow/81436203.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
March 11, 2021||Allahabad||Crowd, traffic management top focus on Mahashivratri snan||Prayagraj: Given the Mahashivratri snan scheduled on Thursday, mela police and city police have chalked out a security plan for the safety and security of pilgrims and devotees arriving at Sangam - the confluence of Ganga, Yamuna and mythical Saraswati to take holy dip on the fifth and the last snan of Magh Mela. The Magh Mela will end with the Mahashivratri snan on Thursday. Elaborate security arrangements have been made for the snan along with temples located near the mela campus. While mela police have worked on crowd and traffic management to ease the rush of devotees in and around mela campus, city police have reviewed security arrangements to tackle the influx of crowd who would be thronging at prominent five lord Shiva temples of the city to offer prayers on the occasion of Mahashivratri. Mela police said that three parking slots including Sangam nose, Mahavir temple road and Helipad parking have been made for pilgrims and devotees arriving to take the holy dip. Over 1,500 policemen have been assigned duties at the mela campus and other temples of the city. And, when these three parking slots got filled, parking would be done at plot no 17, the pontoon bridge workshop, Galla Mandi (Daraganj), Helipad, and Kali Sadak. Pilgrims and devotees arriving in Sangam city to take a holy dip will have to flow route through GT Jawahar, Kali Sadak and Sangam upper marg. While they would be choosing Akshaybut marg, Jagdish ramp and Triveni marg for returning. Meanwhile, city police claimed that the movement of vehicles would be restricted towards Mankameshwar temple from ADC trisection and Gaughan crossing. Devotees arriving to offer prayers at Mankameshwar temple would have to park their vehicles at the new Yamuna bridge road, Dadhikando parking, and mandir gate trisection. For the Someshwar Mahadeo temple, parking will be done at the Devrakh kachar area. Similarly, devotees arriving at Naag Basuki temple to offer prayers would be parking their vehicles at Kharanja road. A senior cop said that security has been beefed up at all prominent lord Shiva temples and more security personnel were roped in at all temples to manage the crowd of devotees. The police have also installed a network of CCTV sets and barricading has also been done at some spots. He, however, said, “police have focused on both traffic and crowd management so that devotees should not face any unwanted trouble”. Police have also appealed to devotees to follow Covid protocol while visiting temples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/crowd-traffic-management-top-focus-on-mahashivratri-snan/articleshow/81436317.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Varanasi||Imposter held for running army jobs racket, duping youths||Varanasi: The Varanasi field unit of special task force (STF) on Tuesday arrested an imposter, Rajvir Singh alias Anand Kumar, for duping lakhs of rupees from youths in the name of getting them selected in army. He had also married a woman by posing as an army captain. STF said that on being alerted by the Military Intelligence (MI), the STF had intensified efforts to nab this imposter. This agency succeeded in locating Rajvir near a convent school campus in Cantonment area and nabbed him. He dwells in Shivpur area here. Two mobile phones, three fake admit cards of army recruitment examination, one fake driving licence, uniforms and badges of captain rank, cash worth Rs 5000, stamps, motorcycle and other articles were recovered from his possession. He was handed over to Cantt police after an FIR was lodged under section 140, 419, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of IPC. STF said that Rajvir had duped dozens of youths and people in the name of arranging jobs in army, purchasing articles from military canteens on cheaper price. Rajvir also used to increase contacts with people in the name of selling articles on online trading sites, said STF adding, he had misled a woman and married her in the name of selling old mobile phone in 2015. But, on noticing his activities as doubtful, his wife lodged an FIR against him with Lohta police. STF said that not only this but when a local youth Anand Kumar had got selection in UP Provincial Civil Services-2017 Rajvir ensured printing of a fake news of his selection as deputy SP. During initial investigation of STF it also came to light that Rajvir had attempted to get recruited in army in 2008 but after failing in this bid he started duping the army aspirants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/imposter-held-for-running-army-jobs-racket-duping-youths/articleshow/81433026.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Salem||Inquiry ordered against cop for vandalising tea shop||Salem: District superintendent of police S Ganiger ordered a departmental inquiry against a traffic police inspector for vandalising a tea shop that was kept open beyond the stipulated hours near Omalur in Salem district on Monday night. The SP took the action after seeing a video of the incident that was circulated on social media. Traffic inspector Jayashankar, 48, was on routine patrol on Salem-Bengaluru national highway around 10.30pm on Monday and spotted a tea stall open near Mecheri Cross Road. “Jayashankar asked shopowner Ramachandran to close the shop as it was past 10pm. It led to an argument and suddenly Jayashankar started damaging chairs and the tea boiler kept in the shop,” a police officer, who witnessed the incident, said. The entire incident was captured in a CCTV camera installed in the area. Shopowners uploaded the video on social media. Meanwhile, the inspector was transferred to the Harur division in Dharmapuri district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/inquiry-ordered-against-cop-for-vandalising-tea-shop/articleshow/81438579.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Allahabad||A rare Shivlinga is a witness to history||Prayagraj: As the city of Prayagraj prepares for celebrating Mahashivratri (on March 11), few would know that in the narrow lanes of Daraganj lies a Shiva temple at Dashashwamedh ghat near Sangam, which witnessed and played a role in ending the brutality of Mughal emperor Aurangzeb and his forces on temples. As per the priest of the temple and other religious gurus of the city, when Aurangzeb tried to damage this Shivlinga with his sword, blood came out whooshing from the linga following which the emperor decided not to damage any more temples. “All the Puranas mentions this place where Lord Brahma, at the time making this Shristi (world) performed Ashwamegha Yagna on the banks of river Ganga. It was during the Yagna, Brahma placed Shivlinga at the temple and since times immemorable, the temple has a special place for the devotees coming to Prayag”, explains Pundit Anil Mishra, head priest of Gaudiya Math of the city. He adds, “It was during the medieval period that Aurangzeb and his army arrived at the temple and the emperor struck the Linga with his sword, but to his surprise, instead of breaking into two pieces, blood and milk came out whooshing from the linga”. It was after this incident, the emperor laid down his weapon in front of the deity and decided not to damage any temple or religious place of worship in future. “Although it is a common practice that damaged idol of deity or the khandit (damaged) shivlinga is not kept at the place of worship as the same is considered inauspicious, the story here is entirely different. The impression of the strike from the emperor’s sword is clearly visible on the linga and we believe that the miracle of the deity changed the heart of the Mughal emperor and this was the last temple which he or his army tried to damage ”, said Hari Shankar Pujari, the priest of the temple. Likewise, Vikas Sharma, a local devotee of the temple says, “It is not about the stories of the legends but here we can see the proof right in the middle of the linga which makes our belief stronger”. Nowhere in this world, one finds a shivlinga that is damaged right into the middle and still people worship it, he adds. The popularity of the temple could be gauzed by the fact that during Mahashivratri, a lot of people, dressed in the attire of Kanwariya, offer holy water of river Ganga on this rare linga with their prayers and wishes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/a-rare-shivlinga-is-a-witness-to-history/articleshow/81436350.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Mahashivratri celebrations will be a quiet affair today||MUMBAI: Maharashtra government has issued Covid-appropriate guidelines for the festival of Mahashivratri on Thursday. It has appealed to all temples, especially the 12 Jyotirlings statewide as well as devotees to celebrate in a low-key manner. Only 50 worshippers will be allowed to visit temples at a time and social distancing must be maintained especially during darshan. The state urged trustees and temple managements to ensure that there is no crowding near shops that sell flowers and garlands. Live darshan facilities are to be provided online or through cable TV networks to encourage people to pray at home. Devotees who visit the temple must wear masks and observe physical distancing. Senior citizens and children are urged to avoid visiting shrines. However, well before the new guidelines were issued, the festival landscape appeared barren. Babulnath temple at Chowpatty has debarred physical darshan altogether while Walkeshwar, Bhuleshwar and shrines in Matunga and Chembur will permit a trickle of devotees. “Given the spiralling cases of Covid, we will close the temple to devotees till Friday morning. Rituals will be relayed live via cable TV channels and social media,” Babulnath’s senior administrative officer Mukesh Kanojia said. Praveen Kanvinde of the GSB trust that runs Walkeshwar temple said they will allow devotees in small numbers with proper precaution. Matunga’s Sri Shankara Mattham will be allowing only 10 devotees at a time, said local resident K A Viswanathan. “People will have to return after darshan. Otherwise, more than 1,000 devotees stay back all night to chant ‘Om Namah Shivay’ and fast till the following morning,” he said. Meanwhile, the Palghar district collector has banned fairs, festivals and folk dances in religious places indefinitely. The Shiv temple in Tungareshwar jungle in Vasai attracts vast throngs during Shivratri. Fairs are organised in the tribal-dominated villages of Jawhar, Mokhada and Vikramgad during the summer. Since March 1, the daily count of Covid-19 cases in Palghar has been around 40-50. The total cases till Tuesday stood at 46,389. (Inputs by Bella Jaisinghani & Sandhya Nair)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mahashivratri-celebrations-will-be-a-quiet-affair-today-in-mumbai/articleshow/81440741.cms||Bhavika Jain
March 11, 2021||Allahabad||HC turns down poll petition against Sikandara BJP MLA||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Wednesday dismissed an election petition challenging the election of Ajeet Pal Singh as MLA from Sinkandra legislative assembly constituency of Kanpur Dehat in the year 2017. Ajeet Pal Singh is working as minister for state (IT department) of Uttar Pradesh government. He was a candidate of BJP in this election. Dismissing the election petition filed by one Seema Sachan, a candidate of Samajwadi Party, Justice DK Singh-I observed, “The counsel for the petitioner has miserably failed in proving as to how the said non-providing of the copy of the required document to polling agents by the presiding officers has resulted in materially affecting the election result of the returned candidate. It has also come on record that the margin of defeat is very huge as the winning candidate has won this election by securing 73,325 votes while the petitioner has just secured 61,455 votes and, therefore, it shows difference of more than 10,000 votes.” The submission of the counsel for the petitioner was that the returning officer has acted against the mandatory provisions of the Representation of Peoples’ Act in not providing required documents to the agents. Secondly, the election of the winning candidate has been materially affected on account of improper reception of votes of the electronic voting machines (EVM), the seals of which were found tampered or broken at the time of counting. However, while opposing the election petition, the counsel for the elected candidate Bharat Pal Singh contended that the petition is devoid of merit, therefore, it deserves to be rejected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-turns-down-poll-petition-against-sikandara-bjp-mla/articleshow/81436355.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: In major U-turn Rs 1.4cr jute bag proposal cleared||Mumbai: In a major U-turn, the civic administration reintroduced a Rs 1.4-crore proposal to distribute over 80,000 jute bags in Shiv Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav’s Byculla constituency. The proposal was passed unanimously at the standing committee on Wednesday. The proposal was reintroduced weeks after it was scrapped by the administration. Each bag was priced at Rs161 and BMC was spending around Rs 1.4 crore. BJP, which opposed the issue and slammed Jadhav for wasting public money, and accused him of violating procurement norms, did not object to the proposal on Wednesday. BMC had scrapped the proposal as it was not in tune with procurement norms and directed that such items of individual distribution must not be approved by local wards. BMC’s plan to buy 30 food and vegetable trucks worth Rs 5 crore for distribution in Jadhav’s constituency was criticised by BJP when BMC’s food truck policy had not been approved. BMC also floated tenders for indoor gym equipment worth Rs 2 crore for Jadhav’s constituency, using BMC funds, among other items. “Standing committee members said once the budget is laid out, the administration can’t modify it as tenders were floated. So for this year proposals were cleared by the administration but for next year, we will direct that items for individual distribution must not be proposed,” said Sanjeev Jaiswal, additional municipal commissioner (city). While BJP group leader and standing committee member Prabhakar Shinde could not be reached for comment on Wednesday, BJP corporator Vinod Mishra said his party had objected not only to the bags but the cost. “How can they buy jute bags for Rs161 a piece when other wards are buying it at Rs30? These purchases violated procurement norms. We have moved CAG. I will write to municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal demanding that he stop work orders for the purchases,” Mishra said. Jadhav said the bags were being given to people so that they don’t use plastic bags. “Jute bags are part of items that can be purchased using BMC funds. This was done to help implement the single-use plastic ban. Many poor families will benefit,” Jadhav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-in-major-u-turn-rs-1-4cr-jute-bag-proposal-cleared/articleshow/81440233.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 11, 2021||Madurai||Over 10,000 vaccine jabs given so far at Trichy GH||Trichy: The Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH), Trichy has administered more 10,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses till Tuesday, dean of the hospital Dr K Vanitha said on Wednesday. She also appealed to the public to be extra cautious to fend off the second wave. “We have crossed 10,000 doses of Covishield and Covaxin. It includes both the first and second doses. The response from the doctors is impressive. The staff nurses also come forward to take the jab,” Vanitha told TOI. However, she expressed displeasure over the hesitation shown by the Covid-19 lab technicians at KAPVGMC in taking the vaccine. “They are one of the most prone to the infection. I wonder why they are hesitant,” she said. The dean also highlighted that no one who took the vaccines had any complications. Dean also said the public also started coming forward to take the vaccine after the Covid-19 vaccination drive for those between the age of 45 years and 59 years with comorbid conditions and people aged 60 years and above commenced in 31 centres including MGMGH, government hospitals and the block level primary health centres in the city and rural parts of Trichy district on March 1. On the increase in new cases she said, “Compulsory wearing of masks should be followed by everyone besides taking the vaccine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/over-10000-vaccine-jabs-given-so-far-at-trichy-gh/articleshow/81438635.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Parl panel to visit T in April for 5 days||Hyderabad: Parliamentary Standing committee will visit Telanagana in April for five days. Afforestation works, rejuvenation and other alternative measures for green growth will be studied by the panel headed by senior parliamentarian Jairam Ramesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parl-panel-to-visit-t-in-april-for-5-days/articleshow/81438614.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||FIR filed in Mohan Delkar case, 9 accused of abetting Dadra MP’s suicide||MUMBAI: Police on Tuesday registered an abetment to suicide case in connection with the death of seven-time Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha MP Mohan Delkar (58), who was found hanging in a hotel room at Marine Drive last month. Among the nine persons named in the FIR are the union territory’s administrator, Praful Kheda Patel, and some bureaucrats and police personnel. Police have registered the FIR under various IPC sections for abetment to suicide, criminal intimidation, criminal conspiracy etc. Sections of the Atrocities Act have also been invoked. The FIR lodged by Delkar’s son, Abhinav, names Praful Kheda Patel, Sandeep Singh, Sharad Darade, Apurva Sharma, Manasvi Jain, Manoj Patel, Rohit Yadav, Fattehsingh Chauhan and Dilip Patel as accused. A senior officer said Delkar’s family alleged he was humiliated and not allowed to discharge his official duty. Besides this, a police officer had reopened an old criminal case, and Delkar’s name was indirectly referred to in the case to build pressure on him. “Some people were allegedly trying to destabilise a college trust property of Delkar’s, and were demanding money from him and pressurising him to induct certain people as trustees,” said a senior police officer. The FIR mentions the date of occurrence of offence as ‘March 2020 to February 22, 2021’. Abhinav has stated the college property is worth Rs 100 crore. Delkar’s body was found hanging in the hotel room on February 22. He had come to Mumbai along with his driver and bodyguard on February 21. The police had recovered a 15-page suicide note written on Delkar’s official letterhead in Gujarati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-fir-filed-in-delkar-case-9-accused-of-abetting-dadra-mps-suicide/articleshow/81440721.cms||Mateen Hafeez
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||City’s northern fringes get rain||Kolkata: The weather continued to remain tricky as some parts on the northern fringes of the city received a light shower on Wednesday. It was preceded by a thunderstorm in the Howrah, Nadia and Murshidabad districts. The rest of the city, however, remained dry even as Kolkata recorded a maximum temperature of 31.6 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. A cyclonic circulation in Jharkhand and a convergence of cold and dry northwesterly wind and the hot and humid southeasterly led to the formation of thunderclouds, according to the Met office. “The two factors combined to generate clouds. The confluence of the winds led to thunderstorm across south Bengal. This indicates that pre-monsoon showers could be around the corner,” said deputy director-general of meteorology Sanjib Bandopadhyay. The districts were lashed by rain and wind speed reached 30-40 km/hr during the thunderstorm. In north Bengal, a westerly trough has formed that led to thunderstorms across the districts of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Alipurduar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/citys-northern-fringes-get-rain/articleshow/81437259.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Case on Vijayamma, Sharmila set aside||Hyderabad: Justice Shameem Akther of Telangana high court has freed YSRC honorary president YS Vijayamma and her daughter YS Sharmila from a case booked by Parkal police in June 2012. The case pertains to poll code violation. Police had charged the mother-daughter duo with violating the norms while holding an election rally in June 2012 at Parkal in Warangal district. “For sustaining the case on them for conducting a rally without permission, a complaint from a public servant was essential which was missing in this case,” the judge said. When the trial court for legislators in Hyderabad recently took into cognisance the chargesheet filed by police against the mother-daughter duo, they filed pleas before the high court urging it to quash the case on the ground that cognisance was mechanically taken by the trial court. However, the judge allowed the trial court to conduct the trial against the two women leaders under IPC section for wrongfully restraining others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/case-on-vijayamma-sharmila-set-aside/articleshow/81440230.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Varanasi||Deoria man arrested for rape after 13-yr-old neighbour gives birth||Gorakhpur: A 23-year-old man was arrested in Deoria on Monday evening on the charges of raping a 13-year-old girl, who gave birth to a baby girl at private hospital recently. Police had registered a case of rape and criminal intimidation against the accused on the complaint filed by the girl’s mother. As per reports, the accused, Rohit Nishad, son of Rajkumar Nishad of Rudrapur police station area, allegedly raped the girl in his neighbourhood when she was alone some eight months ago. The girl didn’t tell her family about the incident as the accused gave her a life threat. On February 28, when the girl went into labour, she told her family about the rape. The family members took her to private hospital where she delivered a girl child after two days. The newborn died on the same day. The girl’s mother informed the police about the incident of Sunday evening, following which the police arrested the accused on Monday evening on the charges of rape and criminal intimidation. “Rudrapur police in Deoria registered a case under sections of rape and criminal intimidation against the accused and sent him jail. The girl’s mother informed police on Sunday evening and the accused was arrested on Monday,” said SP Deoria Sripati Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/deoria-man-arrested-for-rape-after-13-yr-old-neighbour-gives-birth/articleshow/81433045.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||‘If study-from-home continues, it could hurt college students’ emotional health’||MUMBAI: Rajvee Parikh, a first-year BA student, was looking forward to moving cities, staying in a hostel, taking decisions on her own. Her dream of experiencing college life snapped abruptly last year after the pandemic set in. What she got instead was a whole year in the confines of her home, staring at a computer screen for almost 12 hours a day and restricted interaction with peers and teachers. The dreams of over a million such youngsters in the state, of adapting to college life and gaining a new level of ‘freedom’, were cut short last year. Experts fear if the impact of the pandemic spills over into the next academic session, their development will be stunted. In Mumbai University alone, over three lakh students enrolled for programmes last year. “The situation of these first-year students is not the same as the ones in higher classes who at least know their classmates. Many of these students are new to college and are complete strangers to one another. There is absolutely no physical interaction… The emotional quotient of many would have taken a hit… Their age demands it, they need to socialise,” said Vidya Patil, teacher from DG Ruparel College. Parikh, enrolled at Ashoka University, said bonding activities such as buddy programmes, game-night plans are happening online, but cannot replace physical interaction. “You have a ‘raise your hand’ feature on online platforms, but it limits the scope of discussion with faculty.” The adolescent years are the age of heightened emotionality, said Reeta Sonawat, former dean, professor and head, department of human development, SNDT Women’s University. “It is the age when youngsters need their friends more than families in coping and resolving problems. They learn to build resilience from peers. It is the age when they learn new things from their surroundings, socialise, which also helps in their personality development. They are searching for an identity for themselves, they participate in events, collaborate with friends and understand where their interest lies. If a year or two of college life is lost in the pandemic, they will lose crucial years of development,” said Sonawat. Internationally, research papers have associated the pandemic and isolation with changes in adolescents’ mental health. Some have observed it could result in increased disorders such as post-traumatic stress, depression, anxiety and grief-related symptoms. Psychiatrist Dr Harish Shetty suggested first-years can stay in touch with peers from schools or societies. Colleges could screen high-risk students and offer help, even if online. Teachers can call at regular intervals to check on them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/if-study-from-home-continues-it-could-hurt-college-students-emotional-health/articleshow/81437276.cms||Yogita Rao
March 11, 2021||Agra||Woman, 44, found dead at home||Agra: A 44-year-old woman was found dead in her house in Mathura’s Vasant Kunj colony under Highway police jurisdiction on Wednesday. The deceased, identified as Kamlesh Devi, had been living with her daughter after her husband’s death. She was alone at home when the incident occurred, police said. The woman’s daughter who works in a factory was on duty and when she returned home, she found her mother lying dead in a pool of blood in one of the rooms. She has levelled allegations against her brother-in-law. Police have registered a case and the matter is being inquired. Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover said, “The body has been sent for post-mortem. Prima facie, injuries were found on her head. Field units are collecting evidence from the crime spot. FIR has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC and further investigations are on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-44-found-dead-at-home/articleshow/81435138.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Chennai||Vijayakant’s son rises with a war cry||Cuddalore: For the DMDK cadres, who have been missing their party founder Vijayakant in action for a while, the actor-turned-politician's son Vijaya Prabhakaran on Tuesday gave a glimpse of their 'captain' in his prime days. Lashing out at the AIADMK shortly after his father’s announcement about the DMDK snapping ties with the ruling party, Prabhakaran captivated his audience with a speech that was earnest though well-rehearsed. Addressing party workers at Panruti in Cuddalore district on Tuesday Vijaya Prabhakaran, amidst loud cheers from cadres, vowed that the DMDK will teach a fitting lesson to the AIADMK in the forthcoming assembly polls. Though the young Vijayakant scion had been addressing party cadres for a few years now, the Tuesday speech was delivered as if on cue minutes after his father’s announcement about breaking away from the AIADMK-led alliance. Prabhakaran said the descent of AIADMK had begun and the party would bite the dust in Edappadi constituency from where chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was elected. He said, “Captain's party will not lose its self-esteem to continue in the alliance led by the AIADMK. The AIADMK party leadership is poor.” The AIADMK was reluctant to allot more than 13 seats to DMDK whereas the Vijayakanth party demanded not less than 23 seats on a par with the PMK, another party in the alliance. "You might have seen Vijayakanth and Premalatha, but you will see both in me," he said in an attempt to lift the morale of the cadres, who have not seen Vijayakanth of late. With Vijayakant hardly making public appearances these days, the DMDK grapevine has it that Prabahakaran is being groomed to be the party’s “future leader”. He regretted that cadres let the party down when their leader was declared as the chief ministerial candidate and was heading the People's Welfare Front comprising MDMK and left parties in the last assembly election. "See now, we are reaping the consequences. We are tired of being Chanakya (ancient Indian royal political advisor) and it is time for us to become a Kshatriyan (warrior)," he said. Kshatriyan is also the title of a film released in 1990 in which Vijayakanth plays the role of a cop taking on corrupt political leaders. Taking a dig at the PMK, he said "I am not a fool to take sides on caste lines. For us, the only caste that exists is our party DMDK. We are second to none. The lion is coming out from the cave. It is time for hunting. From now on we must always be a step ahead of the AIADMK," he said. He claimed the party was patient with the AIADMK respecting alliance dharma. "But they took us for granted and hence we decided to quit the alliance. They managed to stay in power for 10 years because of our support," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vijayakants-son-rises-with-a-war-cry/articleshow/81433102.cms||Bosco Dominique
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Manuu’s ACSSEIP adopts village||Hyderabad: Al-Beruni Centre for the Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy of Manuu has adopted Aloor village in Chavella, Rangareddy as a part of the centre’s inclusion advocacy programme. Thecentre camps in the village on March 8 and 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/manuus-acsseip-adopts-village/articleshow/81438661.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Varanasi||Devotees to get glimpse of KV Dham this Mahashivratri||Varanasi: Pilgrims thronging this holy city to offer prayers at Kashi Vishwanath Temple on the occasion of Mahashivratri on Thursday, will get an opportunity to have a glimpse of the under-construction artistic buildings of KV Dham area and assess for themselves how beautiful it would be after completion by end of August. Especially, the pilgrims who enter through Chhattadwar (gate-4) will get this chance as they will walk up to Mandir Chowk of KV Dham before taking a turn towards the temple. Before entering the main temple, they could see many completed or under-construction structures. After reviewing the finalisation of preparations for Mahashivratri at KVT on Tuesday, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “Devotees queued up at Chowk side will get entry through Chhattadwar gate. They will be inside KVT via Mandir Chowk being constructed at the centre of KV Dham project area. Apart from them, the devotees entering through Bansphatak-Dhundhiraj Ganesh point will go out through a new exit point adjacent to Chhattadwar. People in both these queues will get the glimpse of many partially completed and under-construction buildings.” “As larger space has become available near the main temple the number of participants in Mangla Aarti, which used to be around 300 till last year’s event, will go above 500 mark. The devotees will not be allowed ‘Sparsh Darshan’ (touching the Shivlinga) by entering the sanctum sanctorum of KVT on the festival day, but they will have the facility to offer Jalabhishek to Lord Vishwanath through ‘argha’ being made available at all four doors of Garbhgrih. Regarding movement of traditional Shiv Barat in view of the on-going constructions inside Kashi Vishwanath Dham area and road between Godowlia and Maidagin, the commissioner said that this road was being improved to ensure safe movement of pilgrims standing in queues and also Shiv Barat. “While queuing up on Maidagin and Godowlia roads to get entry in KVT through Chattadwar and and Bansphatak-Dhundhiraj Ganesh Gali points, devotees could watch live telecast of the activities taking place inside sanctum sanctorum on LED screens at many points,” he added. Regarding security and crowd regulation exercises, SP City Vikas Chandra Tripathi said, “Security arrangements at Panchkoshi Parikrama (circumambulation) route, all ghats along river Ganga and prominent temples of lord Shiva have been finalized for the festival day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/devotees-to-get-glimpse-of-kv-dham-this-mahashivratri/articleshow/81433099.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana on shoestring budget, may snip infra projects||HYDERABAD: While the assembly session is about to begin, the finance department has a tough task on hand, presetting a budget without any cap on implementation of welfare schemes. The state may not reduce allocation for welfare schemes, but it may have to cut its infrastructure dreams. Due to Covid-19-inducted economic slowdown, the state has suffered an estimated dent of Rs 1 lakh crore. The department has only two ways of filling its coffers — sell land parcels or raise fresh loans. Insiders say both options come with their own challenges as the state has gone for record loans this financial year. Over Rs 50,000 crore was raised by the the state government with relaxations given by the central government to raise loans. According to conservative estimates, Rs 16,000 crore would go for debt servicing in the next financial year. Another, estimate is that 89% of the income generated would be spent on paying salaries, pensions and welfare schemes and loan interest payments. In addition to this, the state also has to service loans given in the form of guarantees for various infrastructure projects. Though the state proposed to raise Rs 10,000 crore by sale of house units in Rajiv Swagruha scheme and other land parcels, the plan did not materialise. The government even made separate head under budget last year to raise funds thorough land sale. In addition to this, non-tax revenue was proposed at Rs 30,000 crore last time, but the final figure was not more than Rs 2,000 crore . Though the government proposed Rs 10,000 crore pooling funds by land sale in the last budget, it did not happen. “Considering these limitations, the state may have to go for more loans,” sources said. While the state might not reduce allocation for welfare schemes, it may have to snip its infrastructure project bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-on-shoestring-budget-may-snip-infra-projects/articleshow/81440248.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||Assam man found dead in hotel||Kolkata: Two mysterious deaths were reported in the city in past 24 hours. In the first case, cops recovered the body of a 32-year-old man, a resident of New Bongaigaon of Assam, at a hotel room in the New Market area. The victim has been identified as Mahesh Yadav. The hotel authorities found him dead around 2 pm. “He was lying on the floor and carried no external injuries. He had checked into the hotel a day earlier. A postmortem is being conducted to ascertain the exact cause of death,” said an investigating officer. In another incident, one Ashok Thakur (53), a caretaker at a building in Santoshpur, Survey Park, was found dead under mysterious circumstances inside his room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/assam-man-found-dead-in-hotel/articleshow/81437284.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Agra||Agra lawyer attacked on Collectorate premises||Agra: A lawyer was critically injured after being allegedly attacked with sticks by half a dozen people on the Collectorate premises in the city on Wednesday due to a dispute between two parties, police said. The incident took place around 12 pm when a group of men led by Shreyansh Gautam allegedly attacked Rahul Upadhyaya with sticks and iron rods. After hearing the noise, other advocates present in their chambers also came out, but the attackers managed to flee. Police personnel took the lawyer to a hospital. Talking to media persons, the injured advocate alleged that Gautam, who claims himself an advocate, had sent his 8-10 goons, including his brother and uncle, to attack him. “Gautam tried to open fire on me and his associates attacked me with sticks and iron rods that caused me serious injuries,” Upadhyaya said. He claimed that Gautam is a "fake lawyer" who forcefully practiced here and fought with everyone. “This person should have been removed from this place,” he said. SP (City) Botrey Rohan Pramod told TOI that an FIR has been registered against four persons, including Shreyansh Gautam, Darsh Gautam, Vaibhav Gautam, under sections 394, 307 and 506 of IPC as per the victim's complaint. He added that CCTV footage is being scanned and they will be arrested soon. One individual has been detained for questioning. According to police, two of the attackers — Darsh and Shreyansh — have earlier been booked by the police in other cases. A case of committing fraud has been registered against Shreyansh Gautam at Nai Ki Mandi police station on a complaint filed by Yogendra Parashar, who is known to Upadhyaya and this could be the reason of rivalry between the two, police said. A brawl inside the Collectorate premises raised questions on security as both SSP and district magistrate office are situated inside it. Earlier in 2006, a firing incident also took place on the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-lawyer-attacked-on-collectorate-premises/articleshow/81435155.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Shot in BMC arm: Advanced genomic Covid-19 study to soon start in Mumbai lab||MUMBAI: Whole genome sequencing (WGS), the cutting-edge technology to closely study pathogens such as the Covid-19-causing SARS-CoV-2 virus, will soon be possible in the BMC public health set-up. In the past year, Covid-19 samples for genome sequencing had to be sent outside the city, mainly to the NIV in Pune and IGIB in Delhi. Genome sequencing helps identify variations and mutations in the original pathogen; a case in point being the identification of the B.1.1.7. variant in the UK where WGS is routinely used in Covid diagnosis. BMC's Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory, situated at the Kasturba Hospital campus near Saat Raasta, has already begun a pilot study with an IIT-Bombay start-up team, said officials. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the introduction of whole genome sequencing is a part of BMC's five-year pandemic preparedness plan. “We want to create a whole genome sequencing setup that can be shared between our main teaching and specialty hospitals,” he said. Dr Jayanthi Shastri, who heads the lab, said the availability of WGS within the civic setup would help identify variants faster. BMC could then plan public health strategies, ranging from containment to testing, based on such information. The molecular laboratory has emerged as one of BMC's success stories. It was the first laboratory (apart from NIV) to test samples for Covid-19 (non-WGS tests). “We have come a long way since the pandemic began,” said Dr Shastri. The first Covid sample was tested on February 3 and the lab kept increasing its capacity to test samples for free. When private laboratories were roped in to cope, the Kasturba lab was assigned by the ICMR as the validation authority for testing quality. Starting WGS is another milestone for the lab, which is the go-to centre in Mumbai for testing of infectious diseases such as H1N1, dengue and hepatitis. After the February surge, the centre asked BMC to send over 90 samples to NIV and NCDC Delhi to look for variants that could be playing a role. The tests have not shown any new variant or mutation, leading scientists to conclude that the surge was due to a failure of people to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. Experts said WGS is an expensive technique, costing over Rs 12,000 per sample in the private setup. In the pilot project, BMC has tied up with Haystacks Analytics, a tech start-up from SINE-IIT Bombay. Dr Anirvan Chatterjee of Haystack said the pilot is being funded by the department of science. ``We are trying to create a scaleable model so that public health setups such as the BMC can carry out WGS at affordable rates. In the UK, WGS is routinely used for Covid diagnosis.'' At present, only elite laboratories in India, such as the IITs or IGIB carry out WGS. Chatterjee said his organisation's previous WGS use in TB had led to the development of technology and tests that reduced costs from Rs 20,000 per sample to Rs 7,000. “The UK has done over 4.5 lakh WGS for Covid-19,” he said. “BMC should be able to do at least 10,000.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-shot-in-bmc-arm-advanced-genomic-covid-19-study-to-soon-start-in-city-lab/articleshow/81438729.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||High Court: 4 VIDC ex-officials will have to face trial in irrigation scam case in Maharashtra||NAGPUR: In a setback to four accused in the multi-crore irrigation scam, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court cancelled the sessions court verdict discharging them from facing trial. They had been discharged on the ground that the material submitted by the prosecution wasn’t sufficient to warrant a trial. All of them are former Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) officials, including executive director Rohidas Landge, chief engineer Sopan Suryavanshi, superintending engineer Sanjay Kholapurkar, and divisional accountant Gurudas Mandavkar. Of them, Kholapurkar had worked with Union minister Nitin Gadkari as an official on special duty (OSD). While directing the trial court judge to reconduct trial on their discharge applications, justice Rohit Deo directed all of them to appear before him on March 16. “The additional sessions judge to decide on applications within 15 days. If found unmerited, he would conduct and conclude trial, as expeditiously as possible, within six months. Additional public prosecutor MK Pathan is requested to forward this judgment copy to district government pleader (DGP) so that he could appear before judge on March 16,” he said. The Maharashtra government had moved the HC challenging sessions court order of October 25, 2018, where the accused were discharged from offences under Sections 420, 109 of IPC and Prevention of Corruption Act. The sessions judge had taken the view that the amended provisions of Section 17-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act preclude the court from taking cognizance of the offences in the absence of prior approval from the state government. Flaying the trial judge for not considering other contentions in support of the accused’s applications, justice Deo said the former wrongly assumed that previous approval was required. “The judge committed a grave error in discharging the accused on premise that Section 17-A is attracted. The provision has no applicability to enquiry or investigation undertaken prior to its coming into force. The protective cover isn’t available to acts done by using the offence as a cloak for unlawful gains. Considering the allegations, the accused aren’t protected by a requirement to seek previous approval, assuming that the provision comes into play.” Justice Deo said the alleged offence is committed prior to the introduction of Section 17-A on the statute book. “The material on record overwhelmingly suggests that the investigation was completed prior to Section 17-A’s enforcement and even the charge sheet was submitted.” The petitioners * VIDC executive director – Rohidas Landge * Chief engineer – Sopan Suryavanshi * Superintending engineer – Sanjay Kholapurkar * Divisional accountant – Gurudas Mandavkar Accused booked after Janmanch’s PIL The accused were booked by police after a PIL was filed by NGO Janmanch (No 12/2016) through counsel Firdos Mirza, and four others by social worker Atul Jagtap (Nos. 141, 142, 172 and 173/2016) through lawyer Shreedhar Purohit. While the petitioners demanded an inquiry from agencies Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED), Income Tax and Serious Fraud Investigation office (SFIO), the respondents including deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had vehemently opposed their prayers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-4-vidc-ex-officials-will-have-to-face-trial-in-irrigation-scam-case-in-maharashtra/articleshow/81438677.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 11, 2021||India||J&K Police averted Pulwama-like suicide attacks in south Kashmir: IGP Kashmir||SRINAGAR: J&K Police on Wednesday claimed to have averted a series of potential Pulwama-type terror attacks planned by Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad after arresting seven newly recruited terrorists tasked with planning and executing fidayeen strikes across south Kashmir. Announcing the operational breakthrough, IGP (Kashmir Range) Vijay Kumar said security forces were on high alert in Srinagar too, based on intelligence inputs about the presence of the Pakistan-backed terror outfit TRF’s J&K chief Abbas in the city’s Chanapora area. “Awantipora Police foiled a terror bid wherein a Jaish module was planning to carry out a vehicle-based IED attack. We arrested a first-year BA student, Sahil Nazir of Pampore, who was lured through social media. After interrogating him, we arrested four more youths besides seizing a vehicle meant to be used in the attack,” the IGP said. Sahil told cops that they were planning to carry out a suicide attack with help of an overground worker in north Kashmir. In another anti-terror operation, the IGP said a Lashkar module headed by terrorist Umar Khanday — involved in killing two unarmed cops in Srinagar’s Barzulla on February 19 — was busted. Khanday had persuaded one Musaib Ahmed from Pampore. “We arrested Musaib who revealed that there was a container at his home with 25kg ammonium powder meant to be used as an IED,” said IGP Kumar. Upon further questioning, Musaib said the remaining explosive material was supposed to reach from north Kashmir. Based on information obtained from him, another youth, Shahid Sofi, was also arrested. They were planning an explosion at MC building in Pampore. “All seven youths had been lured through social media networks operated by Pakistan-based terror handlers,” IGP Kumar said, adding that terrorists were adopting new strategies to attack security forces. “We are alert and plugging the loopholes after conducting regular security reviews,” he said. The IGP said Al-Badr chief Gani Khwaja’s encounter killing on Tuesday evening had dealt a major blow to terrorism in north Kashmir as the slain terrorist commander was instrumental in recruiting youth. “He would also receive new terrorist groups in north Kashmir from across the border and help them reach south Kashmir districts, besides providing logistics support to ultras,” he said, adding that two of Khwaja’s aides managed to flee during the anti-terror operation Tuesday evening. Khwaja was a senior terrorist and had crossed over to Pakistan in 2000. He returned to the Valley in 2002 and was active for five years before getting arrested in 2007 under the Public Safety Act. He was released a year later. Till December 2015, Khwaja was working as an overground worker. In January 2018, he became active with Hizbul Mujahideen. In 2020, he joined Al-Badr as its chief, IGP Kumar said. Police recovered an AK-47 rifle, five magazines, two grenades and other incriminating material on the slain terrorist. Clarifying that stone-pelting and other law and order disturbances would not be tolerated at any cost, the IGP revealed that 39 youths engaged in stone-pelting have been arrested so far, and 15 of them will be charged under PSA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-police-averted-pulwama-like-suicide-attacks-in-south-kashmir-igp-kashmir/articleshow/81440825.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Convocation of ICFAI held online||Hyderabad: The 10th convocation of the Institute Of Chartered Financial Analysts Of India (ICFAI) foundation for higher education was held virtually on Wednesday. During the event, 2,070 students received their degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/convocation-of-icfai-held-online/articleshow/81438735.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Attempt to suicide case booked||Hyderabad: Shabad police registered an attempt-to-suicide case against a goldsmith. The accused was upset with police after they seized his bike during a drunken drive check. Ten days ago, traffic police seized the bike of Naresh, a goldsmith, who was driving under the influence at Chevella. After police told Naresh his bike would be returned only after he appears before the court, he got upset and climbed a hi-tension electricity tower at Nagarguda bridge. “We convinced him to get down and a case was registered under Sec-309 of IPC,” Shabad inspector D Ashok said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/attempt-to-suicide-case-booked/articleshow/81440276.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Agra||Farmers, some as old as 70, to take out bicycle march from Kanyakumari to Kashmir to unite tillers||AGRA: A 72-year-old man from Punjab and a Haryana woman, 62, will be among the 50 farmers who will start their bicycle march from Kanyakumari to Kashmir, criss-crossing the country roads and uniting the growers for the ongoing protests against the three agriculture laws. The bicycle march is being organised by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmers' unions protesting against the three laws. Starting on March 12, it will pass through 20 states and cover over 8,000km in the next six months. The rally is expected to swell as it passes through states. “We are taking out a ‘Kisan Cycle March’ of 8,308km from Kanyakumari. We will try to unite farmers from all over the country to protest against the pro-corporate agenda of BJP. Through this march we will alert farmers regarding the central government’s attempt to abolish the MSP system in the country,” said Vikas Chaudhary, a farmer from Shamli in Uttar Pradesh who came up with the idea. “We have 50 people aged between 18 years and 72 years who have joined us. We met during the protest at different borders. The group included students, retired servicemen and even the elderly, all with an agriculture background. Over 400 people have registered to participate in the cycle march so far. They will join us during the march from different states. Our teams are in the process of finalizing arrangements at different villages,” Chaudhary said. The march will pass through 150 district headquarters and public meetings will be organized at different religious sites, universities and villages. Kant Pal Singh, a 72-year-old farmer activist from Ludhiana who is the senior-most member of the group, so far, said, “We know it will be difficult. But we are willing to do it for the cause. Thousands of farmers are in the third month of their protest at Delhi borders. They braved the cold. And now they will face a scorching summer. I am fit and ready to do anything in the fight for the rights of farmers. The central government is not able to gauge the discontent among the farmers. We will die protesting but will never back off. The central government will have to take back the three farm laws and guarantee MSP for crops.” Among the women participants, 62-year-old Kamlesh Rana is the eldest one to register for the march. She is from Haryana and has pledged to paddle till Kashmir. Since November 26 last year, farmers have been protesting on the different border points of the national capital against the three farm laws. There have been 11 rounds of talks between the Central government and farmer organizations, but no consensus has been achieved so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmers-some-as-old-as-70-to-take-out-bicycle-march-from-kanyakumari-to-kashmir-to-unite-tillers/articleshow/81435185.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 11, 2021||Madurai||Class XII students write first term exam since pandemic||Madurai: With less than two months to go for the state board examinations, the first mid-term tests were recently completed for Class XII government school students. Teachers said while it is not the same as a usual school year, students have slowly picked up on their studies since reopening and are hopeful of doing well in the board exams.“There was good response for the mid-term exams. It was the first ever proper test this year and it helped us analyse the level of learning as we move on to complete the syllabus,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school. The second mid-term test is likely to be held in April. Officials from the district education office said the results of the exam are being analysed and discussed to improve the performance of students by reaching out to school headmasters and teachers. “The students have done well. The syllabus for both theory and practical has also been reduced,” said S Vennila Devi, a Class XII Chemistry teacher. Teachers further said students would be more prepared by the time the second mid-term tests are held.N Srilakshmi, a Class XII student, however, said that there is still a lot of pressure since they have only limited time. “We found it difficult as we missed out on regular studies for months. We are all anxious as we hardly have three months before the board exams. Our teachers are giving us minimum learning material,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/class-xii-students-write-first-term-exam-since-pandemic/articleshow/81438709.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||Platform ticket to cost Rs 50 at railway stations||NAGPUR: In a bid to discourage people from overcrowding railway stations, the platform ticket in major stations in Maharashtra will cost Rs30, and at some stations, it will cost Rs 30. A letter issued by chief commercial manager (CCM) for passenger marketing states that at Nagpur, Nashik, Manmad, Jalgaon, Bhusawal, Shegaon, Akola, Badnera, Amravati, and Khandwa, the platform ticket will cost Rs50. However, at stations like Betul, Chandrapur, Ballarshah, and Wardha, the ticket will cost Rs30. In Mumbai, platform ticket rates have already gone up from March 1, at CSMT, LTT, Dadar, Thane, Kalyan, Panvel, and Bhiwandi from Rs10 to Rs50. The new rates at Nagpur and other stations will come into force with immediate effect and will remain till June 10, 2021. There are directions to enable the provisions in the UTS system, says the letter issued on March 10, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/platform-ticket-to-cost-rs50-at-rly-stn/articleshow/81438733.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Trichy||Tamil proverb book by student released||Trichy: A book with the collection of more than 600 proverbs in Tamil compiled by a Class V government school student was released by Trichy district library officer A P Siva Kumar in an event on Monday. The book titled ‘Agara Varisisaipadi Tamil – Aangila Pazhamozhigal’ was released in an event organised by National Book Trust and reader’s club of library, Musiri. N S Layashri from government elementary school in Melakunnupatti village of Thuraiyur took two months to compile the proverbs and prepare its English translation. While she was guided by her parents, Siva Kumar appreciated her perseverance to take up the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tamil-proverb-book-by-student-released/articleshow/81438738.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||‘Cop’ booked for multiple cons arrested at CSMT||MUMBAI: A 29-year-old man, booked for multiple cons in the past, was nabbed at CSMT while he was posing as a policeman. Nilesh Chavan, the accused, pretended he was a police sub-inspector and had got a uniform stitched for himself. His modus operandi was to pose as a cop and boast about contacts in the force that could help job seekers. Chavan has seven offences registered in Karad, Satara, Kolhapur etc., mostly financial fraud and cheating,” said senior inspector Pravin Bhagat, CSMT GRP. Around 3.30pm on March 7, ticket checker Rajesh Karalkar noticed Chavan moving around at CSMT. When Karalkar asked Chavan to produce a ticket, he couldn't do so. “Only GRP personnel are permitted to be on railway premises without a ticket when they are on duty. Every other policeman needs to have a ticket. Chavan couldn't explain where he was posted,” said investigating officer Arshuddin Shaikh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cop-booked-for-multiple-cons-arrested-at-csmt/articleshow/81440378.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||CISF observes security week||Hyderabad: Reflex shooting, one minute drill and a dog show marked Security Week 2021 that was observed in CISF unit of Nuclear Fuel Complex in the city from March 3-10. Various programs such as cleaning drive, tree plantation & yoga sessions were organized.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cisf-observes-security-week/articleshow/81438773.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s roadside vendors say business is down after brief recovery in Dec||Mumbai: Before Covid struck in March last year, the average Mumbaikar would casually steal a few moments to enjoy piping hot vada pav or dabeli at roadside stalls without a worry. A year later, hawkers who sell these snacks on the city’s streets are yet to see business return to pre-Covid levels. Among other things, the pandemic has brought a change in habits with many more ordering food and shopping online from within the secure walls of their homes. Vendors in municipal markets said they do not see customers gather around as before for fear of crowding and lack of social distancing. Dayashankar Singh (74) of Azad Hawkers’ Union who sells lassi and dabeli on Andheri-Kurla Road said while vegetable and fruit vendors had managed to stay afloat in the lockdown months, he could not. “I have been operating since 1973 and this was the first time I sat at home without work. While we managed to return with our carts in August last year, business is not like it was before. More people are scared to eat out on roads today. If earlier we had 100 customers in a day, now their numbers are down to barely 50,” said Singh. Stall owners at Linking Road in Bandra say their business improved in December last year but now with Covid cases rising again, buyers are not stepping out like before. Faisal Qureshi, president of the Linking Road Stall Owners’ Association, a third generation owner of a footwear stall, said they are licensed vendors and had to continue paying labourers who worked for them. “During the lockdown months, we had to pay those working for us as they were the worst hit. Then when we started business again, sales were so bad that if we sold 30 pieces of footwear earlier, barely five to six would get sold. By December 2020, we saw business stabilise once again but now we are seeing a dip in the number of customers,” he said. Dinesh Gupta, secretary, Pali Market Shopkeepers’ Association, said online shopping has picked up more now. Vendors said in housing complexes, those offering farm-to-table service were allotted space to sell fruits and vegetables. “This arrangement has continued in many areas. Those selling are not farmers but locals who have tied up with farmers, thereby affecting our business,” said a vendor from Dadar. Sunil Mandhare of Kranti Singh Nana Patil Mandai, Dadar (West), popularly known as Dadar Plaza Market, pointed out not all labourers who had gone back to their villages have returned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-roadside-vendors-say-business-is-down-after-brief-recovery-in-dec/articleshow/81437318.cms||Richa Pinto
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||189 Covid-19 cases, two deaths recorded in T||Hyderabad: Telangana on Wednesday recorded 189 new cases of Covid-19 and 2 deaths, taking the total count of cases to 3,00,342. The death toll so far stands at 1,646. While there are a total of 1,780 active cases in the state currently, so far 2,96,916 patients have recovered from the novel coronavirus infection in the state. The case fatality rate (CFR) is constant at 0.54% currently in the state. This is better when compared to the country average CFR of 1.4%, indicating lesser number of deaths in the state. The recovery rate, meanwhile, is currently 98.85%, also higher than the country average recovery rate of 96.9%. A total of 39,000 samples were tested for the virus on Wednesday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/189-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-recorded-in-t/articleshow/81440324.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Containment measures in residential bldgs to be tightened as cases rise in Mumbai||MUMBAI: BMC on Wednesday said containment measures in residential buildings will be tightened as Covid cases in housing societies are rising. In January-February, 23,000-odd Covid patients were found in municipal areas, civic data showed. Of this, 90% of those infected are from residential buildings and 10% from slum pockets. It appealed to members of housing societies to inform it if they find any member flouting home quarantine protocol. Ward officers have been told to file police cases against violators. Patients in home quarantine, living with large families but not having a separate toilet will have to shift to isolation centres. BMC said that testing of high-risk contacts, including maids of patients, must be done in buildings where Covid cases are high. Mumbai presently has 95 sealed buildings and 1,033 sealed floors, the figures of which are updated daily. Richa Pinto||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/containment-measures-in-residential-bldgs-to-be-tightened-as-cases-rise-in-mumbai/articleshow/81438857.cms||Richa Pinto
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||To fight malnutrition, Telangana govt to fortify midday meals||HYDERABAD: To tackle the high incidence of nutritional deficiency and stunting among children, Telangana is fast-tracking its food fortification programme. The state will introduce fortified rice soon in some government-run programmes, said officials. The fortified food will be introduced in Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), midday meals programme (MDM) and government hostels. While fortification of milk and edible oil has gained popularity, ironically, fortification of rice is yet to start in a primarily rice-eating state. “We will start with anganwadis, ICDS, MDM and government hostels. Technology training for fortification of rice has been given to mills and we are likely to roll out fortified rice under government-run programmes in the next one to two months,” said Dr K Shankar, director, Department of Food Safety, Government of Telangana. Shankar said, “fortification of staples is essential as a large chunk of our population are deficient in micronutrients, primarily folic acid, Vitamin A, Vitamin D, Vitamin B12 and iron. Fortified milk and oils are already being provided under the ICDS programme.” He added that recently 36 food safety officers were given training in food fortification. In future, other staples will be fortified too, added the official. Meanwhile, a study on children under five years and their mothers from the Chenchu tribe in the state found that 42% of the children were underweight, 53% were stunted and 13% suffered from wasting. A recent study in Hyderabad also showed a higher prevalence of micronutrient deficiencies among urban adults. “Between National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-4 and NFHS-5, in Telangana, the percentage of underweight children went up from 26.6 to 28.9. The percentage of anaemic children went up from 60.7 to 70, while that of anaemic women rose from 56.6 to 57.6. A high prevalence of undernutrition is seen in both rural and urban areas. This is particularly so in the state’s sizeable tribal population,” said Gururaj Patil, team lead fortification, Karnataka Health Promotion Trust (KHPT). KPHT along with Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) is supporting the state in food fortification. The food safety department is also working on double fortification of salt and wheat flour hoping to add these to the basket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/to-fight-malnutrition-govt-to-fortify-midday-meals/articleshow/81438781.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||3,734 new cases in Vidarbha on Wednesday as 2nd wave hits a high||NAGPUR: Vidarbha region reported 3,734 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, which is a record high in March, as well as highest since October-end. Surge in new cases can be a strong indicator of the second wave of Covid-19 in the region. On the other hand, 2,888 patients recovered in the day, bringing the day’s recovery count below 3000 for the first time in the last 3 days. More cases and fewer recoveries have increased the number of under-treatment patients above 31,000-mark – highest till now during the recent surge. Total 25 deaths were reported in the region due to Covid-19 on Wednesday. Nagpur district reported 8 deaths — three each from Nagpur city and rural and 2 from other state/districts. Worst-hit by the recent surge, Amravati district reported six deaths. Yavatmal, which reported record 429 new cases on Wednesday, also reported 5 deaths, including that of a 28-year-old. Buldhana reported 3 deaths, Akola (2) and Wardha (1). As on March 10, the Covid toll in Vidarbha has reached 7,638. However, as the caseload is increasing each day, the case fatality rate is reducing. On Wednesday, it was 2.16% which is less than state’s average of 2.4%. On Wednesday, 26,019 tests were conducted in the region, which is equal to the average in last 7 days. Nagpur reporting 1,710 positives out of 10,458 tests hints at 16.35% sample positivity. This rate is considered ideal if it is under 10%. Almost every district in Amravati division has more than 25% sample positivity, while in Nagpur division, only Wardha and Nagpur have more than 10% sample positivity. In all other districts, samples positivity rate is in single digit. Akola: The district conducted 2,883 tests on Wednesday. Out of these, 391 tested positive. Total 321 patients recovered in the day. Two deaths were also reported. Akola now has 4,837 patients under treatment. Deceased include a 76-year-old woman and a 55-year-old man. The woman was admitted on March 5, while the man was hospitalized since March 1. Washim: The district conducted more than 1,100 tests and 117 of them tested positive. Washim’s total caseload reached 10,587 on Wednesday. With 131 recoveries in the day, total 9,139 patients have recovered till date. No death was reported on Wednesday. With 163 deaths reported till date, Washim has 1,284 patients under treatment. Buldhana: Three deaths were reported on Wednesday, which took the district’s Covid-19 toll to 206. The deceased include 78-year-old man from Nandura, 78-year-old man from Malkapur and a 55-year-old man from Chikhli. Total 1,161 reports were received, out of which 385 tested positive. This took the total caseload to 22,785. Though 262 patients recovered in the day, still, 3,149 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district conducted 1,536 tests on Wednesday. Out of them, 26 tested positive. Eleven patients recovered from Gondia, and no death was reported. Now, 178 patients are under treatment in the district. Bhandara: Out of 1,082 tests conducted in the day, total 37 turned out to be positive in Bhandara. With 22 recoveries on Wednesday, 13,347 of total 14,057 patients have recovered till date. The district’s Covid toll remained at 328 as no death has been reported in March, so far. Bhandara has 382 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: Wednesday saw 31 new cases and 14 recoveries in the district. Total caseload is now 9,757, lowest in Vidarbha. With 9,476 of them recovered, Gadchiroli has best recovery rate in the region. The Covid toll is 108 and 173 are under treatment here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-7k-new-cases-in-vid-on-wed-as-2nd-wave-hits-a-high/articleshow/81438813.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Man dies as bike dashes divider||Hyderabad: A man died after his bike crashed into a road divider in Narsingi on Wednesday. Police said the biker lost control over the vehicle and died. Officials said that the deceased works in a local private company. Police registered a case and an investigation is being done. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-dies-as-bike-dashes-divider/articleshow/81438809.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Agra||Curious case of Mehtab Rana, a woman in burqa & his multiple arrests||Mehtab Rana keeps facing the same charge. He was booked for abduction when his business partner’s daughter, 13, went missing in 2018. Then, a month later, when she was “kidnapped”, he was in the dock. And now, three years on, when the girl was seen being taken away in a burqa in CCTV footage that went viral, he was arrested again. Only this time, the abduction was staged and eight other members of his family were also booked — three of them women who have been in jail since last month. The trail goes back to 2018, when the girl’s father went into business with Mehtab. He would trust Mehtab with errands. One time, his daughter didn’t make it back after Mehtab had taken her for treatment. “On June 21, 2018, an FIR was registered against Mehtab Rana for kidnapping and compelling the minor girl to marry him,” said investigating officer Mohit Singh. Mehtab was not arrested, however, and the girl found a month later. On July 19, 2018, the girl’s father lodged another abduction complaint. Mehtab obtained a stay on his arrest. The girl was traced after three months, when she said before a magistrate that Mehtab and his two relatives — Danish and his father Idrish — had raped her. Mehtab was arrested, Danish and Idrish were not. In August 2019, Mehtab got bail. The girl, meanwhile, began to be home schooled for her Class X boards. After a two-year gap, the girl went missing again. In a video that went viral, a girl walking by is suddenly covered in a burqa by a man wearing a pathani suit and cap, and taken away. The day the video came out, Mehtab was arrested for abduction. But on March 1, the girl was found in Delhi. “I had planned the whole thing,” she said before a magistrate on March 3. In 2020, she had met a man, Divyanshu, a 22-year-old mobile game dealer from Gwalior, at a cousin’s wedding. They struck up a rapport. “Recently, Mehtab had accosted me on the road and threatened me to drop the 2018 cases. That is when I came up with the plan to set him right,” she said. So, she roped in Divyanshu and Rinku Sahu, 22, from Delhi, who works with Divyanshu. The man in the pathani suit and cap was Rinku. Divyanshu and Rinku were booked for kidnapping. But Mehtab was not off the hook. Police went back to the 2018 case. On March 2, they arrested Danish and Idrish, too, for abduction and gang-rape. On March 4, Mehtab’s brothers Gulfam, 34; Najakat, 42, and Tauheed, 38, his wife Bhuri, 29, and two sisters-in-law, Shano, 39, and Reshma, 31 were also arrested. “While the women had been given a clean chit for the 2021 case, they were charged with wrongful confinement and criminal conspiracy in the 2018 case,” Agra SSP Babloo Kumar said. In a new FIR against Mehtab were added charges — for outraging modesty, intentional insult to provoke breach of peace, criminal intimidation, extortion, cheating and forgery — the last, for allegedly forging an Aadhaar, seized a day after the FIR was filed. Police said it was meant to “convert” her forcefully. Mehtab was arrested and has been sent to prison again. ADG (Agra zone) Rajeev Krishna said, “Seven of his family have been arrested so far. Two of his brothers, Najakat and Tauheed, are absconding.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/curious-case-of-mehtab-rana-a-woman-in-burqa-his-multiple-arrests/articleshow/81435218.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Buy fortified food, experts urge people||Hyderabad: Experts are urging people to look for the +F mark before buying oil and milk variants. While some fortified products are available in the market, the limitation is the lack of awareness. The absence of demand in turn is why products are not being fortified by companies. “The cost for fortifying is less than 50 paisa per kilogram or litre of the staples and that there will be no difference in cost,” said Dr Dr K Shankar, director, department of food safety. He appealed to people to look for the +F mark. While rice and wheat are fortified with Vitamin B12, iron and folic acid, edible oil and milk can be fortified with Vitamin A and D. Telangana has seven milk companies that fortify at least one milk variants while four edible oil brands currently fortify oil. “Fortification of edible oil is reasonably good,” said Gururaj Patil, team lead fortification, Karnataka Health Promotion Trust. Telangana is one of four states which will be rolling out fortified rice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/buy-fortified-food-experts-urge-people/articleshow/81438815.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 57 students at Vedic school of TTD test positive for Covid-19||TIRUPATI: As many as 57 students of the Veda Vignana Peetham run by the TirumalaTirupati Devasthanams (TTD) at Tirumala have tested positive for Covid-19. They were admitted to Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) in Tirupati for treatment. The Vedic school of the Veda Vignana Peetham reopened recently. The management asked all the 435 students to undergo the mandatory RT-PCR test. The students gave their swab samples five days ago at their respective hometowns. All of them had reportedly tested negative. But on March 9 when rapid antigen tests were conducted once again on all the 435 students by the authorities at Tirumala, 57 students, who were asymptomatic, tested positive. They were taken to Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences. RT-PCR tests also confirmed the students’ positive status. The TTD authorities said that RT-PCR tests were conducted on the remaining students and 10 faculty members once again and the test results are awaited. But none of the students exhibited any Covid-19 symptoms so far and everyone is said to be in good health. TTD sources said the temple body was taking all necessary precautions to check further spread of the novel coronavirus on the campus by adhering to Covid-19 guidelines laid out by the central and state governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/57-students-at-vedic-school-of-ttd-test-ve/articleshow/81440364.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
March 11, 2021||Rajkot||Mayoral candidate row highlights cracks in BMC||Rajkot: Discontent among elected BJP corporators in Bhavnagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has come out in the open on Wednesday after Gandhinagar announced the name for a new mayor. Aspirant Varsha Parmar broke down in front of party leaders after her name had been discarded from the position. BJP selected Kirti Danidhariya, a member of other backward class (OBC) community, as the new mayor. The post of mayor is reserved for woman for the first two and half years, while it is reserved for OBC candidate in the second term. After Parmar’s emotional showdown, BJP leaders tried to cover up the episode and also prevent her from speaking to the media. “The party and Jitu Vaghani (former BJP president) did injustice to me,” Parmar told TOI, adding, “The seat was reserved for woman. So, the party could have selected any upper caste woman for the paost as the second term is already reserved for OBC candidate. I was promised of the mayor’s post by Vibhavari Dave.”The ruling party had won 44 out of total 52 seats in the BMC. When contacted, BJP city president, Rajeev Pandya said “Parmar is ambitious, but the party selects a mayor considering many parameters like the person’s commitment, past experience, social status, and behaviour. The city unit sends names of panels and the parliamentary board takes a final decision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mayoral-candidate-row-highlights-cracks-in-bmc/articleshow/81436118.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||Consent form filling for Covaxin jab likely to stop soon||NAGPUR: Those getting the Covaxin jab had to fill up a consent form well in advance. However, this practice is set to stop as the interim results of the Phase 3 trials of Covaxin have been announced by Bharat Biotech earlier this week. Once the details of the results are out, the expert committee that had suggested the practice of the ‘consent form’ will consider revoking it. A senior member of the ethics committee, who is from Nagpur, told TOI that Covaxin will be administered without the three-page consent form once the makers. ‘Bharat Biotech Hyderabad’, submit their detailed phase 3 results to the committee and they get assessed by the experts. “The company has declared the result of the Phase 3 trials in the media. It’s no doubt a promising development, but the results are from the first interim analysis. Till the detailed results get assessed by the government committee, the practice of filling up the consent form will continue,” he said. Bharat Biotech announced the first interim analysis of its Covaxin on March 3. The interim vaccine efficacy of Covaxin is 81% in its Phase 3 clinical trial. The trials involved 25,800 subjects, the largest-ever conducted in India. Nagpur was one of the trial sites in the country. There was a participation of nearly1,600 volunteers from the city. Chairman and managing director of Bharat Biotech Dr Krishna Ella has claimed that Covaxin not only demonstrates high clinical efficacy against Covid-19 but also significant immunogenicity against the rapidly-emerging variants like the UK one. “Bharat Biotech expects to share further details of the trial results as additional data becomes available,” says an official statement by Dr Ella. “All data from the second interim and final analysis will be shared via prepublication servers as well as submitted to a peer-reviewed journal for publication,” says the statement in conclusion. At present, centres where Covaxin is delivered have to maintain an information sheet on the vaccine, informed consent form for each vaccine recipient and an information leaflet for the vaccinator. The factsheet about Covaxin is provided to the recipient before the vaccination. A recipient can get doubts cleared from the vaccinator. After that, the factsheet is returned by the recipient. If the vaccine recipient agrees to be vaccinated then the informed consent form (ICF) has to be signed. Only after signing the informed consent, the recipient is vaccinated with Covaxin. But, the consent form is required only for the first dose and not for the booster. In case the ethics committee revises the norms, this process will be a thing of the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/consent-form-filling-for-covaxin-jab-likely-to-stop-soon/articleshow/81438880.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||History-sheeter waylaid and stabbed to death by rivals in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 26-year-old history-sheeter was waylaid and stabbed to death by his rivals at Rein Bazar on Tuesday night. The deceased was identified as Mohammed Parvez alias Farru, a history-sheeter of the Jawaharnagar police station. According to police, Parvez used to stay at Yakutpura, but a few years ago shifted to Katta Maisamma near Kapra in the Jawaharnagar police station limits of the Rachakonda commissionerate. At 7pm on Monday, Parvez left home informing his family that he was going to attend a friend’s birthday at Begumpet and did not return home. On Tuesday afternoon, Parvez’s mother spoke to him asking him to book her an auto but he advised her to hire one locally, Parvez’s father Abdul Ghani mentioned in the police complaint. Police said Parvez went to meet some family members at Kanchabagh on Tuesday night and was murdered when he reached Rahmath Nagar near Chota Pul in Rein Bazar in a rented car. “A group of assailants, who were aware of his movements, waylaid Parvez and stabbed him to death,” a Task Force officer said. Rein Bazar police rushed to the spot and shifted the body, lying on a two-wheeler parked next to the road to Osmania Hospital. “We found Parvez’s car parked near the body. We are yet to find out why he got out of the vehicle,” Rein Bazar inspector Anjaneyulu said. After the post-mortem, police handed over to the body to his family members on Wednesday. Role of another history-sheeter Md Sohail is being probed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/history-sheeter-waylaid-and-stabbed-to-death-by-rivals/articleshow/81438868.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||ICMR takes note of of 23 old-age home inmates who beat Covid-19||Hyderabad: The recovery and survival story of more than 23 elderly patients of a city-based old age home at Kondapur has caught the attention of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Based on a report recently published in TOI on the survival journey of the elderly in the last six months, ICMR has approached the caretakers of the home. “Officials from ICMR called us and asked us how the elderly, despite being the most vulnerable, survived and how they have been in good health “ Dr K Rajani, who takes care of the elderly, told TOI. They told us that it was like a case study where so many elderly got infected because of a super spreader, with most being above 80 years of age, but have been doing well. They noted our practices, she added. The elderly were infected with Covid-19 last August. Only two died because of comorbid conditions. None of them had any serious complications after the recovery and only some had weakness after being discharged from the hospital. After the elderly patients being discharged, the caretakers made changes in their food menu, including protein sources like eggs and a daily dose of fruits. The ICMR has observed that proper rest, being in good state of mind, confidence and eating properly with social distancing precautions in place is the main reason for their survival. Many elderly even helped with cooking and other work at the home after being discharged from hospital. “Going by the recent trends, the infection is not causing major damage to even people with commodities and elderly. There are better treatment protocols and mostly, the support of the family and confidence of the patients is very important,” Dr Kiran Madala, an ICMR certified researcher said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/icmr-takes-note-of-of-23-old-age-home-inmates-who-beat-covid-19/articleshow/81440362.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 11, 2021||Nashik||Nashik civic body permits 24x7 vaccination in private hospitals||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has allowed private hospitals in the city to carry out the vaccination process twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week.Bapusaheb Nagargoje, the medical superintendent of NMC, said they have already given permission to the private hospitals for 24x7 vaccination if they have adequate manpower and vaccinators, but they are yet to get any application in this connection from the private hospitals in the city. The civic body has already started administering the vaccine at 22 vaccination centres in its civic hospitals and urban primary health centres (UPHCs). NMC presently does not have plans of 24x7 vaccination at its centres. “Our objective is to speed up the vaccination process in the city. We are involving more hospitals for the same. Those private hospitals with over 50 beds may give vaccines to the beneficiaries,” said Nagargoje. “We have already permitted 18 private hospitals for vaccination, while 15 more private hospitals have applied to start vaccination centres,” he said.Nagargoje said NMC has already increased the number of vaccination centres at its civic hospitals and urban primary health centres from three vaccination centres to 22 centres in the last 10 days. NMC is getting good response from citizens above the age of 60 years. Over 50% of the beneficiaries taking the jab are from the age group above 60 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-civic-body-permits-24x7-vaccination-in-private-hospitals/articleshow/81435259.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Falaknuma Bridge closure leads to traffic congestion||Hyderabad: The ongoing Falaknuma bridge construction has begun to add to locals’ woes as narrow alternate routes and traffic jam has driven them to come forward to regulate traffic movement smoothly. Youths and elders assist or lead motorists through the narrow routes to their destinations across the day. Despite this, many face traffic snarls and increasing pollution in the localites. Locals told TOI that they were assured by the authorities it would take six months to complete the bridge. Businesses in surroundings of Falaknuma bridge have also taken a huge hit. Residents urged officials to come out with an alternate road map to make passage of traffic movement smooth. “I used to reach my office within 7-10 minutes before but now it takes more than 25 minutes ,” Mohd Younous, a resident said. Afroz Shah, MIM area president, Al-Jubail Colony said MIM MLAs Ahmed Pasha Quadri and Moazam Khan inspected the ongoing construction and asked officials to expedite it to ease public problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/falaknuma-bridge-closure-leads-to-traffic-congestion/articleshow/81440389.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||Vidarbha gets 6.35L vaccine doses; relief for drive in city||NAGPUR: The state government has allotted another 6,35,040 doses of Covishield and Covaxin doses to 11 districts of Vidarbha. Covid-19 vaccination drive will continue without interruption in the city with allocation of fresh stock. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar told TOI, “Only 12,500 doses were left with NMC’s store room. Another 2,000 doses were with GMCH and some at 60 vaccination centres. Now, there will be no issues as government allotted fresh stock.” As reported by TOI on Wednesday, NMC had to take 10,000 doses from rural areas and Wardha district to ensure seamless vaccination drive continues. Vaccination has evoked good response from age-appropriate groups. On Wednesday, 13,995 took the jab in the district of which 10,710 were from age-appropriate groups. In city, 9,407, including 7,261 from age-appropriate groups, took vaccine at 60 centres. The number of centres in rural increased to 70 on Wednesday where 4,588 took the jab, including 3,449 from age-appropriate groups. The office of deputy director of health services had sent a vehicle to Pune to bring vaccines, which will ensure arrival of vaccines on Thursday night. Nagpur division has got 3,93,760 doses of which 2.76 lakh doses are of Covishield. Another major relief for NMC is that the division got 1,17,760 doses of Covaxin. GMCH, which is only centre for Covaxin in the district, had been left with doses sufficient for only one day on Monday. Amravati division got 2,41,280 doses of which 1.44 lakh are of Covishield and 97,280 of Covaxin. Earlier, the region had received 7,97,560 doses. Thus, total number of doses in the region increased to 14,32,600. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar told TOI, “Vaccination will be increased further in the district in coming days.” Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said centres will be increased in the city to vaccinate people from age-appropriate groups. “Cases are on the rise in the city. Increase in vaccination of age-appropriate groups will help further control deaths and break the chains,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-gets-6-35l-vaccine-doses-relief-for-drive-in-city/articleshow/81436135.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Dabbawalas, ration shop staffers frontline workers too: Bombay HC responds to PIL on vax priority for lawyers||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court (HC) while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) by lawyers seeking ‘frontline workers’ status and Covid vaccine priority to the legal fraternity on Wednesday, said, “Why only judges and lawyers, why not ration shop, dabbawallas, etc. We are for the entire society. It is a policy decision. It cannot be interfered by the court.’’ Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Girish Kulkarni said, “In the Titanic movie the captain said, he should be the last to leave the boat…as captain of this Institution, I am the last person …We will not place ourselves above the society.” The PIL argued by advocates Yashodeep Deshmukh and Vinod Sangvikar wanted lawyers to be next in line for the jabs. They said many lawyers and judges are older and can be in need of vaccination. They also said legal aid advocates work selflessly for the government and usually their fees are not much, they can be considered. For the Centre, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh said various similar petitions have been filed before various courts, therefore Bharat-Biotech has filed one petition before the Supreme Court to club all these petitions. The HC posted the matter for further hearing to March 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-dabbawalas-ration-shop-staffers-frontline-workers-too-hc-responds-to-pil-on-vax-priority-for-lawyers/articleshow/81438913.cms||Swati Deshpande
March 11, 2021||Bengaluru||No change in quotas till SC order: Karnataka law minister Basavaraj Bommai||BENGALURU: The state government will not make any changes to the current reservation policy till the Supreme Court gives its verdict on extending caste-based quotas beyond 50%, law minister Basavaraj Bommai said in the assembly on Wednesday, amid growing demands from Panchamasali Lingayats, Kurubas and other communities in the state. “The SC, which is hearing a petition in the case of the Maratha quota in Maharashtra, is the only beacon of light for us to consider the growing demands for reservation, or an increase in reservation,” Bommai said. Quota: K’taka to give report to SCBommai was replying to a query from senior BJP MLA Basannagouda Patil Yatnal during Zero Hour. “This problem is not limited to Karnataka. All states are facing similar issues, especially due to the growing demands of backward class communities seeking additional reservation. We can think of extending or increasing reservation only if the apex court considers our plea to go beyond 50% cap,” he said, rejecting Yatnal’s demand for a deadline to change the category of reservation for Panchamasali Lingayats. Karnataka will soon submit its opinion to the top court, seeking increase beyond 50% after consulting experts and political parties, he added. Bommai said the state government recently constituted a three-member committee to study the demands of the communities and suggest to the government the best possible approach to accommodate them. “Once we get their report, we will act accordingly,” Bommai said, adding that quantifiable data would be required to determine the need to change reservation parameters for any community. Yatnal responded that the Panchamasalis are not seeking an increase in quota but only a change in category — from 3B to 2A — within the 50% cap. He also raised the inclusion of the Banajiga or Balajiga community under 2A by the Yediyurappa government in 2011, to which Bommai said only names that are synonyms of Banajigas communities, like Dasa Banajiga and Dasara Banajigas, which were left out of 2A, were included. As Yatnal insisted on a deadline of three months to one year to meet the demand of Panchamasalis, Bommai said the demand is being studied by the other backward classes (OBC) commission. “We will expedite the process to fulfill their demands at the earliest once we get the report,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-change-in-quotas-till-sc-order-bommai/articleshow/81440991.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka forms SIT to probe sex CD case||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government on Wednesday decided to form a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the sex CD scandal allegedly involving former water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said the SIT, to be headed by ADGP Soumendu Mukherjee, will probe all aspects of the scandal, including who created and released the CD, besides the conspiracy alleged by the former minister. “Once the SIT submits its report, the government will take action.” He said the probe was ordered based on a letter by Jarkiholi in which he claimed a conspiracy behind the release of the CD and alleged involvement of influential people. 9 people involved, says BalachandraJarkiholi brothers, who were claiming the CD was fake till Tuesday, reportedly decided to get the issue probed hoping to get a clean chit and then reclaim berth in the cabinet. “They had met BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday and had put pressure on him through some ministers to order a probe,’’ a source said. Earlier in the day, KMF chairman Balachandra Jarkiholi, younger brother of Ramesh, said nine people, including a few influential ones, are involved in the CD case. “We are collecting more information through a private agency from outside the state so that we can build a watertight case against the conspirators. Once we get the details, we will file a complaint. We will mention their names in the complaint,” he said. He said he was consulting lawyers on whether a complaint must be filed in Bengaluru, Belagavi or Gokak. “We don't mind quitting politics, but we will ensure the conspirators are sent to jail,” Balachandra added. KPCC president DK Shivakumar chided the Jarkiholi brothers and BJP ministers for demanding a probe. “When you have claimed that the CD is fake, what is the necessity of an investigation,” he asked, saying the government was free to order probe against anybody, including Congress leaders. He dismissed the claim of Jarkiholi brothers that Ramesh was the victim of a conspiracy. “Even if we concede it’s a conspiracy, is it not the responsibility of Ramesh to be careful? Does anyone tell a six-time MLA to be careful?” he said. Cooperation minister ST Somashekhar, who had alleged that Congress functionaries were behind the release of the CD, did a Uturn and said he did not accuse his former party. The Congress posed a series of questions to Somashekar on its official Twitter handle. “You said you were in the Congress. How many CDs you prepared and how much did you spend? Also, tell people who prepared your CD when you were in quarantine in Mumbai? Why did you take an injunction against the media?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-forms-sit-to-probe-sex-cd-case/articleshow/81440996.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||Nothing to do with allegations of Scania paying bribe: Nitin Gadkari||NAGPUR: Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari has denied any involvement in Swedish bus truck and bus manufacturer Scania paying bribes to win contracts in seven different Indian states between 2013 and 2016. In a statement, Gadkari said, “Since the entire episode is an internal affair of the Swedish company, it will be prudent for the media to wait for an official word by Scania India which handled the matter.” Gadkari and his family members have absolutely nothing to do with the purchase or sale of the buses, the statement said. “Nor do they have anything to do with any firm or individual who might be linked with the purchase or sale of the buses,” the statement said. Gadkari was a pioneer in introducing Scania’s ethanol-run buses in Nagpur as a part of his drive to bring in green public transport to India. He had encouraged the Nagpur Municipal Corporation to initiate a pilot project and the civic body signed a commercial MoU with the Swedish company. Accordingly, Scania’s ethanol-operated buses started plying in Nagpur. “It was purely a commercial arrangement between the Nagpur civic body and the Swedish bus manufacturer. Gadkari and his family had nothing to do with it,” the statement further clarified. Three media outlets, including a Swedish news channel SVT, have claimed that the Swedish bus truck and bus manufacturer Scania paid bribes to win contracts in seven different Indian states between 2013 and 2016. The media outlets levelled the allegation based on their investigation. The Swedish truck and bus maker, a unit under Volkswagen AG’s commercial vehicle arm Traton SE, started operations in India in 2007 and established a manufacturing unit in 2011. A Scania probe in 2017 revealed serious lapses and misconduct (alleged bribery, bribery through business partners and misrepresentation) by senior management and employees. Scania had since stopped selling buses in the Indian market and the factory has been closed down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nothing-to-do-with-allegations-of-scania-paying-bribe-gadkari/articleshow/81436146.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Mandals seek loudspeaker extension for Ganeshotsav in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Ganpati mandals have appealed to the suburban collectorate to extend the use of loudspeakers till midnight on four days of the annual festival instead of “only three” this year. Ganeshotsav will be celebrated from September 10-19. “Mandals are ordinarily allowed to use loudspeakers till midnight on all four visarjan days. This season Gauri visarjan falls on the fifth day instead of the routine seventh day. As a result, the Collector has granted loudspeaker extension on only three days—September 11, 14 and 19. We are seeking a fourth day as well,” said Naresh Dahibawkar, president of the Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti. “We have prepared the list of 12 days of the year on which loudspeakers will be permitted till midnight based on existing rules and laws. Since Gauri visarjan falls on the fifth day, the seventh day extension has been removed,” suburban collector Milind Borikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mandals-seek-loudspeaker-extension-for-ganeshotsav-in-mumbai/articleshow/81440414.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
March 11, 2021||Nashik||Focus on isolation & testing, Jalgaon told||Nashik: The central health team has found the Covid-19 treatment part “up to the mark” in Jalgaon district, but asked the administration to focus on field-related issues such as isolation of patients, contact tracing and testing to reduce cases. “The team visited a containment zone in Jalgaon city and another in a rural area. They appreciated the protocol being followed but expressed concern over all family members getting positive after one person tested positive,” Jalgaon district collector Abhijeet Raut said on Wednesday. The team, comprising P Ravindran, director of Emergency Medical Relief (New Delhi), Sunil Kharpade, public health expert, and Sanket Kulkarni, director of Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) and National Centre for Disease Control (New Delhi) visited Jalgaon after Nashik and Dhule.“We will now focus more on tracing and tracking, just like we did in the beginning,” said Raut. Civil surgeon N S Chavan said that the administration has now taken measures to discourage home isolation. “In case an entire family is found positive, we have decided against encouraging home isolation,” said Chavan.‘Janata Curfew’ The district administration has announced closure of all shops and establishments, except those involved in essential services, from 8pm to 8am from March 11 to March15 as part of ‘Janata Curfew’.Raut said the decision was taken on the directions of guardian minister Gulabrao Patil and a demand by non-governmental organisations and social workers in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/focus-on-isolation-testing-jalgaon-told/articleshow/81435266.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 11, 2021||Nashik||Private tutorial association for running of tuition classes||Nashik: The association of private tutorials from Nashik city has requested the district administration to allow them to conduct physical classes for the students of Classes X and XII as the exams are approaching. The Private Coaching Classes Directors’ Association, representing over 200 professionals from across the district, met the district administration on Wednesday and demanded to be allowed to conduct physical classes especially for students who are unable to follow the online education system.The delegation led by Jayant Muley of Suyash Classes, met with the additional district collector Dattaprasad Nade and urged him to consider their demand as it is important for both the coaching class owners and the students“The students of Classes X and XII are going to have their final examinations and they are at a decisive juncture of their career. At this time they need a better understanding of the subjects and that is the reason they take tuitions. Hence we demand the class owners to be allowed to conduct offline tuitions for these students only,” said Muley.  This year the schools were online for the most part so students were keen to take lesson via offline classes. However, the current orders of the district administration about no physical assembly in any of the schools and private coaching classes have denied the students of having physical classes. “We, therefore, appeal to the administration to allow the students of Classes X and XII only to gather at their respective classes in batches with 50% attendance and maintaining social distancing along with the sanitisation rules,” said Sanjay Patil, the director a private coaching class.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/private-tutorial-association-for-running-of-tuition-classes/articleshow/81435269.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 2.1 lakh govt schoolkids don’t get breakfast at home, says report||BENGALURU: A report on midday meals in the state by the Karnataka Evaluation Authority says that 2.1 lakh children — 6.4% of total children in government schools — do not get breakfast at home. For them, milk given in school is the first meal of the day, pointing to the need of expanding the midday meals to breakfasts too. The report — Evaluation of impact of midday meal schemes in Karnataka (2016-17) — was released in January 2021. “At least 199 out of 5,158 children get only one meal a day. Midday meal is their first meal; no breakfast. When this proportion of students in this sample is magnified for the state for purposes of understanding, around 2.1 lakh children attend school without breakfast. They may get supper at home for which they have to wait for around 8 hours after the midday meal at 1pm; no evening snacks also,” said the study. 49% children don’t get evening snacksThe study was commissioned to cover the period from 2016-17 to 2018-19. Primary data was collected in 2019-20. The draft report was completed by early 2020. With review meetings not being held during the pandemic year, the report was finalised recently. KEA engages in multifaceted quality checks without academic interference. “For 49% children — 2,527 out of 5,158 — the midday meal is the second meal of the day. They get breakfast and supper at home; two meals only in a day. They have to wait for at least eight hours after they get midday meal in the afternoon at school. They do not get evening snacks after they return home from school. Life is pathetic for 49% and cruel for over 6% children of the state,” the report says. As many kids do not have breakfast or inadequate breakfast, more than a quarter of students report they will be ‘very hungry’ by the mealtime. Almost all students report that the ‘milk’ is effective in energizing them, motivating them to participate in sports, maintaining their enthusiasm in school, facilitating concentration and improving learning levels. The report points to the need for breakfast in schools. Noting that milk and midday meal scheme have done wonders in enrolment, retention, learning levels and health of children, it calls for an extension of the scheme to breakfast, especially in 108 drought-prone taluks. It cites the example of an NGO – SAI – which serves breakfast to 26,489 children of 301 government schools across six districts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/report-2-1-lakh-govt-schoolkids-dont-get-breakfast-at-home/articleshow/81441002.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
March 11, 2021||Goa||7 Goan officers inducted in IAS, postings soon||PANAJI: A notification inducting seven officers of the Goa Civil Service into the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) was issued on Tuesday. The officers who have been selected are Narayan Sawant, Menino D'Souza, Sanjit Rodrigues, Sanjiv Gadkar, Yetindra Maralkar, Prasad Lolayekar and Michael D’Souza. They would be allotted the joint (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram, Union Territory) cadre under Rule 5 (1) of the IAS (cadre) Rules, 1954. The order about their postings will be issued by the Union ministry of home affairs The ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions issued the notification that states that the seven officers will be appointed on probation until further orders. They would be allotted the joint (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram, Union Territory) cadre under Rule 5 (1) of the IAS (cadre) Rules, 1954. The decision of their elevation was made a few months ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/7-goan-officers-inducted-in-ias-postings-soon/articleshow/81438917.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Aurangabad||Over 26k Covid vax doses available, more expected||Aurangabad: Amid growing demand for the vaccine against Covid-19, civic health authorities on Wednesday said that sufficient stock of doses is available and more are expected later this week. In the meantime, Aurangabad district on Tuesday reported 550 fresh cases of Covid-19, which is a single day highest since the pandemic situation broke out last year. Immunization officer with Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) Smita Nalgirkar said the local civic body had around 26,500 doses of Covid vaccine as on Wednesday. “The total number of vaccination centres within Aurangabad city has gradually increased to 25, including 16 government-run facilities and nine private hospitals. We are supplying vaccines to these facilities by striking a balance between available stock and the demand,” she said. Nalgirkar said the demand for fresh stock of Covid vaccine has already been forwarded to the state government and necessary consignment is expected to reach before March 13. As per official data, a total of 38,102 identified beneficiaries have received the vaccine within municipal limits of Aurangabad by Tuesday. As a part of the official set-up, AMC has raised a central cold-storage facility at its health centre at Bansilal Nagar, from where the vaccine supply is done. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the district has touched to 53,907, including 49,382 cured patients and 1,304 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-26k-covid-vax-doses-available-more-expected/articleshow/81435278.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Nashik||Mahashivratri: Govt issues strict guidelines, Trimbakeshwar shut||Nashik: In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday came out with strict guidelines for celebration of Mahashivratri in temples on Thursday. As per the guidelines, no more than 50 people should be present in a temple at a time during the Mahashivratri rituals. In Nashik, the Shri Trimbakeshwar Devasthan Trust decided to keep the famous Trimbakeshwar temple, one of the 12 jyotirlinga temples, completely closed for devotees on Mahashivratri. “Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the Nashik city and the district. We have decided to keep the temple closed all day on Thursday and the fair has also been cancelled,” said Satyapriya Shukla, one of the temple trustees. “However, all the rituals will be conducted by the temple priests, who will follow the Covid-19 protocol,” Shukla added. Assistant collector and sub-divisional officer of Trimbakeshwar Shubham Gupta welcomed the trust’s decision. “The ‘Palkhi’ will be carried out in the temple with a limited number of priests. While the temple will be open on Friday between 7 am and 7 pm, it will remain closed over the weekends till further orders,” he said. The city police have imposed section 144 (1)(3) — restricting the movement of people in the vicinity of the Kapaleshwar Mandir at the Ram Kund area in Nashik city to avoid crowding on Mahashivratri Day. Assistant commissioner of police Pradeep Jadhav issued these orders. “We have cancelled all fairs and restricted entry to the area till Friday night,” he said. Shani Shingnapur closed on Shani amavasya The temple management committee of the famous Shani Shingnapur temple has decided to keep the temple close for two consecutive days on the occasion of the upcoming Shani amavasya — which will be falling on Friday and Saturday. The temple will reopen on Sunday at 5 am. Temple CEO Nitin Shete told TOI, “The amavasya begins on Friday night. During the 24 hours of the amavasya, only the temple priest, in the presence of trustees, will perform three aartis — one on Friday midnight, then early on Saturday morning and finally on Saturday evening.” Ahmednagar superintendent of police Manoj Patil said: “Heavy police bandobast will be deployed to ensure there is no entry of outsiders in the village.” — With PTI inputs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mahashivratri-govt-issues-strict-guidelines-trimbakeshwar-shut/articleshow/81435273.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: New Intermediate joinees will attend just 20 days of classes before exams||HYDERABAD: For almost the entire academic year, Sagar B was busy working as a daily labourer and had no clue that the state started digital classes and intermediate admissions had commenced. While his parents were working as migrant labourers in the Krishna district, he was working at a farm for Rs 200 per day in a thanda in Suryapet district. “There was no one to tell me that colleges reopened and admit me in intermediate,” said Sagar, who secured a 9.2 GPA in class 10. He took admission in inter first year about 15 days back in the MPC group with help of his uncle. He said that he did not attend even a single digital class since September. “I don’t have a TV or mobile phone. I live in a thanda. I have started going to college for the past few days. I am confident that I will clear exams,” he said, adding that he is working and attending college on alternate days. Like Sagar, several students who did not take admissions until the last moment started approaching headmasters/principals seeking admission weeks after physical classes started. With hardly 50 days left for intermediate public examinations, the new joinees will get to attend about 20 days of physical classes before the board exams as classes are being conducted on alternate days for first and second-year students. “I secured admission in a gurukul college. I even attended online classes. But when I went to the hostel, I could not stay there. So, I decided to come back to my village and take admission in a nearby government college,” said B Manoj, a CEC student. Another student, Aditya K, who discontinued diploma, said, “I gave my first-semester diploma exams, but did not appear for second and third-semester examinations. To continue in diploma, I have to stay in a hostel where the food is pathetic.” Aditya said that he joined in intermediate as he did not want to lose a year. “I opted for CEC as it is comparatively easy to clear,” he added. Lecturers and headmasters working in junior colleges said that many students told them that they were unaware that colleges had started. A few dropped out of their current colleges and some could not understand online classes, they added. “Many students had a genuine reason for taking admission late. A few, however, are hopeful that paper would be easy this year. Some don’t want to miss out in case the state decides to pass everyone if the situation worsens,” said M Krishnaiah, a lecturer. Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education commissioner Syed Omer Jaleel confirmed that admissions into inter first year can be done in government and private junior colleges even today. “We don’t want students to lose a year for any reason. The syllabus has been reduced, they are going to get more choice in the question paper. They have access to study material and lessons on the website,” said Jaleel, adding March 15 will be the last date for admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-intermediate-joinees-will-attend-just-20-days-of-classes-before-exams/articleshow/81440410.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||Cops ‘on track’ in Ganeshpeth murder mystery||NAGPUR: Though the mystery surrounding the murder of Laxman Malik, 65, having four wives and a girlfriend, is still unsolved even after 36 hours of the incident coming to fore on Tuesday, the cops sounded hopeful of cracking it soon. City police chief Amitesh Kumar, along with zonal DCP Lohit Matani and additional CP Navinchandra Reddy, was camping at the Ganeshpeth police station where the suspects, including the wives and their sons, were relentlessly quizzed. Many persons, who had given money to Malik for jobs, too were summoned for interrogations including the ones with whom the victim had a fight too in the past. During questioning various suspects, the police have also come to know about the philandering nature of the deceased who had once tried to become friendly with a girl working with one of his wives. Though he was staying away, Malik had been trying to force one of his wives to meet him too. She had moved on with another man. Following the post-mortem, police have reached a tentative conclusion that the murder may not be the motive but a plan of torturing Malik went wrong as he bled to death after being left injured in the apartment without medical attention. He was repeatedly poked with a sharp object, like screw driver, near the throat from which he had bled profusely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-on-track-in-ganeshpeth-murder-mystery/articleshow/81436160.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||At 13,659 Covid cases, daily count in Maharashtra at its highest after October 7||MUMBAI: Covid-19 cases ballooned in Maharashtra, including Mumbai, on Wednesday, inching closer to the pandemic peak witnessed in the September-October period. Maharashtra reported 13,659 cases, the highest in the 154 days since October 7 (14,578). There is a nearly 40% increase in the daily detections as compared to Tuesday. The state added 54 fatalities. The total caseload went up to 22,52,057 and the total fatalities rose to 52,610. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on CoronavirusThe BMC registered 1,539 cases in Mumbai, the highest count since October 21, when 1,609 cases were detected. On the eve of the anniversary of the detection of the first case in Mumbai on March 11 last year, the city’s caseload stood at 3.37 lakh and toll at 11,515 deaths. While some of the private hospitals said their beds were full, the BMC dashboard showed that only 5,145 (38%) of the total 13,529 Covid beds in the city were occupied. Only 30% of the 8,019 oxygen-supported beds were occupied. Of the 1,533 ICU beds available for Covid patients in the city, 789 (51%) are occupied. Read AlsoCovaxin works on Brazil, SA strains, initial findings showThere is now preliminary evidence to suggest Covaxin may also be effective against both the Brazil and South African variants of SARS-CoV-2, a top expert from the Indian Council of Medical Research has said. A study in January had said the shot can protect against the UK variant. Dr Samiran Panda,The daily positivity rate in the state and city is on the rise. On Wednesday, 14.6% of the 93,219 swabs tested were positive. The percentage of positive swab tests for the city was 7% . BMC officials said the picture is not as grim as it was last year. The biggest difference between the October and March surges is the toll: while 48 people died due to Covid on October 21, the BMC registered five deaths on Wednesday. The state had reported 355 deaths on October 7. “Last year it was impossible to get a single bed in the city, but today more than half the ICU beds are vacant,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid task force. The consensus is that most cases are asymptomatic or mild enough to be managed at home. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said people were not following home quarantine rules and infecting others. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said although the numbers have risen sharply, the BMC has not found a single cluster or groups spreading the disease. “It is a very scattered picture in Mumbai. We are taking steps to contain the spread, including telling housing societies to call us up if asymptomatic patients are not observing isolation rules,” he said. Total discharges in the state neared the 30 lakh mark. Active cases rose to 99,008, of which 10%, or 9,973, were in Mumbai. Thane city saw a spike in cases as 256 positive cases were registered and two deaths took the toll to 1,344.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-at-13659-covid-cases-daily-count-in-state-at-its-highest-after-oct-7/articleshow/81438930.cms||Bhavika Jain
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Bank staff’ sexually assaults woman in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 23-year-old woman lodged a complaint with Panjagutta police alleging that she was sexually assaulted by a man posing as a private bank employee when she was alone at home on March 8. Police registered a rape case and launched a manhunt to nab the accused. On March 9, police received a complaint from the victim, a private employee, stating that she went to Maharashtra on March 3 along with family to attend a wedding. They returned to Hyderabad in the early hours of March 8. At 11am, when the victim was alone, she ordered food online and while she was having it, someone rang the door bell at 11.30am. “When I checked, no one was at the door and again at 12.20pm, the bell rang and no one was at the door. This time, I did not close the main gate of the house and within 30 seconds, the bell rang again,” the victim told police. When she opened the door, two persons, wearing formals and masks, were found standing in front of the door. “The two men said they are from HDFC Bank and came to check if I was interested in their new policy. Saying I was not interested, I w0as about to close the door and they pushed it open. I fell on the sofa and one of them entered the house while the other man stood guard at the door,” the complainant alleged. “The assailant pushed me to the floor, removed my clothes and sexually assaulted me. I hit him with a helmet and tried to pull his mask, but he pinned me down and after the assault left the place hurling a water bottle at me,” she said. Based on the complaint, a case was registered under sections 376, 452, 342, 323 of IPC. The victim was sent for medical examination, Panjagutta DI Nagaiah said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bank-staff-sexually-assaults-woman/articleshow/81438915.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Goa||Rail, road plans to have more impact than Tamnar: Official||PANAJI: The national highway four-laning and railway double tracking projects coming up through Mollem will have a major environmental impact. The Goa-Tamnar 400KV power transmission line and Sangod sub-station project, on the other hand, has committed to Goa government that less than 1,000 trees will be felled, that too outside sanctuary areas. Unfortunately, the power project has ended up as collateral damage in the protests against the impact the highway and railway projects will have on the environment, said Ninad Pitale, assistant vice-president (projects) for Goa Tamnar Transmission Project. “The trigger (for the protests) was the approvals from the National Board for Wildlife, which came in 2020. Then we started being clubbed with the railway and road projects. We also started being seen from that lens. Railway and road being mega infrastructure projects will leave a major footprint and people thought the power line project is also one of them. The transmission line is nowhere in comparison. They are leaving a footprint whereas we are not,” said Pitale. Besides the higher number of trees to be felled inside protected area for the railway and road projects, the movement of railway and vehicles once the projects are ready will also have environmental impact, unlike the transmission line project, Pitale said. He said the argument by those objecting to the power transmission line project that locals were kept in the dark over it also does not stand as 120 land owners were compensated for their land at Sangod for the substation project. “In 2018, we notified the entire route in five newspapers, but nobody bothered until we got clubbed with the railway and road projects,” said Pitale. Pitale said if there had been objection to the power transmission line and substation, the locals in Sangod would have raised their voice in April 2019 itself when the felling of trees in the non-sanctuary area began for the substation work.“Very emotional statements are being made that trees were being cut during the pandemic when people were locked inside. But we began cutting the trees in June or July 2019 and it went on till December 2019, when there was no pandemic around and they were free to object. No one objected to the work. We have ensured that the line is being drawn in a way that it does not pass through the Mollem national park at all,” said Pitale. He said the shortest route was worked out for the transmission line to minimise damage to the environment. “Biodiversity assessment was carried out by us as early as 2018 and only 2.51 km will pass through Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary. The route was thoughtfully optimised and is longer by 4 to 4.4km to avoid Mollem National Park,” said Pitale. He said that the area acquired for the substation at Sangod was also verified and is not found to be part of any of the state committee reports identifying private forests in Goa. Pitale said though initially a provision was made at Sangod substation for construction of housing units and recreational facilities like badminton court for staffers who will eventually man the station, these plans have now been put on hold due to concerns raised by locals. Pitale also said that the arguments by opponents of the power transmission line project that the existing 110kv line itself could be upgraded is technically ill-informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rail-road-plans-to-have-more-impact-than-tamnar-official/articleshow/81438923.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
March 11, 2021||Business||SBI tops IT ministry’s e-pay scores||Mumbai: State Bank of India (SBI) has said that it has topped the ministry of electronics and information technology’s (MeitY’s) digital payment scorecard for the third consecutive month with 64 crore transactions on the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) platform and a user base of 13.5 crore. The country’s largest bank processed 636 crore transactions through its digital platforms, which are 67% of its total transaction volume. SBI accounts for a fourth of all mobile banking transactions in the country and its net banking is used by over 8.5 crore customers and has the highest traffic in its segment. A statement issued by the bank said that over 10 lakh personal loans amounting to Rs 15,996 crore were disbursed during the current financial year (April-December 2020) through its Yono app. Yono Krishi — a platform for farmers — saw around 7.8 lakh ‘agri gold’ loans worth Rs 12,035 crore sanctioned in the third quarter of the current fiscal. Also, 2.4 lakh Kisan credit card accounts amounting to Rs. 4,230 crore were reviewed through the same platform. SBI’s 29 crore debit cards have a 30% share of the market in card spends and a 29% share in transaction volume.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-tops-it-ministrys-e-pay-scores/articleshow/81419352.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||Teachers in private schools must get full salary and health benefits: MLC Nago Ganar||NAGPUR: Teachers employed with private English medium schools are entitled to salary scale fixed by the government and health cover benefits, yet they are being denied that, said MLC from teachers’constituency Nago Ganar. In an appeal to state’s education minister Varsha Gaikwad, the MLC said teachers in private institutions are being deprived of their basic rights. In the backdrop of recently celebrated International Women’s Day, Ganar pointed out that majority of teachers in private schools are women. “The education department must ensure that every school follows the pay-scale fixed by the state government. Also health insurance must be provided to all teachers, something which is even more important during Covid-19 pandemic,” said Ganar. In government schools, primary schoolteachers can earn up to Rs60,000 per month while high schoolteachers near the Rs1 lakh mark. Principals in government schools get around Rs1.3 lakh per month. In private schools, the salary scale is hardly 30% of their government counterparts. Vivek Ambekar, a teacher from Chandrapur, said, “Private English medium schools charge hefty fees, but do not provide any benefits to teachers. Hopefully, the state government will now start looking into this seriously.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teachers-in-private-schools-must-get-full-salary-and-health-benefits-mlc-ganar/articleshow/81434678.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 11, 2021||Goa||Introduction to science for rural kids via film festival||PANAJI: As part of the pre-fest activity of the science film festival (SCI-FFI) 2021, students in remote areas of the state are being given a talk on subjects related to science. Organised by the Vidynan Parishad Goa in collaboration with the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), the festival will be held on March 17 and 18, at Inox, Panaji. “We are focusing on rural and government schools where there is no accessibility for such events,” said IK Pai, vice-president of the Vidynan Parishad Goa. Eminent personalities, scientists and academicians give talks based on their respective field of expertise to the students as a prelude to the festival, each year. This time, a team of experts from Goa University, NIO and other institutes have been selected by Vidynan Parishad Goa to visit these schools to screen a movie on climate change, atmospheric science, physics, etc followed by a talk on the subject. Some experts will also give a demo on chemical reactions. As compared to 130 schools covered last year, this year the number has been reduced to 30-35 schools owing to the coronavirus pandemic. “The motive behind school visits is to create interest among students and tap their potential. Very often rural and government schools do not have exposure to scientific events. We are expecting these students to present their innovations or inventions at the festival,” Pai said. Festival organisers will soon release the list of films to be screened at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/introduction-to-science-for-rural-kids-via-film-festival/articleshow/81440418.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||No amenities: Residents of housing complex stage protest||Hyderabad: Residents of a housing society in Moti Nagar, Jubilee Hills, protested against the builder on Wednesday. They alleged that the amenities promised to them were not fulfilled. Residents, gathered in front of the society holding placards to protest. ‘No amenities, no swimming pool,’ ‘Victims of GHMC, suffering from 12 years’ read the placards. “There was an open land in our housing society, we were promised parking in that land. But now the land has been registered and sold to another individual,” said Jaypal Singh Nayal , vice-president of Flat Owners Welfare Association. Police say they received a complaint from a private individual who purchased the land from builder. “Some residents removed the flex banner which was raised by the individual who purchased the land from the builder,” said TP Naidu, sub-inspector, Sanathnagar police station. Cops said the previous association members agreed the open land would be allocated to an private individual and residents would get amenities in one floor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-amenities-residents-of-housing-complex-stage-protest/articleshow/81438933.cms||Nabinder Bommala
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Why would a farmer give up land sans any benefit?: HC to Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday was at a loss for words after the state government claimed that it took away six acres from four farmers in Siddipet district only after they had “voluntarily resigned” (given up) from their land. The court asked Siddipet collector P Venkatarami Reddy, revenue divisional officer and tahsildar of Kondapak mandal if any compensation was paid to the farmers before taking possession of the land. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing an appeal by Balagoni Sai Kiran and three other farmers of Duddeda village in Kondapaka. The state government claimed that the farmers resigned their lands so that these could be given to other farmers whose lands had been acquired for the state’s 2BHK housing project for the poor. The petitioner-farmers refuted the ‘voluntary resignation’ theory and charged the revenue officials with dispossessing them forcibly from their land without even issuing a notice and without paying any compensation. Counsel H Venugopal, who represented the farmers, said the land was assigned to them as they were landless labourers. State’s special counsel Harender Pershad told the court that the petitioners had submitted their ‘razinama’ (resignation) for their land spread in six acres and 37 guntas in various survey numbers in Duddeda. “There is a provision in the Telangana Land Revenue Rules of 1951 that enables individuals to submit a resignation and get out of their land. This is called relinquishment of land or razinama. Rule No. 16 speaks about this,” he said. Harender further said the state government took over the land only after voluntary surrender by the farmers. “Later, the government allotted the land to Yaprala Narasimha Reddy and a few others who gave away their land elsewhere to the state for raising double bedroom houses for the poor,” he said. At this, the judges wondered whether the state government had extended a similar courtesy to the farmers. The Duddeda farmers however claimed that they never submitted the so-called Razinama to their land and the signatures of the farmers being shown by the authorities are fake ones. The farmers also claimed they were not given any notice before their land was taken over. Venugopal said a fraud was being played by the revenue authorities on the hapless farmers. The farmers had never surrendered the land. They are in possession of the land ever since it was assigned to them in 2003, he said. “They have never executed any razinama. The purported signatures shown as signatures of the farmers are fake. In fact, the land revenue rules of 1951 are not in vogue ever since the Pattadar Passbooks Act came into force in 1970s,” the farmers’ counsel explained. The judges then referred to the judgment of the high court in the Mekala Pandu case and said even assignee farmers have to be granted full compensation before taking away their land. Questioning the government’s intentions, the judges said: “Why would a poor farmer voluntarily donate his land when that land happens to be the sole source of his livelihood? Tell us whether you paid any compensation to the farmers or you gave them any alternative land.” The case has been posted to June 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-t-why-would-a-farmer-give-up-land-sans-any-benefit/articleshow/81440420.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Goa||Man gets 1-yr jail for killing brother||Times News Network Colva: Additional sessions court judge Edgar Fernandes sentenced Xavier Ferreira from Borda, Margao to one year imprisonment in connection with the death of his brother, nearly two years ago The prosecution said that on May 12, 2019, the accused assaulted his brother Bernardo Ferreira with a wooden log on the back of his head, causing head injuries which led to his death. The accused has been charged under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The judge sentenced the accused to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of one year and to pay a fine of Rs 50,000 for the offence punishable under Section 304(ii) of the IPC. In default of payment of fine, the court ordered the accused to undergo simple imprisonment for another six months. The amount of fine, if recovered, is to be paid to the wife and children of the deceased. The period of detention of the accused will be set off against the jail term of the sentence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-gets-1-yr-jail-for-killing-brother/articleshow/81440422.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Kochi||Fee dispute: Kerala high court relief for dental college||KOCHI: A self-financing college cannot be asked to provide fee concession to more students than agreed in the seat-sharing agreement, the high court held. The ruling by Justice N Nagaresh was on a petition by the chairman of Srisankara Dental College at Varkala in Thiruvananthapuram through senior advocate Kurian George Kannanthanam. The college agreed for fee concession of 20 students for the batch of 100 students. But commissioner of entrance examinations (CEE) directed for providing concession to 34 students, as allotment was made to 85% of seats as vacant management quota seats were surrendered. While the annual tuition fees normally is Rs 2,10,000, BPL students are to pay only Rs 23,000 and students in socially and educationally backward communities (SEBC) category are to pay Rs 44,000. CEE contended that number of seats eligible for fee concession is higher in proportion to the number of surrendered seats against which allotment was done. The court said liability of the college to extend fee concession would only be to 40% of the merit quota students, out of the 50% government quota as per the agreement. Out of the 100 students, those eligible for concession would therefore be 20, the court said and asked CEE to direct other candidates to remit fee at Rs 2,10,000 per year. CEE’s stand that the college is bound to provide fee concession on a percentage basis of the students allotted by the government is unacceptable, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fee-dispute-high-court-relief-for-dental-college/articleshow/81436177.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Man gets 20-year jail for raping minor in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A local court on Wednesday awarded a 45-year-old man 20-year imprisonment for sexually abusing an eight-year-old girl in 2019 under the Chatrinaka police station limits. The convict, who resides in the neighbourhood of the survivor, raped the victim on the terrace. When the girl’s aunt reached out to her screams, he culprit fled from the location. The special judge for trial of cases under POCSO Act, in her order, convicted the accused, a school bus driver, under the POCSO Act and awarded him 20 years of jail. Based on the statement given by the girl and other eye-witnesses, the court convicted the accused. The special judge for trial of cases under POCSO Act, in her order, convicted the accused, a school bus driver, under the POCSO Act and awarded him 20 years of imprisonment. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-gets-20-year-jail-for-raping-minor/articleshow/81438939.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Aurangabad||Average daily use of remdesivir goes up in Aurangabad in 10 days||Aurangabad: The rise in Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad is reflecting in the use of remdesivir, a medicine used in the treatment of the infection. According to the data from the food and drug administration, as many as 535 remdesivir injections were sold on single day on Tuesday in Aurangabad district. While in the Aurangabad division, a total of 2,112 vials were used. Authorities said that about 300 remdesivir injections were being used per day before March. There are over 10,000 vials available in stock, of which, over 3,000 are in Aurangabad district alone. To ensure that there is no black marketing of the crucial drug, FDA is keeping a close tab on the daily sale and supply of remdesivir in all districts. FDA joint director Sanjay Kale said, “We are keeping a close watch and currently, there are sufficient number of injections available. They are being provided as per the requirement.” Considering that over 1,000 cases are being reported from the Aurangabad division, oxygen facilities too are being scaled up. Aurangabad district is consuming 16.27 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen daily, against the available stock of 36.69 MT. Compared to this, the division has a total daily consumption of 34.96 MT.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/average-daily-use-of-remdesivir-goes-up-in-aurangabad-in-10-days/articleshow/81435299.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||BMC OKs 10-year electoral ward reservation, awaits state nod||MUMBAI: The BMC’s general body on Tuesday passed Shiv Sena’s proposal to increase the term of electoral wards to 10 years from the current five years. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal will give his opinion on the proposal and then forward it to the state urban development (UD) department for final approval. Interestingly, the UD department is led by Shiv Sena minister Eknath Shinde. If the proposal is cleared, it will have major ramifications for the BMC elections scheduled early next year as the ward reservations of all sitting corporators would remain unchanged. This, political analysts said, would help the Shiv Sena continue to stay in power in the BMC. Officials said that the state government will have to amend the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act to change the reservation lottery from five to 10 years. In his notice of motion moved in January, Shiv Sena corporator and civic standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav said that the seat reservation lottery should be held every 10 years since frequent changes in reservation impact development works due to uncertainty of electoral wards. “The reservation kills any motivation for corporators to work. There is always uncertainty. Delimitation takes place every 10 years, so reservation must also change at the same time. This will help corporators do better work. The MMC Act should be amended before next year’s BMC elections,” he said. The Congress, on its part, demanded that the constituency boundaries must be redrawn. Congress corporator Ravi Raja, who is also the opposition leader in the BMC, alleged that the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis-led government had changed the constituency boundaries in 2017 to help BJP candidates . Under the present rules, before every municipal election, a lottery is held to decide which of the BMC’s 227 wards will be open for candidates from the open category and which will be reserved. In addition, 50% of the seats are already reserved for women. Also every 10 years, the state conducts a population census and redraws the ward boundaries accordingly, a process known as delimitation. In the 2017 BMC election, 149 of the 227 wards were for general category candidates (74 for women and 75 for men), 61 were reserved for OBC nominees (31 for women and 30 for men), 15 for SC candidates (eight for women and seven for men) and two for ST nominees (one each for a woman and man). In total, 114 were women’s seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-oks-10-yr-electoral-ward-reservation-awaits-state-nod-in-mumbai/articleshow/81440429.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 11, 2021||Chennai||Edappadi K Palaniswami gets choice of candidates, hard work puts fresh faces on TN poll map||CHENNAI: In its first election after the demise of J Jayalalithaa, the ruling AIADMK led by O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami has considered factors like loyalty, performance and popularity while choosing party candidates for the assembly election. While EPS’s imprint on the candidates’ list was obvious, the AIADMK leadership has preferred not to disturb the political equilibrium in view of the do-or-die poll battle ahead. In the process, the party ensured that all sections were represented, including those who switched loyalty to AMMK and returned to the parent party. Those who were sidelined by the former chief minister J Jayalalithaa during her previous regime, including B V Ramana, Madhavaram V Murthy, T K M Chinnaiah, M S M Anandan, S Damodaran, Natham R Viswanathan, K P Krishnan, M Paranjothi and Vaigai Chelvan, have all found place in the list. "Caste is a key factor this election and has been given due importance," said a senior leader. The party has retained much of its sitting seats and given away 32 seats represented by the opposition, the DMK and the Congress, to the PMK and the BJP. Incidentally, AIADMK organising secretary Adi Rajaram has been fielded against DMK chief M K Stalin in Kolathur seat in Chennai. Pressure from allies forced the AIADMK leadership to give away Coimbatore South and Madurai North to the BJP. The sitting MLAs Amman Arjunan and former Madurai mayor V V Rajan Chellappa have been accommodated in the Coimbatore North and Thiruparankundran (near Madurai) seats respectively. Arjunan’s supporters had protested in the morning after the AIADMK handed over the Coimbatore south seat to BJP. "The leadership has been generous. Rajya Sabha MPs K P Munusamy and R Vaithilingam were given seats. Even former ministers shown the door by Amma have been nominated," said a senior leader. Party steering committee member and former legal wing secretary P H Manoj Pandian has been nominated for Alangulam seat. The party has fielded 65 new faces. Three-time councillor in Coimbatore city municipal corporation, K R Jayaram will contest from Singanallur seat. "I have been with the party for 33 years. The nomination is the recognition of my hard work," said Jayaram. Madurai rural west district presidium chairman P Iyyappan, 56, is another new face. He said a host of factors were considered before he was given Usilampatti seat amid competition from 32 others. "Most of them were seniors," he said. V Padmanadhan, nominated for Trichy west, said he had been a hard working partyman for 35 years, holding various posts. "I got the seat purely on merit," he said. Padmanadhan is the Trichy district secretary of Puratchi Thalaivi Amma Peravai. (Inputs from A Subburaj, M K Ananth and R Gokul)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-gets-choice-of-candidates-hard-work-puts-fresh-faces-on-poll-map/articleshow/81438941.cms||Julie Mariappan
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||BMC decides to gate-crash Big Fat Mumbai Weddings||MUMBAI: BMC, in a quirky tweet, warned that it would have to gatecrash wedding celebrations if Covid protocols are not followed. Only 50 persons are allowed to gather for a wedding now. ‘As much as we love The Big Fat Indian Weddings, we hope that you’re following all COVID norms. After all, ‘safety’ is the best gift you could give to the newlyweds. And if not, then we’d hate to gatecrash the celebrations for the safety of Mumbai!,’ the tweet stated. Times ViewThe light touch is always welcome from the BMC. At the same time, it must be accompanied by real citizen-friendliness on the ground and not merely in the universe of social media. Mumbaikars have had a hard year, and while rules must be followed by all, it cannot be overlooked that the civic body’s own implementation of norms was lax before the fresh increase in cases began. Merely blaming citizens won’t be fair.It was accompanied with an image of a wedding invite stating, ‘Dear Mumbaikar, It gives us immense pleasure to invite you and 49 others to the auspicious union of The Bride and The Groom. Best compliments, A responsible Mumbaikar’. It also said, ‘PS: Gifts only in the form of practicing every covid prevention norm’. Over the past few days, in cases of weddings flouting Covid protocol, legal action has been initiated against organizers, parents of the couples and venue managements. On February 21, ,an FIR was registered against parents and organizers of a wedding in Chembur for violating standard operating procedures. A fortnight back, a similar warning was issued by BMC via twitter by joining the ‘pawri’ trend. BMC had warned Mumbaikars that ‘If your ‘pawri’ flouts covid norms, we’ll play ‘pawri’ poopers’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-decides-to-gate-crash-big-fat-mumbai-weddings/articleshow/81440746.cms||Richa Pinto
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Virat’ feat: Hyderabad boy could be youngest to scale Mt Kilimanjaro||HYDERABAD: Defying age and harsh climatic conditions a seven-year-old city boy scaled Mount Kilimanjaro and could be the youngest in the world to achieve this phenomenal feat. Virat Chandra Telukunta, student of Gitanjali Devshala, Secunderabad, accomplished this rare feat, a few days ago. “We are yet to complete documenting it as Virat scaled the mountain only two days back. For sure, he is the youngest in Asia to scale Mount Kilimanjaro and is most likely the youngest in the world as well,” said Romil Barthwal, chief executive officer (CEO), Boots & Cramptons, the firm which trained Virat for this expedition. Sharing his experience of scaling the highest single free-standing mountain in the world, the class 2 student, said, “My parents accompanied me until Horombo hut. From there, I continued the journey with my guides. It took almost five hours to reach Kibo hut, which is at an elevation of 4,720 metres,” said the seven-year-old, adding that he had to deal with heavy snow and windy conditions at that place. Virat said that their journey to Uhuru Peak, which is the highest point of the African Continent, started with heavy fog and less visibility. “I was frightened because it was still dark. I could hear the wind whistling and there was a heavy downpour of snow,” he said, adding that he could only make it to the summit because of the tremendous support from his guides. “It took almost eight hours to reach the summit. I am happy to accomplish the mission,” he said. Virat, whose hobbies include skating and playing cricket, said that he used to run 6km every day, do sit-ups, and yoga. “I even took part in a 5K run to prove my mettle,” he added. “My guides said Mt Kilimanjaro would be ideal to travel and climb,” he added. Virat said that he was inspired by his cousins who scaled Rudugaira mountains. “I also wanted to climb a mountain and shared my interest with my parents, who joined me in Boots & Cramptons,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/virat-feat-city-boy-could-be-youngest-to-scale-mt-kilimanjaro/articleshow/81438969.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Goa||Dispute over dues led to murder: Cops||Margao: Police investigations into the Fatorda double murder case have revealed that the motive behind the crime was a dispute between the accused and the deceased over payment of dues, South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh said. After committing the crime, the accused took away a few articles from the house, which have been recovered. Singh said that three mobiles phones, a gold chain with locket, 4 bank passbooks, besides other documents were recovered from the accused. The police have also recovered a knife used by the accused to commit the crime. The police have arrested three persons - Ravinkumar Shyamkumar Sada, 18, native of Bihar, Akash Ajaykumar Ghosh, 20, and Adityakumar Ramesh Kharwal, 18, both natives of Jharkhand – from Dadar, Mumbai, charging them with murdering 65-year old Minguel Miranda and his 85-year old mother-in-law Catarina Pinto in their house at Ambaji, Fatorda on Monday. The accused were engaged as construction labourers by Miranda, a construction contractor, and were staying in a room behind his house at Ambaji, Fatorda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dispute-over-dues-led-to-murder-cops/articleshow/81438964.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Kochi||Covid-19: Surgery risky if done before 7 weeks of recovery, says study||KOCHI: Surgery should be delayed for seven weeks after a patient tests positive for Covid-19, as surgeries taking place up to six weeks after diagnosis are associated with increased risk of death, according to a new global study, in which hospitals from Kerala also participated.  It was found that patients are more than two-and-half times more likely to die after their operation, if done immediately. Led by experts at the University of Birmingham, UK, more than 25,000 surgeons worked together as part of the COVIDSurg Collaborative to collect data from 1,40,727 patients in 1,674 hospitals across 116 countries including India, Australia, Brazil, China, the UAE, UK and USA — one of the world’s largest and broadest studies on surgery. Nearly 56 hospitals in India participated in the study. Of the 1,40,231 patients in the study, 3,127 had a pre-operative Covid diagnosis, with 55% being symptomatic. Both elective and emergency patients undergoing surgery for any indication were eligible. Publishing their findings in medical journal Anaesthesia, the researchers found that patients operated 0-6 weeks after Covid infection diagnosis were at increased risk of postoperative death, as were patients with ongoing symptoms at the time of surgery. Adjusted 30-day mortality in patients who did not have Covid infection was 1.5%. But this increased in patients with Covid. Those operated within 0-2 weeks and 3-4 weeks the mortality rate was 4% each, and at 5-6 weeks it was 3.6%, while it drastically reduced to 1.5% after 7-8 weeks of Covid diagnosis. These findings were consistent across age groups, differing severity of the patient’s condition, urgency of surgery, and grade of surgery and in sensitivity analyses for elective surgery. “This is one of the largest surgical cohort studies done in the world, and for the first time gives us evidence of least amount of time delay for doing surgery with optimal outcomes. However, while deciding on the surgery, one will also need to balance it with the disease risk to the patient,” Dr Anupama R, head, department of gynecologic oncology, Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences, Kochi, who was part of the study. In Kerala, a patient is taken in for surgery once the antigen test is negative. However, surgeons here said that delay of seven weeks is possible only in elective surgery. “Covid causes thrombosis in different parts of the body, including heart, and incidence of heart attacks are more if patient is acutely infected with Covid. If it is not a life and death issue then we now delay surgery till the person is Covid negative or ideally seven days after they test Covid negative. Delay of seven weeks is too long, unless it is an elective surgery,” said Dr R C Sreekumar, chairman, research wing, Indian Medical Association, Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/surgery-risky-if-done-before-7-weeks-of-recovery-study/articleshow/81436202.cms||Preetu Nair
March 11, 2021||Aurangabad||Curbs on some shops relaxed in Aurangabad’s Jadhavwadi market||AURANGABAD: The district administration has exempted different shops from the blanket closure planned at Jadhavwadi market from March 11 to 17 to contain the spread of Covid-19. Barring the sale of vegetables, curbs have been lifted on the functioning of wholesale grocery shops and retail outlets selling agricultural items such as fertilizers, insecticides and pesticides at the busy market, which was on the radar of the authorities for massive crowding. In the latest modified order, the district administration said other restrictions remain applicable as announced earlier at Jadhavwadi market during the temporary closure between March 11 to March 17 and later during the phase of partial lockdown till April 4. Also, as per the latest order, all gyms from municipal limits of Aurangabad and those from rural areas will remain closed on weekdays during the partial lockdown. All shopping malls from the city and the district will be shut every Saturday and Sunday during partial lockdown till April 4. “Any police officer not below the rank of police head constable and civic authorities of the level of ward-officer and above can initiate criminal proceedings against those who violate the lockdown norms. We appeal to the citizens to abide by the rules and join hands with us in preventing the spread of the infection,” Aurangabad district collector Sunil Chavan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/curbs-on-some-shops-relaxed-in-aurangabads-jadhavwadi-market/articleshow/81435326.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Chennai||DMK gives seats for allies IUML, MDMK||The DMK on Tuesday finalised the constituencies for the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), Vaiko’s Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) and three other smaller parties. However, talks are continuing with the Congress, the Left parties, VCK and other smaller allies. The IUML has been given Kadayanallur, Vaniyambadi and Chidambaram segments and the MDMK - Ariyalur, Sattur, Madurantakam (R), Vasudevanallur (R ), Palladam and Madurai (South) assembly constituencies. Meanwhile, the DMK inked a pact with the All India Forward Bloc (AIFB) and allotted Usilampatti constituency to it, where the candidate would contest on the rising sun symbol. It has allotted Avinashi to Aathi Thamizh Peravai and Nilakottai to Makkal Viduthalai Katchi. "Four of the six constituencies are finalised. Talks are going on for identifying the remaining two constituencies," said VCK leader Thirumavalavan after the talks at the DMK headquarters. Leaders of the CPM and CPI left the DMK headquarters without finalising the list. "Since there are many alliance parties, the talks are getting a little delayed. But all seats will be finalised by Thursday," said a CPI leader, who was part of the talks with the DMK. Sources in the Congress said they had finalised 20 out of the 25 constituencies in two rounds of talks. Party spokesperson Gopanna said the deal would be finalised by Thursday. Other smaller parties like the Kongunadu Makkal Desia Katchi (KMDK), which was allotted three seats, the MMK, which has been given two seats and the Tamizhaga Vazhvurimai Katchi, which has been given one seat, are still holding talks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-gives-seats-for-allies-iuml-mdmk/articleshow/81438975.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||Flouting norms, contractor’s men burning garbage at Ajni Van||NAGPUR: A day after TOI reported about a National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) report claiming there was no pollution in the city, workers of the agency’s contractor were spotted burning toxic waste openly in the lush green land at Ajni. On Tuesday morning, environment activist Kunal Mourya spotted workers of Nagarjun Construction Company, which has been allotted the contract for constructing inter-modal station at Ajni by NHAI, burning garbage openly at Ajni Van. On Wednesday evening too, Mourya spotted heavy layer of smoke, indicating trash burning. According to activists, this is clear contempt of court. In December 2016, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) imposed a complete ban on burning of waste in open spaces, and announced a fine of Rs 25,000 on each incident. Taking serious cognizance of air pollution, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court had also prohibited open burning of waste. Flouting all norms, waste items continue to be burnt at Ajni. “It is not just causing air pollution but is also posing serious threat to nearby trees. Strict action should be taken against the agency,” said Mourya. Mourya also tweeted about the incident, following which CPCB immediately directed the authorities to take action. It is not clear what work the agency workers were doing at Ajni. Earlier, they were spotted carrying out soil testing survey. “They have started damaging the lush green property even before the DPR and final plan is ready. The authorities can’t start the work before getting an environmental clearance,” activists said. As reported by TOI, NHAI recently called for tenders to prepare DPR for the project. While IMS is proposed to come up on an area of 44 acres, the total project area, which is spread over four phases, is around 490 acres. A day back, TOI had reported about the lacunae in Environment Assessment Report (EIA) prepared by a private agency for IMS project. The report states that there is no pollution or environmental damage in the city. This at a time the city’s air quality has constantly been deteriorating, making it one of the most polluted cities in the country, with open burning of garbage being one of the major causes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/flouting-norms-contractors-men-burning-garbage-at-ajni-van/articleshow/81436207.cms||Manka Behl
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Wife killed, buried husband in a pit before filing missing complaint||HYDERABAD: A man missing for over a month was found buried in a pit in his own home on Wednesday after police zeroed in on his second wife who had initially filed the missing complaint. The woman claimed she killed and buried him without any help as he had allegedly misbehaved with her two daughters from her earlier marriage. After murdering Gagandeep Agarwal (38) on February 8, the woman, identified as Nausheen (32) alias Maryada, went to LB Nagar police station along with victim’s brother Akash Agarwal and lodged a missing diary later on February 24, Vanasthalipuram police said. “As Gagandeep was inaccessible, his brother inquired with Nausheen, who was renamed as Maryada after her marriage, and she said that her husband had gone to Delhi. But on Akash’s insistence, she agreed to accompany him and lodged a missing complaint,” a police officer said. The couple, who knew each other from last four years, got married last year. The accused has five children from her first marriage. Nausheen was questioned by police thrice in the last several days and police found several inconsistencies in her statements. Finally, when she was questioned on Wednesday, she confessed that she killed Gagandeep on February 8 and the body was buried in a pit inside their house compound. Gagandeep had dug the pit to take up drainage work. “Nausheen used the same pit to bury him. She claims that she did it alone without anyone’s support,’’ police said. Reconstructing the crime, police said Nausheen killed her husband using a knife since he allegedly misbehaved with her two daughters, which she had from her first marriage. “She told us that Gagandeep consumed liquor along with his friend. We need to conduct further investigation to find out if there was any role of this friend in the murder. She claimed that the murder took place after the friend left their residence,’’ an officer said. Based on her confession, the victim’s body was exhumed. The body had decomposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wife-killed-buried-hubby-in-a-pit-before-filing-missing-plaint/articleshow/81440432.cms||Srinath Vudali
March 11, 2021||Rajkot||Seven foreign students test +ve in Rajkot||RAJKOT: In the past three days, seven foreign students of Marwadi University in Rajkot have tested positive for Covid-19. According to university officials, out of seven, six are from Bhutan and one is from Nepal which include three females. Naresh Jadeja, registrar of the private university said, “The students came from their respective countries and tested positive. They have been isolated and being given treatment at the hostel.A team of RMC health officials also visited the campus and their condition is stable.” All students are of first-year engineering. Officials said no foreign strain of Covid was found in any student. Meanwhile, 65 persons tested positive in Rajkot on Wednesday in city limit areas, taking the total number of cases since Tuesday to 108. As many as 244 people are under treatment in various hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-foreign-students-test-ve-in-rajkot/articleshow/81436248.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||E-way blocked for an hour after mystery death of engg student||Dankuni: Durgapur Expressway was blocked for nearly an hour while police vehicles and an ambulance were ransacked on Wednesday morning following the mysterious death of an engineering student. Cops rushed to the spot and convinced the agitating locals to withdraw the blockade. The Election Commission has sought a detailed report of the incident from the district administration. The student, Sudipta Duari (21), a resident of Swarupnagar in Hooghly, had gone missing since Monday night.  “My brother was a final year BTech student at an institute in Adisaptagram. Though he had been missing since Monday night, he was reportedly seen in a coffee shop with his two friends on Tuesday morning. A truck hit the motorbike that they were riding and they had an altercation with the truck driver. A police team reached the spot soon. But instead of punishing the guilty driver, they started beating up my brother. He got scared and ran towards the house. Somehow, he jumped into the pond and died,” said Supriya Duari, brother of the deceased. On Wednesday morning, cops recovered his body from a pond near his residence. This sparked anger among the residents of Swarupnagar, who blocked Durgapur Expressway. They alleged that cops had beaten up the deceased and that led to the incident. The mob ransacked two police vehicles that were parked near the spot of their agitation. An ambulance was also allegedly damaged by them. Later, cops assured the irate locals of probing into the death of the student and persuaded them to lift the blockade after an hour. Locals alleged that the youths had started pelting stones at the truck driver. “We will get to know about the incident after the post-mortem is over. Meanwhile, we are looking into every possible aspect including the allegation of the family members of the deceased,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-way-blocked-for-an-hour-after-mystery-death-of-engg-student/articleshow/81437436.cms||Falguni Banerjee
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||50 years on, 1971 heroes in Hyderabad recollect war exploits||HYDERABAD: As the Indian Armed Forces are celebrating the Golden Jubilee victory of the 1971 Indo-Pak war, a batch of war veterans in Hyderabad and elsewhere in the country are celebrating the Golden Jubilee of their commissioning into the Army. Exactly 50 years ago, on March 13, 338 officers passed out of training school and immediately plunged into the Bangladesh Liberation war. At least 10 officers represented the city of Hyderabad in this batch, all of whom took take part in 1971 operations on various fronts. Among them was Second Lieutenant Vikram Burn Appalswamy of the city’s Nizam College who was martyred on December 6, 1971, in Barmer Sector of Rajasthan, after an anti-tank mine blast. Colonel Dr V R K Prasad, one of Burn’s batchmates, living in Yapral, is leading the arrangements for the reunion of the batch. All those living in Hyderabad are meeting on March 14 at War Memorial in EME Centre, and a bigger event is planned at Delhi National War Memorial where around 50 to 60 of the batch are expected to meet. The Colonel said, “I used to live in Himayatnagar. Vikram and I were classmates in Nizam College studying BSc. Our batch was supposed to get the degree in 1969, but due to the Telangana agitation, our exams were delayed, and we passed out in May 1970. I motivated Vikram to join the Army. We both got selected and went to Officers Training School at Madras (currently Officers Training Academy Chennai). After our basic Young Officers’ courses, we all plunged headlong into the thick of war operations. I joined Corps signal, and he went to artillery.” The full-scale war lasted between December 3 and December 16, 1971, with a decisive victory for India. Colonel Prasad added, “The victory was not an easy one at that as India lost nearly 3,900 of its soldiers, while 54 officers and junior commissioned officers (JCOs) are still reported missing and second Lt Sudhir Mohan Sabharwal of the same batch is one of them. Six other officers of our batch Second Lieutenants Bharath Singh Kasana VrC (posthumous), DharampalYadava, Girija Shankar Nair, Vinay Kaul, Vikram Burn Appalswamy and Konerira Machian Mandanna had laid down their lives.” “Vikram was an intelligence officer, and his jeep blew off by anti-mine tank,” he said, recalling a friend. Vikram Burn’s sister-in-law G Muktha Appalswamy, who still lives in the old house in Narayanaguda, where Vikram lived, said, “Vikram attended our wedding, but left to the war missing our reception. In the war he was moving with his commanding officer on December 6 and the mine put up by Pakistanis blew up. He was bleeding profusely and brought back to medical camp, where he died. Before the wedding, he used to write letters to his brother and me asking me to take care of his father and mother. He was just a 23-year-old when he was martyred.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1971-city-heroes-both-in-war-peace/articleshow/81439025.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 11, 2021||Chennai||BJP to contest from 5 seats in west TN, 3 in Kanyakumari||CHENNAI: After tough bargain with the AIADMK, the BJP has managed to get five seats in the western belt and three seats in its bastion, Kanyakumari district. The party will contest from two seats – Harbour and Thousand Lights – in Chennai city, which are considered DMK strongholds. Former DMK chief M Karunanidhi had won Harbour, fighting an AIADMK-Congress wave in 1991 elections, held immediately after Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination. Thousand Lights was Stalin’s forte till he shifted to Kolathur in 2011. The AIADMK was reluctant to give too many seats to the BJP in the gounder-dominated western belt, considered crucial for EPS to remain CM. It is the western belt that helped Jayalalithaa retain power in 2016. "We have better chances of winning in the western region. Hence, we did a tough bargain and got Coimbatore (South), Modakurichi in Erode district, Thalli in Krishnagiri district, Udhagamandalm in The Nilgiris and Tharapuram in Erode district," said a BJP leader who was part of negotiations. The BJP has got Nagercoil, Colachel, and Vilavancode assembly constituencies in Kanyakumari district, where the party is pitted against the Congress in the LS bypoll for Kanyakumari. Releasing the list of constituencies, state BJP president L Murugan said the party was confident of having MLAs in two digits. Sources said the party is likely to field K Annamalai in Aravakurichi, former minister Nainar Nagendran in Tirunelveli. Ceding Coimbatore (South) to the BJP, where BJP national women’s wing president Vanathi Srinivasan is expected to be fielded, has not gone down well with the supporters of sitting AIADMK MLA Amman K Arjunan, a close aide of AIADMK strongman and minister S P Velumani. AIADMK cadres resorted to protest in the region and threatened to boycott the elections if the seat was not allotted to the AIADMK. Contesting alone, Vanathi Srinivasan had secured 33,113 votes in the same segment in 2016. The other constituencies allotted to the BJP are Ramanathapuram, Thirukovilur, Thittakudi (reserved), Virudhunagar, Tiruvaiyaru, Karaikudi, Madurai North and Tiruvannamalai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bjp-to-contest-from-5-seats-in-west-tn3-in-kanyakumari/articleshow/81439021.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Man stabs wife to death, then ends life under train||MUMBAI: A 48-year-old man allegedly killed his wife at their home and later committed suicide by jumping in front of a passing train at Boisar in Palghar district on Wednesday. The Boisar MIDC police said that the man and his 45-year-old wife had had a fight around 2.30 am. The man took a kitchen knife and stabbed his wife, the police said. The couple’s children told the police that their parents had been fighting after their father returned home from work around 9 pm on Tuesday. Their 11-year-old daughter was in another room while their 9-year-old son rushed out of the house to call their neighbour to help resolve the fight. A neighbour mediated, after which the family went off to sleep. However, around 2 am on Wednesday, the children heard their parents fight again. The boy ran out of the house to call the neighbour who had intervened earlier. The girl stayed in her room. The neighbour banged the door which was opened by the husband. The neighbour was shocked to find the children’s mother in a pool of blood. The husband fled and the neighbour informed the police. Around 3.30 am, the Palghar railway police force was informed by a loco pilot about a man having jumped in front of a speeding long-distance train at Boisar railway station. The man was later identified as the children’s father. He worked as a technician at a company in Tarapur. The police said that the reason for the couple’s fighting is not known. Police said that they are making enquiries with their family members and neighbours. The couple offered their services at the langar (community kitchen) at the local gurudwara. The knife that was used to murder the woman has been seized. A case of murder has been registered against the deceased man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-stabs-wife-to-death-then-ends-life-under-train-in-mumbai/articleshow/81440436.cms||Sandhya Nair
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Community colleges to be part of new skills varsity||MUMBAI: Community colleges, flexible learning, multiple entry and exit, vertical mobility from technical education space, movement across universities and credit banks will be part of new state skills university, cleared by Maharashtra government on Wednesday. The bill states that the university will have courses to prepare graduates for jobs that will be created in areas like automotive, apparel and furnishing, aviation and aerospace, media and entertainment, film, capital goods, communication, design, technology, management and entrepreneurship, business, banking and insurance, healthcare, hospitality, logistics, life sciences, applied and creative arts, data science and artificial intelligence, e-business, retail, analytics and agri-business. “While the university will ensure the space of vocational education will be taken with more seriousness, curricula should be developed in conjuncture with the industry. The bill is forward-looking, but implementation and leadership provided will decide the shape the university will take,” said educationist Anand Mapuskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/community-colleges-to-be-part-of-new-skills-varsity/articleshow/81440748.cms||Hemali Chhapia
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||DRDO carried out 28 tests successfully: Min||Cleared: Arun Hyderabad: The DRDO carried out 28 successful tests in the last one year, minister of state for defence Shripad Naik informed Parliament on Wednesday. Shripad Naik said the major weapons and other systems that have been handed over to the armed forces by the DRDO are Astra beyond visual range missile system, 10 metre short span bridging system (SSBS), Indian maritime situational awareness system (IMSAS), heavy weight torpedo (HWT) Varunastra and border surveillance system (BOSS) and Arjun Mk-1A. The development-cum-production partner (DcPP) policy for DRDO-developed systems ensures involvement of industries from the beginning of the development cycle, thus enabling industries and facilitating hand-holding throughout the development phase, the minister said. “The DRDO is a research and development organisation. All systems designed and developed by the DRDO are manufactured by the Indian industries which include both public and private sectors’ entities,” Shripad Naik said.  Some of the systems that have been developed by such collaboration during last one year are advanced towed artillery gun system (ATAGS), extended range Pinaka system and guided Pinaka rocket system, SSBS, IMSAS, Varunastra, BOSS and Arjun Mk-1A, etc. The DRDO has many foreign collaborations. DRDO works in futuristic R&D and technology development in collaboration with some foreign countries. DRDO co-chairs G-to-G forums of India-USA joint technology group, Indo-Israel management council, India-Russia R&D sub-group and India-Singapore defence group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drdo-carried-out-28-tests-successfully-min/articleshow/81439055.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 11, 2021||Bareilly||2 men part of group on Kanwar Yatra drown in Ganga||Bareilly: Two men who were part of a religious group on a Kanwar Yatra accidently drowned in the Ganga river while taking bath in Budaun district on Wednesday morning. Subodh Kumar (31) and Amarjeet Singh (26) had come to the river from Mainpuri district. As part of the pilgrimage, people come to the banks of Ganga to fetch the holy water and take it back to offer in Shiva temple. The group reached Ataina ghat in Budaun on Wednesday morning and started fetching water in canisters and other containers. As the rest of the group returned to the vehicle, Subodh and Amarjeet decided to take a dip. “Subodh was planning to contest for village head election and he had organised special prayers for it back home. He had come to bring holy water for that. The water was knee-deep and we never thought that anyone could drown in it. But at one particular spot, the water was nearly 2metre deep possibly because of mining. And they slipped into it. Everyone in the village is shocked and mourning his death,” said Sarvesh, a member of the group. Their bodies were fished out by police. Station house officer (SHO) of Ushait area, Vinod Kumar, said, “The rescue operation was immediately launched. The victims were taken to a hospital where the doctors declared them dead. The bodies were handed over to their family members after autopsy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-men-part-of-group-on-kanwar-yatra-drown-in-ganga/articleshow/81435346.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 11, 2021||Surat||Teacher, 4 more students test positive in Surat city||Surat: More students and teachers continued to get infected with coronavirus infection in the city on Wednesday as the number of cases surged to another high of 161. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials said of the total 2,746 Covid-19 tests conducted in 50 schools and colleges in different civic zones of the city, four students and a teacher tested positive. More cases are surfacing from educational institutions and those returning to the city from outside and other states. The educational institutions from where students and a teacher were found Covid-19 positive were VT Choksi Sarvajanik High School (Haripura), Dr Vikram Sarabhai School (Haribaug), Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) and SV Public School (Dumbhal). With these five cases, the total number of infections in educational institutions has now reached at 70 in Surat city. On Wednesday, 89 Covid-19 patients got recovered, taking the total number of recovered patients to 40,186 in the city. The recovery rate stands at 96.33%. Officials said 130 patients are under treatment in different hospitals, which included eight in SMC-run SMIMER Hospital and 25 in state-run New Civil Hospital (NCH). Total 1.31 lakh vaccination doses have been administered in Surat city to healthcare workers, frontline workers, citizens above the age of 60 and people with co-morbid conditions between the ages of 45 and 60-years of age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/teacher-4-more-students-test-positive-in-surat-city/articleshow/81435359.cms||---
March 11, 2021||India||No plan to release 2011 caste census data yet: Govt to RS||NEW DELHI: The government on Wednesday said the ministry of social justice and empowerment has no plan to release data captured as part of the socio-economic caste census (SECC) conducted in 2011 “at this stage”. “The Union of India after independence, decided as a matter of policy not to enumerate caste-wise population other than SCs and STs,” junior home minister G Kishan Reddy said in reply to a question in Rajya Sabha. The SECC 2011 was conducted by the ministry of rural development (MoRD) and the then ministry of housing and urban poverty alleviation (HUPA) in rural and urban areas respectively. The 2011 data excluding the caste data have been finalised and published by MoRD and HUPA. The Office of the Registrar General had provided logistics and technical support in conducting the SECC 2011. The raw caste data has been provided to the ministry of social justice and empowerment for classification and categorisation. “As informed by MoSJE, there is no proposal to release the caste data at this stage,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-plan-to-release-2011-caste-census-data-yet-govt-to-rs/articleshow/81441108.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||Two more arrested in New Alipore cocaine case||KOLKATA: A day after aspiring model Amrita Singh was arrested in the New Alipore cocaine case for allegedly arranging cocaine for accused BJP leader Rakesh Singh, the detective department arrested two men — Farhan Ahmed (26) and Daiem Akhtar (25) — for allegedly supplying the narcotic to Amrita. “The two are residents of Harshi Street and Harshi Lane in the Rajabazar area. After they arranged cocaine for Amrita, she supplied it to Rakesh SIngh,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. Police sources said that Daiem brought cocaine to Kolkata. He then sold it to Farhan, from whom Amrita purchased it. “We have now established the drug route. We have also recovered 10 gm of cocaine from Akhtar,” said Sharma. Police said it was the questioning of Amrita that led them to the two accused. With Wednesday’s arrests, 10 people have been in the cop net so far. The cops said that the questioning of Farhan has helped them reconstruct the modus operandi of the gang. Another accused, Aryan Dev, who allegedly travelled around with 15 private guards, will be questioned face to face with Farhan amd Daiem. It was Aryan who was tasked to track down Pamela on February 19, said police. The defence lawyers of Rakesh though claimed he was being targeted merely to stop him from contesting the assembly elections. “We had applied for bail on Tuesday. We had prayed before court on Tuesday to allow us to study the CCTV footage of that raid at New Alipore. We submitted before court that if Singh was not present at spot when the arrest took place, he was eligible for bail as seen in a couple of Supreme Court rulings. We said that this was a ploy to stop Singh from contesting elections and we said that we are ready to any terms and conditions for it. However, both our pleas were turned down,” said defence lawyer Francis Samson Correa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-more-arrested-in-new-alipore-cocaine-case/articleshow/81437497.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 11, 2021||Bareilly||Moradabad railway division launches ‘Maha Kumbh Mela’ mobile app for pilgrims||Bareilly: The Moradabad railway division has launched a mobile application ‘Maha Kumbh Mela’ for the pilgrims visiting the upcoming 28-day-long Kumbh Mela in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar commencing from April 1. Northern railway officials said the app would help the pilgrims by providing them information about trains and also local temples. Besides, the devotees can also learn about the state government’s guidelines on Covid-19 by using the app.Divulging details, Northern railway general manager Ashutosh Gangal said, “For example, the central government has recently mandated that the pilgrims need to register on the mela web portal and upload their documents, including a negative report of Covid-19 RT-PCR taken 72 hours before boarding the train. Such important updates and information will be provided to the pilgrims through the app. The move is aimed at providing a hassle-free experience to the devotees/pilgrims and make their visit convenient during the Kumbh period.” The special app has various features, including navigation, information related to station amenities, train information, rail ticket booking, khoya-paya portal and guidelines related to Covid-19, among others, said officials, adding that using the app is simple and convenient like any other applications used on the smartphones. According to railway officials, the preparations for the Kumbh is in full swing as the railway authorities have decorated and beautified the Haridwar railway station for welcoming the pilgrims. The station has been renovated with pictures of saints taking a holy dip in the Ganga painted on the walls and the paintings of lord Shiva are decorated with a different kind of lighting, they said. Kumbh Mela is organised four times in 12 years at four river banks in Allahabad, Haridwar, Nashik and Ujjain. Notably, citing the Covid-19 pandemic, the Uttarakhand government has this time around limited the Kumbh Mela period to 28 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/moradabad-railway-division-launches-maha-kumbh-mela-mobile-app-for-pilgrims/articleshow/81435370.cms||Maria Khan
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Rs 45 lakh looted from ‘hawala’ trader in Kishanpole bazaar||JAIPUR: A masked man looted Rs 45 lakh from the office of a 'hawala' trader at gunpoint around 12.30pm on the busy Khunteto ka Raasta at Kishanpole bazaar in Jaipur on Wednesday. The police, however, believe that the amount could be much higher. The miscreant carried out the crime in just three minutes as per the CCTV footage, indicating that he could be an insider. He brandished a pistol at two employees in the office, gagged them with plastic tape and walked out casually from the office after the crime, giving no indication to people in nearby shops. The businessman, Rohit Kumar, reported the crime two hours after the incident at Kotwali police station, initially, downplaying the case. It took him another hour or two to give the Rs 45 lakh figure as the robbed amount. A resident of Gujarat, Kumar had rented a room from Radhavallabh Sharma a month ago. He opened an office under the name KDM Enterprises, which he is allegedly operating for hawala transactions in the guise of running a money transfer and courier service. When the incident took place, his brother-in-law Partha and another person Priyanshu were at the shop. Till late at night, police were checking CCTV footages from different areas. Additional commissioner of police Ajay Pal Lamba, Jaipur Commissionerate, said that they had some leads and the culprit would be arrested soon. He, however, raised doubt on the actual amount looted. “The amount could be much higher than what the complainant has claimed in the FIR. It appears to be unaccounted and could be the reason why he took time to inform the police,” said Lamba. He said the information would be shared with the income tax department. In the CCTV footage, the miscreant can be seen entering the ground floor of the office at around 12.33pm wearing a helmet. He had covered his face with a scarf and wore gloves. The two people in the office, Partha and Priyanshu, asked him to show the slip, thinking he had come to collect money. The miscreant then took out the pistol and threatened them both. He then allegedly gagged them both with a plastic tape and fled from the spot carrying a bag with Rs 45 lakh, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-45l-looted-from-hawalatrader-in-kishanpole-bazaar/articleshow/81439115.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Kolhapur||Satara registers 197 Covid cases||Kolhapur: Satara district reported 197 new Covid cases and one death due to the infection on Wednesday, taking the number of cases to 60,166. The death toll has now risen to 1,865. Satara taluka added 48 cases, Phaltan taluka and Khandala taluka recorded 39 cases each, Karada and Maan taluka reported 10 cases each, Patan, Khatav, Wai and Jawli registered five cases each among others. A 75-year-old woman from Maan taluka succumbed to Covid. As many as 56,492 patients have recovered while 1,809 are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-registers-197-covid-cases/articleshow/81435382.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Vadodara||Consistent rise in cases in Vadodara||Vadodara: Consistent rise in the number of Covid-19 cases has ensured that the new cases registered every day reach levels nearly equal to those in the end of January when the disease was on a decline. On Wednesday, 58 new cases were reported in the city and district against 55 on Tuesday.Data shared by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) reveals that the 58 new cases reported on Tuesday were found from 2,477 tests conducted in the city and district. The new cases included 47 from the VMC areas and 11 from Vadodara district outside the VMC limits.North zone of the city reported the largest number of cases with 18 here testing positive, this was followed by the south zone where 14tested positive. Eight persons were found positive in the west zone and seven in the east.Forty-seven persons were discharged from hospitals or home quarantine in the city leaving 602 under treatment. Those under treatment include88 breathing with the help of oxygen supply and 41 on BIPAP or ventilator machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/consistent-rise-in-cases-in-vadodara/articleshow/81435373.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Pune||Gangster booked, 11 held under MCOCA||Pune: The city police on Tuesday booked gangster Suryakant, alias Bandu Andekar, and arrested 11 others under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). Police had arrested Andekar and others on the charge of rioting and attempting to commit murder of Omkar Kudale (21) by assaulting him with sharp weapons due to previous enmity at Ganesh Peth on January 21 this year. Senior inspector Shrihari Bahirat from Khadak police initiated a proposal to invoke charges of MCOCA against Andekar and 17 others after investigations established that he was running an organised crime syndicate for obtaining pecuniary benefits. Additional commissioner of police (west region) Sanjay Shinde considered the proposal and accorded sanction to prosecute Andekar and others under MCOCA. Police later arrested 11 out of the 17 suspects. Meanwhile, police on Wednesday booked gang leader Jayant Lokhande and four others under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gangster-booked-11-held-under-mcoca/articleshow/81437500.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Pune||PIFF delayed indefinitely; to go online from March 18||Pune: Organizers of the Pune International Film Festival (PIFF) confirmed that the festival, which was scheduled to begin on March 11, had been postponed indefinitely because of the the resurgence in Covid-19 cases. However, the online section of the festival would be held next week. A statement from the Pune Film Foundation, the main organizer, said 26 films from the “World Cinema” category of the festival, which were supposed to be screened online, will now be screened from March 18 to 25. They were earlier scheduled to start screening from Thursday. This year, the festival was organized in a hybrid onsite-online platform, with film enthusiasts making their choice of the format while registering. “Due to the current situation, film enthusiasts have some apprehensions about enjoying PIFF in the theatres. A lot of delegates enquired to check if their registration for PIFF in theatres could be converted to the online format. As organizers, we would always want the festival to be enjoyed by maximum number of film aficionados. So, we have decided to postpone the festival to be held in theatres,” Jabbar Patel, the director of PIFF, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/piff-delayed-indefinitely-to-go-online-from-march-18/articleshow/81437498.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Goa||‘Women must play active role in policy making’||PANAJI: Women must take an active part in policy making, and participation in the politics and government is a must, said Sulakshana Sawant, president of Goa Self-Help Group Association while speaking at a Women’s Day event, ‘Men for Women’ held in Panaji on Wednesday. “Merely seeing me is not enough, it is my presence that must be felt,” she said. For this, she urged women to not be restricted to their families only and take active part in politics. “Women while fighting for their right to equality often face lack of mental, emotional, financial and physical security. We must overcome these hurdles and become independent,” she said. Chairperson of Goa State Women’s Commission, Vidhya Gawde said that about 20 awareness programmes have been held in rural areas of the state over the past few months, especially since there is a rising trend in the number of domestic violence cases in the state. “Men must also come forward for the rights of women. It is a give and take situation so both men and women must respect one another.” Gawde added. Speaking at the event, director of women and child development, Deepali Naik also urged women to come forward to report instances of domestic violence. Pediatrician, Dr Nandita Dsouza and woman entrepreneur Vishakha Velip were felicitated at the event for being strong women in their respective fields. A panel discussion featuring director of ARZ, Arun Pandey, BNI president and Rajkumar Kamat was also held. Kamat motivated women to stop thinking of themselves as inferior. “The women of the Dhangar community are very empowered. There is no dowry system prevailing among the women, and the women are also given decision making rights,” a panelist said. Pandey said that judiciary has failed in giving security to trafficked women. “Quite often rescued women end up going back to prostitution. It is like a circle,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/women-must-play-active-role-in-policy-making/articleshow/81439118.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Rail minister spars with Sena over bullet train, Metro depot project||Union railway minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday blamed the past governments for delay in completion of railway projects saying the projects were announced “without allocating funds”. During the Question Hour proceedings in the Lok Sabha, BJP and Shiv Sena also sparred accusing each other of non-cooperation over major infrastructure initiatives such as the bullet train and Mumbai Metro project in Maharashtra. While Goyal charged the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government of stalling the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project, the Sena accused the Centre of not cooperating with the state dispensation over the Metro car shed project. Goyal said it was because of the “ego” of the state government that the Metro car shed issue still remains unsolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rail-min-spars-with-sena-over-bullet-train-metro-depot-project-in-mumbai/articleshow/81440750.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||22 plots to be allotted for Bengal Silicon Valley project||KOLKATA: The online plot application for Bengal Silicon Valley in New Town started from Wednesday. A total of 22 plots covering 63 acres will be allotted in the sixth phase. A Whatsapp helpline no (8334903379) has also been introduced. Following the decision taken in the state cabinet meeting earlier, the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) put up the 22 plots for online allotment. The expression of interest was floated last month in which it was said that interested tech companies will be able to start applying online after an initial period of 30 days from the date of publication of the notice. Hidco has already handed over allotment letters to several organisations whose applications to get plots at the Bengal Silicon Valley in its phase 2 and phase3 was earlier approved. Some of these companies are Indian Statistical Institute, SAMEER, WBEIDC, Skymap Global India Pvt Ltd, Vikram Solar Ltd and others. Officials said that the online allotment of plots has been introduced to make it hassle free and speedy. Interested industry, entrepreneur and start-ups can now apply online for setting up tech industries including IT, IT enabled services, robotics,artificial intelligence, Internet of Things (IOT), telecom, genetic engineering, bio-technology and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/22-plots-to-be-allotted-for-silicon-valley-project/articleshow/81437512.cms||Suman Chakraborti
March 11, 2021||Vadodara||Village’s ‘self-imposed’ lockdown lasts just 3 hours||Vadodara/ Anand: Villagers of NRI-rich Sarsa, around 15 km away from milk city Anand, witnessed a unique lockdown on Wednesday. Just when people were coming to the terms with a ‘self-imposed lockdown’ that came into effect on Wednesday 11 am, the restrictions ended in a few hours at around 2pm following opposition from section of traders and shopkeepers. Citing rising Covid-19 cases in the village that has nearly 25,000 population, the Sarsa gram panchayat on Tuesday had declared that the village will observe ‘voluntary bandh’ from Wednesday till March 16. Shopkeepers, vegetable vendors and other traders were informed about this decision through chalkboard notices and letterhead posted on corners of the village. Medical stores and milk parlours were exempted while all others were asked to pull down shutters after 11 am. The shopkeepers were given the liberty to choose the time at which they want to open their businesses.But through a letter signed by both sarpanch Indira Patel and talati-cum-mantri Christina Parmar, the gram panchayat’s order of Tuesday was cancelled on Wednesday afternoon, at around 2 pm. While making the circular regarding the lockdown null and void, villagers were asked to follow instructions like wear mask, follow social distance, avoid venturing out of homes without work. Shopkeepers were asked to avoid crowding at their shops and ask customers to stand maintaining distance. “In the last one week, we have seen 20 to 25 Covid-19 positive cases. So, we have taken the decision of voluntary lockdown,” Sanjay Patel, a member of the district panchayat from Sarsa had told media persons earlier in the day. Sources said that nearly half of the infected were hospitalised while others were under home isolation. Sarpanch’s son Vimal Patel, who too had tested positive, is also under treatment at a hospital. “We had issued the letter regarding voluntary lockdown but there were some disagreements amongst traders regarding shutting down businesses. Some of them did not agree to close shops. So, we have reverted the decision,” said Parmar, adding that the health machinery has informed them of nearly 15 cases in the last ten days. The local market in Sarsa is a hub for the cluster of villages surrounding it. “Such experiments would have again created unnecessary panic among our customers, especially at a time when we are just trying to recover from ‘mandi’ (slow down),” said a shopkeeper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/villages-self-imposed-lockdown-lasts-just-3-hours/articleshow/81435396.cms||Prashant Rupera
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Top SKM leaders to visit Bengal, will campaign against BJP in four places||Photos in email Pics: Farm leaders from Punjab campaigning against BJP in Kolkata on Wednesday Bathinda: Upping the ante against the Modi government, senior Sanyukta Kisan Morcha leaders will tour West Bengal on a three-day visit from March 12 to campaign against Bharatiya Janata Party. The polling in West Bengal is to be held in 6 phases from March 27 to April 29. Senior leaders Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Darshan Pal, Yogendra Yadav, Yudhvir Singh, Manjit Singh and Himanshu Tiwari will hold rallies under the banner of West Bengal Kisan Mahapanchayat in Kolkata, Nandigram, Singur, and Asansol. Aiming to prevail upon people to vote against the BJP in the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal, Punjab farmer leaders have been addressing rallies in the state. The trend started on March 4, when the farmer leader Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala addressed a rally organised by the ‘Forum to Save Indian Constitution and West Bengal from Fascist Forces’ in Kolkata. On Wednesday, a number of farm leaders from Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan participated in a rally organised by the forum in Kolkata, addressed mainly by left-leaning activists. Manjit Singh Dhaner, Raminder Singh Patiala and Manjit Rai from Punjab, Abhimanyu Kohad from Haryana, Ranjit Singh Raju of Ganganagar in Rajasthan participated in the rally and urged people to oppose BJP tooth and nail. Raminder Singh Patiala and Manjit Singh Dhaner told TOI over the phone that “the kisan morcha has not sided with any particular party. The rallies which we are addressing or will address in the future by farm leaders will be organised by either peasants or activists from various sections minus any particular party. We have given a call to the people to vote against BJP and give it to anyone who is capable of defeating BJP as it has proved it to be anti-farmer and the face of this party needs to be unmasked across the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/top-skm-leaders-to-visit-bengal-will-campaign-against-bjp-in-four-places/articleshow/81439149.cms||Neel Kamal
March 11, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur dist reports 24 Covid cases||Kolhapur: The district reported 24 fresh cases of Covid, including 12 cases from Kolhapur city, on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 50,741. The total number of cases include 1,748 deaths, 305 active cases and 48,688 recoveries. Of the active patients, 173 patients from Kolhapur city and 47 from the rural district are in home isolation. 23 of 238 swab samples test positive for Covid On Wednesday, 238 throat swabs were tested in private laboratories in the district, of which, 23 tested positive. On the other hand, only one sample of 495 swab samples tested in government labs came back positive. Recently, the district health administration had made it mandatory for the private labs to notify the swabs tested both positive and negative to the local health authorities. Sangli adds 40 cases The district added 40 fresh Covid cases on Wednesday. The total number of patients in the district reached 48,799, of them, 298 patients are currently undergoing treatment, 46,738 have been cured and 1,763 have succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-reports-24-covid-cases/articleshow/81435399.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Goa||KTC e-buses to debut on March 23||PANAJI: The Kadamba Transport Corporation limited (KTC) will inaugurate the long awaited electric vehicles on March 23. These are 12 metre buses that have been manufactured by a Hyderabad based company. TOI had earlier reported that the first few buses have arrived in the state and will be launched only after the setting up of electric charging stations. So far, about 30 of the 50 electric buses have arrived in the state, while the rest are expected to be delivered just in time for the inauguration. In addition to this, the KTC has floated a tender for 100 electric mini buses. These will be run on operational cost method. These are different from the big buses that are launching this month. The financial bid will open on April 6, prior to which the tender will be closed on March 16. “We will check the technical qualifications of the vehicle and if the bidder qualifies, we will call the bus for a trial on the Panaji-Pollem route. We will see the operational probabilities like if the charge in the vehicle survives 180 kms. The vehicle should successfully operate on long routes in a single charge,” KTC general manager, Sanjay Ghate said. The trial will be carried out by keeping sandbags in the bus to substitute as passengers to match the load factor. The trial will also have several stops on the way and a check on the AC’s performance each time the doors open at every stop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-e-buses-to-debut-on-mar-23/articleshow/81439141.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Kolhapur||115 fresh cases in Solapur rural||Kolhapur: The rural parts of Solapur district have recorded 115 fresh cases since late night on Tuesday and No Covid death was reported. According to official communication, 72 men and 43 women tested positive in rural Solapur. As many as 61 patients, including 39 men and 22 women, were discharged after recovering from Covid. Of the fresh cases, Malshiras taluka added 30 cases while 20 people from Pandharpur taluka tested positive. Solapur rural has 41,228 cases, including 1,194 deaths, 671 active cases and 39,363 recoveries. Solapur city added 41 cases, including 20 men and 21 women, since Tuesday late night. A total of 57 patients were discharged after recovering. The city has reported 12,796 cases, which includes 669 deaths, 446 active cases and 11,68 1recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/115-fresh-cases-in-solapur-rural/articleshow/81435388.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Pune||Pune: First-year law students in a fix over semester-1 exams||PUNE: Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has decided to conduct first semester examinations from April 11 but law colleges under the varsity are yet to begin the academic session for first-year students. Candidates, who wanted to enroll for a law degree, a worried lot as there seems to be no end to their misery. The schedule for the 3-year law programme has been revised at least seven times while the schedule for the 5-year law programme has been revised at least five times, by the state Common Entrance Test Cell. A student, who left her admission in MA at SPPU hoping to get admitted in a law course, said that the entire process is hit by a major technical glitch, with no active helpline to solve their problems. Vasundhara, a law-course aspirant, said that the problem started right from the form-filling process. “They asked us for our degree marks, and we uploaded the second- and third-year aggregate marks, as is the norm. The forms are checked by the online team and they are supposed to intimate us if they are incomplete. The forms went through and we were allotted colleges in the first round. When we went to the college, they told us that we need to upload even the first-year mark list without which we cannot get admission. I have scored 75% aggregate in my second and third year and if you consider all three years, it still is above 70%. In spite of getting good marks and getting a college allotted, I was unable to confirm my admission because of a technical mistake.” She had to wait until the end of the first round to correct her online form in the Centralised Admission Process. “I had got admission for post-graduation in the Arts department at SPPU but when I was allotted a good law college in the first round, I cancelled the admission. Now, I have nothing. However, there is disparity even here because some of my friends got admission in the colleges allotted despite not filling up the first-year marks in the application process,” added Vasundhara. Another student could not get allotment in the first round but has been waiting for over a month now for the second round to begin. “It is going to be tough for me because, by the time I get admission and the classes start, there would be very little time left for preparation for university exams. I am sure they won’t give us enough time to complete the academic calendar and even the teachers would be in a hurry to finish the syllabus. It will be especially tough for students like me, who come from villages and from Marathi medium schools,” said the student. The principal of a law college in the city said that it takes at least 90 days to complete the syllabus as per the laws stipulated by the varsity. “Now it needs to be seen how the university will count these 90 days. It is naturally tough for students, who come from different backgrounds, to suddenly learn something new. The university has to issue an order of beginning the course before we can start even for the students, who have secured an admission to the course. As of now, all we hope is that the admissions will end by March 31 and April 3 at least, as per the latest tentative schedule, for five-year and three-year LLB courses respectively,” said the principal. University officials said that a meeting will be held to decide the examination details for first-year law students. “We know that law admissions are still going on. Hence their exams will be delayed. A separate decision will be taken for the students admitted to the first-year of the law course,” said the university official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/first-year-law-students-in-a-fix-over-semester-1-exams/articleshow/81437507.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 11, 2021||India||Govt: NGOs for tweaks in FCRA rules, but relief already given||NEW DELHI: The government on Wednesday said it had received several representations, including from NGOs and associations, seeking changes in the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Rules 2011, as amended in 2020. MoS (Home) Nityanand Rai, in reply to a question in Rajya Sabha, informed the members that the government had already provided some relaxations to facilitate a smooth transition to the amended FCRA regime. These included extension of certain deadlines, including for submission of annual reports, opening of ‘FCRA account’ at SBI, New Delhi main branch and extending the validity of FCRA certifications due to expire between September 2020 and May 2021. Rai informed the House that FCRA certificates of 8,353 NGOs/associations were not renewed and certificates of 264 NGOs/associations suspended under Section 13 of FCRA over five years from 2016 and 2020. In reply to the question Foreign Contribution Regulation (Amendment) Rules, 2020 being too stringent, he said some relaxations had already been provided. Final date for submission of annual reports was extended from December 31, 2020 to June 30, 2021. The last date for opening of exclusive ‘FCRA account’ in State Bank of India, New Delhi main branch, was extended till March 31, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-ngos-for-tweaks-in-fcra-rules-but-relief-already-given/articleshow/81441121.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Pune||Pupils seek question banks, clarity on proctoring details||PUNE: Students of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) have demanded that the varsity upload question banks for subjects as soon as possible. Students have also urged the university to provide clarity about proctoring so that they can equip themselves with devices that have an active camera as well as ensure better internet access. Student activist Kuldeep Ambekar said, “There have been no offline classes this year for many students barring perhaps one week in February. It would be good for students if the university provides question banks for subjects because while studying, we keep a descriptive question paper in mind. Even exercises in textbooks and topics are designed in the same manner. Many students do not even have access to many books or learning material, but PDF files of question banks can be shared easily.” A senior official representing the university said that the plan would be to ‘soft proctor’ during the exam. “While there would be no people monitoring the students, cameras would have to be kept on during the examination as student’s movement during the exam would be monitored via artificial intelligence. There will be warnings given if there are different-than-regular movement and after a certain number of warnings, the online answer sheet would be auto-submitted. It is advisable that students sit in an area with good connectivity so that they do not face any problems during the exam,” said the official. As far as the question bank is considered, a university official said that work on question banks is underway and about 50% of the work is done. “We are expecting that it will be completed in 10 days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pupils-seek-question-banks-clarity-on-proctoring-details/articleshow/81437518.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana right on course to house India’s biggest floating solar power plant near Peddapalli||HYDERABAD: It’s the largest floating solar power project in the country, and perhaps in the world when it is commissioned. The 100MW project, being set up at NTPC Ltd’s Ramagundam thermal power plant reservoir near Peddapalli in Telangana, is slated to be commissioned by May this year. Coming up at a cost of Rs 423 crore, the project will have 4.5 lakh photovoltaic (PV) panels floating on a 450-acre area on the reservoir, with room for further capacity addition in the future, NTPC officials said. The world’s largest floating solar power plant to be mooted so far is the 600MW project to be set up on the Omkareshwar dam on river Narmada in Khandwa district of Madhya Pradesh. However, this Rs 3,000 crore power project will commence power generation only by 2022-23. The largest dam-based floating power project in the world (41MW) is coming up at Hapcheon dam in South Korea, even as Singapore has taken the plunge with a 5MW floating solar project in Johor Strait off its coast. NTPC regional executive director (south) C V Anand said the Ramagundam floating solar project is part of plans to set up a 217MW floating solar power capacity in south India. This includes the 25MW, Rs 110 crore floating solar project at NTPC Simhadri spread over 150 acres that will also be commissioned by May 2021 and a 92MW project coming up on the backwaters of Kayamkulam in Kerala’s Alappuzha district.NTPC already has a 105KW pilot floating solar plant operational at Kayamkulam and a 1MW plant at its Kawas gas-based power plant in south Gujarat. The floating solar initiative is part of the Maharatna PSE’s efforts to reduce its carbon footprint and ramp up its green energy generation capacity to around 30% of total capacity. NTPC sources said the power generation giant plans to replicate these floating solar power projects across all its thermal power plant reservoirs in the country. The Maharatna PSE has a total installed capacity of 64,880MW across 24 coal-based, seven gas-based and over 15 renewable energy projects. This includes 64,080MW that is operational. Another 19,379MW that is under construction. In the southern region, it has a total installed capacity of 9,125MW across coal, gas and liquid fuel as well as solar power. Anand said that apart from the floating solar projects, NTPC is also setting up a 230MW on-ground solar power plant at Ettayapuram near Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu that will cater to Telangana. On the under-construction 1,600MW (2x800MW) Telangana super thermal power plant at Ramagundam, which will be supplying power exclusively to Telangana, Anand said the first phase of 800MW will be commissioned by January 2022. The project was to be completed in the current financial year but was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, he said, adding that the second phase is expected to be commissioned by March 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-right-on-course-to-house-indias-biggest-floating-solar-power-plant-near-peddapalli/articleshow/81440517.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
March 11, 2021||Kolhapur||‘Resume Kolhapur to Solapur train’||KOLHAPUR: The railway activists have demanded the resumption of train service between Kolhapur to Solapur, which was halted before the Covid outbreak due to the low footfall of passengers. Currently, the train leaving from Solapur stops is Miraj for nearly four hours and returns to Solapur on the same day. The activists have written to the divisional manager’s office of Central Railway (CR) to extend the train up to Kolhapur to cater to the passengers travelling to destinations like Pandharpur and Solapur. Many used to travel to Solapur by a late night train from Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Terminus and after reaching Solapur, the passengers can easily get a bus to any place in Marathwada. Shivnath Biyani, an activist of Railway Pravasi Sanghatana said, “Citing various reasons, the CR has cancelled various trains. We are demanding to resume services along the routes which have good footfall even on normal days. Thousands of pilgrims board Solapur bound train to reach Pandharpur twice a year. Many passengers found the train service convenient. We are unable to understand the logic to halt the train at Miraj and that too for over four hours. During this period, it can arrive in Kolhapur and go back to Miraj.” He said 14 trains were running from Kolhapur station every day before the pandemic and now the services have been resumed to just five destinations from Kolhapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/resume-kolhapur-to-solapur-train/articleshow/81435407.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: MPSC aspirants must reach exam halls 3 hours in advance||KOLHAPUR: Candidates appearing for the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) examination on Sunday have been asked to arrive at the exam centres at least three hours before the exam is scheduled to begin. Roughly 14,000 candidates are expected to write the exam on Sunday at 41 centres in Kolhapur city alone. As per the prevailing Covid guidelines, each candidate will be screened outside the exam centre and will be isolated if s/he show any Covid-like symptoms. Such candidates will be allowed to write the exam in separate rooms. Other candidates will have to maintain physical distance inside the exam halls. They will have to sit on alternate desks. Bhausaheb Galande, the Kolhapur deputy collector, said: “The exam will be conducted in two sessions on Sunday. The first session will start at 10.30 am. Candidates will have to arrive three hours in advance so that each one of them can be thoroughly screened with the help of temperature guns. They must carry a relevant identity card (such as an Aadhaar card) and a photograph. Everyone will have to register first before they are allowed to sit inside the exam hall.” Masks are mandatory. The candidates have been advised to carry their own water bottles and sanitisers. Since the institutes where the exams are scheduled are used for regular classes also, the administration has issued strict orders to get the schools and colleges sanitised before and after the exam. The prohibitory orders will be in place in a 100m radius around the exam centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mpsc-aspirants-must-reach-exam-halls-3-hours-in-advance/articleshow/81435403.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Pune||Anganwadis to be linked to nearest primary school||PUNE: The anganwadis across the state would now be linked with the primary section of the nearest schools in order to provide educational assistance, train anganwadi workers, ensure implementation of curriculum, provide education material as well as get them under the Star project run by the World Bank. The linking of primary schools and anganwadis will also take place in line with the New Education Policy (NEP), additional chief secretary of the education department Vandana Krushna has stated. Krushna said, “The union ministry has announced the NEP and its implementation is on the state governments. It has been noticed that students are not reaching the required level of education when they reach Std I, hence they lag in academics. If the primary education department and anganwadis work in tandem, then children in the age group of 3 to 6 years will get high quality pre-school education.” The senior government official said the intent is to strengthen anganwadis in the state in terms of the quality of education the childrenreceive, adding that in order to strengthen the foundation of primary education, pre-primary education was very important. Krushna stated, “The anganwadi sevaks need to be trained properly and they also need the required teaching material, therefore the linking is important. The schools have been asked to link anganwadis running in their premises or in the vicinity. A maximum of three to minimum one anganwadi must be linked. Primary schools can then help anganwadis complete the desired curriculum.” The lack of information in the Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE), where data related to all government schools is updated, is also a matter of grave concern. According to the latest information in the system, over 43,000 primary schools have co-located anganwadis. However, as per information provided by the commissioner of Integrated Child Development Services, only 6,000 anganwadis are co-located at primary school premises. “There is a huge gap in the information collated by both these departments, and it needs to be rectified at the earliest. It is crucial to conduct mapping of schools and anganwadis to correct this data and this could be done at the school level,” said Krushna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/anganwadis-to-be-linked-to-nearest-primary-school/articleshow/81437516.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Rainstorm rips through farmers’ Delhi camps||Bathinda: A rainstorm hit farmers’ 103-day-old Delhi protest on Tuesday night, blowing their tents off the ground and tractor-trailers, and drenching their clothes and mattresses. The pavilion soaked, the border sites waterlogged, even the stage of farmer union BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) at Bahadurgarh’s Pakora Chowk was spoiled, wasting the big effort and money gone into building it. On the Tikri and Singhu borders, too, water leaked into the valuable electronics of many protesters and interrupted the day’s proceedings from the Bahadurgarh platform. “The farmers were asleep when the water entered their tents and the winds tore covers off their heads. Hundreds of volunteers spent hours on Wednesday morning to put the pandal back in order. BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) secretary Shingara Singh Mann said: “They soaked water with whatever they could fetch and laid the clothes and durries in the open to dry. Even nature’s fury couldn’t break their will.” Farmer union leader Manjit Singh Dhaner said from the Tikri border that the rain damage was extensive and it had taken a lot of hard work to restore things. Belongings of many protesters were damaged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rainstorm-rips-through-farmers-delhi-camps/articleshow/81439176.cms||Neel Kamal
March 11, 2021||Rajkot||School shut after student tests +ve||Palanpur: A primary school in Panch Kuhada village of Dhansura taluka was shut down after one student from Class VIII tested positive for Covid-19. The infected student is under home quarantine.According to district surveillance officer Dr Pravin Damor the boy was tested positive on March 6. Taluka health officer (THO), Dhansura, Dr Yagnesh Goswami said, “The boy is from adjacent Botal village and not from Panch Kuhada village. After he was infected with coronavirus, we had asked the school authority to close the school. However, the next day it was Sunday and on Monday they sought approval and on Tuesday the school was closed.” The attendance in the school was already low since the reopening. Goswami said that the infected student was not attending the classes since March 4, so there was less possibility of spread of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/school-shut-after-student-tests-ve/articleshow/81435408.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Turf on civic land exploited for commercial use, BMC razes it||MUMBAI: The BMC on Tuesday demolished an astro turf set up by encroaching a 15,000 sqmtplot at Saibaba Nagar in Borivli. The plot was reserved for a playground as per civic records. Officials said the same was being commercially exploited by private individuals. An FIR has also been filed at Borivli police station after civic officials were allegedly assaulted and a JCB locked at the turf while officials were outside. Demolition action could continue. Senior civic officials saidnotices had beenserved. On Tuesday, a civic team reached the turf but was stopped by a few private individuals who hit a hammer on the JCB and on a mobile phone being used by the civic staff to shoot the demolition action. As per the police complaint, BMC’s sub-engineer Anand Adhav said action was being taken when one Kunal Kelkar and three others tried to stop them, claiming ownership of the ground, states the complaint. Assistant municipal commissioner of R Central ward Bhagyashree Khapse said there is a gym beside the plot and the turf was set up by people running the gym. “The large plot was encroached and was being commercially exploited. People wanting to play sports were charged upto Rs 2000 an hour.” Activist Reji Abraham, who had complainined about the turf on BMC plot said, the fight began in 2016 ... BMC has finally taken action .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/turf-on-civic-land-exploited-for-commercial-use-bmc-razes-it-in-mumbai/articleshow/81440528.cms||Richa Pinto
March 11, 2021||Pune||Thieves target 6 flats; steal valuables of Rs 29,000 from one||PUNE: Unidentified thieves stole valuables worth Rs29,000 from a flat of Gurudatta housing society in Dhankawadi sometime during the night intervening Monday and Tuesday. The thieves also targeted five other flats located nearby — one in Nivrutta Apartments and four others in Anantnagar cooperative housing society but did not steal anything. According to the Sahakarnagar police, the incidents of theft took place despite the fact that the societies have engaged the services of security guards. Flat owner Tanaji Madhavrao Jagdale (61) of Gurudatta housing society lodged a complaint with the Sahakarnagar police on Tuesday afternoon. Assistant commissioner of police Sushma Chavan said, “The thieves stole some silver ornaments and other valuables from Jagdale’s flat when the members of the family had gone out.” The thieves entered the other flats by breaking the locks. However, they did not steal any valuables from the other five flats, most probably because they could not find any. “The societies or commercial establishments in the vicinity do not have CCTV cameras. Thus, it is cannot be precisely established when the thieves had struck,” Chavan said. Senior inspector Govind Gambhire and his team scanned the entire area on Tuesday but did not find any substantial clue. Police said, despite families being present in surrounding flats, none heard any noise. Residents assume that the thieves entered the buildings from the rear side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thieves-target-6-flats-steal-valuables-of-rs-29k-from-one/articleshow/81437523.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||FIR lodged against water body fill-up||Kolkata: Cops have registered an FIR on Wednesday after Kolkata Municipal Corporation complained that a water body near Phoolbagan was being filled up illegally. Officers at Lalbazar instructed the local cops to be vigilant and ensure that none takes the advantage of the election season. According to sources in eastern suburban division, the beat officers have been asked to keep tabs on the water bodies in the area and file a report on their present conditions. “The particular case was recorded on the basis of a letter filed last week by the environment and heritage department of KMC and sent by its executive engineer, Partha Sarathi Chakraborty. As of now, we have not received any name. But we are speaking to locals and trying to identify the people involved with the illegally filling up of the water body situated near Mahendra Biswas Lane, a few hundred metres from the Phoolbagan crossing,” said a police officer. “The civic body claimed that the illegal work was going on even during the day without any permission from the authorities concerned. An investigation is in progress and some local CCTV footage is being checked,” said an officer of Beliaghata police station. Two years ago, the government had sent out a strong message against filling up illegally the water bodies in the jurisdiction of KMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fir-lodged-against-water-body-fill-up/articleshow/81437542.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 11, 2021||Pune||Suryadatta offers 100 scholarships||Pune: The Suryadatta Group will offer 100 scholarships to employees of various organisations in the city who aspire to complete their post graduation. The group will sponsor these employees’ education in various fields — management, IT and foreign trade among others — for individuals in the age group of 22-55, for their education at Suryadatta Institute. A statement issued by the Suryadatta Institute of Management and Information Research, Pune, said it would offer 100% fee waiver for the post graduate diploma courses of one year, which are affiliated to Savitribai Phule Pune University. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/suryadatta-offers-100-scholarships/articleshow/81437519.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Surat||Contractual sanitary workers go on strike at NCH||Surat: A group of 150 contractual sanitary workers at New Civil Hospital (NCH) went on a flash strike on Wednesday demanding a salary hike. They also alleged a delay in payment of salaries for the last two months. The protestors held a sit-in protest outside the medical superintendent’s office in NCH campus in the morning. They claimed that at least 400 workers were facing salary related issues.The situation turned tense in the afternoon when the workers tried to enter the office of the superintendent along with some Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders. Police had to close the iron grill at the entrance of the building to prevent the workers from entering.Police had to use force to prevent the workers from entering the office of the superintendent. While closing the iron grill, one worker suffered injury and had to be hospitalised.On Wednesday, the workers claimed that have not received their salary for January and February months. Following the flash strike, NCH authorities processed salary for January month and deposited it in their bank accounts. In the past too, the workers had sat on dharna over non-payment of salary.“Earlier we used to receive Rs 9,700 salary after deduction of provident fund. After the contractor changed last month, we received Rs 2,000 less salary,” claimed one of the protesting workers. Commenting on the issue NCH in-charge superintendent S M Patel said, “The delay in salary payment was because the agency that is delivering the services was changed. Meanwhile, we have developed a new system to deposit the salary in the bank account of the workers from this month to avoid delay in salary payment in the future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/contractual-sanitary-workers-go-on-strike-at-nch/articleshow/81435417.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Pune||Seven booked for assaulting vegetable vendor in Pune||PUNE: The police on Tuesday booked seven men for brutally assaulting a 21-year-old vegetable vendor with sickles and robbing him of Rs16,000 at Bhintadenagar society at Ambegaon Budruk around 6pm on Monday. An FIR was registered by vendor Prashant Patekar with the Bharati Vidyapeeth police. Senior inspector Jagganath Kalaskar said on Wednesday, “Patekar and his uncle were doing business when seven men, including a criminal on record, reached there on three-four bikes, assaulted him on his head and legs, robbed him of cash and sped away.” Kalaskar said, “After Patekar was discharged from Sassoon hospital, he registered a complaint against the suspects and identified two of them by their names. We have booked them on the charge of armed robbery under the Indian Penal Code and other laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-booked-for-assaulting-vegetable-vendor/articleshow/81437536.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Moved to Jio for cost saving: Trolled PSPCL||Jalandhar: Trolled by the farmer unions for buying Jio’s corporate mobile-phone connections for its employees, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited says the company was the lowest bidder. The north zone deputy chief engineer (headquarters and administration) wrote to all deputy and superintending engineers, seeking the staff’s SIM details for this migration from Vodafone to Jio. However, the letter found way to social media quickly and the farmer unions, which seek a boycott of all Reliance products over new laws that bring corporate money into agriculture, started abusing the PSPCL. The electricity corporation clarified that there was nothing selective in its approach, as it was an open tender and the two other private bidders had quoted a higher price. Several Punjabi netizens criticised even the Punjab government, saying it was weakening the farmers’ movement. A PSPCL official said that since that letter had gone on social media, the angry farmer unions had not stopped calling the officers. Asked about it PSPCL chairman and managing director A Venu Prasad said: “Vodafone’s tenure of contract with us had expired and Reliance Jio was the new lowest bidder. It had quoted us Rs 2.32 crore, while Vodafone had quoted Rs 2.90 crore for a year’s plan. This saves the PSPCL Rs 58 lakh a year.” The third bidder, Airtel, had quoted even a higher price than Vodafone’s, while the BSNL had not participated. In December, the farmers disconnected the power supply to the Jio towers. Counting 1,500 incidents of “sabotage and vandalism at the Jio network sites” in Punjab, the company wrote to the chief minister and the director general of police for intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/moved-to-jio-for-cost-saving-trolled-pspcl/articleshow/81439198.cms||IP Singh
March 11, 2021||Pune||BJP leader Chordiya dies after long battle with illness||Pune: Senior BJP leader Dharamchand Chordiya, known for his skills for building party organization, died on Wednesday after a prolonged illness. He was 71 and is survived by his son. A resident of Dhule, Chordiya was admitted to a Pune hospital and was discharged few days back. He was staying with his son in Pune when he breathed last. Considered a close associate of late Pramod Mahajan and late Gopinath Munde, Chordiya concentrated on building party organization in Maharashtra. He was general secretary and organizing secretary of Maharashtra BJP for a long time. Chordiya was also national secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuwa Morcha. He later became member of the Legislative Council. He was in Yerawada jail during emergency. Chordiya met with a road accident in 1992 when he was going to Jodhpur for a family function. He later stayed away from active politics because of his health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bjp-leader-chordiya-dies-after-long-battle-with-illness/articleshow/81437541.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Pune||PMPML bypasses order, allows few passengers to stand & travel||PUNE: Unable to control the passenger count on busy routes during peak hours, the PMPML has allowed a few commuters to stand and travel aboard buses, bypassing the instruction of the district administration to stop the practice due to the recent spike in Covid-19 cases. A few commuters will be allowed to stand and travel in Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses, officials said. A senior official with the traffic department told TOI that despite all their efforts, they have been unable to stop people from forcibly entering the buses during peak hours. “While a majority of buses are running only with seated passengers, it is not the case on busy routes as commuters get angry and forcibly enter the vehicles. We have told the conductors to allow some passengers to stand and travel to avoid untoward incidents. The number, however, cannot exceed three-four in order to maintain distance among them,” the official said. “When the buses start from the depots, we make sure that there are no standing passengers. However, at bus stops, the practice is harder to enforce. People are in a hurry to reach their workplaces in the morning and their homes in the evenings. We are still running around 1,500 buses each day,” the official added. PMPML’s chairman-cum-managing director, Rajendra Jagtap, did not comment on the matter till the time of going to press. Activists did not buy the version of the transport body. “Doesn’t PMPML have a responsibility too? There is an order from the administration and it has to be followed. PMPML can take the help of the police or other agencies,” PMP Pravasi Manch activist Sanjay Shitole told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-bypasses-order-allows-few-passengers-to-stand-travel/articleshow/81437544.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||3 held for bid to kill Nihang Sikh leader||New Delhi: Three assassins who were allegedly at the end stage of killing Balbir Singh, the chief of Budha Dal Nihang Samparday or 96 Crori, were arrested by Delhi Police. The accused are Malkit Singh (27) from Azadpur in Delhi, Bhupender Singh (24) and Jabarjang Singh (35) from Punjab. Malkit was out on parole from Tihar Jail. Jabarjang, an associate of Punjab gangster Lakha Sidhana, was also arrested on Wednesday in the Red Fort violence case. An officer said “Jabarjung was at the forefront during the January 26 violenc.” DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said the plan was to kill Balbir to conquer the biggest Sikh Jathebandi in India. Police received a tip-off on March 6 about the life convict out on parole planning a murder. Malkit and Bhupender were arrested with arms and ammunition. They disclosed the involvement of Jabarjang, who was apprehended on March 10. Jabarjung disclosed that Malkit and he were present at Mukarba Chowk and Red Fort on January 26. He came in touch with Sidhana while they were in Bathinda jail. He was sentenced to life imprisonment for murdering a Nihang Sikh and was out on bail. Malkit’s father was arrested in 2007 for the murder of four Nihang Sikhs. In 2010, he, his mother Jasbir Kaur and two sewadars kidnapped and murdered a granthi of a gurdwara. They were arrested and sentenced to life imprisonment. In 2017, he came out on parole and was involved in the murder of four members of Budha Dal due to a property dispute of Muktsar Sahib Gurdwara. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-held-for-bid-to-kill-nihang-sikh-leader/articleshow/81439210.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Delhi||DDA’s next housing scheme likely by year-end||NEW DELHI: If you couldn’t apply for Delhi Development Authority’s (DDA) housing scheme 2021 or applied but didn’t land a flat, you would get another chance this year itself. Officials of the land development agency, which held the draw of lots for the present scheme on Wednesday, said that its next scheme is likely to be launched by the end of 2021 itself. The authority on Wednesday conducted a draw for allotment of 1,353 flats across various locations in Delhi under the housing scheme 2021. Total 22,752 applications were received for the 253 mostly three-bedroom higher income group (HIG) flats, 757 two-bedroom middle income group (MIG) flats, 52 one-bedroom lower income group (LIG) flats and 291 EWS/janta flats located in areas like Dwarka, Jasola, Vasant Kunj, etc. Senior DDA officials said that currently, almost 30,000 flats of DDA are at various stages of construction and the next housing scheme would offer flats from this pool, even though the exact number of flats to be offered is yet to be decided. The location of these flats is likely to be mostly in Dwarka, Rohini and Narela, apart from Vasant Kunj and Jasola. For the first time, the entire process of the scheme including application submission, payment, issue of demand letters to successful applicants, cancellation and refund of money etc. has been made online and applicants have to visit the DDA office only once. The draw of lots on Wednesday was held under the supervision of a panel of three independent observers headed by a retired high court judge. “The other two members were senior technical experts of the central government. The draw was conducted based on random number generation technique,” a DDA spokesperson said, adding that the entire process was live streamed. “After completion of the draw, its result has been placed on DDA’s website. Allotment of flats through the draw was made to 1,353 applicants based on their preference for a locality or localities. A waiting list of 338 applicants have also been prepared by the draw,” he said. These applicants will be allotted flats in case of cancellation or surrender of flats by the main allottees. “Registration money of all unsuccessful applicants, including applicants on waitlist will be refunded within 15 days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ddas-next-housing-scheme-likely-by-year-end/articleshow/81437554.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Minor girl abducted, raped by autorickshaw driver; accused arrested||BAREILLY: A 14-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and raped by an autorickshaw driver under Civil Lines police station in UP’s Moradabad district. The rape survivor’s family puts up a food stall in Civil Lines area where the 21-year-old accused used to visit, frequently. The family alleged that the accused abducted the girl while she was on her way to the market and then raped her, on March 7. The accused also threatened her of dire consequences if she told anyone of the heinous act. A case has been registered and the accused has been arrested, police said. In the police complaint, the girl’s family alleged that their daughter was on her way to a market to purchase some articles for their food stall. The accused, who frequently eats food at their kiosk, abducted her. The girl told police that she was taken to a house in a deserted location where the accused raped her and later threatened to kill her. She further said that she was dropped near the tehsil by the accused. “She was traumatised and couldn't speak. When we repeatedly asked her where did she go for five-six hours, she narrated her ordeal,” the girl’s family alleged. Civil Lines SHO, Moradabad, Yogendra Krishna Yadav told TOI, “During investigation, it has been found that the accused was in contact with the family and even used to talk to the girl. A case has been registered under IPC sections 376 (punishment for rape), 363 (punishment for kidnapping) and Pocso Act.” “The accused claimed that the allegations levelled against him were not true. He has been arrested and further probe is underway,” the SHO added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-girl-abducted-raped-by-autorickshaw-driver-accused-arrested/articleshow/81435443.cms||Maria Khan
March 11, 2021||Pune||Edu films, documentaries on EMMRC’s YouTube channel||PUNE: Award-winning educational films and documentaries made by Educational Multimedia Research Centre will now be available on the centre’s YouTube channel launched on Tuesday. In 1991, a state-of-the-art TV studio was set up on the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) campus. The studio was designed by British architects and the documentaries or docudramas produced were of high quality and often used by Doordarshan. Almost two decades later, the institute, which has in its bank over 100 national award-winning educational films has decided to upload one such film on social issues and other relevant topics, every Friday on this channel. Sameer Sahasrabudhe, director, said, “These are not just films. These topics were chosen by previous teams with the utmost care and with a sense of social responsibility. The films went through a large phase of research and multiple checks and were approved by the UGC, edited as per suggestions, and then telecast on Doordarshan.” Jagat Nadda, director of Consortium for Educational Communication, who launched the YouTube channel virtually, indicated that in future all EMMRCs would come up with such channels, which will give the audience an authentic repository of documentaries. He said the pandemic has taught everyone the importance of visual media as a tool for education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/edu-films-documentaries-on-emmrcs-youtube-channel/articleshow/81437547.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||Promoter shot at after resisting snatchers||Kolkata: A 38-year-old promoter was allegedly shot at by some bike-borne miscreants near a construction site at Shyamnagar on the northern fringes of the city on Wednesday morning after he had thwarted a snatching attempt. Cops are looking for the culprits. No one has been arrested in this connection yet. Kajal Chowdhury, the real estate developer, who was struck by bullets in his back and right hand, was undergoing treatment at Kalyani JNM hospital where his condition was stated to be serious. According to local sources, the incident took place around 11.30am when Chowdhury, a resident of Kankinara, was on his way to the construction site at Shyamnagar’s Basudebpur Road in Ward 25 under Bhatpara municipality. “Three youths, whose faces were covered with helmets, came on a motorbike and stopped in front of Chowdhury carrying a bag. The two pillion riders tried to snatch his bag containing money and some documents. Chowdhury put up a fight and foiled their snatching bid. One of the them suddenly whipped out a gun and shot at him twice before fleeing the spot,” said a local trader. On hearing the gun shots, locals rushed to the spot and found that Chowdhury was lying in a pool of blood. He was rushed to the Bhatpara State General Hospital, from where he was later shifted to Kalyani JNM hospital. “We are investigating whether local criminals were involved in the shooting. Other police stations at Bhatpara, Noapara and Naihati were informed about the incident,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/promoter-shot-at-after-resisting-snatchers/articleshow/81437553.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: From Bapunagar chawl to mayor’s chair||AHMEDABAD: A person staying at Veera Bhagat Chawl near Anil Starch and paying a rent of Rs 4.25 to the corporation is now the first citizen of Ahmedabad. Staying in a one room under a tiled roof, this is the third term for Kirit Parmar, the municipal councillor from Thakkarbapanagar. Parmar, who lives in the congested chawl two motorcycles can barely pass abreast, whose family members and neighbours say he is a real ‘common man’. The one room houses his pooja area, a kitchen and a toilet accessible from the front porch. The house does not have a bathroom, but has a wash area which is probably used for bathing. The new mayor, Kirit Parmar, announced that he would stick to his roots and not shift to the mayor’s bungalow in Law Garden. He will have to walk some 300m as his official car will cannot get closer to his house. The chawl, which was set up in 1932 by Veera Bhagat, is now named after him. This is the third term as Thakkarbapanagar councillor for Parmar. In 2000, when the Congress had come to power, Parmar was elected councillor from the Potalia ward. In 2015, he contested from Saraspur-Rakhial. In his third term, and second one straight, he was elected from Thakkarbapanagar ward. Parmar is said to be close to BJP vice-president Gordhan Zadaphia. He was also a member of the standing committee headed by Amul Bhatt last term. The 54-year-old is a RSS worker and has Master of Arts and Bachelor of Education degrees. He still attends RSS shakhas in the mornings and evenings. Parmar is unmarried and lives with his sister, Mrudula, who is also unmarried. He has two elder brothers, Ramesh and Ishwar, and two younger sisters, Mrudula and Madhu. Ramesh has passed away and Kirit and Mrudula have decided not to marry and to care for Ramesh’s family. Kirit is fully immersed into social work, living off the remuneration he gets as a councillor. His sister Mrudula is a notary and advocate at the Mirzapur court. Mrudula, emotional about the mayoral appointment, says, “We are not running the show, the almighty is running it. Kirit used to come and pick me up on his motorycle from Mirzapur court. Now that he is the mayor I wonder whether I will be able to ride pillion with him.” She adds, “Kirit is down-to-earth and never hesitates to serve the society he comes from. I am not surprised that he has decided to stay in the chawl. He loves his family and friends and wants to stick to him his roots.” His elder brother Ishwar said, “Kirit never breaks any rules. He is a god-fearing person. I have cancer and had to go to Civil hospital regularly for treatment. As corporator, he used to stand in the queue and when I asked him once to use his corporator card, he told me that if I broke the queue the others before us would have to suffer, which he would not like. This left an impression on me.” Ishwar their grandfather had bought the house in 1932 and when they came to live there it was still surrounded by bushes and there was the fear of theft and robbery. The corporation took over the area and now they pay Rs 4.25 month as rent. Kirit has trophies for cricket and was once awarded the best bowler trophy in the Mayor’s Cup, which is regularly organised by the corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/from-bapunagar-chawl-to-mayors-chair/articleshow/81440530.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
March 11, 2021||Goa||29th Olive Ridley visits Agonda, total egg count crosses 3000||POINGUINIM: Nature lovers are upbeat. The 29th Olive Ridley turtle visited the Agonda nesting site on March 9, laying 90 eggs. This has taken the total of eggs laid at Agonda to 3,303. The eggs were immediately shifted to the site’s incubation centre. Agonda and Galgibaga, the two turtle nesting sites at Canacona, are doing progressively well this season. Agonda already boasts 29 turtle nesting pits which have been preserved, and Galgibaga has two. The first turtle nests at both beaches have hatched and 87 hatchlings have been released into the sea water - 37 at Galgibaga and 50 at Agonda. Forest sources say turtle nesting season starts every year in November-December and goes up to March-April. In all, 13 staff have been stationed at the two beaches to guard and protect the eggs in the nursery. The Galgibaga Turtle Interpretation Centre is manned by one forest guard, two temporary status level (TSL) workers and 4 daily wage workers. The staff strength at Agonda beach includes one forest guard, 2 TSLs and 3 daily wage workers. They work round the clock to see that no turtle eggs go to waste. Last season, there were 12 turtle nesting pits at Agonda and six at Galgibaga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/29th-olive-ridley-visits-agonda-total-egg-count-crosses-3k/articleshow/81439207.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Surat||Notorious ganja trafficker held after 10 years from Odisha||SURAT: A notorious ganja trafficker, Sunil Pandi, was nabbed by the Surat crime branch team from his native village Chhachina in Odisha. Pandi is involved in multiple offences of supplying ganja to traffickers for the past 10 years and he was arrested for the first time. Pandi is one of the few top smugglers from Odisha, who are involved in the racket of distribution of contraband, in different parts of the country.  Three teams of crime branch were camping in Odisha’s Ganjam district based on specific information about Pandi’s presence in hi s native village. “Pandi was aware that a police team from Gujarat will nab him anytime, hence he had made preparations to attack the cops. Our teams had to carry out the operation in a clandestine manner,” said city police commissioner Ajay Tomar.  Pandi has been running the drug racket with his elder brother Anil. They are involved in supplying ganja to Surat and other parts of the state. Earlier, they used to send ganja through trains, but in the last couple of years they started sending it in trucks.  “They store ganja in rented rooms near cities in Gujarat and then supply the contraband to bulk suppliers in the city. Pandi brothers purchase ganja from farmers in Odisha, arrange transport and deliver it to suppliers,” said a senior crime branch officer.  Pandi is wanted in two offences of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act of Varachha police station and two lodged by Surat railway police station.  “It is a major success for the city police in our mission ‘No Drugs in Surat.’ We will continue our drive to arrest all those involved in smuggling drugs into the city,” the police commissioner added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/notorious-ganja-trafficker-held-after-10-yrs-from-odisha/articleshow/81435440.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||After standing committee, Mayor’s fund cut by Rs 50 crore||MUMBAI: After cutting the funds of the civic Standing Committee by Rs 100 crore, the civic administration is likely to cut the funds of the civic General Body known as the Mayor’s fund by Rs 50 crore. Instead of Rs 125 crore which was allocated for Mayor Kishori Pednekar last year, only Rs 75 crore have been earmarked for Pednekar to distribute to corporators. Pednekar on Tuesday met civic Group Leaders and Chahal seeking at least Rs 125 crore claiming that this was an election year and corporators would need more money for development works in their constituencies. Last month, amid a controversy over the misuse of funds by corporators, the BMC administration had slashed the civic Standing Committee’s amendment fund in this year’s budget by Rs 100 crore. This year, the Standing Committee has been allocated around Rs 650 crore compared to last year’s budget allocation of Rs 750 crore. When contacted Pednekar said, “These funds are not anyone's personal funds. They are funds meant for corporators to do development works. This is an election year we are expecting that the administration to give more funds to corporators,” Pednekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-after-standing-committee-mayors-fund-to-be-cut-by-rs-50-crore/articleshow/81440758.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Covid’s relationship with surgery: It’s complicated||NEW DELHI: It’s better to delay surgery, except for emergencies, if you have been diagnosed with Covid-19 recently. A new study shows that people who undergo surgery within six weeks of being Covid-positive are more than two-and-a-half times more likely to pass away compared with those who don’t have the infection. The risk goes up further if the time of surgery is closer to the diagnosis of Covid-19, the study published in medical journal Anaesthesia says. The analysis was based on over 1.4 lakh surgeries conducted in 1,674 hospitals in 116 countries. This included 56 hospitals from India, including All India Institute of Medical Sciences. Dr Shilpa Sharma, who led the study from AIIMS, told TOI, “While it is a known fact that SARS-CoV-2 infection during surgery increases the mortality risk, this is the first time a study has given evidence about the least amount of time delay in surgeries that would optimise final outcomes.” “In all, 31 doctors from AIIMS participated in the study. We analysed deaths and pulmonary complications recorded within 30 days in patients who underwent surgery in departments such as paediatric, orthopaedics, cardiothoracic and general surgery and neurosurgery. It showed that patients with current and past history of Covid-19 were at higher risk of post-surgery complications and even death,” added Sharma. The doctor said that this could be because Covid-19 causes systemic inflammation. “The infection affects the lungs. Administering anaesthesia isn’t easy. Also, most such patients have low immunity and the risk of postoperative infection is high. The decision to delay surgery needs to be balanced by the disease risk to the patient,” she added. At AIIMS, RT-PCR and CBNAAT tests are carried out routinely to screen all surgical patients. Surgery is delayed for those who test positive, wherever possible, till the patients recover. Dr Surya Kumar Dube, neuro-anaesthesiologist at AIIMS, said, “Most cases operated during the pandemic were emergency situations comprising ortho, surgical and head trauma, brain tumours and life-threatening conditions.” The study showed that time of surgery from the diagnosis of Covid-19 was inversely proportional to the risk of death and even pulmonary complications. Of the 1,40,231 patients who underwent surgery at different hospitals during the study period (October 2020), 3,127 were diagnosed with current or recent history of Covid-19. The 30-day post-operative mortality in patients who underwent surgery in 0-2 weeks of diagnosis of Covid-19 was 9.1%, 6.9% within 3-4 weeks of the infection, 5.5% within 5-6 weeks of contracting Covid-19, and 2% in those who were operated upon after seven weeks of being infected with the virus. Lead researchers Dmitri Nepogodiev and Aneel Bhangu from University of Birmingham recommended that whenever possible, surgery should be delayed for at least seven weeks after a Covid-positive result or until symptoms resolve. “Decisions regarding delaying surgery should be tailored for each patient since the possible advantages of a minimum seven-week delay following SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis must be balanced against the potential risks of delay. For urgent surgeries, like advanced tumours, surgeons and patients may decide that the risks of delay are not justified,” said Bhagnu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covids-relationship-with-surgery-its-complicated/articleshow/81437560.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
March 11, 2021||Pune||5-yr-old falls from auto; injures hand||Pune: A five-year-old girl suffered injuries to her left hand after she accidentally fell from a moving autorickshaw in Bhosari on Tuesday afternoon. Instead of taking her to a hospital, the autorickshaw driver drove away from the spot. The girl’s parents, on Wednesday, took her to a hospital and were told that she would require plastic surgery on the wound. The police said the girl and her two friends were taking a ride in the autorickshaw belonging to their neighbour. “When the autorickshaw reached near the girl’s house in Bhosari, she tried to alight. The driver, however, did not stop and she fell off the vehicle,” said an officer from the Bhosari police station. The girl’s father told TOI, “When the accident happened, my wife and I were not at home. We came home late at night and found that our daughter was seriously injured.” The girl’s father has lodged a first information report (FIR) against the autorickshaw driver. "We are yet to arrest him," the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-yr-old-falls-from-auto-injures-hand/articleshow/81437552.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Pune||In paper leak case, Major Kolari sent to police custody till March 15||PUNE: A special court on Wednesday sent Major Vasant Vijay Kilari (45) in police remand till March 15 in connection with the paper leak of the Indian Army’s common entrance examination for recruiting soldiers (general duty). The Pune police crime branch had arrested Kilari from New Delhi on Tuesday night and brought him to the city for questioning. Earlier, Major Theru Murugan Tangvelu was arrested from Tamil Nadu. Assistant commissioner of police (Crime-2) Laxman Borate produced Kilari before the special judge, S R Navander, around 3.35pm on Wednesday. He filed a remand plea, seeking Kilari’s custodial remand for seven days. Additional public prosecutor Prem Agarwal told the court that Kilari was arrested after the earlier arrested army officer, Tangvelu, revealed that he had received the question paper from Kilari via social networking site. Tangvelu had later forwarded the paper to the previously arrested suspect, Bharat Akadmol. Agarwal submitted that Kilari was isolated from his office soon after the paper leak incident came to light and his custodial interrogation was essential to find out from whom he had received the paper. He said the police had recovered Kilari’s cellphone and the process to find out with whom he was in contact before/after the incident was in progress. The process of retrieving data from his phone would take time because he claimed that it had got wet, Agarwal said. The prosecution argued that Kilari and Tangelvu were batchmates and their questioning was essential to probe the financial transactions with the earlier arrested suspects. The involvement of more suspects is expected to surface in investigations. Defence lawyer Jyoti Pawar, representing Kilari, argued that her client and Tangvelu were confronted with each other for questioning soon after he was arrested on Tuesday night. She pleaded to send Kilari in judicial custody remand, claiming that his presence in person was not essential for examining the call details record of his cellphone by the police. The court, after hearing both the sides, upheld the prosecution’s plea and sent Kilari in police remand till March 15. Seeking permission to meet his wife and son, Kilari later told the court that he was extending all possible co-operation to the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-paper-leak-case-major-kolari-sent-to-police-custody-till-march-15/articleshow/81437556.cms||Asseem Shaikh
March 11, 2021||Goa||BJP-backed Mapusa panel gives 9 tickets to women||SALIGAO: Even as BJP has received flak for the low number of seats reserved for women in the upcoming municipal elections across the state, ‘Mapusa Development Front’ backed by BJP has reserved nearly 45% of its tickets for women contesting the March 21 polls to the Mapusa municipality. “From among the 20 candidates, nine women are contesting the polls under our panel,” said Mapusa MLA Joshua D’Souza. The declaration of candidates was done in the presence of former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar, whom BJP has appointed to oversee the BJP election management, Aldona MLA Glen Ticlo, besides the Mapusa MLA and others. The convener of the panel, Rupesh Kamat announced the names of the 20 candidates. Addressing reporters, D’Souza said that the panel is a mixture of old and new faces, with some former chairpersons and vice-chairpersons in the fray. Among the 80 candidates contesting the Mapusa elections are sons and daughters of some former chairpersons and veteran councillors. Ticlo appealed to all party workers to keep aside their differences and work towards ensuring the victory of the panel’s 20 candidates. Opposition members from Congress, MGP, Goa Forward, and others, have floated the ‘Mapxeakaracho Ekvott’ panel, while Bodgeshwar Development Front is backed by NCP functionaries from Mapusa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-backed-mapusa-panel-gives-9-tickets-to-women/articleshow/81439212.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Pune||Man held on charge of mom’s murder with girlfriend in Maharashtra||PUNE: A 19-year-old man and his girlfriend (26) were arrested late on Wednesday night on the charge of murdering his mother in the eraly hours of the day at Vadhu Khurd village near Koregaon Bhima because she was opposed to their relationship. The Pune rural police said the man, Vishal Ram Vanjari, attempted to mislead them by giving false narrative of the incident thoughout the day. A team headed by senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of the crime branch of the Pune rural police finally arrested Vishal and his girlfriend, Nancy Gabriel Dongare (26) late in the night. The police said the deceased woman, Sushila Ram Vanjari (39), was strangled to death. Vishal did odd jobs and Sushila was a labourer. The police said Vishal and Nancy were in a relationship and Sushila was opposed to it. The police said Vishal initially claimed that he was not at home when his mother was murdered. He also claimed that somebody from the village or a money lender from Jalgaon might be behind the murder as Sushila had borrowed some money from him. Vishal lodged a misleading complaint with the Loni Kand police. Till Wednesday evening, he continued to claim that somebody from the village or the money lender had killed his mother. The police said they came to know later that Vishal was in love with Nancy. Vishal allegedly stole Rs15,000 from his house for his girlfriend. Sushila came to know about it and she pulled up her son, the police said. Vishal and Sushila had arguments following this. The police said Sushila also opposed their marriage. “This enraged Vishal and Nancy, and they decided to kill Sushila,” Ghanwat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-on-charge-of-moms-murder-with-girlfriend/articleshow/81437548.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||New body at the helm of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation||AHMEDABAD: At about 9.30am, at the BJP meeting, its AMC in-charge I K Jadeja walked in with an envelope and after addressing the elected municipal councillors for nearly 15 minutes. He later announced that Thakkarbapanagar councillor Kirit Parmar was the mayor and Geeta Patel from Naranpura was his deputy. Jadeja asked the councillors to stay grounded and remain in touch with people of their areas. Jadeja said they should not fly high after being elected. He also cautioned that the elected representatives should respect the party decision and stand by it. Jadeja then opened the envelope he was carrying and announced the names. The BJP, which got more seats from the eastern part of the city than in 2015 tried to balance representation and has two office bearers from the eastern part and three from western part. According to the party officials, of the three top posts in the corporation, two posts — that is the deputy mayor and standing committee — were bagged by the Amit Shah group while the mayor is an RSS man and his appointment was done with consultation with the RSS. The commissioner, Mukesh Kumar, who chaired the AMC general board meeting made the announcement of the election and the process of electing the office bearers began at 11.02am. AMC officials gave 15 minutes to fill the forms while 15 minutes were given for withdrawal of nomination. However, the Congress, which did not have the numbers, did not field a candidate and the mayor was elected unopposed. The All-India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen which has seven councillors was provided special seating arrangement in the opposition benches. The only independent, Kalu Bharwad, from Lambha, was seeing sitting in the opposition benches dressed in the traditional Bharwad attire. He says, “We usually wear pants and shirt or kurta, but this is an opportunity to showcase my community.” All 192 corporators and officials were made to undergo rapid antigen tests before entering Tagore Hall in Paldi. Officials said this was the first time that the election was held outside the AMC headquarters. After their election, the mayor and office bearers went to the Bhadra Kali temple and then drove to the corporation office. Supporters of the mayor and deputy mayor perfomed pooja of the official cars before the two got in their official vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-body-at-the-helm-of-amc/articleshow/81440529.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Pune||Realty project cost inches up in Pune||PUNE: Mumbai is the most expensive major city to develop housing or commercial projects in, followed by Delhi and Pune, with the pandemic causing costs to rise, a report on construction costs in India by the consultancy firm JLL has revealed. The report, Construction Cost Guide Book, said an average luxury apartment costs around Rs 5,625 per sqft in Mumbai, with the cost per sqft for Delhi and Pune being Rs 4,950 and 4,905, respectively. The report said across asset classes, a project in Mumbai was 10% more expensive to build than the other major cities in India, with Hyderabad and Chennai being the cheapest. “Going ahead, we see cost is one of the key drivers in real estate decisions. Many firms today are relooking at their real estate choices to optimise spend. While the true impact of pandemic on construction costs is still being discussed and debated, the general trend is obvious – construction costs is on the rise,” said MV Harish, of JLL India. The report said the pandemic had caused construction costs to rise by 5-6% in new, greenfield projects and interior fit-outs, with the costs largely attributed to the soaring cost of raw material, such as cement, reinforced steel, concrete, stones, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/realty-project-cost-inches-up-in-pune/articleshow/81437551.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Centre can form panel to inspect Banganga tank||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Wednesday allowed the Centre to set up a committee to inspect Banganga Tank, a grade-I heritage structure in south Mumbai, and submit a report within 3 weeks on the extent of impact of construction in the vicinity or any pollution caused to natural water springs that feed the tank. Last week, HC permitted work of piling and construction by two developers to resume in the area. On Wednesday, HC said the survey and inspection must be done when construction is on. Milind Sathe, counsel for one developer, said “work for 15 days is left. Work of eight piles remains”. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centre-can-form-panel-to-inspect-banganga-tank-in-mumbai/articleshow/81440533.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Rayalaseema farmers set for record Rabi production||AMARAVATI: The perennially drought-hit Rayalaseema region is seeing an upturn in fortunes with once barren lands now turning into lush agriculture fields. The area is preparing for record production for the current Rabi season with total sowed increasing by as much as 30%. The planted area is considered to be the highest in the last decade. This, as farmers in the region have fully utilised the available water resources as a result of the abundant rains triggered by cyclone Nivar in November last year. Ground water levels too have witnessed substantial increases in the last three months, helping farmers to go for cultivation in about 20 lakh acres across four districts — Chittoor, Kadapa, Kurnool and Ananthapuram. The usual cultivated area during Rabi season is just around 14 lakh acres. However, the agriculture department had set a target of bringing at least 16 lakh acres under cultivation for the current Rabi, taking into account the impact of the rains. The total sowed area exceeded targets, touched nearly 20 lakh acres by the end of February and is expected to go up by another one lakh acres in coming days. “Measures initiated to improve the irrigation facilities by taking up modernisation of many canals in the area in the last two years has helped thousands of farmers in the region. The region will witness revolutionary changes, particularly with regards to the improvement of irrigation infrastructure,” said agriculture mission vice-chairman, MVS Nagireddy. He said that CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had set his focus on restructuring the entire irrigation infrastructure in the region to provide maximum quota of water to the region. Sources said that pulses were being cultivated in over 10 lakh acres, nearly one lakh acres more than the target set by the agriculture department. “We are expecting high output during the current season as the weather conditions are fully favourable with no pests and unseasonal rains,” said Habib Basha, a senior agriculture official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rseema-farmers-set-for-record-rabi-production/articleshow/81436637.cms||Samdani MN
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||State govt paves way for JDA to fetch revenue of Rs 2.5k cr||Jaipur: The state government paved a way for the cash-strapped Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) to earn revenue of Rs 2,577 crore as it gave a nod to resolve the disputes of long-pending schemes.After the proposal was cleared in the empowered committee meeting on February 14, chaired by UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal, it received final approval from the chief minister.With this, the JDA gears up to resolve the dispute of five schemes, including Transport Nagar, Westway Heights (Ajmer road), Central Spine (Jagatpura), Lohamandi Scheme and Gopalpura bypass to fetch revenue.An official said, the civic body plans to earn revenue of Rs 500 crore after settling Tranport Nagar land dispute. “The allottees of Transport Nagar locked horns with JDA over land rates. Since then, the scheme has hit a roadblock. A committee headed by the Jaipur Development commissioner has been constituted to resolve the rate dispute within a month. The JDA plans to fill its coffers after selling the land,” said the officialSimilarly, to resolve the Central Spine scheme in Jagatpura, an amended memorandum of understanding (MoU), which will be signed between JDA and Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation (RIICO), will be prepared and sent to the chief secretary. Following this, MoU will be sent to the UDH minister and then to the empowered committee.Explaining the deadlock, an official said, in 1997, the JDA started the process to acquire 190.31 hectares, which was completed in 2000 to develop the scheme. The project was jointly proposed by the JDA and RIICO. However, after JDA failed to provide compensation (25% developed land) to farmers on the state government’s direction, the development of scheme was stalled for the past 20 years.“When plots were acquired, the agencies proposed to give 15% land as compensation. Following this, farmers approached the court and the state government and it was decided to increase the compensation up to 25%. But JDA did not have this much land to distribute as compensation and the scheme came to a grinding halt. Now, both government agencies will revise the MoU,” said the officialIn Lohamandi scheme, after receiving the state government’s nod, the JDA will pay compensation to allottees after they withdraw court cases. Civic body plans to earn revenue of Rs 500 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-govt-paves-way-for-jda-to-fetch-revenue-of-rs-2-5k-cr/articleshow/81437569.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Commercial area in proposed heritage city to be reduced||Jaipur: After receiving objections and suggestions from the public, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) is likely to revise the layout plan of the proposed heritage city on Agra road. Re-planning is on cards to reduce the commercial area to 10%, which was earlier earmarked upto 50% of the heritage city, proposed to be developed on the lines of the Walled City.An official said, “If the proposal gets nod, commercial activities in the proposed scheme can be developed on the 80 feet road. In the present blueprint provision, these establishments can come up on 40 feet road.”Sources said the committee constituted for public hearing also recommended the proposal. In such a circumstance, the JDA will have to amend the planning of the proposed heritage city. “The final decision will be taken by UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal. However, in the coming years, multi-functional zone is a better option and JDA should not make amendments in the layout,” said a source. As per initial plan, in the proposed heritage city, 50 per cent of minimum area has been reserved for major economic activities. Similarly, maximum 47% of the area will be fixed for residential. “A list of 161 commercial activities was proposed in scheme. The size of the scheme is 10 square-kilometre. The JDA will only monitor the parameters fixed for the scheme, while construction will be done by the individual plot owners.”The draft reads, “The historic Walled City of Jaipur is based on grid iron pattern, where there is a juxtaposition of various activities and uses both vertically and horizontally, which creates a unique culture and lifestyle for the inhabitants. Thus, the Walled city is a mixed land use city. The proposed Heritage City was also envisaged with same mixture of uses and activities.”It has also been proposed all buildings have to be constructed as per traditional design, style and order of Walled City. Rajasthani architectural elements of Jaipur style like arches, jharokhas, bay windows, columns, chajjas and brackets shall be used as elevational elements of the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/commercial-area-in-proposed-heritage-city-to-be-reduced/articleshow/81437563.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Three IPS officers promoted as ADG||Hyderabad: Three officer of the 1996 batch of IPS officers of Telangana were promoted to additional director general of police (ADGP) rank on Wednesday. In a government order issued on Wednesday, chief secretary Somesh Kumar said inspector general of police-rank officers — Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar, Hyderabad additional commissioner of police (traffic) Anil Kumar and inspector-general, CRPF, Charu Sinha — were promoted to ADGP rank and they were directed to continue in their existing postings. As a result, Sajjanar and Anil Kumar would continue to hold posts of Cyberabad police commissioner and Hyderabad additional commissioner of police (traffic) respectively, however, in the rank of ADGP. In October, 2020 the office of director general of police recommended promotion for the 1996 batch officers. As of now, at least seven IPS officers, who were promoted, have been continued to be in the same position without transferring them to new postings. Sajjanar and Anil Kumar would join the list as the government elevated their posting rank to accommodate them in the same posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-ips-officers-promoted-as-adg/articleshow/81439245.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Construction worker killed in wall collapse in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: A worker engaged in the construction of a railway subway died on the spot after a compound wall collapsed near Madhuranagar railway station in the city on Wednesday evening. The deceased was identified as Taufuddin (35). According to railway officials, the mishap occurred when the compound wall slipped and collapsed. There were four workers including Taufuddin when the accident occurred, The officials said that they are yet to ascertain the cause of the was collapse but suspect that a landslip might have been the reason. The police along with railway officials visited the spot and removed the debris with the help of an earth excavator to retrieve the body. The three other workers, who were at the spot, managed to escape with minor bruises. They were treated at a local government hospital. The subway is being constructed for passengers to travel underneath the platform to reach the other side of the railway station. Satyanarayanapuram police examined the scene of the incident and have registered a case under Section 174 of CrPC (unnatural death) and sent Taufuddin’s body for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/construction-worker-killed-in-wall-collapse/articleshow/81436941.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Delhi||45-yr-old driver shot at, personal enmity suspected||New Delhi: A 45-year-old man was critically injured after being shot at by a bike-borne man near the Electricity Grid in south Delhi’s Andrews Ganj on Wednesday. The victim, Bhimraj, is a resident of Chirag Dilli and works as a contractual driver in BSES. He suffered a single bullet injury in his neck. Police said that they suspected personal enmity behind the incident. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/45-yr-old-driver-shot-at-personal-enmity-suspected/articleshow/81437566.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||Car falls into gorge, 5 people injured||Mussoorie: At least five people sustained injuries when a car veered off the road and fell into a gorge on Wednesday evening. The accident took place on the Jharipani- Kolhukhet road. One of the injured is said to be critical. All five persons were residents of Mussoorie. The car fell about 70 feet off the road. The passengers could somehow survive the accident as trees stopped the car from falling further downhill. “We have rescued the passengers of the vehicle with the help of local residents. All five people on board the car suffered injuries and were rushed to Dehradun. The condition of one passenger is said to be serious,” said sub-inspector Neeraj Kathait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/car-falls-into-gorge-5-people-injured/articleshow/81436360.cms||Anmol Jain
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Eligibility criteria for vax can’t be based on profession: Centre to HC||New Delhi: The Centre has said that the decision to have a criteria for those eligible to get Covid-19 vaccine is based on vulnerability of citizens to the disease and is a “purely executive decision” that may not be subjected to judicial review.Taking a strong stand against allowing vaccination for judges, lawyers and court staff who don’t fit into the current category of either above 60 years of age or having listed comorbidities, the Centre told the Delhi high court on Wednesday that any specific classification either based upon the nature of trade, profession or otherwise is neither possible nor advisable.It made the submission in its affidavit filed in response to a PIL initiated by the high court to examine if those associated with judicial functioning can be treated as “frontline workers” so that they could receive Covid-19 vaccination on priority.During the hearing, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli pointed out that due to the pandemic, courts’ functioning has also taken a huge hit.“Judiciary is an important wing and one of the three pillars of the state. To compare it with others is not correct. Its functioning is getting hampered. Nobody can deny that the efficiency of cases has taken a huge hit. Hundreds and thousands of people congregate here daily and everyday different people are coming. Risk of exposure is there,” the bench said.However, it was informed by senior advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul, appearing for Bharat Biotech, that the manufacturer had moved the Supreme Court seeking to transfer all such petitions pending in high courts across India to the apex court as the issue concerns everyone. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, on behalf of the Centre, also urged the high court to wait till March 15 when the SC is likely to take up the plea.Solicitor General Mehta told the high court bench that “the central government has taken this decision of classification on the basis of age, vulnerability and comorbidity. Even the executive and legislature are not entitled for vaccines right now unless they are above 60 years of age or between the age of 45 and 59 years with comorbidities.”He said the government had prioritised vaccination based on certain fundamental, basic principles and lawyers above 60 years of age or between 45 and 59 years with comorbidities were already covered under the current vaccine policy.“Even all doctors are not included presently. Only those doctors or health workers potentially or directly exposed to Covid-19 patients are covered,” the law officer contended, adding that eventually everyone under the age of 45 years will also be covered. A layered approach is being taken towards vaccination not just in India but also across the world, he added.Senior advocates Vikas Singh and Ramesh Gupta, representing all the bar associations of Delhi and the Bar Council, opposed Mehta, saying lawyers work in crowded places since courts see heavy footfall but the Centre completely forgot it in its affidavit.Delhi High Court, thereafter, posted the matter for further hearing on March 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eligibility-criteria-for-vax-cant-be-based-on-profession-centre-to-hc/articleshow/81437572.cms||Abhinav Garg
March 11, 2021||Pune||7th Pay Commission for civic workers||Pune: The general body of the Pune Municipal Corporation on Wednesday approved the implementation of the 7th Pay Commission for its employees. The GB meeting was held online due to the Covid-19 restrictions. Over 17,000 civic employees are likely to benefit after the state government approves its implementation. Mayor Muralidhar Mohol said, “The proposal was approved unanimously by all political parties. The proposal received 41 suggestions, of which 22 were accepted. Total funds of Rs 585 crore will be required to pay the arrears since 2016. The proposal will be sent to the state government for final approval.” The civic body had constituted an all party members committee chaired by BJP’s Shrinath Bhimale to work on the proposal. Bhimale said, “We held discussions with the employees and all the stakeholders before finalizing the draft. It is an important decision for the PMC employees who worked hard during the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7th-pay-commission-for-civic-workers/articleshow/81437576.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Delhi||More rain likely in Delhi over 2 days, thunderstorm possible tomorrow||NEW DELHI: After parts of Delhi received light rain on Tuesday, another spell of rain is predicted for Thursday and Friday. Lightning, thunderstorm and gusty winds are also likely on Friday. Two western disturbances in quick succession will cause thundery development in the region. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorology Department (IMD) and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “A fresh western disturbance is expected to impact the hills and plains on Thursday and another western disturbance on Saturday. Very light rain is predicted on Thursday evening or night while rain along with hailstorm, thunderstorm and lightning is likely on Friday.” According to IMD, Delhi recorded 1 mm rainfall till 8.30am on Wednesday at Safdarjung, which is the city’s base station. The maximum temperature recorded was 33 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal. The minimum temperature was reported at 18.2 degrees Celsius, four degrees above normal. The humidity levels oscillated between 46% and 87%. On Thursday, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to be around 34 and 17 degrees Celsius, respectively. Met officials said the day temperature would mostly remain 33-34 degrees Celsius over the next five days while night temperature would hover around 18 degrees Celsius during the same period. There is less chance of major fluctuation in temperatures in the next few days. Meanwhile, rain on Tuesday helped in cleaning Delhi’s air as the overall Air Quality improved to 175 in ‘moderate’ category on Wednesday as against 283 in ‘poor’ category on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/more-rain-likely-over-2-days-thunderstorm-possible-tomorrow/articleshow/81437604.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Electrotherm MD arrested for Rs 200 crore loan fraud, forgery||AHMEDABAD: Santej police of Gandhinagar on Wednesday arrested the managing director of Electrotherm Ltd, Shailesh Bhandari, following a complaint by his elder brother, Mukesh Bhandari, alleging that the MD had availed of a Rs 200 crore loan by forgery. Mukesh, 70, alleged that Shailesh had taken two bank loans of Rs 100 crore each from the Ashram Road branch of Indian Overseas Bank in Ahmedabad city in 2011 using forged documents and forged signatures of him when he was on a foreign tour. This is fresh legal trouble for Shailesh, who was in February accused of fake billing fraud of Rs 47 crore by the state GST department crore after searches at the Electrotherm premises at Palodia village in Kalol taluka of Gandhinagar. At that time, 898 bottles of imported liquor, worth Rs 33 lakh, and eight live cartridges were found from Shailesh’s office by Santej police. He had also sought an anticipatory bail from the Gujarat high court and his plea is pending at present. Later, the HC ordered Shailesh to appear before Gandhinagar police in connection with the inquiry into the prohibition and Arms Act case. In a fresh complaint by Mukesh with Santej police, it has been alleged that when a complaint for the Rs 400 crore forgery was being investigated by the CID (crime), he also enquired in other loans taken by Shailesh. During his inquiry, he came to know that when he was on tour to Hong Kong, San Francisco, Chicago, Munich, Rome and Vienna between April 30, 2011 and May 19, 2011, Shailesh had taken the two loans which include a Rs 100 crore short term loan and another Rs 100 crore loan on cash credit facility. Those two loans were taken for a term of six months but as Shailesh, who had availed the loans by producing documents in which he forged Mukesh’ signature, did not pay the amount back, the total loan and interest amount rose to Rs 315 crore. As the loan was not paid, the Indian Overseas bank filed a complaint against the Electrotherm firm in 2015 in which Mukesh was made respondent because the loan was taken on his name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/electrotherm-md-arrested-for-rs-200cr-loan-fraud-forgery/articleshow/81437546.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: TTD mulling proposal to boost milk production||TIRUPATI: In their bid to become self-reliant to meet the milk requirements of numerous temples under its fold in Tirupati, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is contemplating to launch a project to enhance indigenous milk production through embryo transfer. As part of its Hindu Sanathana Dharma Prachara, TTD started the Sri Venkateswara Gosamrakshanashala in 1956. It now has over 3,000 cattle of which 600 breeding varieties include Indian breeds such as Gir, Sahiwal, Ongole, Kangeyan and Punganur. Following directions of executive officer (EO) Dr KS Jawahar Reddy, TTD is mulling the idea of sustaining the productivity of indigenous breeds as well enhancing milk production by adopting embryo transfer technology. The proposed project is aimed at improving the genetic potential of dairy cattle located at SV Goshala with a technique called embryo derived pregnancies (EDP-IVF-ET). The proposed embryo-derived method will not only help in increasing the productivity of the milch animals but also reduces the risks of disease transmission by producing calves with superior germplasm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-mulling-proposal-to-boost-milk-production/articleshow/81437028.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
March 11, 2021||Pune||Vehicle scrapping firms to get Maharashtra govt consent||PUNE: Vehicle scrapping agencies will be authorised by the state transport department so that people wishing to scrap their vehicles can go to them directly instead of visiting the regional transport office (RTO) to get the job done, state transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne said. “The state is yet to implement the new voluntary scrapping policy announced recently in the Union Budget. While finer details are awaited, the state government intends to identify scrap dealers who will be authorised by the transport department and the respective RTOs,” he said. At present, people willing to scrap old vehicles have to first approach the local RTO after which they can go to any scrap dealer they want, Pune RTO officials said. The vehicle scraping policy is voluntary and allows private vehicles 20 years old or more and commercial vehicles 15 years old or more to be scrapped. While vehicles need to be re-registered when they become 15 years’ old, the Maharashtra government also imposes a green tax on such vehicles. “The government intends to re-use the vehicle scrap in automobile industry. Instances where people scrap their vehicles without approaching the RTO to save tax will be controlled through this and the RTO will get a database of the scrapped vehicles. Once the policy is announced in the state, we expect a surge in the number of people opting to scrap their vehicles for which authorised scrapping agencies will be needed,” a Pune RTO official told TOI. Earlier, officials had said that there could be around 13 lakh vehicles, both private and public, which were over 15 years’ old in Pune. As many as 3,592 vehicles were scrapped during April 2019 and March 31, 2020. Around 1,173 old vehicles were scrapped between April 1, 2020 and March 5, 2021. “The number has been less due to the pandemic and lockdown, else the number of scrapped vehicles would have increased by 20%,” another official said. Currently, the local RTO office needs to be informed if a person wants to scrap a vehicle. Approval is given if the inspector is convinced that the vehicle is for for scrappage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vehicle-scrapping-firms-to-get-state-govt-consent/articleshow/81437564.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Spike in arrack brewing, movement during polls||Vijayawada: Cases of arrack brewing and transportation have seen a spike since the resumption of local body elections. Officials of special enforcement bureau (SEB) have conducted intensive search operations to prevent distribution of liquor during the local body elections, panchayat and municipal, and seized large quantities of liquor. Interestingly cases of arrack surpassed non-duty paid liquor cases (NDPL) during election season. After the announcement of elections, detection of illicitly distilled (ID) liquor cases (mostly arrack) has been 300% more than NDPL cases. In terms of quantity, arrack seizures are 34% more than NDPL as per SEB data. Sleuths have also destroyed 21 lakh litres of fermented jaggery wash along with 55,546 litres of ID liquor during the election period. Speaking to TOI, SEB commissioner Vineet Brijlal said that NDPL inflow has come down significantly. “We have developed our intelligence gathering capabilities and deployed teams at all vulnerable places from where liquor is coming into AP. After policy tweaks to reduce prices of liquor, all amateur players are now out of the trade and only some stubborn and hardcore bootleggers are in the fray,” he said. Brijlal noted that bootleggers who transport large quantities are now focussing on Karnataka and Goa to get contraband as borders with Telangana have been tightened. “Due to the vast border with Karnataka and relatively difficult terrain when compared to Telangana, SEB finds it difficult to monitor that border. However, we are now shifting out focus on to Karnataka border and devising strategies to contain NDPL inflows into the state,” the SEB commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/spike-in-arrack-brewing-movement-during-polls/articleshow/81436918.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Seva award ceremonies for village volunteers on Ugadi||Amaravati: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the administration to select the best serving village and ward volunteers for Seva Awards to be granted on Ugadi festival. The chief minister said that volunteers have become backbone of the government administration as they are playing an exemplary role in taking government services to the doorsteps of the people. The chief minister reviewed the progress of housing projects with senior officials at the camp office on Wednesday. During the review, the CM asked officials to give top priority to identification of volunteers for the awards. He asked them to categorise the awards into three groups. Around 2 lakh volunteers will be felicitated with Seva Mitra award across the state. Based on the performance in disbursement of pensions, household survey, distribution of rice and Aarogyasri cards, at least five volunteers from each village and municipal town and 10 volunteers from each municipal corporation will be picked up for Seva Ratna award. As many as five volunteers from each assembly constituency would be picked up for Seva Vajra award. The government will grant Rs 10,000 to each Seva Mitra awardee, Rs 20,000 to Seva Ratna and Rs 30,000 to Seva Vajra awardees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/seva-award-ceremonies-for-village-volunteers-on-ugadi/articleshow/81436966.cms||Samdani MN
March 11, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Work on Vij airport integrated terminal underway: Puri||Visakhapatnam: Union minister for civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday informed that construction of the new, integrated terminal is underway at the Vijayawada and is expected to be completed by March 2023. Construction works for the integrated terminal have been taken up at a cost of nearly Rs 612 crore and have already commenced at the airport. Puri was responding to YSRC MP V Vijayasai Reddy’s query over the issue in the Rajya Sabha. Puri said that the Centre had given its approval for the integrated terminal at the airport on June 17, 2020. As part of the approved plans, construction of the new integrated terminal building along with an air traffic control (ATC) tower, apron, link taxiway will be taken up. The civil aviation minister said that so far, on the airport terminal building, link taxiway and other constructions around Rs 11.3 crore funds had been spent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/work-on-vij-airport-integrated-terminal-underway-puri/articleshow/81436849.cms||Siva G
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Agrigold scam: Bail for three accused||Hyderabad: Justice G Sri Devi of the Telangana high court on Wednesday granted bail to the three accused in the Agrigold deposits scam in a case filed against them by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The directors of this scam-hit company, Avva Venkata Rama Rao, AV Seshu Narayana Rao, and Hemasundar Prasad were granted bail. They were arrested by AP police in the past and were earlier jailed by AP police under IPC sections for defrauding poor depositors to the tune of Rs 7000 crore. The ED has later filed a money laundering case against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/agrigold-scam-bail-for-three-accused/articleshow/81439216.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Goa||Fatorda Congress block eyes 3000 new members||MARGAO: The Fatorda block Congress Committee meeting held on Wednesday resolved to enroll 100 janmitra and 3,000 members during the ongoing app-based membership drive of Goa Pradesh Congress Committee. The meeting was held under the chairmanship of vice-president Fatorda block Niazam Ahmed. This was the second meeting within a fortnight after reactivating the block, a press note issued by Fatorda block general secretary, Alex Motta, said. GPCC vice-president and membership convener for Fatorda block Altinho Gomes said Fatorda was basically a stronghold of Congress which was proved when the Congress candidate secured lead during the last Lok Sabha elections. The meeting was attended to by new Fatorda Congress incharge Dr Aashish Kamat, Motta, working president Yogesh Nagwenkar and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fatorda-cong-block-eyes-3k-new-members/articleshow/81439217.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Man booked for ‘sending’ his friend to drown in lake in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: In a bizarre incident, police booked a man for culpable homicide for allegedly sending a man to drown while fishing at a lake in Ramchandrapuram village in Nellore district on Wednesday. According to Kavali rural police, the incident took place on January 7 when the victim, A Chinna Venkaiah (40), had left home to go fishing after which, his family a missing persons complaint on January 16. Police eventually manage to retrieve Venkaiah’s decomposed body from the water body on February 2. They then traced back the victim’s activities prior to him going missing and found out that he was last seen with his friend Morala Madhava (35). The police then went on to discover that Madhava and Venkaiah had gone out fishing on January 7. Police said that while Madhava knew it was dangerous to venture into the water body where the currents were strong, he insisted Venkaiah enter the pond to increase the probability of catching fish. Madhava witnessed Venkaiah slipping and drowning in the pond but instead of alerting the locals or the police, he chose to keep quiet fearing the legal consequences of his actions. Police booked and arrested Madhava for culpable homicide not amounting to murder at Kavali Rural police station. Further investigation into the incident is being pursued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-booked-for-sending-his-friend-to-drown-in-lake/articleshow/81436787.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||Despite Covid, Indian Railway surpasses freight loading||NAGPUR: In spite of Covid challenges, as on March 11, 2021, Indian Railways has surpassed last year's total cumulative freight loading. The Indian Railways’ cumulative freight loading touched 1,145.68 million tonnes, which is higher than the total cumulative loading of last year (1,145.61 million tonnes). Freight figures continue to maintain high momentum in terms of loading and speed in the month of March 2021 as well for Indian Railways. On a month to month basis, up to March 11, 2021, the Indian Railways loading was 43.43 million tonnes, which is 10 % higher compared to last year’s loading for the same period (39.33 million tonnes). On day to day basis, on March 11, 2021, the freight loading was 4.07 million tonnes, which is 34% higher compared to last year’s loading for the same date (3.03 million tonnes). The average speed of freight trains in March 2021 till March 11, was 45.49 kmph, which is almost double compared to last year for the same period (23.29 kmph). A number of concessions or discounts are also being given in Indian Railways to make railways freight movement very attractive. The strong emergence of business development units (BDUs) in zones and divisions, constant dialogue with the industry and logistics service providers, faster speed etc are adding to the robust growth of freight business for the railways. “It may be noted that Covid-19 has been used by Indian Railways as an opportunity to improve all-round efficiencies and performances. Extra-ordinary freight recovery is a great indicator of national economic upswing,” said Railway Board officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-covid-indian-rlys-surpasses-freight-loading/articleshow/81474160.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 11, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara’s first citizen an engineer||Vadodara: For once, the BJP did not spring a surprise when it came to the appointment o important elected wing posts in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). Two corporators who have administrative experience linked to the civic body in the past were picked up as the mayor and the standing committee chairman. The party has put an engineer and a doctor at the helm of affairs of the VMC. Keyur Rokadia (42) who holds a master’s degree in civil engineering was picked up as the mayor by BJP even as homeopath Dr Hitendra Patel will hold the post of the standing committee chairman. Patel was the standing committee chairman for 2.5years in the 2010 to 2015 term of the VMC. Like many elected representatives in the VMC, Rokadia came into the limelight as a student leader. He was elected as a faculty general secretary from the Faculty of Technology and Engineering of the M S University in 2000. After being picked up as the mayor, Rokadia said that he would work to ensure that Vadodara became like the city of Maharaja Sayajirao’s dreams. Apart from other things, Rokadia promised clean water to the city and assured that this would be taken care of in the coming days. Rokadia said that he would be reaching out to people. While Rokadia may have been a prominent worker of the party, Patel was a silent worker. He worked for organisations of the Sangh Parivar other than the BJP. His elevation to the post of the standing committee chairperson earlier had surprised many. But despite holding the prominent post, he stayed away from controversies and maintained his image of a clean leader. He was amongst the top contenders for the post of mayor or the standing committee chairman. Nanda Joshi who has been a corporator on two occasions in the past was made the deputy mayor. The BJP has a tradition of appointing a woman on the post if the post of the mayor is not reserved for a woman or if it does not select a woman as the standing committee chairperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodaras-first-citizen-an-engineer/articleshow/81435492.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Illegal wires by telecom firms hit JMC revenues||Jaipur: Illegal wirings by telecom companies using electric poles of JMC — Greater and Heritage — is causing severe revenue losses to the corporations.According to rules, every telecom company has to get permission from JMC and pay it Rs 1,500 per pole for putting up wires and another Rs 1,000 per kilometre of wires. Similarly, a cable cannot be left exposed on a road and has to be used underground. All these are being violated by private companies right under the nose of the corporations.Last week, JMC-Greater cut wires of a telecom service provider company and had published an advertisement warning all private telecom companies to either get permission of all the illegal cable wires by paying the fees or cutting the wires.JMC-Greater (revenue DC) Naveen Mahajan said, “We have issued more than 40 notices to telecom companies recently. Many-a-times, action is taken against these firms for laying wires over the poles illegally. There have been incidences when we cut the wires.”JMC-Heritage officials, however, denied any illegal wires being laid in their area. Pradeep Shekhawat, a complainant who recently wrote to higher officials to take action against such companies said, “This a massive corruption in the corporation. Right after the removal of these wires and poles, companies again install them. At places where there are no poles available, without permission from corporation, companies have installed poles as well. At present more than 40 private internet and cable tv providers are functioning in the city and except a few prominent companies, none is paying any revenue to JMC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/illegal-wires-by-telecom-firms-hit-jmc-revenues/articleshow/81437575.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra plans Metro work in Kanjur despite HC case||MUMBAI: Despite the litigation pending before the Bombay high court, the MVA government is planning to go ahead with work on the Metro car depot and casting yard on the Kanjurmarg land, reports Prafulla Marpakwar. The urban development department promulgated a three -page notification on Wednesday to provide for reservation of the nearly 43.8 acres of land for the purpose. A bureaucrat said the plea in the HC pertains to land ownership, while the state, following due process, had reserved it for the depot and yard. “The case before the high court pertains to the title of the land. If the state government wins the case, then there is no dispute. If the salt commissioner wins, then since the land has now been reserved for car depot, it will have no option but to utilise the land for the purpose for which it has been reserved,” the bureaucrat said. “Secondly, the underground Metro line 3 is a joint venture between the state government and the Centre on a 50:50 basis. Thirdly, if the private person wins the case, the government will pay him the compensation. We feel that the compensation will be nominal, since it is leasehold land and not ownership of the land,” he added. As per the notification signed by under secretary Nirmal Chaudhary, the MMRDA had on December 11, 2018, urged the government to reserve nearly 43.8 hectares of land in Kanjur village for the Metro car depot and allied uses, including commercial. On November 5, 2020, the government sanctioned certain excluded parts of the land from the development plan for the car depot. After following the due process and inviting objections and suggestions, the urban development department has now deleted reservations for garden/park, affordable housing, rehabilitation and resettlement, a shelter for homeless, police station, police staff quarters, municipal school, electricity transmission and distribution facility and development plans for roads; instead, the land will be reserved for the Metro car depot and casting yard. “Considering the MMRDA’s request and the BMC’s report, the government is satisfied that in public interest, it is expedient to change reservations, land use in respect of port of the land and reserve it for the Metro car depot,” Chaudhary said in the notification. The government will now have to obtain CRZ permission, ensure scientific mitigation measures are taken during contraction and operation of the car depot. Besides, it will be binding on it to comply with the orders of the HC and Supreme Court in respect of the land. A month after Uddhav Thackeray became CM, he scrapped his predecessor Devendra Fadnavis’s decision to set up the car depot in Aarey Colony as per the recommendation of a committee headed by senior bureaucrat Manoj Saunik. Thackeray set up another committee headed by then chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, who submitted that instead of Aarey, the government should construct the car depot at Kanjurmarg which would be more economical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-plans-metro-work-in-kanjur-despite-hc-case/articleshow/81440536.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: At 370, single-day Covid tally at 2-month high||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 370 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday — the highest daily count in nearly two months. The death toll, meanwhile, went up to 10,931 with three more fatalities in the past twenty-four hours. The number of active cases in the city rose to 1,900 on Wednesday, up from 1,812 on Tuesday, while the positivity rate rose to 0.52% from 0.48% on Tuesday. The total infection tally in Delhi was recorded at 6,42,030. Health experts and doctors have attributed this “sudden rise” to complacency among Delhiites and not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, while “assuming all is well now”. The total number of tests conducted on Tuesday stood at 71,153, which included 45,322 RT-PCR tests and 25,831 via RAT. The number of people under home isolation rose to 982 on Wednesday, up from 952 the previous day, the health bulletin stated, adding that over 6.29 lakh people have recovered from the infection till date. “The pandemic isn’t over yet. But people have already dropped the guards. There are marriage functions taking place with more than 500 people in attendance, and many of them not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. Such complacency is harmful and may lead to further spike in cases,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of AIIMS. He added that adherence to social distancing norms and wearing masks needed to be followed strictly. “We need to continue testing aggressively and tracing and isolating positive cases to limit disease spread,” Guleria added. Delhi had recorded 320 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths due to the virus on Tuesday, breaching the 300-mark after a gap of two days. On Sunday and Monday, 286 and 239 cases, respectively, were recorded in the capital. The city had registered 321 coronavirus cases and a death last Saturday, and 312 cases and a fatality on Friday. Covid numbers had started to come down in February, and on February 26, 256 cases were recorded — the highest daily count for that month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-370-single-day-tally-at-2-month-high/articleshow/81437579.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Contractors strike deal with JMC-Heritage, end stir||Jaipur: The civil contractors, who were on strike due to non-payment of money by the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) Heritage, ended their strike on Wednesday.The contractors and officials of the JMC, Heritage have reached an agreement that the officials will pay Rs 25 lakh to each contractor in lieu of their amount due. The contractors who are about to get more than Rs 25 lakh will be paid just Rs 25 lakh and for those whose amount due is less than Rs 25 lakh will be paid that amount in full.JMC, Heritage mayor Munesh Gurjar said, “This strike had been going on for a long time, but now with the compromise that we have reached, the contractors will start working. Initially, they asked for Rs 30 lakh, but then we tried to convince them about the revenue condition of JMC, Heritage. We are in the process of generating more revenue till then contractors will start working.”Civil contractors included sewerage workers, road construction workers, sanitation workers and others.The major challenge for the JMC, Heritage at present is to increase the source of revenue of the corporation. At present a private firm has been given a contract to collect urban development tax for the corporation.There have been many complaints filed by the revenue officers on the lethargic working of the firm. Many allegations were made stating that firm is not been able to perform as expected and it will be a severe revenue loss to the JMC, Heritage.Civil contractors are still on a strike in JMC, Greater and no news have appeared regarding them ending the strike. All the civic work of the JMC, Greater is still pending due to strike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/contractors-strike-deal-with-jmc-heritage-end-stir/articleshow/81437578.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Police dog receives full guard of honour||Hyderabad: Sniffer dog Teena, which was part of the bandobust duty when Ivanka Trump—daughter of former US President Donald Trump—visited the city to attend the Bio-Diversity COP-II in 2017, died due to illness on Wednesday. Cyberabad police gave a full guard of honour firing three rounds in the air. Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar and other senior officials attended the ceremony. The officials placed a wreath and paid their last respects to Teena which served the police force for about a decade. Police said that this 2012 batch dog was an expert in detecting explosives. It was in August 2020, Teena Cocker Spaniel Breed (female) retired from service. Teena performed duties at several VVIP programmes, anti-sabotage checks and emergency threat calls. It was also used at the RGI Airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-dog-receives-full-guard-of-honour/articleshow/81439303.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Court rejects 22-year-old’s bail in Khar murder||MUMBAI: A bail plea filed by 22-year-old Shree Jogdhankar, accused in the New Year’s Eve murder of Jhanvi Kukreja was rejected by the sessions court on Wednesday. Among the grounds, he had cited the need to take his final exams in Bachelor of Hospitality and Hotel Administration course scheduled this month. Jogdhankar’s plea said that he was required to attend regular online lectures and also complete 75% attendance. The prosecution opposed his plea and said that he had made false statements in his bail plea and this demonstrated his criminal attitude. Jogdhankar is accused of assaulting and killing the teenager along with co-accused and the victim’s childhood friend Diya Padalkar on January 1. On Monday, the court rejected Padalkar’s bail plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/court-rejects-22-yr-olds-bail-in-khar-murder/articleshow/81440763.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Goa||Only 50ha of Mollem forest to be diverted for double-tracking: SWR||MARGAO: While the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC), has conveyed its in-principle approval/stage-1 clearance for diversion of nearly 120ha of forest land from the Mollem bio-dioversity hotspot for South Western Railways’ (SWR) double-tracking project, the SWR has now stated that only 50ha of the 120ha forest land, for which stage-I clearance has been granted, will be effectively diverted for the current project. “Out of 120ha land approved for diversion by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change, 70ha land is already with the Railways since the inception of the Vasco da gama-Londa line in 1889. Additional land required for the project, for which in-principal approval of diversion is accorded now, is only 50ha,” E Vijaya, chief public relations officer and deputy general manager, SWR, Hubbali, said. As reported by TOI earlier, the in-principle approval/stage-1 clearance issued by the MoEFCC is for the Castlerock-Margao line, and has been conveyed in three parts — 120.875ha for Castlerock to Collem stretch that passes through the Bhagwan Mahavir National Park, besides 1.9089ha and 15.6077ha for the Collem to Margao section. Environmentalists and nature lovers have voiced concerns that as 120ha of the forest land approved for diversion is located within the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary, the move could drastically impact the biodiversity hotspot of Mollem in the ecologically-fragile Western Ghats. “The existing single line track between Castlerock and Vasco was laid much before the notification of Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park, and the land envelope in which the present railway is situated is part of thick forest. Out of 240sqkm area of Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary, Railways possess 0.87sqkm of land only (hardly 0.3% of total area),” Vijaya said, while adding that there won’t be any additional impact on flora or fauna on account of the latest diversion proposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-50ha-of-mollem-forest-to-be-diverted-for-double-tracking-swr/articleshow/81439327.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Goa||Speaker summons Ajgaonkar, Pauskar for clarifications||PANAJI: Speaker of Goa legislative assembly Rajesh Patnekar on Tuesday summoned two former MGP MLAs, deputy chief minister Manohar Ajgaonkar and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar, and senior MGP leader Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar to the legislature secretariat on Wednesday to seek clarification in the disqualification petition. A senior officer from the assembly said that former Congress MLAs who had joined the BJP and Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar will be also summoned to seek clarification. The officer also said the speaker will pronounce his order once the hearing on clarifications is completed. After concluding the hearing in February in the two disqualification petitions filed by the Congress and MGP against their MLAs, including two deputy chief minsters, who joined BJP in 2019, Patnekar had reserved it for final orders. In May 2019, senior MGP functionary and former deputy chief minister Dhavalikar filed a petition before the speaker seeking disqualification of Ajgaonkar and Pauskar, who quit the party to join the BJP in March 2019. The MGP challenged their claim that two-thirds of MGP’s legislature party has merged with BJP. MGP had three MLAs in the 40-member House, and it has now been reduced to one. Dhavalikar had stated that the 10th Schedule of the Constitution does not postulate such a merger. The two MGP legislators had submitted a letter to the speaker in a midnight drama March end 2019 claiming that they had merged their party into BJP. In August 2019, Congress filed a disqualificationpetition against their 10 rebel MLAs who joined BJP in July 2019. Chodankar had sought that the 10 MLAs be restrained from attending assembly proceedings and holding constitutional posts till the case is decided by the speaker. On July 10, the rebel Congress MLAs led by deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar joined BJP claiming that the Congress legislature party (CLP) had split. The other nine MLAs were Isidore Fernandes, Nilkanth Halarnkar, revenue minister Jennifer Monserrate, Antonio Fernandes, Francisco Silveira, Wilfred D’Sa, Clafasio Dias, Filipe Neri Rodrigues and Atanasio Monserrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/speaker-summons-ajgaonkar-pauskar-for-clarifications/articleshow/81419699.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Goa||AAP: Right decision by judge Bakre||PANAJI: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has hailed the decision of the retired Justice U V Bakre not to accept the position of Lokayukta in Goa and said his decision proves that people of merit would not want to be “mere cheerleaders to hold a decorative post of a toothless Lokayukta”. Convener Rahul Mhambre stated that this was the right decision of Justice Bakre. Chief minister Pramod Sawant amended the Lokayukta Act in January, raising controversies with a cross section of the society who objected to the amendments. That time, AAP had said the Lokayukta is redued to being a cheerleader and toothless tiger. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-right-decision-by-judge-bakre/articleshow/81439371.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Pune||Hackers prey on 27 servers tagged to Smart City project||Pune: Hackers allegedly encrypted all files and application systems of 27 servers of the Pimpri Chinchwad Smart City project in a ransomware attack on February 26, leading to a loss of Rs 5 crore.There was no data in the affected servers, the Smart City project said. A case has been registered with the Nigdi police under the relevant sections of the Information and Technology Act.Assistant inspector of the Pimpri Chinchwad cyber cell Sagar Panmand told TOI, “It was a malware attack of .banjo type of Phobos family ransomware. The hackers encrypted the files and application systems of 27 servers.”The Pimpri Chinchwad Smart City project’s data centre is located in a mall in Nigdi, where work on different facilities for citizens like smart parking is going on. “At present, the work of software installation is going on and 300 servers have been created for it. Three software companies have been assigned the job,” Panmand said, adding no citizen data was stored in the 27 servers which were targeted by the hackers. “The loss of Rs 5 crore claimed by the Smart City was in terms of manpower being used for these servers,” he said.Panmand said in the ransomware attack, the victim cannot read the files till they are decrypted. “Due to this, it is difficult to trace the source from where the malware attack happened,” he said.The Pimpri Chinchwad Smart City Limited director, Namdev Dhake, in a press statement confirmed ransomware attack on around 27 servers of the Smart City’s Integrated Command Control Centre and Data Centre on February 26. “It will take at least a month to revive the system and restart the Integrated Command Control Centre and Data Centre. Once done, it will be tested by experts from the College of Engineering Pune,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hackers-prey-on-27-servers-tagged-to-smart-city-project/articleshow/81437595.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Relief For Students Leads Up Blind Alley||New Delhi: Mohammad Abid has been practically stuck inside Blind Relief Association on Lodhi Road for months. The 21-year-old blind student has been hampered in his excursions outside his institution not only by the Covid-19 pandemic, but also by the closure of a handy pedestrian bridge on Lala Lajpat Rai Marg that allowed him to cross the accident-prone street there.Today, concertina wires prevent the use of the foot overbridge (FOB). Both Delhi Police and the Public Works Department have denied closing down the bridge and both appeared to believe that the other agency had stopped its use. A source in PWD said, “It has been at least three months since the FOB was closed. We reopened it around two months ago, but it was again closed by the cops.” Delhi Police, in turn, said that they had nothing to do with the closure and claimed PWD was behind its barricading.The FOB was built in 2018 after numerous accidents involving blind students. TOI, among others, reported these and this prompted Delhi High Court to direct PWD and Delhi Police to “immediately rectify” the problem that was a big challenge for the blind students using the road. But the apparent disinterest in solving the problems of the students was evidenced in the non-commissioning of a lift for a long time, handicapping the bridge users. As TOI reported in January 2019, there were issues related to the design and construction of the FOB too.“We were really happy to learn that a bridge was being constructed to ease our movement. However, we could barely use it due to one problem or the other,” said Abid. Even the little respite that the FOB provided has vanished. “We have a lot of trouble now in reaching the other side of the road where the bus stop is located,” said Abid. His friend and fellow student Arbind, 23, revealed that students had to go all the way to Delhi Public School on Mathura Road where a traffic signal facilitated their crossing the road.The FOB is around 300 metres from the blind school. There are obstacles on the way such as illegal parked cars and non-stop flow of vehicles in and out of Oberoi Hotel. “We meet with accidents every so often,” disclosed Arbind. “We have been advised not to venture out to avoid Covid infection, but we have to go out in an emergency. That is when we face problems on the road. There is a constant fear that a vehicle will hit us. There are many times when we do come in the path of cars, but the drivers usually step out and apologise to us as soon as they realise we are blind.”Arbind continued in an aggrieved tone, “Are we asking for too much when we want a path to be able to cross the busy street? Why build a bridge if we aren’t allowed to use it?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/relief-for-students-leads-up-blind-alley/articleshow/81437594.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Youth who went missing from SMS hosp found hanging on 5th floor||Jaipur: A 23-year-old youth allegedly committed suicide by hanging on the fifth floor of SMS Hospital. He had gone missing from the hospital two days ago.The incident came to light when an electrician found the body hanging inside the electrical room on Wednesday. Cops said the body was two days old.According to police, deceased Prabhu Dayal of Jamwaramgarh was suffering from mental illness. He came to the hospital with his brother to see a doctor on March 8 and went missing from Dhanwantri Building. His brother tried to locate him for the whole day and filed a missing report with Moti Doongri police station.Police had scanned all the CCTV camera footage, but could not find him. “His body was found inside a power room on the fifth floor, which is not visited by anyone until there is an issue with power. On Wednesday, when an electrician visited the top floor for to check the power lines, he was stunned to see a man hanging. He immediately informed his supervisor who informed police,” SMS Hospital police chowki ASI Rajendra Kumar said.Police identified the deceased through his ID card in his pocket. They found his physical appearance similar to the one in the missing report. “His family was informed who came and identified him. Thereafter, the body was sent for post-mortem,” Kumar said.Prime facie, post-mortem report confirmed that the body was two days old. During the day, the OPD building remained so busy that no one noticed him taking the stairs to reach the fifth floor.“His family members have confirmed that he had some mental issues and was brought to the SMS hospital for treatment, but before that, he committed suicide,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-who-went-missing-from-sms-hosp-found-hanging-on-5th-floor/articleshow/81437581.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Upset Speaker offers to quit, Cong MLA alleges discrimination||Jaipur: Upset over the absence of ministers from the House and MLAs not following rules, Speaker C P Joshi on Wednesday asked the members to remove him if they do not want him on the post.During the Question Hour, Congress MLA Ramesh Meena got into an argument with the Speaker over seating arrangement in the House and not having a mic on his seat to ask question.Joshi said Meena, a three-time legislator and a former minister, knows that the Speaker does not make seating arrangements. It is done by the party chief whip in consultation with the parliamentary affairs minister, he clarified.Due to Covid-19, seating arrangements have been changed in the House and not all the seats have a mic. The Speaker had asked Meena to ask question from another seat, which Meena refused saying he would ask question from his seat only.The Speaker did not allow him to ask a question saying, “Nobody will be allowed to dictate to the Chair.”Meena then walked out of the House. Later, speaking to reporters, he alleged that the ST members were being discriminated in the House.An anguished Speaker said, “I expect from the parliamentary affairs minister and chief whip to inform the members of the seating arrangements. If any legislator dictates the Chair, it will not be tolerated. I will have to take strict action. If you do not like my functioning, then remove me from the post,” Joshi said. He further said, as long he is in his position, he will enforce rules.Joshi had also directed the ministers to be present during Zero Hour which was not received well by the ministers. He said people will lose trust if the dignity of the House is not maintained. “Today’s incident is unfortunate and should not reoccur,” he said.Joshi also commented that the Assembly has become a centre for grievance redressal and discussion on laws is rare now.The Speaker also complained that the House members are not serious about meetings of various committees of the assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/upset-speaker-offers-to-quit-cong-mla-alleges-discrimination/articleshow/81437585.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Private medical colleges’ plea to allow outsiders in Maharashtra quota nixed||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Tuesday dismissed a challenge by private unaided medical and dental colleges and a few students to a state embargo on outsiders to 85% seats available in such colleges. The rule was set in August 2016 by Maharashtra government for unaided private professional undergraduate medical and dental courses. HC said unaided colleges cannot claim it as a fundamental and unrestricted right to admit students in the 85% state quota. The state restriction is “in the interest of general public... local and regional needs” and constitutionally valid, said HC. Maharashtra’s policy is not variance with those adopted by other states, the court said.  The petitioners included Vedantaa Institute of Academic Excellence, Vedantaa Institute of Medical Sciences, Palghar, Mahatma Gandhi Vidyamandir’s KBH Dental College and Hospital, Nashik, Sinhgad Techincal Education Society and Association of Managements of Unaided Private Medical and Dental Colleges, mostly filed in 2016. Student Nibir Das (19) from Assam filed a petition in 2020. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni, in its judgment made available on Wednesday, said the state’s embargo would read ‘no admission for outsiders in private unaided colleges’ while the batch of petitions wants to replace it with ‘admission for outsiders is allowed in private unaided colleges’. The petitioners, through counsel V M Thorat and Pooja Thorat, said the rules were arbitrary, unconstitutional and violated the institution’s fundamental right to trade and the students’ right to equality. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni cited Supreme Court judgments to say reasonableness of a restriction must be determined in an objective manner and in public interest. He said the “private interest of company and medical college have to yield to larger public interest.’’ HC agreed with Kumbhakoni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-pvt-med-colleges-plea-to-allow-outsiders-in-state-quota-nixed/articleshow/81436387.cms||Swati Deshpande
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks Parsi Punchayet to work out Plan B in woman’s plea to fight polls||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Wednesday asked trustees of Bombay Parsi Punchayet (BPP) to work out by Thursday an alternative solution after a Parsi woman’s nomination for its forthcoming election was rejected on ground that her proposer, Rustom Jeejeebhoy, allegedly no longer professed Zoarastrian faith.  The woman, Zuleika Homavazir, a department head at Wilson College, appealed against denial of interim relief by one-judge bench of Justice A K Menon on March 8, citing “reluctance” to get an affidavit from Jeejeebhoy of his continuing to be a Parsi. A bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and Vinay Joshi, hearing her appeal, orally observed that unless her proposer’s name is struck off the general register as a member of the electorate, by following rules, he could be entitled to vote and propose names. The BPP said it had sent him two emails, but the HC asked if it had sent an explicit notice under rules. The appeal bench posted the matter to Thursday for hearing. Homavazir, in her appeal, said the single judge failed to consider that for polls—for two posts of trustees—till voter list was not altered and Jeejeebhoy’s name not deleted, the question of him purportedly having ceased to profess Zoroastrian faith is irrelevant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-asks-parsi-punchayet-to-work-out-plan-b-in-womans-plea-to-fight-polls/articleshow/81440555.cms||Swati Deshpande
March 11, 2021||Vadodara||Five astrologers apply for anticipatory bail||Vadodara: Five astrologers, who were booked for duping the Soni family, have filed for anticipatory bail in the district court. The court has slated a hearing for the bail applications on Friday. The Sama police had recently filed a case of cheating against nine astrologers for cheating the Soni family of Rs 32.85 lakh. Six members of the family attempted to commit suicide at their home in Sama area on March 3. While three died on the spot, two lost their lives during the treatment. Of the nine accused, Prahladram Joshi, Khinraj Joshi, Hemant Joshi, Alkesh Joshi and Vijay Joshi have filed for anticipatory bail. The police have already formed two teams to track down all the accused.A team of cops is camping in Rajasthan as all the astrologers have their base in and around Jodhpur. According to the FIR filed at Sama police station, Hemant Joshi had told Narendra Soni that some wealth was buried under the latter’s home. Hemant Joshi had asked Narendra to contact Swaraj (one of the nine accused) for digging out the wealth. Narendra had contacted these astrologers over the period of last two years and sought help from them as he was facing a financial crisis. The astrologers misguided Narendra by telling him that there is wealth buried under his house in Sama area.The accused then sent their men to dig up the kitchen floor of the house and pretended to have found urns full of silver. Narendra even paid money to the accused for performing the rituals. The other astrologers too had taken money from Narendra for performing different rituals.The astrologers then charged lakhs of rupees from Narendra for performing the rituals to help him sell off his house for paying off his debts. Narendra’s son Bhavin had told the cops that they had found a customer for their house and also got Rs 23.50 lakh payment. But their house was already mortgaged and hence they couldn’t sell it.When the customer sought his money back, the Soni family decided to commit suicide. Narendra bought insecticides and mixed them in the cold drink that was consumed by all the six members including a three-year-old kid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/five-astrologers-apply-for-anticipatory-bail/articleshow/81435524.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||15% of 62 Covid patients who received kidney through transplant died: Study||World Kidney DayJAIPUR: Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and those who had undergone kidney transplant after kidney failure are among those bearing the brunt of Covid as the mortality rate among those who had undergone the transplant is as high as 15%, shows a study by nephrologists of a private hospital here. The study concluded that patients of kidney transplant are at higher risk of getting infected with Covid due to their immuno-suppressed state. Initial symptoms in kidney transplant recipients (KTR) with Covid are similar to the general population. Mortality rate is comparatively higher in KTRs as compared to general population. Dr Suraj Godara, head of the department (nephrology) of the hospital said, “A total of 62 kidney transplant recipients who tested positive for Covid were included in the study. These patients, who had undergone transplant between December 2012 and November 2020, were actively followed up the our centre and were diagnosed with Covid between April 1 and November 30.”The median age of 62 KTRs infected with Covid was 39 and 87% of those were men.The findings of the study are that fever was the most common symptom (77%), 21% had mild form of Covid, 52% had moderate form and 17% had severe disease.The study said 29% were given treatment under home quarantine, 47% at isolation wards and 24% were treated at ICUs. Since KTRs are under immuno-suppressive medicines, while undergoing treatment doctors had to reduce its dose and 65% of them were given remdesivir and 55%were given anticoagulant therapy. In all, 15% of the 62 KTRs died after being infected with the virus, said Dr Godara. Since patients having CKD and KTRs are always at risk, nephrologists appealed to them to get the vaccination done against Covid on a priority basis. “Such patients are covered under 20 specified co-morbid conditions under which a beneficiary above 45 years can get the jab. The vaccine is safe for kidney patients. The advisory has also been issued by Indian Society of Organ Transplant as such patients fall under high risk group. Such patients should get the vaccine on priority basis. Kidney patients who have received the vaccine have no side-effects and are fine,” said Dr Dhananjai Agarwal, senior professor and head of the department (SMS Hospital). Doctors added that Covid might cause severe infections. “CKD increases the risk of severe illness and hospitalisation if you develop Covid. The best defence is to continue with all your CKD treatments and take precautions to prevent infection,” said Dr AK Sharma, director nephrology and renal transplant of a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/15-of-62-covid-patients-who-received-kidney-through-transplant-died-study/articleshow/81437624.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Annual functions in schools postponed indefinitely||Jaipur: Facing ire of the Speaker and Opposition leader, education minister Govind Singh Dotasra announced in the Assembly on Wednesday that the annual festival and prize distribution ceremony in schools for the year have been postponed indefinitely until further orders in light of the Covid situation.Dotasra was responding to the issue raised by Opposition leader Gulab Chand Kataria during Zero Hour. Kataria raised the issue of mass Covid infection in a blind school in Udaipur after annual function was organised and drew attention of the House to the order issued by the education director to conduct annual functions in schools by March 31, while the House had already decided that considering the Covid situation such functions should not be made mandatory.Speaker Joshi, joining on the issue, said it calls for action against the education director who issued such an order.The minister said it was on his directions that the education director issued the orders to extend the time for organising annual functions from March 21 to 31.He assured the House that in view of the rising Corona cases in the state, instructions will be given to postpone these functions keeping in mind the sentiments expressed by the Speaker and members of the Assembly.Joshi said, “We all are aware that in January last year, a patient of Corona had come to India from outside, then no one had thought that it would take such a terrible form. After this, with the effort of all, and the hard work put in by the chief minister, health minister and all the departments and institutions, we were able to control it.” He said all efforts would go in vain if we throw caution to the wind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/annual-functions-in-schools-postponed-indefinitely/articleshow/81437615.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Court stays search warrant on premises of northeast Delhi riots lawyer||NEW DELHI: A city court on Wednesday stayed till March 12 the warrant obtained by Delhi Police for carrying out searches on the premises of advocate Mehmood Pracha, who is representing several accused in the northeast Delhi riots cases. Chief metropolitan magistrate Pankaj Sharma directed that till the pendency of Pracha’s application, the search warrant shall remain stayed. Pracha had moved court on Tuesday seeking modification in the order that allowed the search and said neither was he intimated nor served with the warrant. He insisted that he was willing to provide the identified computers before the court and the investigating officer may obtain whatever he wished to and whatever was permitted in the court’s presence. This, his plea pointed out, would curtail “any mischief and also ensure that the object of the search warrant was also satisfied”. On Wednesday, the judge reserved the order on the application for March 12. Delhi Police, through the prosecutor, opposed Pracha’s plea arguing that seizing the original hard disk was essential and it ought to be sent to a forensic science laboratory for examination. A mirror hard disk could be put back into his computer. On March 2, an order by the judge had allowed the IO to search Pracha’s premises for the “purpose of the seizure of one identified computer only”. The order had stated, “As the premises of an advocate is to be searched, the IO is directed to carry out the search in the presence of a senior police officer equivalent to the rank of DCP. The entire process must be videographed to ensure fairness. The advocate should be informed politely about the search proceedings.” Last August, a sessions court had ordered that Delhi Police’s Crime Branch or Special Cell investigate the allegations of forgery and false deposition by a complainant, apparently on the “instigation by a senior member of the bar”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-stays-search-warrant-on-premises-of-ne-riots-lawyer/articleshow/81437622.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Kota’s JK Lon Hospital now has top-class NICUs: Minister||JAIPUR: Health minister Raghu Sharma on Wednesday said the government had developed a newborn intensive care unit (NICU) of international standard at JK Lon Hospital in Kota. The facility had hit the headlines for infant deaths twice in two years. Sharma said while a 12-bed NICU was inaugurated on December 11, a NICU in thalasemmia ward with 74 beds was inaugurated on December 23. A 40-bed modular NICU has also been constructed and is ready with 40 warmers, 25 CPEP machines, 24 phototheraphy machines, 80 infusion pumps, 10 ventilators, 15 monitor and other machines. Besides, construction of a 156-bed hospital building for children is in progress. Also, construction of a drug warehouse costing Rs 1.35 crore has been completed, he informed the House.While speaking about new facilities developed in the hospital, Sharma took a jibe at his Gujarat counterpart saying that when he was asked about deaths of children in Ahmedabad hospital, he ran away. Besides, Sharma spoke about emergency Covid response plan of Rs 638.77 crore for which financial and administration approvals of Rs 555.84 crore have been given.While speaking about work done in medical education, Sharma said the government will start post-MBBS diploma course from 2021-22 under National Education Board. The diploma courses will be started in eight branches – anaesthesia, gynaecology, paediatrics, ophthalmology, ENT, TB & chest, radio-diagnosis and family medicine. The 50% seats of diploma courses will be reserved for in-service doctors.Besides, he said out of 33 districts, 30 already have a medical colleges or construction was in progress. The work of 15 new medical colleges is under progress for which the Centre has given an approval. The Centre is contributing 60% and state’s contribution will be 40% of the funds. BOX:Upcoming and ready projects at SMS Hospital - Advance medical ICU costing Rs 10 crore- Rs 2 crore 10-bed stroke ICU- Rs 10 crore digital sub-traction angiography machine ready for inauguration-New department of palliative care, surgical gastroenterology, geriatric medicine,emergency medicine, sports medicine and tropical medicine has been set up||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kotas-jk-lon-hospital-now-has-top-class-nicus-minister/articleshow/81437617.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Bits Of Puzzle Start Falling Into Place As Metro Decongests Busiest Station||New Delhi: Kashmere Gate is the only Delhi Metro station where three different corridors merge. Till the Covid-19 pandemic hit the capital, the station saw 2.5-3 lakh passengers a day, making it the busiest station in the network. Despite passengers boarding and de-boarding trains from six different platforms and criss-crossing the mega station to access trains to five different corners of the National Capital Region, everything moved like clockwork. Now, even the chaos outside the station has been managed. The location of Kashmere Gate Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT) across the road meant a constant flow of passengers from Delhi-NCR and other parts of northern India. After a comfortable metro ride, pandemonium awaited those exiting the station as buses, autorickshaws, e-rickshaws, cars, hawkers and commuters jostled for space. This absence of a smooth integration with other modes of transport marred the metro experience. With the aim of decongesting the areas around the metro station, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation embarked on a Rs 9-crore multi-modal integration (MMI) project at 2019-end. Carried out as directed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, DMRC is helming the project, with other government agencies such as Delhi Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation (DTIDC), North Delhi Municipal Corporation and Public Works Department also pitching in. Despite delays due to the pandemic, DMRC has completed a large part of the MMI project. It is expected to be opened by the end of this month. A DMRC spokesperson said that the MMI facility developed at Kashmere Gate was going to significantly ease the congestion outside the metro station. “The work primarily has two components: MMI at Kashmere Gate and the construction of a city bus terminal. While the MMI work is almost complete and is likely to be opened this month, the bus terminal, which is closer to the ISBT, will be completed by May,” the spokesperson said. The MMI with Kashmere Gate metro station has come up next to metro exit gates number 6 and 8. There are dedicated intermediate public transport lanes, which can at one time accommodate 11 autorickshaws, six taxis, eight e-rickshaws and 17 cycle rickshaws,” the spokesperson detailed. “A prepaid booth for autos has also been constructed at the entry to the surface parking. The paid parking lot has to capacity to hold 174 two-wheelers and 55 four-wheelers at one time. There are height barriers at the entry and exit points.” The official added, “The entry of vehicles will be allowed through Lothian Road and the exit will be on the Lala Hardev Sahai Marg. A cashless smart parking system with automated boom barriers at entry and exit have been erected, along with future provisions for integration with the National Common Mobility Cards.” There is a provision also for a food court with a seating capacity of 120 to 150 people. This component of the project will be taken up by DTIDC. The detailing, designing and construction of the city bus terminal for local buses is being done by DMRC for DTIDC, the spokesperson revealed, adding that work was in progress and was likely to be completed by May this year. The city bus terminal will have three parallel bus lanes, each of which will be 7.5 metres wide. Each lane will have five bus bay capacities and it will be possible to carry out boarding of passengers in 15 buses simultaneously. “There will be wide footpaths and table-top crossings, apart from two public toilets. Proper queuing of buses at the exit before merging with traffic will be ensured,” the official said. The separate bays, pick-up points and parking spaces for buses, autorickshaws, e-rickshaws, app-based cabs, etc., created as part of the MMI project, will ensure that these modes of transport do not merge with other traffic. Pedestrian pathways and pedestrian plazas will ensure that passengers are able to use last-mile connectivity without having to come out on to the main roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bits-of-puzzle-start-falling-into-place-as-metro-decongests-busiest-station/articleshow/81455870.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 11, 2021||Goa||Govt: Can close CMRY loans by March 31||PANAJI: The state government has extended the exit policy for distressed beneficiaries under the Chief Minister’s Rojgar Yojana (CMRY) or Dr Verghese Kurein Rojgar Yojana (VKRY), till March-end. The scheme was formulated in 2015. The exit policy offers CMRY and VKRY beneficiaries, who have suffered some disability or of those who have lost their lives, a chance to close the loan account. In some cases, based on recommendations of EDC’s task force committee, it offers waiver of outstanding dues. EDC Ltd has been supporting entrepreneurs through the CMRY scheme since 2001 and though the repayment rate remains over 90%, in some cases, borrowers and entrepreneurs have not been able to repay their loan due to factors beyond their control, such as death, disability, natural calamities, serious illnesses or adverse market conditions. “The government is pleased to extend the scheme’s exit policy for distressed beneficiaries under CMRY VKRY for a further period up to March 31, 2021,” finance under-secretary Pranab Bhat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-can-close-cmry-loans-by-march-31/articleshow/81439418.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Goa||Complete Colva sewerage plant, ready it by June: High Court||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has directed the government to complete the setting up of a sewerage treatment plant and make it fully operational by June so that there is no discharge of untreated sewage in Colva creek. The division bench shot down the government’s plea for time till the end of the year to complete the plant and made the director of tourism personally responsible for coordinating with authorities to get the work completed without any excuses. The court directed the director to bring it to the notice of the court if the sewerage corporation gives any unreasonable excuses in proceeding with the work. While hearing a public interest petition filed by the Colva Civic and Consumer Forum, the court found that the sewerage treatment plant is complete to the extent of 95% and even electrical connection has been obtained and the equipment is being tested. “The report, however, states that sewerage lines of 5.5 kms are required to be laid and out of these, sewerage lines to the extent of 2.1 kms have been laid. this means that there is a balance of 3.4 kms,” the court observed. “By simply referring to the Covid-19 pandemic, the time is sought up to 31.12.2021. According to us, this request is not reasonable. Since, it is claimed that 95% of the plant is already set up and now, only 3.4 km of sewerage lines are to be laid, this work can certainly be completed within 3 months,” the court added. According to directions issued by the court in the same matter in 2019 with an aim of preventing discharge of untreated sewage into Colva Creek, the government had assured the STP would be completed by October 2020 and made operational in all respects. The court at the time had directed the sewage corporation and tourism department to expedite of construction of the public STP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/complete-colva-sewerage-plant-ready-it-by-june-hc/articleshow/81439406.cms||---
March 11, 2021||India||Amid Oppn din, RS approves arbitration bill||NEW DELHI: Rajya Sabha passed the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, by voice vote amid din on Wednesday. The bill was passed by Lok Sabha last month. The bill will replace an ordinance issued on November 4, 2020. It seeks to ensure that all stakeholders get an opportunity to seek unconditional stay on enforcement of arbitral awards where the agreement or contract is “induced by fraud or corruption”. As the discussion on the bill started after lunch, with sloganeering by opposition MPs, leader of opposition Mallikarjun Kharge demanded that a discussion on farmers’ issue under Rule 267, for which a notice had been given, be taken up first. But deputy chairman Harivansh rejected this and said chairman M Venkaiah Naidu had already given his ruling against this. He requested the opposition to allow passage of the “ordinance-replacing” bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-oppn-din-rs-approves-arbitration-bill/articleshow/81441124.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||4,415 died, over 1.58L infected in one year of Covid-19 pandemic in district||NAGPUR: Beginning with the first positive case from Bajaj Nagar a year ago, the district saw 4,415 deaths and over 1,57,638 infections in 12 months of Covid-19 pandemic. The threat continues with the district facing a second wave over last few days, and education and economic activities yet to come back to normal. For last seven months, the district was the fourth most affected among 35 districts of the state after Mumbai, Pune and Thane as far as cases and fatalities are concerned. In first five months, the district had been at 10th position. The pandemic seemed under control in the district compared to other parts of the state during full lockdown. Cases and fatalities surged here to a great extent with unlocking phase from August. The district went on to see peak of the pandemic in last two weeks of August and entire September month. Case fatality rate of the district is 2.72%, which is higher than average of state (2.35%) and country (1.4%). The district has seen 1,33,65,57 tests in last one year, which is around 28% of total population. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, who led the administration right from March 11, 2020, till date told TOI, “Administration is successful in handling the crisis for last one year whether it may be shelter, food and other facilities for migrating labourers in initial days or increasing tests and treatment. All, including NGOs, medical institutions, public representatives etc came together and worked hard. Despite working continuously for 12 months, I do not see any fatigue in the administration. When cases declined from November to January, focus shifted to other crucial sectors like agriculture etc but Covid-19 was on priority. Again, people have started to pull up their socks with spike in cases.” The cases and deaths declined to a great extent from October to second week of February. The later spike came due to violation of Covid-19 guidelines in market places, hospitality sector, marriage ceremonies, tourism and other sectors. Cases in first week of March were fifth highest after September figures. This forced the administration to shut few activities like education, weekly markets, marriage ceremonies in halls, lawns etc from February 23 to March 7, with more restrictions on weekends. With further rise in cases, restrictions have been extended till March 14. On the same date a year ago, restrictions on commercial activities had started in the district followed by full lockdown from March 21. The fatalities are under control despite surge in cases now. A major difference from initial days and during peak was people are now going for early testing, treatment and there are no issues of availability of beds and line of treatment, which has probably kept fatalities low. A major change in last one year is that people and healthcare workers (HCWs) have learnt how not to contract the disease. In initial days, streets and localities wore deserted looks despite positive patients being shifted to hospital. Staff of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) used to undertake contact tracing wearing PPEs. HCWs used to collect swabs of even non-contacts of patients and suspected patients wearing PPEs, which is now a daily normal work with just a mask and apron. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “Vaccination will control deaths for sure. Vaccination of all age groups is must to break the chain and stop the spike.” Vaccination of healthcare workers (HCW) started from January 16 and frontline workers (FLW) from February 5. Inoculation of age-appropriate group commenced on March 1 and response in district is higher compared to other places in Vidarbha. As on date, around 1.13 lakh HCWs, FLWs and people from age-appropriate groups have been vaccinated in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4415-died-over-1-58l-infected-in-one-year-of-covid-19-pandemic-in-dist/articleshow/81437659.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||A day after CM flags shortage, Centre provides 6.7L doses||Jaipur: A day after the state government took up the issue of shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in the state with the ministry of health, the Centre sent 6,78,230 doses of Covishield on Wednesday.Health minister Raghu Sharma, in the state assembly, said that they had only 4.4 lakh doses available on March 8. “As we are vaccinating 2 lakh doses every day, these vaccines were quite less. We were helpless and in such a situation we had to slow down the pace of vaccination on March 9 as only 60,000 doses were given. On the evening of March 9, we received 85,000 doses of Covishield. We are constantly in touch with the Centre. At the level of chief minister, we have contacted Union health minister and urged them to make the doses available urgently,” said Sharma.The wastage of doses, which was expected to remain at 10%, in Rajasthan has remained at 7%, which is why the state managed to save vaccines doses by using the vial of 10 doses judiciously.Acting on the demand from the state, the Centre sent 6.78 lakh doses of Covishield and 9.60 lakh more doses are expected to arrive in Jaipur on Thursday.With the state receiving more doses, the number of vaccination in the state stood at 1.23 lakh on Wednesday.While 82,176 were given the first dose, 40,945 received the second doses. The overall vaccination in the state rose to 25,10,918.A health department official said the vaccines received by the state will be distributed to the districts which are running out of doses to keep the vaccination drive rolling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/a-day-after-cm-flags-shortage-centre-provides-6-7l-doses/articleshow/81437645.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Roadside vendors say business is down after brief recovery in December||MUMBAI: Before Covid struck in March last year, the average Mumbaikar would casually steal a few moments to enjoy piping hot vada pav or dabeli at roadside stalls without a worry. A year later, hawkers who sell these snacks on the city’s streets are yet to see business return to pre-Covid levels. Among other things, the pandemic has brought a change in habits with many more ordering food and shopping online from within the secure walls of their homes. Vendors in municipal markets said they do not see customers gather around as before for fear of crowding and lack of social distancing. Dayashankar Singh (74) of Azad Hawkers’ Union who sells lassi and dabeli on Andheri-Kurla Road said while vegetable and fruit vendors had managed to stay afloat in the lockdown months, he could not. “I have been operating since 1973 and this was the first time I sat at home without work. While we managed to return with our carts in August last year, business is not like it was before. More people are scared to eat out on roads today. If earlier we had 100 customers in a day, now their numbers are down to barely 50,” said Singh. Stall owners at Linking Road in Bandra say their business improved in December last year but now with Covid cases rising again, buyers are not stepping out like before. Faisal Qureshi, president of the Linking Road Stall Owners’ Association, a third generation owner of a footwear stall, said they are licensed vendors and had to continue paying labourers who worked for them. “During the lockdown months, we had to pay those working for us as they were the worst hit. Then when we started business again, sales were so bad that if we sold 30 pieces of footwear earlier, barely five to six would get sold. By December 2020, we saw business stabilise once again but now we are seeing a dip in the number of customers,” he said. Dinesh Gupta, secretary, Pali Market Shopkeepers’ Association, said online shopping has picked up more now. Vendors said in housing complexes, those offering farm- to-table service were allotted space to sell fruits and vegetables. “This arrangement has continued in many areas. Those selling are not farmers but locals who have tied up with farmers, thereby affecting our business,” said a vendor from Dadar. Sunil Mandhare of Kranti Singh Nana Patil Mandai, Dadar (West), popularly known as Dadar Plaza Market, pointed out not all labourers who had gone back to their villages have returned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-roadside-vendors-say-business-is-down-after-brief-recovery-in-dec/articleshow/81439444.cms||Richa Pinto
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Two more held for thrashing man to death in west Delhi||New Delhi: Two more people, including a woman, have been arrested for thrashing a man to death after his brother objected to a couple fighting loudly in the neighbourhood in Raghubir Nagar on Monday night. They have been identified as Anita and Puneet. Police said the two arrested people were seen in the CCTV footage and mobile footage recovered from the spot. An officer privy to the investigation revealed that four more people involved in the crime have been identified and they would be nabbed soon. On Tuesday, police had arrested six persons, including three women, in connection with the murder. The arrested persons were identified as 48-year-old Ravinder and his wife Anita (45), Ravinder’s son Tarun (23) and his wife Priyanka (21), 30-year-old Deepa and Gaurav (19). Earlier, a call was received at Rajouri Garden police station on Monday regarding a quarrel in Raghubir Nagar. On reaching the spot, police found that an injured person had already been taken to Guru Gobind Singh Hospital. The cops reached there and identified the victim as 32-year-old Rupesh who was declared brought dead. Mukesh, the brother of the deceased, told police that their neighbours Tarun and his wife Priyanka were having a heated argument between them around 11 pm. “Mukesh said when his family objected to the ruckus, they thrashed him, his brother Rupesh and other family members with sticks and rods,” said a police officer. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-more-held-for-thrashing-man-to-death-in-west-delhi/articleshow/81437678.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Delhi||BJP councillor’s letter reveals graft in north corpn: AAP||New Delhi: AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Wednesday hit out at BJP over alleged corruption in North Delhi Municipal Corporation, claiming a letter by Dalit councillor Jyoti Rachhoya had exposed the graft. In an official complaint, the BJP councillor from Nangloi had exposed her own party members, Bharadwaj alleged.According to the AAP legislator, the councillor has stated that the elected leaders of the north corporation, including its mayor Jai Prakash, and some officials are stopping the development work in the Dalit ward in connivance with land mafias. She said those involved in corruption “are also implicating her family in false cases”, claimed Bharadwaj.The complaint has been marked to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, and National Scheduled Caste Commission chairman Vijay Sakala. The MLA displayed a copy of the letter at a press conference at the assembly.Bharadwaj said Rachhoya had provided information regarding a dozen illegal constructions. “She has asked why she is not being provided any information about the illegal activities being done.” Since her election in 2017, various development work are under consideration of the construction committee and she has also written to the local MP, Bharadwaj said.Although there was no official reaction, a Delhi BJP functionary said the party had taken the issue seriously. Calling it “cheap politics”, mayor Jai Prakash claimed the “baseless and wild” allegations were made as per the script of AAP. He said the councillor was upset for not getting development funds but “it is time to prioritise salaries of employees, not development funds... We are not involved with any land mafia”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-councillors-letter-reveals-graft-in-north-corpn-aap/articleshow/81437650.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Trader nabbed for sex with animals in Mumbai||A 65-year-old vegetable trader from Juhu Galli, Andheri was arrested by the D N Nagar police on Tuesday night after a first information report was lodged against him for having unnatural sex with animals. The Bombay Animal Rights (BAR), an NGO, has also submitted incriminating video evidence against the accused identified as Ahmed Shahi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/trader-nabbed-for-sex-with-animals-in-mumbai/articleshow/81440766.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Bring petrol & diesel under GST to check price spiral, Jain tells Centre||New Delhi: Industries minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday asked the Centre to bring petrol and diesel under the ambit of goods and services tax (GST) to ensure equal rates throughout the country.Jain was responding to the demand of Leader of Opposition in the assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, that Delhi government should reduce the tax on petrol and diesel to provide relief to common people.Jain also said that compared with many other major cities, petrol and diesel prices in Delhi were much less. While the price of diesel is Rs 81.47 in Delhi and petrol is available at Rs 91.17, the prices are Rs 89 and Rs 99, respectively, in Bhopal, which is in a BJP-run state.Jain said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had emphatically said petrol and diesel should be brought under GST. “Diesel and petrol’s rates should be one throughout the country but if they (BJP) bring it under GST, how can rates in Bhopal be higher by more than Rs 8?” he said. “If you want, a delegation of all our MLAs can go and meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as apart from Delhi, this would benefit the entire country.” He also said that besides thinking seriously about inflation, the Centre should also consider the farmers’ protests at Delhi’s borders and roll back the three farm laws. While the Centre earns excise duty from petrol and diesel, state governments also charge value-added tax and the rate varies from one state to another. Bidhuri said Delhi government was imposing 30% VAT on petrol and 16.75% on diesel, which, according to him, was very high. “Most of the states reduced taxes, but it was only Delhi government that did not reduce VAT. Now the time has come to take that step and show its commitment to the welfare of the people.” The discussion on inflation also witnessed chaos when speaker Ram Niwas Goel asked BJP legislators Vijender Gupta, O P Sharma, Mohan Singh Bisht and Jitender Mahajan to be marshalled out as they insisted on discussing alleged irregularities in procurement of DTC buses. Goel said it was unrelated to the subject in the list of business for the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bring-petrol-diesel-under-gst-to-check-price-spiral-jain-tells-centre/articleshow/81437718.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 11, 2021||Delhi||BJP, AAP MLAs in a war of words over city’s Covid fight||New Delhi: It’s “shameful and unfortunate” that Delhi government did not mention in the lieutenant governor’s address the contribution of the Centre in fighting Covid-19 in the capital, Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said on Wednesday.He was speaking on the motion of thanks moved by environment minister Gopal Rai on the LG’s address that marked the beginning of the budget session of the assembly on Monday.The third day of the session began with several MLAs raising issues from their constituencies under rule 280 for special mention, following which the motion was moved. The ruling Aam Aadmi Party and opposition Bharatiya Janata Party members engaged in a war of words over the credit for Covid-19 management in Delhi.“It is shameful and unfortunate that the Kejriwal government had failed to mention the big contribution of the Narendra Modi government in controlling Covid pandemic in Delhi,” Bidhuri said. The Covid cases had reached a peak because of the AAP government’s failure and “it was at this time that the central government stepped in under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah and provided relief to the people through medical facilities, setting up hospitals, airlifting medical professionals and providing free rations to the poor”, he added. Saurabh Bharadwaj, AAP MLA from Greater Kailash, later said no doctor was airlifted to Delhi.The assembly should pass a resolution thanking PM Modi and doctors and scientists who had not only fought the Covid battle but also worked day and night to develop a vaccine for it, Bidhuri insisted.“Tall claims were made about education whereas the actual reality was that there was a shortage of 10,000 teachers in government schools,” he claimed. The government has also failed to come up with an action plan to fix the public transport system and a roadmap for tackling pollution, Bidhuri alleged.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said Covid could not have been controlled by a single government, and lauded doctors and scientists for treating patients and developing vaccines. Rai appreciated the CM and the health minister for Covid management.Many MLAs who had got infected, including AAP’s Vishesh Ravi and Rajesh Rishi and BJP’s Mohan Singh Bisht, lauded Delhi government’s efforts. AAP MLAs said the Delhi model of Covid-19 management had been discussed all over the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-aap-mlas-in-a-war-of-words-over-citys-covid-fight/articleshow/81437703.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||MLC polls: ITIR, jobs & fuel prices talking points||HYDERABAD: With polling for the graduates MLC elections only days away, major political parties and independent candidates are leaving no stone unturned to garner the attention of voters. Much of the campaign was centred around issues like Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR), unemployment, educational institutions, rising fuel prices, lawyer couple murder, privatisation of PSUs and revenue sharing with states. Each party tried to score some brownie points, while independents like professor K Nageshwar made noise on lack of jobs for the youth. TRS working president KT Rama Rao took to Twitter multiple times and addressed several meetings targeting the Centre for the ‘raw deal’ meted out to Telangana. On the other hand, BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar threw down the gauntlet to TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao offering to take him to meet PM Narendra Modi on ITIR and several other issues. TPCC working president Revanth Reddy too joined the issue by challenging KTR to undertake an indefinite fast in Delhi along with him in pursuant of issues neglected by the Centre. While ignoring to take note of Sanjay’s and Revanth’s challenges, KTR himself sprang a surprise on Wednesday by extending support to the VSP employees’ ongoing stir in what many perceive to be a move to enlist Andhra voters’ support for the TRS candidates in the March 14 elections. KTR also often raised the issue of the Centre not sanctioning a single institution like IIM, IIT, IISER, IIIT, NID or medical colleges to Telangana in the last six years. “The Centre made a U-turn on Kazipet coach factory. We have made several appeals on ITIR but the Modi government turned a blind eye,” he said. Flaying the Centre for shifting the defence industrial corridor to Bundelkhand, KTR said regional compulsions seemed to outweigh nationally important locations like Hyderabad and Bengaluru which he said were ideal for the corridor. Rebutting KTR, Sanjay and BJP candidate N Ramchander Rao, however, said the TRS government had failed to pursue ITIR project. “Unemployment in Telangana is a huge issue. The state government has failed to provide jobs to graduates and failed on its jobless allowance promise,” said Ramchander. Highlighting the unemployment issue, Nageshwar said the parties are playing a hide-and-seek game on jobs. He that as per the PRC report, 1.91 lakh jobs remain vacant in Telangana. “This accounts for 39 per cent of the total sanctioned cadre in the state. This not only shatters the hopes of educated unemployed youth, but cripples the delivery of public service and governance,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/itir-lack-of-jobs-rising-fuel-prices-top-mlc-polls/articleshow/81437700.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur Municipal Corporation plans to offer dental treatment at polyclinics||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) plans to start treatment of dental ailments soon. The civic body’s health department has prepared a proposal inviting expression of interest (EoI) from non-government organizations and private players to run the facilities at its three clinics — Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya (Corporation Colony), Diagnostic Centres in Sadar and Mahal. The NMC intends to provide the facilities under public-private partnership, stated the health department’s proposal submitted before the standing committee, meeting of which is to be held on March 15. The health department has decided to start offering dental treatment including root canal, metal cap, metal ceramic, full ceramic, complete denture, removable denture, base plate, filling of one tooth, third molar attraction, orthopedic treatment etc. Corporator Kamlesh Chowdhary had submitted a suggestion that the civic body should stop providing laptops and mobile phones to elected representatives and officials, which was approved by municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B. Consequently, the general administration department has submitted a proposal before the standing panel informing about the civic chief’s decision to curtail NMC’s expenses by deciding not to provide android phones and laptops to both corporators and officials. The move can save Rs60 lakh of taxpayers’ money, the proposal stated. The public works department of Nehru Nagar zone has submitted a proposal to construct cement road from Umred Road to Dighori crematorium ground at a cost of over Rs1.74 crore. The department has sought the standing panel’s nod for the project so that it can invite tenders to allot the work. The zone has also submitted a proposal seeking the panel’s nod for auction of iron scrap worth Rs1.38 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-plans-to-offer-dental-treatment-at-polyclinics/articleshow/81435527.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
March 11, 2021||Vadodara||In-laws, wife of suicide victim likely to be booked||VADODARA: Cops investigating the suicide of a salesman in the city said that his wife and in-laws may be booked soon. Shishir Darji, a law graduate, had died by suicide at his home in Bajwa on Monday afternoon. Darji had left a suicide note wherein he blamed his wife Monika and her parents for torturing him. “Darji’s suicide note clearly states that he ended his life due to harassment by his wife and in-laws. Investigations are on in the case, but those named in the suicide note will be booked soon,” said a police official. The cops, though, are yet to question Monika and her parents in connection with the suicide. Darji’s mother and relatives claimed that Monika didn’t allow Darji to see his 11-month-old baby. She has been staying at her parent’s home in Vyara for the last one year. The cops suspect that some financial problems too may be the reason behind Darji and his wife’s fallout. The deceased had married Monika eight years ago and he was working as a salesman in a private firm in Manjalpur. In the note, Darji said he was being harassed by Monika and her parents and expressed his wish that they should be punished for pushing him to suicide. “Once Darji’s mother returns to the city after performing some final rituals of her son, we will meet her to get further details of the case,” said D J Limbola, police sub-inspector, Jawaharnagar police station. The cops are also waiting for getting reports of Darji’s Whatsapp messages that may reveal the tensions between him and his wife. His mobile phone was locked and hence it has been sent to the FSL. Darji had hung himself in his room when he was alone at home. Darji’s mother Jyotika too had attempted suicide by jumping in a canal near Dena village on Monday. But locals saved her life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/in-laws-wife-of-suicide-victim-likely-to-be-booked/articleshow/81435540.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Life convict among 3 held for bid to kill Nihang leader||New Delhi: Three assassins, including a convict serving life imprisonment at Tihar Jail out on parole, who were allegedly at the end stage of killing Balbir Singh, the chief of Budha Dal Nihang Samparday or 96 Crori, were arrested by Special Cell of Delhi Police. The three accused are Malkit Singh (27) from Azadpur in Delhi, Bhupender Singh (24) and Jabarjang Singh (35) from Punjab. Malkit was out on parole from Tihar Jail. Jabarjang, an associate of Punjab gangster Lakha Sidhana, was also arrested by Crime Branch on Wednesday in the Red Fort violence case. A senior Crime Branch officer told TOI, “Jabarjung was at the forefront during the January 26 violence. He was arrested by us as well as Special Cell in the murder conspiracy case.” DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said the plan was to kill Balbir Singh to conquer the biggest Sikh Jathebandi in India. Police received a tip-off on March 6 about the life convict out on parole planning a murder. Surveillance revealed that he would come to Shalimar Bagh around 10pm. Subsequently, Malkit and Bhupender were arrested with arms and ammunition. They disclosed the involvement of Jabarjang, who was apprehended on March 10. Jabarjung disclosed that Malkit and he were present at Mukarba Chowk and Red Fort on January 26 and were at the front of the procession. He came in touch with Sidhana while they were lodged in Bathinda jail. He was sentenced to life imprisonment for murdering a Nihang Sikh and was out on bail. Malkit’s father was arrested in 2007 for the murder of four Nihang Sikhs. In 2010, he, his mother Jasbir Kaur and two sewadars kidnapped and murdered a granthi of a gurdwara. They were arrested and sentenced to life imprisonment. In 2017, he came out on parole and was involved in the murder of four members of Budha Dal due to a property dispute of Muktsar Sahib Gurdwara. “The same year, Malkit was again arrested for planning to murder Pyara Singh, a sewadar of Budha Dal, for possession of Balwangarh Sahib Gurdwara, Fatehgarh Sahib,” Yadav said. Last August, Malkit got parole due to Covid-19 and took to crime again. In December, he and other Nihang Singhs of Budha Dal reached Singhu Border to support the Kisan Andolan. He then started plotting the murder of Balbir Singh by shooting him on Hola Mohalla festival celebrated before Holi when the target would be travelling in an open SUV. He planned to shoot Balbir Singh in the head as he wore a bulletproof jacket. He was also trying to murder a witness in a murder case lodged against him. “Malkit contacted Harwinder Singh Pinda, who is lodged in Nabha Jail, for procuring weapons. Pinda gave him the number of one Jyoti arms supplier from Burhanpur, MP,” said the DCP. On March 5, Bhupender and he reached Burhanpur and procured two pistols of .32 bore and 20 cartridges for Rs 40,000. They reached Delhi the next day to execute their plan, but got arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/life-convict-among-3-held-for-bid-to-kill-nihang-leader/articleshow/81437740.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||MLC polls: 3 teachers enter fray to solve problems of edu sector||Hyderabad: Three teachers — a private school teacher, a correspondent of an intermediate college and a lecturer of a private engineering college — are among the 164 candidates in the fray for the ensuing MLC election from Mahbubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad and Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam constituencies. All three of them cited neglecting the education sector by the state and central governments as the primary reason for contesting the elections and added that their motive is to solve problems in the education field, especially of teachers, which remained unresolved for years now. “About 10 lakh KG to PG teachers suffered during the pandemic. Many killed themselves as they couldn’t bear financial constraints. We tried seeking help from leaders, but couldn’t even get appointments,” said A Santosh Kumar, who is contesting as an independent candidate from the Mahbubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad constituency. Santosh, who has been working as a mathematics lecturer in an engineering college for the past 13years, said, “The pandemic made us realise that it is important for one among us to be in power to raise our issues and solve our problems. I am sure I will win in this election.” Independent candidates contesting MLC elections said both private and government teachers, unemployed youth, outsourced/contract employees were against BJP and TRS parties. They said that while the central government was responsible for over 16, 000 faculty losing their jobs by increasing student, teacher ratio in polytechnic, pharmacy, and engineering college, the state failed to fulfil its promise of providing jobs to unemployed youth. “Voters are not going to look at S Vani Devi as the daughter of former Prime Minister PV NarasimhaRao. She will be seen as a TRS candidate and will have to bear the brunt of the public as they are vexed with this government. The same is the case with sitting MLC N Ramchander Rao. He failed us. He did not raise our issues even once,” said Gowri Satish, an independent candidate from Mahbubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad constituency and correspondent of an intermediate college in the state. Shabir Ali, a private teacher contesting from the Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam constituency as an independent candidate, also shared the same sentiment. “Despite making several representations on teachers’ issues, no one came to our rescue during the pandemic. There is no job security or salaries for private teachers. When it comes to government teachers, there is no PRC or IR and they are forced to retire without promotions. Unemployed have been waiting for job notifications for years now,” Ali said, adding “it is time we come to power and get our issues addressed”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlc-polls-3-teachers-enter-fray-to-solve-problems-of-edu-sector/articleshow/81437733.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: State hikes allowance for distressed minors from Rs 425 to Rs 1,125 per month||NAGPUR: State chief minister Uddhav Thackeray brought smiles to the faces of around 835 minors of Nagpur division, who are facing socio-economic hardships, by raising their monthly allowances by 38%. The allowances are given by the state government to minors in need, including 43 affected with HIV and another 76 with one parent in jail. The allowance is to take care of their food, education, medical requirements, shelter and other expenses. Some 69 orphans, 612 children of single parents, 24 facing family crisis, and 11 from families of farmers who have ended lives, would get the benefit through the District Women and Child Development (DWCD) office, Nagpur division. The existing allowance was a paltry Rs425, and it was increased to Rs1,125 per month. At present, Nagpur division distributes Rs3.54 lakh per month but after calculating the enhanced amount it would be Rs9.39 lakh. Sources at DWCD said that Rs23.24 lakh were disbursed in January this year, clearing the dues from April till September last year. The Child Welfare Committee (CWC) decides on the eligibility of a minor to get the government allowance, which is sent by the government through Pune-based Woman and Child Development Commissionerate. At present, six NGOs coordinate the allowance disbursement and also supervise the development of the benefiting minor. State government has also increased the allowance of NGOs from Rs75 to Rs125 per minor for their supervision work. “The NGOs reports the development of the minors following which the women and child development department through it’s probationary officer reviews the report,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-hikes-allowance-for-distressed-minors-from-rs425-to-rs1125-per-month/articleshow/81435545.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||Tirath Singh Rawat: All you need to know about the new chief minister of Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: As a child, the sixth and youngest son of a fitter man with the railways, Tirath Singh Rawat was a mediocre student in school who maintained a low profile and was more comfortable away from the spotlight, as per his family members. In fact, his family worried if he would do anything “worthwhile” in life. But his virtue, they recalled, was his quiet patience. “Every time we took him to the market with the other children, he would not buy anything for himself. Others would rush to pick up things they liked, the way most children do. We always appreciated that calm contentment,” said Tapeshwari Devi, Rawat's eldest sister-in-law, who saw him growing up in his formative years. “He got that from his father, Kalam Singh.” Kalam Singh was a fitter man with the railways, checking the safety fittings of train wagons. Rawat's mother Gaura Devi was a homemaker. “He was very close to our mother because father was often away,” the new chief minister's eldest brother Jaswant Singh Rawat, 70, told TOI. “He was a quiet, mediocre student in school. He had been active in politics from a very early age. He joined RSS when he was in Class XI at the Government Inter College Jarikhal. Trivendra Singh Rawat (the outgoing CM) was a year senior. We were worried he would not be able to do anything in life.” Even after school, the family remained worried. “When his friends got jobs and settled down, Tirath continued to travel from village to village, talking to people … He proved us wrong with his success in politics. He has struggled a lot to be where he is now,” Jaswant Singh Rawat said. "On Wednesday, when news of his being chosen as the CM reached our native Siron village in Pauri, villagers broke into celebration, When he comes here next, we will offer prayers to goddess Kaalika, the family deity.” If his family in Pauri had no clue of what was to come, back home in Dehradun, his wife Rashmi Singh Rawat was also a little unprepared, despite being confident he was meant for bigger things.  “I always knew the party had full faith in his potential and that he will, one day, be given some important responsibility,” Rashmi Singh Rawat, an associate professor in psychology at DAV College in Dehradun, said. She, too, had been an active student politician. When her husband was education minister, she would work at a school in Doiwala for Rs 5,000 a month. “Deep in my heart, I believed he was the one (for the CM’s post). But I could not be sure today until we had the confirmation. It was when phone calls started coming in that I knew.” The couple has a daughter, Akanksha, who is all set for her Class X boards this year. “When I spoke to papa last night, he didn’t drop any hint … He wished me luck for my (pre-board) exam in the morning,” she said. “I was pleasantly surprised when I saw the news on my phone … I am confident he will keep solving problems for the state,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/son-of-a-rlys-worker-tirath-rawat-was-a-quiet-child-whose-family-worried-about-his-future/articleshow/81436424.cms||Shivani Azad
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||Another stretch of Shivalik Elephant Reserve diverted for parking lot||NAINITAL: Part of the Shivalik Elephant Reserve near Purnagiri Temple in Tanakpur, through which an elephant corridor passes, is being diverted for a temporary parking lot. Hearing a PIL challenging this move, the Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday issued notices to the state government, the revenue secretary, the principal chief conservator of forests, the Champawat district magistrate and the Purnagiri Temple mela magistrate. The bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma was hearing the petition by local environment activist Amit Kholia. “Initially, the court was inclined to stay the tender process (for the parking lot). But the counsel gave an undertaking before the court that it will not be finalised before the next hearing. So, the court has now listed the case for hearing on Monday,” Kholia’s counsel Dushyant Mainali told TOI. Recently, a proposal to denotify the Shivalik Elephant Reserve was stayed by the high court. The state had planned to divert forest land so the airport could be expanded. Earlier this month, the chief wildlife warden told the high court that denotification and airport expansion were “two separate issues” and it was “just a coincidence” that the 87-acre land acquired for expansion happened to be within the reserve. The reserve forest in contention over the parking lot is also part of the Shivalik Elephant Reserve, the petition said. This time, the forest department has also contested the plan. “Even the forest department has objected to his move, which effectively diverse forest land for non-forest related activity. The forest department has also raised objections to the invitation for bids to develop a temporary parking spot there,” Mainali said. The stretch lies under the Sharda forest range of Champawat’s Haldwani forest division. “The area which is being used for parking is a conventional elephant corridor, named Boom Bram Deo elephant corridor … This corridor has recorded frequent movement of wild elephant herds round the year,” the petition said. “Any encroachment, like commercial parking, in this eco-fragile area will adversely affect the protected species of elephants by putting hurdles in their natural movement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/another-stretch-of-shivalik-elephant-reserve-diverted-for-parking-lot-hc-issues-notice-to-state/articleshow/81436415.cms||Prashant Jha
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man fights Covid-19, gets another kidney transplant||AHMEDABAD: Rajendra Patel, 59, a resident of Sabarmati, was approaching a private hospital for his dialysis in September last year when he collapsed on the way. His spit contained blood as his mouth started to develop froth. He was diagnosed with Covid-19. The infection was severe, and he had to stay in the ICU for multiple days, as his CT score was 30/40. Dr Manoj Gumber, a city-based nephrologist and transplant physician, said that Patel had earlier undergone renal transplant where his sister was a donor. “Upon inspection, we realized that he would need a second transplant. His wife became the donor and we performed the transplant in November,” he said. “While second transplant is not rare, this case was important as it was a transplant in a patient with a history of severe Covid-19 infection, cardiac arrest, type 2 diabetes and hypertension.” For kidney diseases patients, Covid-19 came as a major challenge with high mortality rate associated with transplant and on dialysis patients. Dr Vineet Mishra, director of city-based IKDRC, said that another set of challenges was existing patients testing Covid-19 positive. “We recorded dips in almost all categories, but not in the patients undergoing hemodialysis – they needed the procedure to stay alive. Thus, we not only started a new section for treating the positive patients with separate machines and staff, but also took over facilities of some existing hospitals so that the patients don’t have to come to a central location,” he said. Do recovered Covid-19 patients report of kidney diseases? Dr Umesh Godhani, a city-based nephrologist, said that the effects are seen in some patients. “If a person is already a kidney patient, the issue might aggravate, but if there’s no history of the disease, the impact is not very adverse,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-fights-covid-19-gets-another-kidney-transplant/articleshow/81440590.cms||Parth Shastri
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||No water for 4 days, residents ransack Orange City Water office||NAGPUR: Aggrieved by non-supply of water for four days due to delay in interconnection of 700mm main pipeline between Pardi and Bhandewadi, residents of East Nagpur on Wednesday ransacked Orange City Water Limited’s Lakadganj zone office and later locked it as a mark of protest. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is constructing a four-lane flyover on national highway 6. As part of this, NHAI had requested for a 24-hour shutdown from March 7 (Sunday) to 10am on March 8 to interconnect Pardi and Bhandewadi main pipelines with 700mm diameter pipeline under its utility shifting programme. Later, NHAI extended the work to four days instead of 24 hours. This has forced around 15,000 consumers or about one lakh residents under three elevated storage reservoirs — Pardi-I, II and Bhandewadi-I — to remain without water for four days. Angered over the delay, residents of Mahajanpura, Khatikpura, Matangpura, Deblewadi, Gajanan Mandir Parisar, Ambe Nagar, Samta Nagar, Ekta Nagar, Durga Nagar, Sarai Mohalla, Sundar Nagar, Shende Nagar, Bhandewadi, Raj Nagar, Sharda Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Vaishnav Devi Nagar, Shravan Nagar, Suraj Town, Khandwani Town, Pavanshakti Nagar, Antuja Nagar, Tulsi Nagar and other areas went to NMC’s Lakadganj zone on Wednesday morning and staged protest outside OCW office there. Raising slogans against NHAI and OCW, the protesters entered the office and ransacked furniture there. They also locked the zone office before leaving the place. OCW has apologized to the citizens for failing to supply water for four consecutive days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-water-for-4-days-residents-ransack-ocw-office/articleshow/81435534.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
March 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Nilgiris contains virus spread despite high flow of tourists||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris has managed to cap the number of daily Covid-19 cases at single digit, despite tourists from other states flocking to the hill retreat daily in large numbers. The credit goes to the district administration that has been enforcing standard operating procedures (SOPs) to contain the virus spread strictly and efficiently. Since there has been no spike in daily cases, the active Covid-19 cases has also been around 36-40 in the district for the past one month, while neighbouring Coimbatore has been seeing a surge of late.In the past one week alone, the district had seen more than 21,000 tourists. E-pass is compulsory for tourists from other states except Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry. Dr P Balusamy, deputy director of public health, said, “At all the check posts in the district, tourists from other states are allowed in only if they produce e-pass and Covid-19 negative certificate. We also take throat swabs from local residents for testing when they return after a long stay outside the district.”The official said they hadn’t cut down on the number of samples being tested daily even after considerable dip in cases. “This has helped us keep in check the virus spread. We continue to test around 1,000 samples a day. Also, we don’t waste any time to track contacts of new cases and take appropriate action.”Pointing to the surge in new cases in Coimbatore, Balusamy said the Nilgiris needed to be alert. “Locals should think twice before planning a short trip to neighbouring districts.”On Wednesday, the district reported eight new Covid cases, taking the tally to 8,406, even as four patients were discharged from treatment centres. The district has 40 active cases, while 8318 patients have recovered so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-contains-virus-spread-despite-high-flow-of-tourists/articleshow/81437736.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi HC orders police cover for homosexual wife||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed Delhi Police to provide protection to a woman who ran away from her matrimonial home saying she was a homosexual, but was threatened to be “cured” of her sexual orientation by her husband, parents and in-laws. Justice Mukta Gupta said the woman was an adult and couldn’t be forced to live with her husband since both were willing to dissolve the marriage. It asked police to take all necessary steps to provide her protection at her new place. TimesViewIt is the responsibility of any modern, progressive society to make sexual minorities feel secure. Offering protection to the woman concerned is a right decision taken by the high court.The 23-year-old woman alleged that she was forcibly married in October 2019 despite her parents being aware of her sexual orientation. She had tried multiple times to put an end to the relationship. She had informed her husband immediately after marriage about her sexual orientation. The woman said the marriage was never consummated. She also expressed her wish of getting divorced as continuance of their marriage was adversely affecting her mental health and physical well-being. She said her husband kept delaying breaking this news to his family. On March 7, the woman’s mother called her saying she had contacted a guru who would cure her sexual orientation and would undertake conversion therapy using psychic interventions, the plea said. Fearing for her safety, the woman decided to leave her matrimonial house so that the dehumanising rituals were not performed on her. She approached an NGO, Act Now for Harmony and Democracy, the same day for a safe house, where she is currently staying. She approached the court seeking immediate directions to ensure that she was provided security and protection from her family and to direct her parental and matrimonial families to cease and desist from contacting, threatening or coercing her in any manner. She sought protection of her right to equality under Article 14 of the Constitution as well as her right to privacy, autonomy, dignity and liberty under Article 21. Represented through advocate Vrinda Grover, the woman informed the court that her family was forcing her to undergo “correction” surgeries, rituals or ceremonies for her sexual orientation. The high court directed Delhi Police, represented through Delhi government standing counsel Rahul Mehra, to provide complete protection to the woman and also said that no NGO member should be harassed or harmed for helping her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-orders-police-cover-for-homosexual-wife/articleshow/81437758.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||War exercise ‘Dustlik II’ begins in Ranikhet, Indian & Uzbek soldiers being trained for terror ops in high altitude||Almora: The second edition of war exercise 'Dustlik' began in Ranikhet on Wednesday. The armies of India and Uzbekistan will be part of this 10-day-long joint exercise aimed at carrying out joint counter-terror operations in high altitude areas. Both the Indian and the Uzbek contingents include 45 soldiers each. The Indian Army is being represented by 13 Kumaon, also known as the Rezang La battalion as the company fought bravely in the Rezang La battle during the 1962 Sino-Indian war. Major General SK Sharma attended the first day of the battle exercise as the chief guest. Addressing the soldiers, he said, “This maneuver is important in many ways as India and Uzbekistan will share their supreme warfare techniques. The two countries are united against global terrorism.” Meanwhile, Uzbek military commander Colonel Kamilov Aziz said, “The exercise will prepare both the armies for insurgency operations in mountainous areas and deepen the ties between the two nations.” Earlier in November 2019, a joint exercise was held between the two armies in Tashkent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/war-exercise-dustlik-ii-begins-in-ranikhet-indian-uzbek-soldiers-being-trained-for-terror-ops-in-high-altitude/articleshow/81436437.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Vadodara||Farmer held for cultivating ganja||VADODARA/ ANAND: Anand police arrested a farmer for cultivating 17 plants of cannabis weighing around 14.41 kg having a market value of around Rs 1.44 lakh. The special operation group (SOG) of Anand had received a tip-off that the farmer was cultivating ganja at a farm at Haldari village. When a team of cops led by police inspector G N Parmar and police sub inspector K G Chaudhary raided the farm, they came across the cannabis plants that were grown besides grass near a house and a stable at a farm located on village outskirts.  The cops have booked an offence against two accused – Nilesh alias Bhuriya Patel and Kanu Patel - under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act at Anklav police station.  Kanu Patel has been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/farmer-held-for-cultivating-ganja/articleshow/81435575.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||‘Use Rs 400 crore to build 4 hospitals across Maharashtra’||AIMIM MP Imtiaz Jaleel on Wednesday urged the state government to construct four hospitals across the state instead of spending Rs 400 crore on a proposed memorial. He said, instead four hospitals worth Rs 100 crore each should be built named after late Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-aimim-mp-calls-for-building-four-hospitals-instead-of-a-memorial/articleshow/81440772.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Nashik||Nashik residents rescue newborn abandoned by mother near drain||NASHIK: A newborn girl child, who had been abandoned by her mother near an open drain chamber at Panchak in the Nashik Road area, was saved by some local residents on Tuesday after they heard the shrill cries of the baby. The residents had taken the baby to a nearby government hospital, which turned out to be the same hospital where the baby was delivered the day before. Eventually, the mother of the baby got to know that her daughter had been rescued from the drain chamber and taken back to the hospital. Fearing police action, she went to the hospital a few hours later to take the baby back, only to be booked by the police. Constable P K Wagh of the Nashik Road police station, who is investigating the case, said that around 2 pm on Tuesday, a few residents of the Panchak area heard the cries of the baby from an open drain chamber behind the Mahadev temple. There they found the abandoned child. Wagh said the woman had delivered the baby on Monday and was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. The staff at the hospital identified the baby when it was brought in by the residents who rescued her. Since the baby had suffered some bruises, she was admitted to the Nashik civil hospital and the police were informed. When the police reached the hospital, the mother of the baby too had gone there to take the baby back. Wagh said the mother must have been informed by someone that the baby had been rescued and she (the mother) could be arrested for abandoning the child. The police booked the woman and her relative under section 317 (exposure and abandonment of child below 12 years) of the IPC. Wagh said that when the woman was interrogated, she said that she had not been living with her husband for the past six-seven months. She already has one daughter and raising another girl child would have only added to her hardships. The police confirmed that the newborn had bruises on her body and had been shifted to the Nashik civil hospital for further treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-residents-rescue-newborn-abandoned-by-mother-near-drain/articleshow/81435554.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 11, 2021||India||Posthumous awards proof of Chinese casualties in Galwan: Govt||NEW DELHI: Asked whether China had suffered loss of lives in the Galwan Valley clash last year, the government on Wednesday pointed to the announcement last month by the Central Military Commission of China posthumously awarding honorary titles and merit citations to Chinese soldiers. Junior foreign minister V Muraleedharan said in Parliament that as per the announcement, these titles were awarded for the role of the soldiers in the faceoff at Galwan Valley in June 2020. According to a People’s Daily report, four Chinese soldiers, who “were sacrificed” in the border violence, were posthumously awarded honorary titles and first class merit citations. A colonel, who was injured, was conferred honorary title. Muraleedharan said the government will continue discussions with China to resolve the remaining issues in eastern Ladakh. In a written reply in Los Sabha, he referred to a statement by Rajnath Singh on February 11 in which he had said India and China had reached an agreement on disengagement on the north and south bank of Pangong lake||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/posthumous-awards-proof-of-chinese-casualties-in-galwan-govt/articleshow/81441127.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Comedy was OTT remedy for Covid blues’||AHMEDABAD: Cooped up at home, juggling between domestic chores and office assignments, what did India do with smartphones? The Indian OTT Platforms Report 2020 by MICA and Communications Craft revealed that the average respondent of the survey spent about 3 hours and 54 minutes on their smartphones, and watched videos for 8 hours 43 minutes every week on an average. About 75% of the respondents said that they watched comedy content on over the top (OTT) platforms in form of TV shows, web series, movies or stand-up acts. The other top genre mentioned by the respondents included Thriller (62%), Drama (59%) and Action (41%). Darshan Trivedi, adjunct faculty at MICA and editor of the report, said that the year 2020 would be a landmark for the OTT platforms. “In the last report, we had witnessed its rise and direct competition with the TV and other media – but in absence of conventional cinema, the content on OTTs became more ambitious and attracted a very wide audience which was ready for shows on unconventional themes,” said Dr Trivedi. “If there is one industry that has come out a winner from this painful pandemic, it’s the OTT industry. And this while the overall entertainment space has taken an adverse hit much like most other industries,” said Chirag Dagli, director of Communications Craft. “The reason lies in the fact that the platforms have taken full advantage of insights emerging from usage analytics in understanding consumer tastes, preferences, and likings.” Other sectors such as social media, music streaming and online gaming have also recorded major spike in engagement. While social media platforms recorded 19% rise in visits, news and media consumption rose by 32%. But gaming took the cake with 49% rise. The report revealed that the games ranged from online versions of conventional card games to major multiplayer role-playing games. Men remained over 66% of the consumers of the space, but share of women is rising steadily, said the research team. Regional platforms see upward trend Trivedi said that major platforms are now leaning towards content in regional languages along with acquiring/ producing in Hindi and English. “In Gujarat alone, we have seen launch or announcement of three exclusive Gujarati OTT platforms in past one month. One of the reasons for push in this segment is a large catchment area outside of metros where smartphones and good internet connectivity is now easily available,” he said, adding that the investment and content production would see a huge boost in 2021 as well. Exclusive content got more traction, nature of viewing individualistic The report also highlighted the fact that the exclusive shows and movies got more viewership across the platforms. The top 20 shows is an eclectic mix of crime dramas,thrillers, adult content, romantic comedies and docudramas. The original content ranged from 44% to 17% for the top platforms, revealed the report. ‘There have been changes in the viewership patterns... Now people have started to watch more on their smartphones and laptops rather than a scheduled TV show,’ mentioned the report, adding that it has influenced content creation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/comedy-remedy-for-covid-blues-ott-platform-survey-reveals-fav-genre-during-lockdown/articleshow/81440605.cms||Parth Shastri
March 11, 2021||Coimbatore||City hosp gets Rs 3 crore grant to help poor burn victims||Coimbatore: City-based Ganga Hospital has received a global grant of Rs 3 crore from two rotary clubs and the Rotary Foundation under the project ‘Hope After Fire’ to continue performing reconstructive surgery for the poor people who have suffered deformities in fire incidents.Started in 2012, the project has already seen 574 patients undergo reconstructive surgery and receive rehabilitative physiotherapy at a cost of Rs 5.66 crore over the past nine years.The third phase of the project, which would utilize the recent grant of Rs 3 crore, has been launched by actor Karthik Sivakumar.The grant has been organized by the Rotary Club of Coimbatore Metropolis, Rotary Club of Oakridge Breakfast and the Rotary Foundation.A press statement from the hospital said the grant would help them perform about 550 major reconstructive surgeries in the next two years. “The fund will be used to cover the hospital cost and consumables, while plastic surgery is done free of cost. This way, more people will benefit,” said Dr Raja Sabapathy, director of the project at Ganga Hospital.Burn deformities require multiple stages of surgery and lengthy hospital stay that involve considerable cost, making it beyond the reach of poor people. “For example, the 574 patients have cumulatively undergone 955 surgeries,” said the press statement. Dr Raja Sabapathy said some beneficiaries had suffered for 10-15 years or more than 20 years because of deformities from burn injuries.According to them, 14 lakh of the 70 lakh people, who suffer burn injuries yearly, succumb to their injuries. Among the survivors, 24 lakh suffer deformities either on face or hands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-hosp-gets-rs-3-crore-grant-to-help-poor-burn-victims/articleshow/81437770.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||New-born girls still face gender bias||Hyderabad: Female babies are unwanted and evidence of this has once again shown up in Mahbubabad district in the state. Recently, a newborn female baby was found abandoned at a public place in a village in Dornakal mandal. While the baby—which is healthy and weighing 3.2 kg—is in medical care, authorities said they would present the baby before the Child Welfare Committee. The baby will then be in the care of the Sishu Vihar in Warangal, after which the baby would then be given in adoption by the women and child welfare department following the rules of the central government’s Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA). On March 8, the baby was found dumped at Burgampahad village. Locals found the baby and informed authorities, who took the baby into their care. But baby ‘March 8’ is not the only unwanted baby that authorities have come across. At the ground level, when health officials visit a pregnant woman’s house to check her health, they invariably interact with them and understand them. If the staff get any inkling that the parents might abandon the child after the birth, they begin counselling. “When the baby is unwanted, parents tend to leave the baby at any public place, putting the baby’s life at risk,” Kamalakar said. The pregnant woman and her family are informed that they should not abandon their babies but if they do not want the child, the government would take the baby. It was through such interactions that the parents of 16 female babies, who otherwise probably would have abandoned their newborn, handed over their babies to the authorities. After following procedures, the babies are now being taken care of at the Sishu Vihar in Warangal. According to authorities, all the 16 female babies have been adopted by families, through the the women and child welfare department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-born-girls-still-face-gender-bias/articleshow/81437760.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||Couple found dead in Roorkee, probe on||Roorkee: A married couple was found dead under mysterious circumstances at their residence in Toda Khatka village near Roorkee on Wednesday. The throats of victims were allegedly slit with a sharp-edged weapon. However, the room where the crime took place was locked from inside. Police have registered a murder case and started the probe. Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai K Raj S said, “The victims are 35-year-old Sushil, who worked as a waiter in a Roorkee hotel, and his 32-year-old wife Poonam. We cannot comment on the nature of the crime as of yet. We have collected evidence from the crime spot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/couple-found-dead-in-roorkee-probe-on/articleshow/81436450.cms||Tapan Susheel
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||BMC aims to add 47 private hospitals, cover 30 lakh priority population in a month||MUMBAI: The city’s civic body aims to vaccinate a lakh people every day—up from the current daily average of 42,000— starting Monday to cover the prioritized population of 30 lakh in the next one month. To achieve this, BMC chief I S Chahal told TOI on Wednesday that Mumbai may replicate the Rajasthan model, where vaccinations centres have been delinked with advanced medical set-ups and almost taken to people’s doorsteps. Meanwhile, Maharashtra has completed administering 2 million vaccine doses, with Mumbai leading with 4.76 lakh vaccinations. On Wednesday, the BMC held a meeting with heads of Mumbai’s private hospitals where their ability to scale up the drive was discussed. Chahal said the number of private hospitals will be pushed from 41 to at least 88 in the next few days. Centres have already been permitted to run 24-hour centres for seven days if they have the resources. The existing immunization centres are operating for 8-12 hours now and Sundays are no-immunization days. “Currently, we are clocking 42,000 in a day, which can be doubled if all 88 private hospitals come on board,” he said. Barring the big private centres, the civic body has shortlisted names of forty-nine 50-bed hospitals and sent them to the Centre for approval. A nod is expected in the next few days. Chahal said that the city has witnessed 114 deaths in the past one month. “On an average, we have seen four deaths every day. Above 90%-95% of the deaths have been among senior citizens, which means if we can cover this vulnerable group, the death rate can be brought down to almost nil,” he said. Of the 30 lakh from prioritized groups, 23 lakh are senior citizens, four lakhs are frontline and healthcare workers; and another 3 lakh are people aged 45-59 years with comorbidities. The city has completed vaccinating only around 16% of that number. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that the city had 3 lakh doses and the drive can be scaled up. Speaking of the Rajasthan model, Chahal said that the vaccination programme there has been taken almost to people’s doorsteps. “Like Rajasthan, we have asked if we can delink ICUs from vaccination booths. There have been over 2 crore vaccinations in India and hardly anywhere ICUs were needed. Such a decision will allow us to start vaccination in local clubs and NGOs,” he said. As per guidelines, vaccination centres don’t have to be linked with ICUs, but they need to have people who can identify an anaphylactic shock and treat it. Rajasthan’s head of immunization Dr Raghuraj Singh told TOI that they have started vaccinating at all primary health centres, rural hospitals and medical colleges and hold almost 2,000 sessions in a day. “We held orientation sessions with panchayat heads and village seniors and that has helped us in a big way,” he said, adding that the state doesn’t do door-to-door vaccination. On Tuesday, Rajasthan had vaccinated 2.22 lakh, while the maximum it has done in a day is 2.81 lakh. On Monday, 42,702 people were vaccinated in Mumbai, of which senior citizens accounted for 28,978, a slight dip from 30,624 who got vaccinated on Tuesday. According to the state government’s vaccination tally till Tuesday, Maharashtra has finished vaccinating 21,25,711.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-aims-to-add-47-pvt-hosps-cover-30l-priority-popn-in-a-mth/articleshow/81440608.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 11, 2021||Vadodara||Stranded at home during pandemic, NRG directs three short films online||VADODARA: When the ‘stay at home’ order was enforced last year, he enjoyed some relaxed moments at his home in the US. But soon creative crisis struck Jay Parikh, a non-resident Gujarati (NRG), and he decided to try something unique. Parikh, who stays in Los Angeles, decided to make three short-films in three different languages, revolving around the theme of Covid-19 pandemic. Parikh directed these short-films online via Zoom! “Initially I thought of making a short film on how people staying far from each other are dealing with the pandemic and lockdown. But it didn’t look challenging. So, I decided to make three different short films in as many languages,” said Parikh, who is from Vadodara. He immediately got down to writing scripts in June last year and then hunted for actors in Spanish, Italian and English language. “We had auditions, readings and rehearsals via Zoom and every meeting was recorded. The actors were asked to record the short films themselves while I guided them online. They kept the camera on stand or table to shoot the films,” said Parikh (30). Once the actors recorded the shots, Parikh edited them and added music to complete it. One of the short films ‘Hope’, shot in English language, shows how a couple is taking care of each other while accepting their first child during the pandemic. The second short film ‘Rico’ made in Spanish speaks about a man’s insecurities while being stuck at home during the pandemic and the third film is shot in Italian language, ‘The Neighbour’ is a psychological thriller about a guy who keeps hearing his neighbour’s dog’s sounds while stuck at home due to the pandemic. “I plan to release these films in April on YouTube,” added Parikh. He had completed his engineering studies in the city before shifting to the US in 2012. Parikh pursued a course in short film making there and took to film making. He has made several short films on sensitive issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/stranded-at-home-during-pandemic-nrg-directs-three-short-films-online/articleshow/81435611.cms||Tushar Tere
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Unpaid for months, civic docs threaten to go on strike||New Delhi: A new round of salary crisis seems to be emerging in North Delhi Municipal Corporation, with Hindu Rao Resident Doctors’ Association holding an emergency general body meeting on pending salaries on Friday. Municipal doctors say they went on a strike last October after their salaries were pending for over 136 days. During the crisis, Covid patients in the hospital had to be shifted. While doctors were assured that such a situation won’t arise again, their salaries have been pending again for 120 days, the association states. Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) will decide about resorting to another round of strike or opt for mass resignation, while the doctors at Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, also run by the corporation, have called a strike from Saturday. Dr Sunil Kumar, president of RDA, said it was inhumane that doctors were expected to work without any money in such testing times. “Frontline workers should get their salaries as soon as possible and a regular payout should be ensured. We are going on strike from Saturday and a letter in this regard has already been submitted to the authorities,” he added. The doctor said the senior doctors in the hospital had not been paid from November and the rest since December. “The Supreme Court had intervened in last time and the Union health ministry had issued directions to all stakeholders to ensure timely salary, but it seems no institution matters for the people in authority,” he added. The Kasturba Gandhi RDA has stated that the families of more than 70 senior doctors and 100 junior doctors have been affected. Doctors say the financial year is ending and they need to pay EMIs and do savings, but they are being forced to fend for themselves. The Hindu Rao RDA has written to the additional commissioner (health) reminding him about commitments made during a meeting held in October and their pending salaries. “This month is the end of the financial year and doctors are burdened with clearing many dues,” said Dr Sagardeep Bawa, its vice-president. “We are being pushed to a position of stand down by denying our basic rights. The doctors are considering resigning or going for an indefinite strike.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unpaid-for-months-civic-docs-threaten-to-go-on-strike/articleshow/81455897.cms||Paras Singh
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand record 36 new Covid-19 cases, two deaths||DEHRADUN: With 36 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported on Wednesday, the coronavirus tally reached 97,565 in Uttarakhand. Also, two more coronavirus-related fatalities took the toll of the virus to 1,697 in the state. Among the new infections, the maximum of 19 cases were recorded in Haridwar, followed by 12 in Nainital, three in Udham Singh Nagar, and one each in Pauri and Rudraprayag districts. No infections were found in the other eight districts, including Dehradun. The active cases in Uttarakhand were 400 and sample positivity rate was recorded at 3.9%. The state also recorded 45 cases of recoveries on Wednesday. With this, the recovery rate reached 96.2% and the cumulative cured cases shot up to 93,858. Meanwhile, 13,248 people were inoculated for Covid-19 in the 197 vaccination sessions held on Wednesday. So far, a total of 69,780 people have been fully vaccinated in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-record-36-new-covid-19-cases-two-deaths/articleshow/81436468.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Man who fled after pushing his wife 2 floors down convicted of murder||New Delhi: A man’s conduct of fleeing the crime scene after having reportedly pushed his wife two floors down has prompted a court to convict him of murder. “Any ordinary person” would have taken his wife to the hospital after such an incident, it observed. The husband’s plea of alibi, too, did not impress additional sessions judge Reetesh Singh, who found no supporting evidence that could back the claim that Dilip was in his home state Bihar on that day. No witness was also examined to corroborate the claim. “Lalita, the deceased, was the wife of Dilip. Any ordinary person would have taken his wife to the hospital post such an incident. Accused Dilip did not do so and went away from the place of incident,” the judgment states. His conduct “is a relevant fact within the meaning of Section 8 of Evidence Act and points towards his guilt”, it adds. The provision deals with motive, preparation and previous or subsequent conduct of an accused person. On August 20, 2016, Dilip, who was not staying with his wife, came visiting her. When Lalita, who was on the second floor, refused to let him in to rest for a while, the situation escalated into a fight. A tea seller, a factory owner and the couple’s grandson were eye-witnesses in the case. Lalita’s autopsy showed that she had suffered a head injury, fractures of multiple ribs and long bones owing to the blunt force impact and blood loss, possibly due to a fall from a height. The defence counsel called the witness testimonies inconsistent and doubtful and claimed other “eyewitnesses” weren’t made to join the investigation. The counsel labelled the factory owner a planted witness. “Dilip surrendered before court on September 15, 2016. It reflects his bonafide,” it was argued, seeking his acquittal. The testimonies spoke about a loud thud following which Lalita’s body was seen lying on the ground. According to some statements, “Dilip had thrown his wife Lalita down from the second floor.” Judge Singh held Dilip punishable under IPC Scetion 302 for murdering his wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-who-fled-after-pushing-his-wife-2-floors-down-convicted-of-murder/articleshow/81455928.cms||Aamir Khan
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC directs state to present policy on rehabilitation of tribals||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday directed the state to present its rehabilitation policy for tribals before the court. The court was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) demanding a stay on allotment of around 160 hectares of land for rehabilitation of Van Gujjars from Corbett to Chidiyapur Range in Haridwar district. The petitioner alleged that the area is close to an elephant corridor and if Van Gujjars were to move there, it would only lead to cases of conflicts with jumbos. The petition further contended that the state was granting forest land to the Gujjars without any policy to back up the decision. The court clubbed this petition with another PIL that had demanded for a policy to be framed for the resettlement of Gujjars. The direction came from the bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma, which said that the issue is not only about the rehabilitation of the Van Gujjar community but the tribal population in general. The bench said that “it is the constitutional duty of the state to improve the standard of living of people” and therefore the court “would like to know the rehabilitation policy of the state with regard to the poor and illiterate tribal population”. “The petitioner had said that if this land is allotted (to Van Gujjars), an elephant corridor will be disturbed, which will only lead to increase in human-animal conflict. The court however has now taken a wider view and directed the state to present its policy, if there is any, regarding the rehabilitation of tribal population in the state. The case will now be heard on April 15,” said an advocate present at the hearing. As reported by TOI earlier, the division bench of the HC had, in August last year, directed the state government to come up with suggestions on the constitution of a committee to look into the problems faced by the Van Gujjar community. The petition was filed by an NGO named Think Act and Rise Foundation (TARF). Van Gujjars mainly live in and around the Rajaji Tiger Reserve, which straddles the states of Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. In 1983, when the hill state was part of UP, about 1,400 families were rehabilitated, but they are still waiting for land rights to be granted, according to the PIL by TARF. Most of the members of the Van Gujjar tribe live in forests and do not possess basic identification documents like Aadhaar card and have no access to facilities such as electricity or schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-directs-state-to-present-policy-on-rehabilitation-of-tribals/articleshow/81436484.cms||Prashant Jha
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Khammam collector tenders apology to HC||Hyderabad: Khammam district collector RV Karnan, who incurred the wrath of HC for using intemperate language against a single judge of the court, appeared before a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy and tendered apology for his actions like not implementing the court order and passing insinuatory remarks against a single judge. He said he was setting right the anomalies in distribution of government schemes that became the basis for contempt case against him. He also filed an amended affidavit duly removing the allegations he made against the single judge. After accepting his apology, the bench provided some relief to the collector by setting aside the penalty imposed earlier by the single judge. Earlier, a single judge had found fault with the IAS officer for not implementing a court order asking him to consider the representation of a citizen to curb misuse of government schemes and imposed a penalty of Rs 500 on him. The IAS officer preferred an appeal in the HC and made an allegation that the single judge had acted with a pre-determined mind. CJ bench earlier turned furious on the bureaucrat and warned him of a fresh contempt case. On Wednesday he appeared before the court and filed an amended affidavit duly removing the paras where he made insinuations against single judge and apologized. Bench accepted his apology, set aside the Rs 500 penalty, and allowed him to purge himself from the contempt case. A bench headed by CJ Kohli turned furious towards the collector and state counsel for trying to defend him after the faux pas. The collector apologised for his action||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/khammam-collector-tenders-apology-to-hc/articleshow/81437781.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Suspension of subsidy for Tata’s EV stayed by HC||New Delhi: Delhi High Court on Wednesday stayed the AAP government’s decision to suspend subsidy on Tata’s Nexon electric vehicles (EVs). Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva partially allowed the plea filed by Tata Motors challenging the penalty of suspension of subsidy available to customers who buy Nexon EVs. However, the court allowed the five-member expert committee set up by the transport department to continue on its work to examine the complaints regarding performance of Tata Nexon EV. A detailed order of the court is awaited. Appearing for the company, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi and advocate Amit Bhandari cited the rules in the government’s EV policy to argue that even if the claim of the complainant — on whose complaint the government suspended the subsidy — is correct with respect to the vehicle purchased never giving him a range over 200km per charge, the eligibility criterion under the scheme specifies 200km range, which the company’s vehicles met. Singhvi highlighted that the claim of more than 300km range made in the company brochure is under ideal test conditions where a range of factors come into play. Tata Motors had moved the high court earlier this week challenging the show-cause notice slapped on it by the government and other penalties based on complaints about sub-standard range performance. Appearing for the government, standing counsel Ramesh Singh submitted that it was decided to suspend the subsidy, pending the final report of a committee appointed by it, due to complaints by multiple users of substandard range performance. In its plea, the company termed the move “knee jerk” and argued the government took the extreme step based on an isolated complaint by a disgruntled and unsatisfied consumer. It argued that the committee set up is an “after thought” by the transport department, which has already made up its mind. The EV is fitted with a 30.2 kWh battery pack with a claimed range of up to 312 kilometres against one full charge. Opposing the move Tata Motors has said “despite Tata Nexon EV having undergone rigorous testing and having cleared all the specifications of both the Centre and state government for being eligible for subsidy under the electric vehicle policy, the government of NCT of Delhi upon receiving a complaint from one purchaser, issued a show cause notice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/suspension-of-subsidy-for-tatas-ev-stayed-by-hc/articleshow/81437799.cms||Abhinav Garg
March 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Small clusters push Covid count up||Coimbatore: The daily Covid-19 count continues to inch upwards in the district, which recorded 63 new cases on Wednesday. This is the highest number of cases seen in a day since February 6, when 65 people were declared positive for the virus. Some sources said more than 80 people, including a cluster of seven from Saravanampatti, had tested positive for the virus on the day. But, the state bulletin had listed only 63 cases. Officials are back to the principle of tracing contacts, isolating and testing them, as more clusters of single families are emerging in the district that has so far logged 56,246 Covid-19 cases. With 59 patients getting discharged from treatment centres on the day, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the district now stands at 359. The district has recorded 363 Covid-19 cases between March 4 and 10, up 23.6% from 293 cases during February 25-March 3. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “The spike is because of many clusters that have come up in the district over the past three days. The source of infection in the case of 80% clusters is outside travel for pilgrimages or public gatherings like weddings.” The city corporation said there were seven clusters - two at R S Puram with three and two cases respectively, one at Sivanandhapuram, and the remaining at Peelamedu, GN Milla and Lakshmipuram. Of the 63 cases on the day, 48 were from the city corporation limits alone. “Eight cases have been cross notified to other districts, after the source of infection has been traced back to them. While we couldn’t trace the source of infection in two cases, the remaining 38 cases are indigenous ones,” said Dr S Raja, city health officer. “All the clusters have been families.” The city corporation has been directed to start tracing and isolating primary and secondary contacts for at least a week to see if they develop any symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/small-clusters-push-covid-count-up/articleshow/81437816.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Manpreet rejects fudging; ‘Capt’s team has hit a sixer’||CHANDIGARH: Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Wednesday claimed that he could have easily presented a surplus budget for 2021-22 but for the first time in the history of the state, he decided to go in for capital expenditure of Rs 14,000 crore. His speech on the last day of the budget session was marred by a united protest by SAD and AAP legislators, who continued to raise slogans against the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in the well of the House. Speaker Rana K P Singh, however, asked Manpreet to continue speaking. “In 2006-07, the capital expenditure was Rs 2,500 crore; in 2007-08, it was Rs 2,000 crore; in 2009-10, it was 2,100 crore; and in 2012-13 it was Rs 1,900 crore. It is for the first time that such a high capital expenditure has been kept aside in the budget,” he said. Referring to Hindi movie ‘Lagaan’, in which hero (Aamir Khan) hit a sixer on the last ball, Manpreet said the opposition was unsettled because “Captain’s team has hit a sixer in the last year... That is the real issue, not that there is any shortcoming in the budget”. He also refuted the opposition’s charge that allocation for the social sector was less, claiming that more funds had been kept aside as compared to the figures in the previous regime. The AAP MLAs were the first to troop into the well of the House and begin sloganeering. Later, when Manpreet clarified on points raised by Akali MLA Bikram Singh Majithia a day before, the SAD legislators joined the AAP peers and gathered close to the finance minister’s seat. The speaker had to ask the AAP MLAs not to get too close to Manpreet, who sits in the first row. “The Centre has held back the rural development fund (RDF) and arm twisted the state on GST compensation,” said Manpreet. “In the villages of Punjab, the old age pension of Rs 750 monthly instalment is eagerly awaited and the doubling of the amount would bring the desired impact of the budget. Similarly, the father of a girl of marriageable age would appreciate a hike in the Ashirwad scheme from Rs 21,000 to Rs 51,000. The key decision of the Congress government for women is not free travel in buses but the 33% reservation in government jobs. The decision would result in 33,000 girls getting employment in the Punjab government before December,” he added. “A charge of ‘fudging of figures’ has been made about the GSDP. However, the figures quoted therein are from the Government of India and the finance commission. The borrowing limit for this year is Rs 42,000 crore and we have decided not avail Rs 5,000 crore of the limit,” he said. Manpreet said he was surprised that rebel SAD MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa, a former finance minister, had claimed that there is no provision for the 6th pay commission in the budget. “It is sad that someone who presented five budgets said this. In the ‘Budget at a Glance’, the other revenue expenditure has factored in the Rs 9,000 crore for the pay hike,” he said. If Dhindsa feels there are vested interests in the government, why did he not resign, he quipped. Manpreet also blamed the SAD for the Rs 31,000 crore on food account. On Majithia’s charge of ‘hidden debt’ of Rs 8, 359 crore, the minister put on record a letter from the Centre that said, “The borrowing under the special window will not be treated as a debt of the state for any norms prescribed by the finance commission.” As AAP and SAD MLAs trooped into the well, the speaker said this way of protesting was not right and they were causing disturbance to the assembly staff in taking notes. The staff, who sit near the well of the house, had to eventually leave their seats. During the minister’s speech, SAD MLA Sharanjit Singh Dhillon said he had made a clever move with the free travel announcement as people no longer use state carriers. He knows that male members of the family will always accompany a woman, it will result in two tickets with every free ride, Dhillon said. AAP MLA Aman Arora said the promise made by the Congress in its election manifesto was to hike the old age pension to Rs 2,500 and it means arrears of Rs 21,000 for each of the 25 lakh beneficiaries in the state for the delay of four years. ‘Only FM to resign over policies of then govt’ Majithia took a swipe at Manpreet Badal, saying that he gets to know which party will form the next government and switches sides accordingly. “He has presented eight budgets in the last 15 years,” he said. Manpreet retorted, “In the history of the country, cite the case of any state finance minister who resigned over the policies of his own government. I did not wait for the term of the (Akali) government to end before quitting.” Cabinet minister Charanjit Channi took it as a chance to blame the SAD for siding with the BJP when it suited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/manpreet-rejects-fudging-capts-team-has-hit-a-sixer/articleshow/81439529.cms||Vibhor Mohan
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||AIMIM may go it alone in West Bengal assembly polls||HYDERABAD: All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) is seriously contemplating to go it alone in the ensuing elections to the West Bengal assembly. AIMIM president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi said he would announce the party’s decision at an appropriate time. Though the Owaisi-led party had grand plans of contesting in more constituencies, its plans went awry after Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui floated Indian Secular Front (ISF) and joined the Congress-Left alliance. MIM and Siddiqui’s party were supposed to contest the elections in an alliance, which did not materialise. Though MIM leaders are maintaining that the party’s search for a new political ally in West Bengal is still continuing, sources said it has come to a near-end. Also Owaisi is by and large in favour of going it alone given the present political scenario in West Bengal. A senior MIM leader, who has been to West Bengal, said surveys conducted by the party members is almost complete. MIM is likely to field its candidates from select assembly constituencies located in the districts of Murshidabad, Malda, Uttar and Dakshin Dinajpur, North and South 24 Parganas. Interestingly, these districts are Congress-Left and TMC dominated areas having a large concentration of Muslim population. There are Scheduled Castes too in big numbers. AIMIM has been fielding candidates from both Muslim and Hindu communities in elections it had contested in various states. For instance, Murshidabad district is a Congress stronghold. In the 2016 assembly elections, Congress won 14 of the 22 assembly seats from Murshidabad, while TMC and CPI(M) won four each. Uttar and Dakshin Dinajpur districts have 15 assembly constituencies in its geographical jurisdiction, Malda 12, Murshidabad 22, North 24 Parganas 33 and South 24 Parganas 31 segments. As many as 59 Muslim MLAs had won in the 2016 Assembly elections in West Bengal. Even in the 2011 polls, 59 Muslim MLAs were elected. In 2016, of the 59, 32 belonged to the ruling TMC, 18 Congress, eight Left and one All India Forward Bloc. A large number of these MLAs had won from the constituencies located in these five districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mim-may-go-it-alone-in-wb-assembly-polls/articleshow/81437795.cms||Roushan Ali
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||CM breaking vows: Bhatti||Hyderabad: Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka whose cycle rally entered fourth day on Wednesday appealed to the government employees not to trust CM K Chandrasekhar Rao on fitment and revision of salary. “KCR had promised a salary hike to employees even before the 2018-assembly elections but did not give it. He promised pay revision before election notification for two MLC seats was issued and later said he would implement it after the poll code expires. Just to woo the government employees, now again he has promised better fitment,” Bhatti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-breaking-vows-bhatti/articleshow/81437788.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Surat||Virtual international music and dance festival from March 12||Surat: City-based Taal Group in association with the Indian Council For Cultural Relations (ICCR-Gujarat), International Council of Organizations of Folklore Festivals and Folk Arts (CIOFF), along with Charu Castle Foundation, will organise a three-day virtual international music and dance festival from March 12. The festival will be inaugurated by state BJP president and Navsari MP, C R Paatil.“Music, dance and folk dance festival will be held virtually and will be broadcast on www.facebook.com/ICCRGUJARAT and www.facebook.com/taalgroupsurat. Artists from eight countries will showcase their music, dance and folk dance. There are more than 30 groups participating in it,” said Krutika Shah of Taal group. “In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic we could not host the event in physical forms and had to organise it virtually but we are in the process of organising the same event in physical form once the Covid-19 situation normalises,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/virtual-international-music-and-dance-festival-from-march-12/articleshow/81435624.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS, BJP violating poll code: Cong||Hyderabad: The Congress has charged TRS and BJP leaders of violating model code of conduct and demanded that the election authorities take action against the violators. Telangana Congress election committee convenor G Niranjan said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao held talks with government employees’ unions and assured them of a better fitment than the 7.5 per cent fitment recommended by Biswal-led Pay Revision Commission. “The election commission should look into this issue seriously,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-bjp-violating-poll-code-cong/articleshow/81437823.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||‘MIDC took back 1,800 plots in 4 yrs’||The MIDC had taken back 1,800 plots of land they had given to industries since these had not been utilized in the last 4 years, the state industries minister Subhash Desai told the state assembly on Wednesday. He also clarified that Tesla company had not opted out of Maharashtra for Karnataka. “It has set up a sales outlet and workshop in Bangalore, not a production unit. It plans to set up sales outlets across country,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/midc-took-back-1800-plots-in-4-yrs/articleshow/81440650.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Foot overbridge for blind reopens, no one knows who closed it||NEW DELHI: The day after TOI reported the three-month-long barricading of the pedestrian bridge constructed to help visually impaired students of Blind Relief Association, the facility was reopened on Thursday. On Wednesday, both Delhi Police and Public Works Department had denied having ordered it closed. Arbind, 23, a blind student who is undertaking vocational training at Blind Relief Association on Lodhi Road, was glad to find the foot overbridge had been reopened and hoped that it wouldn’t be closed again by the agencies. “We barely use the FOB now because the pandemic has restricted our movements, but whenever we do venture out, we find it a big bother not to be able to cross the road here but go all the way to Delhi Public School on Mathura Road to do so,” said Arbind. TOI first reported about the plight of these students in January 2019, after which some amendments were made to the stretch on Lala Lajpat Rai Marg on which the bridge was built. However, the steps taken then didn’t fully resolve the problems of the visually impaired students. Till yesterday, in addition to having to be cautious about Covid infection, they also had to be wary of being out on the busy street and running into the patch of cars. After the barbed wires and metal barricades were removed from the mouth of the FOB on Thursday, a PWD official said the agency had no role in reopening the FOB. It would, however, have the place cleaned up on Friday. Police too did not confirm having the bridge opened up for use again. The pedestrian bridge is situated around 300 metres away from the blind school. It’s not just this distance that poses a problem. There are also obstacles on the way, such as illegally parked cars and the continuous movement of cars in and out of Oberoi Hotel. The FOB is, therefore, a welcome facility for students of the Blind Relief Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fob-for-blind-reopens-no-one-knows-who-closed-it/articleshow/81455981.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Govt panel to look into complaints||Delhi government’s transport department constituted a five-member committee on Tuesday, to “look into” the complaints regarding performance of Tata Nexon electric vehicle, which was earlier de-listed from the category of EVs eligible for incentive under the government’s EV policy. The committee has been asked to take a final decision in the matter by March 20. The committee, headed by deputy commissioner (transport) Manoj Kumar Pandey, will evaluate the mileage range of the EV as claimed by Tata Motors and its actual mileage in city conditions to examine and verify the complaints. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-panel-to-look-into-complaints/articleshow/81437853.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||Inspired by Vajpayee, never dreamt a common man like me can become CM, says Tirath||Dehradun: Newly-appointed chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said that when he joined the RSS in late 1970s, it was not with the intention of being in politics but mainly to serve people. “My sole intention of joining RSS was to serve the people and it was under the leadership of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee that I entered the political arena in 1985,” he said. An MA Sociology graduate from H N B Garhwal University, Srinagar, Rawat said that he had never dreamt 'a common man like me’ can become CM. “I come from a humble background and in the last two and a half decades have worked as a dedicated member of the BJP. I will leave no stone unturned in the effort to justify my selection for the key post. I want to thank my party’s central leadership including the Prime Minister, home minister and party president for giving me this opportunity,” said Rawat. Speaking to mediapersons soon after taking oath, Rawat said, “My focus is to promote tourism, religious tourism, education and health sectors in Uttarakhand. We will go for planned and sustainable development by working on the lines of PM Narendra Modi’s slogan of Sakba Saath- Sabka Vikas. I will stand with the common man in their good and bad times. The works done by my predecessor Trivendra Singh Rawat in his four-year tenure are far more than what was done in the previous 10 years and I will carry his work forward.” On being asked about cabinet expansion, the CM said that he was in contact with the central leadership on the matter and deliberations were ongoing for the names to be included.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/inspired-by-vajpayee-never-dreamt-a-common-man-like-me-can-become-cm-says-tirath/articleshow/81436514.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||Tirath will have to fight bypoll, but from where?||Dehradun: Lok Sabha MP Tirath Singh Rawat, who took charge as chief minister of Uttarakhand on Wednesday, will need to become an MLA within six months from now to remain as CM until the term of the assembly ends in 2022, and for this he will have to win a by-election. The Salt constituency in Almora district is now vacant after the demise of BJP lawmaker Surendra Singh Jeena in November 2020. In 2012, he had won the Chaubattkhal assembly seat, which is currently held by Satpal Maharaj, tourism minister. Meanwhile, through a press release, Maharaj has congratulated the new CM. Maharaj denied the speculations of him contesting from Pauri Lok Sabha seat and leaving the Chaubattakhal assembly constituency. Terming it as a mere rumour, Maharaj maintained that he had no intention to leave the assembly constituency. The buzz in the political corridors of Uttarakhand is that while Maharaj may be given the party ticket for Pauri Lok Sabha constituency, Tirath Singh Rawat might contest from Chaubattakhal assembly seat, which is in his home district of Pauri. Earlier, Maharaj has won twice from Pauri Lok Sabha constituency and has a strong hold in the district also. A source said, “After being named as CM, Narayan Dutt Tiwari won from Ramnagar in 2002, Major Genral (retd) BC Khanduri contested the by-poll from Dhumakot and won the seat in 2007. Similarly, Vijay Bahuguna won from Sitarganj in 2012 and Harish Rawat from Dharchula constituency in 2014. Therefore, CM contesting a by-poll is nothing new for the state.” The source pointed out that fighting contesting from either Kumaon or Garhwal would not be a problem for CM Tirath Singh Rawat. “He, however, would prefer Chaubattakhal as he had won from the seat in 2012,” the source added. Political analyst Jay Singh Rawat said, “Uttarakhand has witnessed four assembly elections and after Tirath Singh Rawat is made the CM, it has become evident that in all four terms, a CM has contested a by-poll. Maharaj was earlier a minister of state in the Union government and he would be a good choice for the Lok Sabha seat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tirath-will-have-to-fight-bypoll-but-from-where/articleshow/81436503.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 11, 2021||Goa||Vaccine pace sluggish, state plans two-day mega drive next week||PANAJI: The state government has planned a mega vaccination drive that will span 33 locations — primary, urban and community health centres — on Monday and Tuesday for senior citizens and people between 45-59 with comorbidities, two categories that comprise a fifth of Goa’s population. Over 11.6% (of 1.5 lakh) of Goa’s population are senior citizens, the highest proportion in the country after Kerala. Additionally, there are an estimated 1.5 lakh who fall within the 45-59 bracket, with comorbidities. A health official said that while no deadline for completion of these two categories has been set, the state wants to finish the task at the earliest. While the state is currently vaccinating 2,000-2,500 persons a day, it wants to pump that up to 4,000. Vaccination for these groups started around 10 days ago, the second phase of the nationwide campaign (the first being healthcare and frontline workers). After a slow start on the first two days, the drive has picked up pace, but numbers are still short of the government’s expectations. An official said that camps like these will continue to be held if the need is felt. Apart from public health institutions, 15 private hospitals in the state are also doing vaccinations, with more likely to be added in the near future. State epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodar said that this is the best time to get vaccinated, as the number of cases in the state is low, except for a few centres that have witnessed a marginal rise over the past few days. “People should get vaccinated like it’s their responsibility, and without delay,” he said. “It is important that the maximum number of people are covered, because even if there is a second wave, we will be protected.” To make these vaccination camps successful, swayampurna mitras, the government officers appointed in October 2020 for 191 villages, will be engaged to create awareness. Director of planning, statistics and evaluation Y Durga Prasad has written to these swayampurna mitras to get started, and contact village panchayat members and secretaries to ensure the targeted population steps out to get the jab. “We need the help of civil bodies to mobilise people in big numbers, (so) they reach their nearest centre to receive the vaccine,” a state health official said. “People will come out for vaccination, but they will come at their own pace, and it will slow down our drive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vax-pace-sluggish-state-plans-two-day-mega-drive-next-week/articleshow/81439539.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Follow Covid safety rules or risk lockdown: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: Taking note of the rising number of Covid-19 cases across the state, the Gujarat high court on Wednesday asked the state government to warn citizens that if they did not shed their carefree attitude and negligent behaviour towards social distancing, it may force the government to impose lockdown once again. The HC also suggested that the government ensure sufficient beds in all Covid-designated hospitals in anticipation of the worst in the near future. The court made suggestions to the authorities after a discussion with government law officers, during the hearing of a suo motu PIL on Covid-19 and lockdown. The court was informed how a steady surge was being witnessed in Covid-19 cases. The court observed that holding local body elections have worsened the situation. “Just when things started looking a little better and conditions in the major cities across Gujarat started improving, the elections of various civic bodies at different levels and the carefree attitude of the people have once again spoilt the show and put us back into a situation of concern,” it observed. Besides the suggestion to increase testing, the high court was for regulation of public gatherings. “We have no idea what are the protocols or the rules and regulations of the state government as regards public functions like marriages, etc. Whether any restrictions as regard the number of invitees as earlier imposed should be continued or not, is also one important aspect which the government needs to keep in mind,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/follow-covid-safety-rules-or-risk-lockdown-hc/articleshow/81437862.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Govt employees should revolt against union leaders: Uttam||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Wednesday called upon the government employees to revolt against their union leaders for allegedly mortgaging their interests for personal gains. “The union leaders have reportedly bargained for some sops for themselves with,” Uttam alleged on Wednesday. At a series of meetings in Nalgonda district in connection with the MLC election campaign for Congress candidate Sabavath Ramulu Naik (Nagonda-Warangal-Khammam), Uttam reiterated this appeal. Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkatreddy and other senior leaders have also addressed the meetings in Nalgonda. The TPCC strongly objected to the union leaders meeting the chief minister at Pragathi Bhavan and questioned its validity. “KCR held the meeting not as the chief minister but as the president of TRS party and sought the support of employees in the MLC elections. Therefore, he should’ve organised an on-camera meeting and should’ve given assurances of giving fitment of not less than 43% in full public view,” Uttam said. Uttam appealed to the employees not to trust the union leaders. The employees should elect leaders who would fight for their cause and dump those who mortgaged the employees’ interest to CM KCR, he said. Uttam said the TRS government has no moral right to seek votes from the minorities as it betrayed them on all fronts. “Muslims have been cheated on the promise of 12% reservation. Waqf Board was not granted judicial powers and not a single inch of encroached land has been restored. Instead, hundreds of acres of Waqf land has been encroached upon by the TRS leaders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-employees-should-revolt-against-union-leaders-uttam/articleshow/81437855.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Agra||As mercury soars several notches above normal,Agriculturist fear adverse impact on wheat yield||Agra: With the mercury rising to 34.8 degrees Celsius — four notches above normal — in Agra district on Wednesday, agriculturists fear it can adversely affect wheat yield, a major crop in the region currently spread over 1.32 lakh hectares. Soaring mercury level might result in the shirking of the grain, said agriculture department officials. Not just the maximum, the minimum temperature also soared to 19.4 degrees Celsius, 6 degrees above normal, in the region. The weathermen have, however, predicted the possibility of one or two spells of rain or thundershowers in the next two days. On March 10 last year, the maximum temperature in Agra was recorded at 27 degrees Celsius and the minimum was 11.9 degrees Celsius, said the metrological department. As compared to Agra, the temperature remained marginally lower in Aligarh, Bareilly and Meerut. The maximum temperature in Aligarh was recorded at 32.8 degrees Celsius, 31.7 degrees in Bareilly and 32.8 degrees in Meerut. At 35.1 degrees Celsius, Lucknow was hotter than Agra. According to the metrological department, both minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to increase in the next four days with the maximum temperature going up to 36 degrees Celsius in the Agra region. Besides, the weathercaster has predicted a “partly cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers” on Thursday and Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/as-mercury-soars-several-notches-above-normalagriculturist-fear-adverse-impact-on-wheat-yield/articleshow/81435636.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly condemns ED raids on its MLA||CHANDIGARH: During the budget session on Wednesday, the Punjab Vidhan Sabha passed the censure motion against the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raid on Bholath legislator Sukhpal Singh Khaira’s house in the city and other places. Moved by parliamentary affairs minister Brahm Mohindra, the censure motion described the ED raids as “unconstitutional and unwarranted”. Mohindra said: “With one voice, the House condemned the use of the CBI, ED, and NIA for harassing farmers, political opponents, and even some government officials, while these central investigative agencies were meant to ensure transparency in public life.” Mohindra said the Enforcement Directorate’s action had compelled a member of the House (Khaira) to miss the budget session and kept him from discharging his constitutional duty of representing his constituency. The House said law had been subverted to infringe upon the rights of elected representatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-assembly-condemns-ed-raids-on-its-mla/articleshow/81439551.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Business||Corrugated box mfg units to stay shut for 3 days||Kolkata: Opposing the spiralling prices of kraft paper and boards, the corrugated box manufacturing units in eastern India are going for voluntary shutdown from March 11 to March 13. The corrugated box makers seek to make the government and consumers aware of the unabated rise in the prices of the raw materials used for making such boxes. Manufacturing corrugated boxes, which are indispensable for packaging of medicines, sweets and confectioneries, food and other products, came under the essential services category as announced by the government during the lockdown. The daily business of corrugated boxes is worth Rs 5.5 crore in eastern India and Rs 2.5 crore in West Bengal. “Being a part of the essential services, we kept the supply chain of corrugated boxes alive without any intention to rake in profits. Still, it is a very neglected industrial segment. The problem started in the unlocking phase. Kraft paper and board prices are going through the roof since November last year,” Soumitra Choudhury, managing committee member of Eastern India Corrugated Box Manufacturers’ Association, told TOI. Kraft paper, an essential ingredient for making corrugated boxes, used to cost around Rs 25,000 per tonne prior to the lockdown. “But now, the price has touched around Rs 43,000 and is sky-rocketing almost every day,” added Choudhury. Apart from kraft paper and boards, other ingredients including steel stitching wire, starch, transportation and labour have also witnessed an unprecedented cost escalation, thereby having increased the conversion cost by 40% to 50%. The annual revenue earned by the corrugated box industry comprising MSME entrepreneurs is around Rs 2,000 crore last year. “The situation is very tough and unfavourable for our survival. The paper mills should stabilise the price of the raw materials. We want the government to take a call on the issue,” said Choudhury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/corrugated-box-mfg-units-to-stay-shut-for-3-days/articleshow/81439580.cms||Sarthak.G
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand commission for women launches its logo||Dehradun: In a first, the Uttarakhand commission for women launched its logo on Wednesday to mark the international day for women (March 8). The commission had asked for various entries and the best one was selected. A 21-year-old woman from Udham Singh Nagar, Nehal Gupta, designed the logo. For her remarkable presentation, Gupta was felicitated by Dr Anil Joshi, chief guest of the programme, in the presence of Vijaya Barthwal, chairperson of the commission. The state commission for women’s rights also organised a felicitation ceremony on Wednesday to recognise men who supported women in their endeavours. Those felicitated include Dr Anil Joshi, JM Singh, Anil Chandola and HS Uniyal. They were given mementos and cash prizes for strengthening the society. The programme was organised under the aegis of National Commission for Women to mark the international women’s day. The theme – Men for Women — was also selected by the national commission and accordingly, the entire programme was conducted in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-commission-for-women-launches-its-logo/articleshow/81436540.cms||Shivani Azad
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Even in lockdown year, noise levels stay above cut-off||MUMBAI: As vehicles were off the roads and people were cooped up in their homes through most of 2020, the city did become a quieter place compared to the year before, but noise levels at several of the 10 monitored locations remained above permissible limits. According to Central Pollution Control Board data presented earlier this week in the Rajya Sabha on noise levels in the city, Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Lucknow and Kolkata, the highest daytime (6am to 10pm) average noise level last year among the seven cities was 77 decibels (dB) at Kukatpalli in Hyderabad. The highest night-time (10pm to 6am) average level of 73 dB was recorded at one location each in Delhi, Chennai and Hyderabad. The Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000, say the maximum noise level in silent, residential, commercial and industrial areas should be 50, 55, 65 and 75 dB in the day and 40, 45, 55 and 70 dB at night, respectively. In the city, the highest level of daytime noise was 72 dB at Andheri and CSMT. In the night, the highest noise level of 70 dB was recorded in Andheri. The Andheri monitoring station is classified as an industrial location while CSMT is a commercial location. Among the monitored locations, only Asalfa in Ghatkopar reported a higher noise level compared to 2019. While vehicles were off the roads in the first few months of the lockdown, several other restrictions on public activities continued until the end of the year. The city also recorded muted celebrations during Ganeshotsav, Navratri, Diwali and the New Year. Activists said the results showed that there was a need to identify noise sources to reduce pollution. “Since decibels are a logarithmic value, even a few units lower is a significant drop, so the city was quieter in 2020. It is always assumed that the noise is from the vehicles, but this data shows that the levels remained above permissible limit even as the lockdown was in place, indicating that a lot of it comes from recreational activities. We had several complaints during the lockdown about construction work creating noise pollution through the day and night,” said Sumaira Abdulali, convener, Awaaz Foundation, a city-based NGO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-even-in-lockdown-yr-noise-levels-stay-above-cut-off/articleshow/81440783.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Write to SC on quota ceiling: Shabbir to CM||Hyderabad: Former Congress minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir on Wednesday said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao should write to the Supreme Court supporting the proposal to scrap 50 per cent ceiling on reservation in education and employment sectors. Addressing a meeting of Federation of Telangana and AP Minority Educational Institutions in connection with graduates MLC elections, Shabbir Ali said the TRS came to power in 2014 on the promise of increasing the Muslim quota from 4 per cent to 12 per cent and ST quota from 6 per cent to 10 per cent. It has not been implemented till date, he said. Under pressure from the Congress, the TRS government introduced a bill in the assembly which passed it and sent it to the Centre to enhance the quota for STs and Muslims respectively, he said and appealed to the graduates from the minority communities to vote for Congress candidates in the MLC elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/write-to-sc-on-quota-ceiling-shabbir-to-cm/articleshow/81437848.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Goa||FC Goa to play all Champions League matches at home||Panaji: FC Goa will make their debut in the AFC Champions League 2021 at home, possibly even with fans cheering them at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda next month. Goa became the first team from India to qualify for the high-profile championship after winning the League Winners Shield last season. Since the end of last season, all major football competitions have been played behind closed doors. But with Goa opening its doors to the world and the AFC allowing fans for previous games, including the final last season in Qatar, FC Goa’s much-anticipated debut could now be in front of their home fans. “It will be nice to have the fans cheer us at the stadium. We’ve missed them. FC Goa’s debut at the Champions League is historic and the fans deserve to see their team play,” coach Juan Ferrando told TOI on Thursday. Interestingly, a day after the team’s exit from the Indian Super League (ISL), the Spanish coach spent two hours with fans who have been cheering for the team – from a distance -- all through the season. The Asian Football Confederation (AFC) confirmed Goa as one of the venue for the AFC Champions League 2021 group stage on Thursday. The West region matches, which are scheduled to take place between April 14-30, will see Saudi Arabia host groups A and D in Riyadh as well as group C in Jeddah, with the matches in Group B to be staged in Sharjah. “India, whose representative FC Goa are poised to mark the nation’s debut in Asia’s premier club competition, will host group E,” AFC said in a statement. Goa have been placed alongside last year’s runnersup Persepolis, Qatar Stars League side Al-Rayyan and the winner of the playoff between Al-Wahda (UAE) and Al-Zawraa (Iraq), which will be played on April 7. Goa will open their campaign against Al-Rayyan at Fatorda on April 14. AFC said as part of the bidding process, a wide range of requirements were put in place to ensure adherence to the highest health and safety protocols and standards. All participating players and officials will be mandatorily tested for Covid-19. Goa fixtures April 14: FC Goa vs Al Rayyan April 17: Winner of PO4 vs Goa April 20: Persepolis FC vs Goa April 23: Goa vs Persepolis April 26: Al Rayyan vs Goa April 29: Goa vs Winner of PO4||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-to-play-all-champions-league-matches-at-home/articleshow/81454940.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Dutch national held for Red Fort violence||NEW DELHI: Two more people who were allegedly involved in the Red Fort violence case have been arrested by Delhi Police. One of the suspects, Maninderjit Singh, is a Dutch national settled in Birmingham, UK. He had come to India and couldn’t return due to the lockdown. The other accused, Khempreet Singh, had assaulted police personnel on duty inside Red Fort with a spear and was caught on camera. Maninderjit was arrested from IGI Airport while trying to flee India with forged travel documents. A lookout circular notice had been issued against him. He was earlier involved in rioting in Gurdaspur, Punjab, and in another case of forging identity. A senior officer said, “Keeping in view the sensitivity of the case of the violence at Red Fort, regular raids are being conducted by Crime Branch teams in Delhi and Punjab. On March 9, a team led by inspector Pankaj Arora and others arrested the two suspects based on a tip-off. The count of arrested people has now reached 14.” “During their protest and tractor rally against the newly enacted agri laws, protesters had reached Red Fort on January 26 where they indulged in violence, thereby causing irreparable loss to the world heritage site. They also assaulted policemen performing law and order duty. Many of them sustained serious injuries,” a statement from police read. Police said there was video footage on record that showed Maninderjit carrying a spear standing alongside the “unlawfully assembled and unruly mob” at Red Fort. “The presence of the accused at Red Fort was also established through electronic evidence. During investigation, an electronic map was drawn to figure out the possible route taken by the accused to reach Red Fort. The accused and the mob moved from Singhu Border, Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, Burari, Majnu ka Tila to finally reach Red Fort," said a senior Crime Branch officer. “Under pressure from the raids being conducted by Crime Branch in Punjab, Maninderjit was trying to flee India on forged travel documents posing as Jarmanjit Singh. He was to fly first to Nepal from Delhi and then to the UK,” said police. Watch Republic Day violence: Delhi Police arrests two more from national capital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dutch-national-held-for-red-fort-violence/articleshow/81437875.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||NMC’s six centres provided testing in 216 out of last 220 days||NAGPUR: Testing for Covid-19 is crucial as it helps to control deaths and also prevents transmission of the infection. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has operated its six testing centres on 216 out of the last 220 days. From March 11 to August 3, 2020, testing was allowed for people admitted in either hospitals or quarantine centres. After allowing home isolation of positive patients and home quarantine of contacts, the civic body started six testing centres at RPTS, Rajnagar, Law College, Pachpaoli, Morris College T-point (shifted to Dattatray Nagar) and Ravibhavan (shifted to Narendra Nagar) on August 3. “These six testing centres operated on all days except four due to major festivals. Every day, over 1,000 people got tested free of cost at these centres,” NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI. The NMC also started its testing facility in a phased manner at its 44 urban primary health centres and dispensaries in August. These centres too were closed only for four days. These centres could give service due to the continuous operation of laboratories at IGGMCH, GMCH, AIIMS, Mafsu, Neeri and RTMNU. IGGMCH was the first in Vidarbha to start Cvoid testing on February 6. The administration ensured no shortage of testing kits of rapid antigen and RT-PCR. Private laboratories also played a crucial role. Dhruv laboratory was the first in Vidarbha to get permission for RT-PCR test. “We started conducting RT-PCR tests from May 4. Since then, till today, the laboratory is testing swab samples on all days, excluding one week when the NMC directed to stop the facility,” he said. The NMC also successfully introduced the system of swab collection camps and upgraded it with mobile swab collection centres. Ambulances and city buses were converted into mobile swab collection centres. It helped people to get tests done in their localities. Throughout the pandemic, the civic body has done door-to-door survey and screening of people thrice which also helped in identifying the cluster of patients and ensuring early detection and treatment of people with comorbidities and senior citizens. Another major work done by the NMC to contain the disease was effective containment zone system from March to July. The system was halted with the government beginning the unlocking phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmcs-six-centres-provided-testing-in-216-out-of-last-220-days/articleshow/81437884.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 11, 2021||Bareilly||Minor girl abducted, raped by autorickshaw driver, arrested||Bareilly: A 14-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and raped by an autorickshaw driver under Civil Lines police station in UP’s Moradabad district. The rape survivor’s family puts up a food stall in Civil Lines area where the 21-year-old accused used to visit, frequently. The family alleged that the accused abducted the girl while she was on her way to the market and then raped her, on March 7. The accused also threatened her of dire consequences if she told anyone of the heinous act. A case has been registered and the accused has been arrested, police said. In the police complaint, the girl’s family alleged that their daughter was on her way to a market to purchase some articles for their food stall. The accused, who frequently eats food at their kiosk, abducted her. The girl told police that she was taken to a house in a deserted location where the accused raped her and later threatened to kill her. She further said that she was dropped near the tehsil by the accused. “She was traumatised and couldn't speak. When we repeatedly asked her where did she go for five-six hours, she narrated her ordeal,” the girl’s family alleged. Civil Lines SHO, Moradabad, Yogendra Krishna Yadav told TOI, “During investigation, it has been found that the accused was in contact with the family and even used to talk to the girl. A case has been registered under IPC sections 376 (punishment for rape), 363 (punishment for kidnapping) and Pocso Act.” “The accused claimed that the allegations levelled against him were not true. He has been arrested and further probe is underway,” the SHO added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-girl-abducted-raped-by-autorickshaw-driver-arrested/articleshow/81434861.cms||Maria Khan
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Celebratory firing at birthday party kills 36-year-old man in Najafgarh||NEW DELHI: A birthday celebration turned into mourning after the elder brother of the party host was shot during a celebratory firing in Najafgarh on Thursday.  The accused fled the spot after the bullet hit 36-year-old Anuj Sharma and has been absconding since. According to police, the incident was reported from Akash Hospital in Najafgarh about a man being brought with gunshot injury and was declared dead. A police team reached the spot and found that Sharma, along with 10-12 others, was attending his brother, Prateek Rishi’s, birthday party at Adaksh farmhouse in Najafgarh. “One of the guests, Naveen, was firing a pistol, the bullet of which hit Sharma in the chest,” police said. DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said nine empty rounds of 7.65mm were found at the spot. “We have registered a case of murder and Arms Act, and efforts to arrest Navin are under way,” the DCP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/celebratory-firing-at-bday-party-kills-36-year-old-man/articleshow/81456040.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Salem||Man out to attend nature’s call trampled by elephant||Krishnagiri: A wild elephant trampled a 55-year-old man to death near Hosur in the district in the early hours of Wednesday, when he went out to attend nature’s call near a forest.A forest officer identified the deceased as V Pappaiah, of Tiruchipalli village near Hosur. He was a farmer. “He went to Sanamavu reserve forest border to attend nature’s call in the morning. A lone elephant, which was roaming close to the border, suddenly trampled him to death.”As Pappaiah didn’t return home, the officer said, his family members went in search of him and found his body near the forest border.They alerted Denkanikottai forest officials, who recovered the body and sent it to the government hospital in Hosur for postmortem.The forest officer said they had warned the villagers about the lone elephant that was roaming close to human habitant and advised them against venturing into forest area at night and early morning hours. “The villagers, who were in the habit of defecating in the open near the forest area, didn’t take our warnings seriously.”He said the family of the elephant attack victim would be compensated as per the norms. The villagers, meanwhile, urged the forest officials to chase the lone elephant into deep forest to avoid another man-animal conflict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-out-to-attend-natures-call-trampled-by-elephant/articleshow/81437870.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||Tirath Singh Rawat sworn in as U’khand’s 10th CM||Dehradun: The five-day-long political turmoil that led to Trivendra Singh Rawat resigning from the CM's post on Tuesday ended with Pauri MP Tirath Singh Rawat taking over as the 10th CM of Uttarakhand. He was administered oath of office by governor Baby Rani Maurya on Wednesday evening. Earlier, amidst intense speculations on who would be chosen by the BJP leadership for the top post, Rawat, 56, emerged as the dark horse, beating other contenders like Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj and higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat among others. Tirath, whose name was proposed by Trivendra Rawat at the legislative party meeting held at the BJP office in Balbir Road, is a close aide of former CM BC Khanduri and a former member of RSS and ABVP. Regarded as a grassroot politician, he is said to have a good understanding of the party’s organisational set-up which is why as per insiders, he was chosen for the key post when the BJP is gearing up for assembly polls to be held next year. Rawat has served as the first education minister of Uttarakhand, BJP state president, the party’s state general secretary as well as BJP’s national secretary. He was MLA from Chaubattakhal in Pauri from 2012 to 2017, and opted out of the race in favour of Satpal Maharaj in the 2017 assembly polls. In 2019, he was fielded as BJP candidate from Pauri Lok Sabha seat against his mentor BC Khanduri’s son Manish Khanduri who was on a Congress ticket. He won the seat with over 3 lakh votes, one of the biggest victory margins during the polls. Soon after being named CM, Rawat said, “I am grateful to the Prime Minister and my party for giving me this opportunity. I will make my best efforts to live up to their expectations and continue the positive works done by Trivendra Singh Rawat in the last four years.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi while congratulating Rawat, said in a tweet, “He brings with him vast administrative and organisational experience. I am confident under his leadership, Uttarakhand will continue to scale new heights of progress.” After being administered oath of office, Rawat paid tributes to the statehood agitators who had laid down their lives towards the cause of formation of a separate state at the Shaheed Smarak in Dehradun. He thereafter chaired a meeting of officials during which he reviewed preparations for the first shahi snan at the Haridwar Maha Kumbh on the ocassion of Maha Shivaratri on Thursday. In his first decision as CM, Rawat said that flower petals would be showered from a helicopter on devotees coming for the first shahi snan. He also instructed officials to take all possible precautions in the conduct of the festival while ensuring that devotees as well as seers are not inconvenienced. “We have to work together to take Uttarakhand on the path of development. Public representatives and officials have a big role to play in this. Officials should work to their fullest potential and conduct their duties with utmost sincerity,” Rawat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tirath-singh-rawat-sworn-in-as-ukhands-10th-cm/articleshow/81436560.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Muslim advocates’ forum backs TRS candidate||Hyderabad: Telangana Muslim Advocates Forum on Wednesday announced its support to the TRS for the ensuing graduate MLC elections. In a meeting held on Wednesday, nearly 300 advocates expressed their solidarity with TRS and reposed their faith in the party’s ‘successful governance’. Nearly 200 Muslim lawyers declared their support for TRS. Addressing the forum, former minister and MLC Mohammed Fareeduddin extended support to the TRS. He said, “Telangana is a state of peace and development. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is a minority friend and an Urdu speaker. His consciousness of issues faced by the Muslim community has helped the government take constructive steps for the welfare of minorities on a large scale.” Convenor of the meeting, state president of Telangana Muslim Advocates Forum and Waqf board member Waheed Ahmed stressed that the government believes in giving equal rights to Muslim lawyers in judiciary, an assurance, brought forward from their previous representations submitted to KCR. He urged the government to provide Muslims at least 4% reservation in courts. He urged the government to provide reservation to Muslim lawyers so that they can be appointed as additional advocate general, public prosecutor, government pleaders and additional public prosecutor and other positions while observing that the representation of Muslim lawyers is zero. He added that “in all legislative commissions at least those with a legal education should be given the presidency and membership in the interest of the society and the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/muslim-advocates-forum-backs-trs-candidate/articleshow/81437857.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||BJP leader objects to SGPC aid to protesting farmers||Amritsar: BJP leader Harjit Singh Grewal has objected to the facilities and financial assistance provided by Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to the agitating farmers and alleged that Sikh’s single largest representative body was trying to give farmers agitation a religious colour. The main role of SGPC is to manage the affairs of gurdwaras, since it was a religious body, he said while speaking to TOI on Wednesday. In a letter to SGPC president Jagir Kaur, Grewal wrote that providing shades, fans, langar service, moveable toilets and Rs 1 lakh each to the kin of deceased farmers were some of the activities which were against the “mandate given to it under ‘The Sikh Gurdwara Act 1925’ and ‘Punjab Act 8 of 1925’. On March 4, the SGPC executive committee had decided to provide tin shades and fans to the agitating farmers camping on the Delhi border. The executive body had also announced to continue with the ongoing langar, medical and toilet facilities being provided to the farmers. “SGPC is not only going beyond its brief by doing all this but is giving the farmers agitation a religious colour, which is extremely unfortunate and uncalled for,” he said. The BJP leader has urged the SGPC president to desist from spending devotees’ daswandh’ on such activities. “SGPC should desist from any such activity that brings disgrace to a religious institution,” he wrote in the letter. Box ‘Keep your advice’ Reacting to Grewal’s charges, Jagir Kaur questioned his insight of Sikh religion. Maintaining that ‘seva’ holds a significant place in Sikh religion, she said, “His statement is against Sikh traditions and he should keep his advice to himself. SGPC is well aware of its duties and responsibilities.” Advising Grewal to stand in support of farmers, she said, “The SGPC has stood by the farmers and will continue to do so in future also.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-leader-objects-to-sgpc-aid-to-protesting-farmers/articleshow/81439579.cms||Yudhvir Rana
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||Cycle lanes in Kolkata back on traffic police’s drawing board||KOLKATA: The Kolkata traffic police has revived discussions on having dedicated cycle lanes in the city to ease traffic snarls, especially in the central business district. In a major brainstorming session to find solutions to multiple traffic issues, where the top brass invited senior cops to share their ideas, dedicated tracks yet again found mention despite some cops raising an official objection with Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) on an earlier occasion. “This was one of the multiple suggestions that came to us. We found merit in certain arguments in spite of the huge challenge the cycle lanes will pose,” said a senior officer present in the meeting. A source said officers from a few traffic guards cited the example of Burrabazar, where despite the extreme congestion, police had managed to create a separate lane for slow-moving vehicles, such as carts. “On MG Road, the traffic police have earmarked a space by covering it with guardrails. It has been operational since August 2016. It has now become a habit for those using it to ensure they do not stray on to the road space marked for motorized vehicles. This can probably act as a starting point for implementing cycle lanes,” said the source. Police pointed out that the challenges to create such channels were multiple. “We will need to talk to the stakeholders, such as KMC and KMDA. There are parking lots, bus stops, pedestrians and hawkers on the extreme left lane. Hence, the enhanced policy has to take care of everyone,” said an officer. While individual traffic guards will have to provide their opinion on the issue when it comes up for consultation, police said they were helping KMDA in completing the feasibility study for cycle tracks along EM Bypass. “A lot will depend on the willpower of the government,” stated a police source. “There is also the question of how cyclists would negotiate the major crossings or take right turns. These are issues that need to be sorted before KMDA can go ahead with its proposed cycle lanes,” said a Lalbazar officer, adding cyclists needed to be trained in basic traffic rules before being allowed on roads. “The stretches under consideration are wide but the question remains how the cyclists —many of them live on the fringes of the city—would reach the main thoroughfares. Will there be a parking facility?” said an officer from a traffic guard. KMDA had earlier submitted a draft proposal to the Kolkata Police on areas where cycling can be allowed. KMDA officials said the draft report proposed cycle lanes along 15 major roads in the city, stretching over 120 km. “We had a meeting with the Kolkata traffic police last week to discuss the issue. Another meeting with the police is slated for this week,” said an official. Though KMDA officials did not name any of the proposed roads, sources said thoroughfares in south and north Kolkata, Bypass and roads linking it to Syambazar, Sovabazar, Garia and Prince Anwar Shah Road had been suggested. The lanes have been suggested to be two metres wide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cycle-lanes-in-kolkata-back-on-traffic-polices-drawing-board/articleshow/81437886.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 11, 2021||Pune||Pune district’s CFR declines to 0.5% despite Covid surge||PUNE: The case fatality rate (CFR) dropped further to 0.5% in Pune district for the week ending March 7, despite the surge in Covid-19 cases, indicating reduced virus virulence. The district had a CFR of 0.6% till February-end, health department data revealed. Health experts had said last month that two to three weeks would determine the virulence of the infection. A rise in CFR would have indicated more virulence. However, the trend has more or less remained the same with the percentage of mortalities among reported cases staying below 1% in the district. Hospitals TOI spoke to said most of the cases were mild to moderate not needing ventilators and high oxygen levels. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (medical), Pune circle, told TOI, “During the last week of January this year and initial February, Pune district’s CFR was ranging from 1.4% to 1.6%, after which Covid cases started rising. However, despite the rise in the cases, the CFR has been constantly falling or has been stable. Around the end of February second week, district’s CFR dropped below 1% and has since been lower than that.” Pune district civil surgeon Dr Ashok Nandapurkar said, “We have not seen a visible rise in CFR in the district as it has been almost stable. One of the reasons could be early detection and treatment of cases.” Sanjay Lalwani, medical director of Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical Hospital and Research Center, said, “We request the seniors to take the vaccine. Even if its efficacy is 60%, chances are that one would get a much milder form of Covid if s/he is already vaccinated as against those not immunized.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/districts-cfr-declines-to-0-5-despite-covid-surge/articleshow/81437879.cms||Neha Madaan
March 11, 2021||Surat||SGCCI golden jubilee event on March 13||Surat: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) will hold its golden jubilee award function on March 13 at the Surat International Exhibition and Convention Centre at Sarsana in which, the CEO of ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India Ltd, Dilip Oomnen will be the chief guest. Established in 1990, the SGCCI Golden Jubilee Memorial Trust gives away awards every year in various categories including outstanding business persons, pollution control research and development, energy efficiency among others. This year, awards will be given in 13 categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sgcci-golden-jubilee-event-on-march-13/articleshow/81435648.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Govt has reserved MBBS seats for rich: Barnala MLA||CHANDIGARH: The issue of nearly 75% hike of the MBBS course fee in Punjab government medical colleges echoed in the state legislative assembly on the concluding day of the budget session on Wednesday. AAP MLA from Barnala, Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer said a meritorious student from even a middle class family cannot fulfil his dream of becoming a doctor as the Punjab government has made a steep hike in MBBS course fee. Stating that a student is required to pay a fee of Rs 7.8 lakh for five years to pursue MBBS course in government medical colleges of the state, Hayer legislator said such a pious profession has been now reserved for the children of rich families. He pointed out that the MBBS course fee is the highest in Punjab among the states in northern part of the country and the state has kept 95% students out of competition. “This is why doctors do not come to serve in government hospitals and go to private hospitals where they are paid well,” he said. Hayer said that the MBBS course fee was Rs 13,000 per year in 2012 and Rs 80,000 per year in 2015 in government medical colleges. Though the state government had issued a notification that even private medical colleges cannot charge more than Rs 6.50 lakh per year fee, none are complying with the notification. “Even the medical college run by the SGPC charges Rs 15 lakh per year for MBBS,” he said. He asked the Punjab government as to why it wanted to earn money from students when there are hundreds of other ways to fill its coffers like the mining sector or the excise collected from sale of liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-has-reserved-mbbs-seats-for-rich-barnala-mla/articleshow/81439574.cms||Sanjeev Verma
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS, BJP lost credibility among graduates: Nageshwar||Confident of winning the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates MLC constituency for the third time, two-time winner and independent candidate professor K Nageshwar says the TRS and BJP have failed to address the real issues of graduates. In an exclusive chat with Sribala Vadlapatla, he says all employees’ associations are solidly behind him How confident are you about winning the March 14 election? I have won this seat in 2007 and 2009 as an independent even when the BJP was a strong contender. The BJP won the seat last time in my absence. I have been speaking about the issues of employees and their families even when I was not an MLC. Unemployment is a major concern. Out of 5.3 lakh voters, I received personal messages from 50,000 voters expressing their willingness to vote for me. Major parties candidates are going all out to win the hearts of the voters. Did you chalk out any campaign plan? I am a known personality both on TV and social media. On my own YouTube channel, I speak on various issues bothering society. Many people follow the channel. I am not only depending on social media campaign but have been conducting regular meetings with the voters. The general talk is that you are being supported by the TRS to cut into the votes of BJP candidate. Your reaction? This is a false campaign run by the the BJP to create doubts among voters as they know I have defeated the saffron party candidates twice. Both BJP and TRS have lost track in raising the correct issues. Sizeable voters are pensioners, employees and unemployed youth and their families. Both parties have lost credibility among these sections and are resorting to cheap tricks to defame me. Do you think factors like caste and money power of political parties have any role to play in these polls? This particular constituency has at least 5,000 voters who are retired bank employees. They have already extended their support to me. Caste may play a minor role. But, it is cumulative factors like rising prices of fuel and gas, lack of jobs, etc., which will tickle the conscience of the voters. Both central and state governments have failed on this front.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-bjp-lost-credibility-among-graduates-nageshwar/articleshow/81437891.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Rajkot||Leopard kills 3-yr-old girl||Rajkot: A three-year-old girl in a village of Jafrabad taluka in Amreli district was mauled to death by a leopard on Tuesday night. According to the forest department, Kinjal Sankhat was preyed upon by the leopard at around 9:30 pm when she was playing outside her house in Hemal village. The wild cat suddenly attacked and dragged her away while the other children started screaming. Family members chased the leopard, but by that time the girl was already killed. The forest department has set up cages to trap the rouge animal. In the last five years, leopards attacked 718 people in Gujarat, killing 67 of them, Forest Minister Ganpat Vasava said in the state Assembly last week. Most of the attacks were reported from Amreli, Junagadh, Gir-Somnath and Dahod districts, which accounted for 55 of the total 67 fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-kills-3-yr-old-girl/articleshow/81435680.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||Replacing TSR with TSR: Clean image, RSS background, dedication towards party, connect with workers helped Tirath get top post||Dehradun: As one TSR (Tirath Singh Rawat) replaces another TSR (Trivendra Singh Rawat) as chief minister of Uttarakhand, political analysts say, with just less than a year to go for the state polls, BJP’s central leadership factored in several aspects while taking the decision – striking a chord between Kumon and Garhwal administrative divisions, maintaining a balance between Thakurs & Brahmins (who dominate the state politically) and also opting for a non-controversial face that has a good connect with party workers.With a Brahmin from Kumaon, Bansidhar Bhagat, being the head of the state unit, the party’s first preference was to opt for a Thakur from Garhwal so that the Thakur-Brahmin balance is retained. It is for this reason, say observers, the candidature of Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, a Brahmin from Garhwal, got weakened. The other candidate in the fray, Dhan Singh Rawat, while fitting the bill of being a Tahkur from Garhwal, did not find acceptability with a lot of MLAs since he was perceived as being too junior and also, since his name was proposed by Trivendra Rawat, it was felt that he would keep toeing the line of the former CM. In this respect, Tirath Singh Rawat’s name ticked all the right boxes. A prominent Thakur face of the party from Garhwal, Tirath is regarded as a non-controversial politician who has a broad acceptance amongst MLAs. He also has vast experience at the organisational level in the party, has been a dedicated RSS worker and is known to accept any decision taken by the party without questioning. Confirming that the choice of Tirath Singh Rawat was made keeping in mind his ability to “take along everybody at the organisational level and ensure better coordination on all fronts in an election year”, BJP national vice-president Raman Singh, appointed as observer on the Uttarakhand CM issue, in an exclusive conversation with TOI, said that although Trivendra Rawat had done “very good development work, there were many small and big reasons, including party workers feeling disturbed, that made the party feel the need for a new face in the election year in Uttarakhand''. “Tirath Rawat is a simple, straightforward leader who has the ability to take along everybody with him, which is essential in an election year,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/replacing-tsr-with-tsr-clean-image-rss-background-dedication-towards-party-connect-with-workers-helped-tirath-get-top-post/articleshow/81436579.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||HC seeks reply on shortage of docs, drugs in govt hospitals||Ahmedabad: A day after the Gujarat government admitted to severe shortage of doctors in the state assembly, the Gujarat high court sought it reply on the prevailing conditions in government hospitals with regards to shortage of specialist doctors as well as shortage of equipment, medicines, and lack of infrastructure facilities. The court said that such shortage in government hospitals is a cause of concern as it ultimately affects the poor. The court expressed concern over the acute dearth of expert doctors and posts lying vacant for a long time. “This is something we need to take cognizance of in public interest, more particularly, in this time of Covid pandemic,” the court said and sought government reply on the situation by April 9. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala took cognizance of a news report on top doctors at the Civil Hospital keen on taking VRS citing administrative officers’ apathy. The judges said that the court was not concerned about internal administration of state’s top hospitals and medical colleges, but the shortage of essential equipment, drugs, and other supplies is worrisome. The court further said, “We express our concern only keeping in mind the interest of the people hailing from the poor strata of society. People who come to government hospitals should not be deprived of essential medical services on account of shortage of equipment, medicine, and lack of other infrastructure facilities. If there are no adequate number of doctors, then it is only the people from the poor strata of society who would have to suffer.” The court said, “Government hospitals should not be deprived of essential medical services on account of shortage of equipment, medicines, and lack of other infrastructure facilities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-seeks-reply-on-shortage-of-docs-drugs-in-govt-hospitals/articleshow/81437888.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Valtoha vs Kairon in SAD’s Tarn Taran unit||Tarn Taran: Unrest brews in the Tarn Taran unit of the Shiromani Akali Dal as top guns Virsa Singh Valtoha and Adesh Partap Singh Kairon lobby for assembly election seats in Khemkaran. For a show of strength before party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, the former will hold a rally on March 15 under the party’s Punjab Mangda Hisab campaign. Party insiders say that Adesh, brother-in law-of Sukhbir, has staked claim to Jandiala Guru of Amritsar district and all the four Tarn Taran assembly seats, including Khemkaran, from where Valtoha has been two-times MLA. Karion has been a four-time MLA and thrice a minister in the Punjab cabinet. Adesh’s quick tours of Khemkaran and meetings with the Akali workers of the constituency forced Virsa to call a rally in Amarkot on March 15. The party isn’t in a position to afford dissent. Senior members Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, Ranjit Singh Brahampura, and Sewa Singh Sekhwan have walked out already, while breaking ties with the BJP, the sacrilege case, and now the farmers’ protest have dented the traditional Akali vote bank. Sources privy to the Adesh’s meetings said the cadre had been prepared for a change in the candidate from Khemkaran. In a video put on social media, Valtoha accuses Adesh of not being serious to the party and attributes his influence to being the ‘damad’ (son-in-law) of the Badal family. Picking candidates for the 2022 assembly elections in this area will be tricky for the SAD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/valtoha-vs-kairon-in-sads-tarn-taran-unit/articleshow/81439600.cms||Yudhvir Rana
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir’s closed-door talks with aspirants create ripples||LUDHIANA: With assembly elections barely a year away, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) seems to have already switched into election mode. The party has started taking feedback of its local leaders and workers about the possible candidates for the upcoming polls. Soon surveys will also be conducted by the SAD in the state to ascertain winnability chances of the probables after which the strongest candidate will be chosen. Party insiders have maintained that the recent visit of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, too, focussed on the action plan in this regard. Sukhbir, who was in the city on Sunday, had met party’s senior leaders and workers at the farmhouse of a prominent businessman. The selective group of SAD leaders, which was invited to meet him, was apprised of Sukhbir’s visit only hours before he arrived in the afternoon at the plush farmhouse in South City. After meeting with MLAs Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Manpreet Singh Ayali, Sukhbir had lunch with all invitees. Soon after, he had one-on-one meetings with ticket seekers, prominent leaders and past and present councillors of the party. Some of the SAD leaders, who held closed door discussion with Badal, included party’s district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon, Gurdeep Singh Gosha, Hira Singh Gabria, Harish Rai Dhanda, Gurmeet Singh Kular, Vijay Danav, Kaka Sood, Satish Malhotra, Bhupiner Singh Bhinda, it is learnt. Speaking to TOI on condition of anonymity, one of the SAD leader who held talks with Sukhbir said except for the SAD chief and the person being invited in the room where talks were held, no one else was allowed inside. Another leader, who was called for one-on-one meeting, said , “Sukhbir took feedback about the functioning of the district unit and also asked about the most hard working leaders.” Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhbirs-closed-door-talks-with-aspirants-create-ripples/articleshow/81439617.cms||Mohit Behl
March 11, 2021||Ludhiana||Sukhbir’s closed-door talks with aspirants create ripples||LUDHIANA: With assembly elections barely a year away, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) seems to have already switched into election mode. The party has started taking feedback of its local leaders and workers about the possible candidates for the upcoming polls. Soon surveys will also be conducted by the SAD in the state to ascertain winnability chances of the probables after which the strongest candidate will be chosen. Party insiders have maintained that the recent visit of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, too, focussed on the action plan in this regard. Sukhbir, who was in the city on Sunday, had met party’s senior leaders and workers at the farmhouse of a prominent businessman. The selective group of SAD leaders, which was invited to meet him, was apprised of Sukhbir’s visit only hours before he arrived in the afternoon at the plush farmhouse in South City. After meeting with MLAs Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Manpreet Singh Ayali, Sukhbir had lunch with all invitees. Soon after, he had one-on-one meetings with ticket seekers, prominent leaders and past and present councillors of the party. Some of the SAD leaders, who held closed door discussion with Badal, included party’s district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon, Gurdeep Singh Gosha, Hira Singh Gabria, Harish Rai Dhanda, Gurmeet Singh Kular, Vijay Danav, Kaka Sood, Satish Malhotra, Bhupiner Singh Bhinda, it is learnt. Speaking to TOI on condition of anonymity, one of the SAD leader who held talks with Sukhbir said except for the SAD chief and the person being invited in the room where talks were held, no one else was allowed inside. Another leader, who was called for one-on-one meeting, said , “Sukhbir took feedback about the functioning of the district unit and also asked about the most hard working leaders.” Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sukhbirs-closed-door-talks-with-aspirants-create-ripples/articleshow/81442081.cms||Mohit Behl
March 11, 2021||Erode||Elephants raid plantain farms, damage 200 banana trees||Erode: An elephant herd raided three adjacent plantain farms and damaged more than 200 banana trees at Vilamundi, near the reserve forest in the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve, here in the early hours of Wednesday. The farmers - K Raju, 38, V Thangaraj, 44 and P Nanjundaswamy, 45 - pegged the loss at Rs1.5 lakh. Nanjundaswamy said the banana trees were ready for harvest. “Elephant raid is usual whenever the plantain trees are ready for harvest. This time, four elephants entered the agriculture field. I alone lost nearly 100 banana trees in the raid.” The farmers have brought the issue to the notice of forest officials, who assessed damages to the crop. They have also urged the forest officials to issue compensation for the damaged banana trees at the earliest. “We have incurred huge financial loss. The officials will have to do something to address the issue of elephant raid for once and all,” the farmers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/elephants-raid-plantain-farms-damage-200-banana-trees/articleshow/81437887.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid+ voters exercise franchise from home||Hyderabad: Voters who have tested positive for Covid-19 exercised their franchise at their doorstep on Wednesday for the biennial elections to the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates’ constituency. Voters cast their vote using postal ballots in the presence of political party representatives and the complete process was videographed. The polling process followed at the polling booth was replicated at the residence of the elector. Soon after the ballot box reached the house of the elector, representatives of political parties performed the role of polling agents. They cross-checked the details of the voter and marked it in the electoral roll. The polling staff also cross-checked the details before the voters had cast their vote. “The post ballot will continue on March 11 too, senior citizens and electors who were enrolled as people with disabilities (PWD) have already exercised their franchise,” said a GHMC official appointed as nodal officer for MLC election. A senior citizen, after casting his vote, said that every eligible citizen, especially youngsters, should participate in the polling process. “I have submitted the certificate issued by the district medical officer of health to avail postal ballot facility, Covid-19 is not a barrier. I request all the eligible people who can vote, especially youngsters, to participate in the democratic process whenever it is held and use their most powerful right (right to vote),” said a senior citizen. As per records, 459 electors (senior citizens and specially-abled) have enrolled to cast their vote through postal ballot in the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates’ constituency polls . “Around 100 people under home quarantine have applied for postal ballot option, the number of people who have cast their vote using postal ballot is yet to be tabled by summing up circle-wise data,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-voters-exercise-franchise-from-home/articleshow/81437885.cms||Nabinder Bommala
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||Tibetans protest against Chinese occupation, demand freedom of Tibet||MUSSOORIE/DEHRADUN: To mark the 62nd anniversary of the uprising in Tibet against Chinese aggression, hundreds of Tibetans took to the streets in Mussoorie and Dehradun on Wednesday protesting against the Chinese occupation of the region and demanding freedom. Speaking to media persons, Namgin Dolkar, president of Tibetan Women Association said, “Tibetans are a peaceful community who have been struggling for the freedom of their motherland from the illegal occupation of China. We want the international community to take note of our plight and support us in our struggle for freedom.” The protest rally in Mussoorie commenced from Happy Valley and passed through Mall Road. All along, the protestors, carrying posters and flags, raised slogans against China. Tenzin Namgay, a protestor, said, “Through this rally, we are reminding our people and the international community about the illegal occupation of Tibet by China. We have found refuge in India and thus, we urge the Indian government to push our cause at international platforms.” It is worth mentioning that a large population of Tibetan refugees resides in Mussoorie, particularly in the Happy Valley area. Each year, the Tibetan community organises a protest rally on March 10. In Dehradun also, the Tibetan community held protests against the Chinese regime to commemorate the 62nd Tibetan National Uprising Day. “The condition of those living in Tibet hasn’t improved a bit. The Chinese invasion has, till date, led to more than 1.2 million deaths. Also, more than 600 monasteries have been destroyed,” said Norbu, Tibetan settlement officer (Dehradun). The community held events at places where the Tibetan settlements are located in Dehradun, namely Dekyiling Tibetan Colony in Sahastradhara, Tibetan Nehru Memorial Foundation in Clement Town and Lingtsang Tibetan Colony in Manduwala. In 1959, thousands of Tibetans rose up against the illegal occupation of Tibet by the Chinese Communist Party. Eventually, the rebellion forced thousands of Tibetans seeking refuge in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tibetans-protest-against-chinese-occupation-demand-freedom-of-tibet/articleshow/81436867.cms||Anmol Jain
March 11, 2021||Surat||Curious to see jail from inside, 20-year-old kidnaps boy||Surat: A 20-year-old Chhattisgarh native was itching for fame for a long time. But he didn’t think of any way other than going to jail to gain some publicity!.Raghvendra alias Bharat Kevat kidnapped an eight-year-old boy from Sachin GIDC area on Monday, but did not demand any ransom from his parents. Police said he was curious to see how a jail looked like from the inside and earn some fameRaghvendra, a resident of Tanki Dafai Mohalla of Nai Ledhri village in Koriya district of Chhattisgarh, was arrested on Wednesday for kidnapping the boy who was his neighbour. He went to Bhusawal in Maharashtra by bus and from there he was preparing to take a train. “We alerted the Railway Protection Force in Bhusawal and they nabbed him. Later, our team brought him to the city,” said a police officer.  “During questioning, Raghvendra said he only wanted to see a jail from inside and become famous. Till now, no other reason has been found,” said police.  The victim boy’s family is from Odisha and his parents work as labourers. Raghvendra came to the city from Chhattisgarh around a year ago and worked as a casual labourer. He developed good terms with the boy living in the neighbouring home in the past few days.  “He used to buy him chocolates, food and give him his mobile phone to play. Hence, the boy went along with him without much hesitation,” police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/curious-to-see-jail-from-inside-20-year-old-kidnaps-boy/articleshow/81435696.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||VB busts fake insurance reimbursement scam||Chandigarh: Punjab vigilance bureau busted scam worth crores of rupees under Ayushman Bharat scheme in which private hospitals obtained health insurance claims from an insurance company by submitting fake bills for treatment of beneficiary patients possessing smart health cards. The insurance company, on the other hand, rejected hundreds of insurance claims pertaining to government hospitals, causing a huge loss to the state exchequer. DGP-cum-chief director vigilance bureau, B K Uppal said it has come to fore that several well-known private hospitals based in Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala districts had prepared hefty fake bills in the names of smart card holders for their treatment under Ayushman Bharat scheme and took insurance claims from IFFCO TOKIO. “A regular vigilance enquiry has been registered by the bureau to investigate this scam worth crores of rupees in the state,” he added. Giving details of the preliminary findings, Uppal said senior superintendent of police (SSP) vigilance range Jalandhar, Daljinder Singh Dhillon unearthed the fraud in which several fake medical bills of private hospitals had been cleared by the insurance company even as reimbursement bills forwarded by government hospitals were rejected. In this connection, major negligence has been seen at the end of concerned deputy medical commissioners and doctors of state hospitals/primary health centres. “The biggest reason for rejecting the insurance claims of government hospitals by the company was to get financial benefits. As a result, the Punjab government has incurred financial loss to the state exchequer in the last one year from three districts,” said Uppal. It has come to light that a known hospital of Sultanpur Lodhi town in Kapurthala district had claimed Rs 4.43 crore for the treatment of about 1,282 patients and out of which 519 claims were rejected. On the basis of these medical bills, state health authority, Punjab passed claims of the hospital to the tune of Rs. 4.23 crore. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vb-busts-fake-insurance-reimbursement-scam/articleshow/81439637.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Pune||Recoveries top 4 lakh-mark, rural areas lead in Pune Metropolitan Region||PUNE: The Covid-19 recoveries in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) surged past the 4 lakh-mark on Wednesday, translating into a recovery rate of over 94%. As many as 1,335 patients recovered and were discharged in PMR on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries in the region to 4,00,645. The region has recorded higher recoveries, despite a rise in cases since the last few days. More than 4.25 lakh people have tested positive for the Covid-19 infection in PMR so far. An officials from the health department said the recovery rate has stayed between 94% and 95% in the region. Testing and early detection have played a key role in increasing the number of recoveries, they said. Of the total recoveries, the PMC areas have clocked the highest number of discharges so far (1.98 lakh), followed by the Pimpri Chinchwad (1.03 lakh) and rural areas (98,236). Both municipal corporations of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad as well as rural areas have reported a recovery rate of over 90%. The rural areas have reported recovery rate over 95% while PMC and PCMC have clocked the discharge rate of 94% and over 93%, respectively. Sanjeev Wavre, assistant health chief at PMC said, “The statistics show that more patients have preferred home isolation. People should not delay in seeking treatment. This is vital in avoiding further complications.” PMR adds over 2,500 new cases, 11 dead The PMR on Wednesday added 2,515 Covid-19 cases, which pushed its total caseload above 4.25 lakh. Eleven more patients succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, taking the region’s toll to 9,341. Over 13,710 tests were conducted in the region on Wednesday. The region so far has checked over 24.40 lakh samples for Covid-19. A report by the district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that the number of active patients increased to 15,687 in PMR on Wednesday evening , including 10,301 in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-top-4l-mark-rural-areas-lead-in-region/articleshow/81437897.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||‘Nakabandi withdrawal’ trap may blow lid off major sand mining scam||NAGPUR: An innovative strategy of laying a trap after ‘nakabandi’ hours on the same route by city police led to seizure of a dozen sand-laden trucks at Mahadula T-point on Nagpur-Saoner road, on Wednesday. The 12 trucks had started plying assuming cops had withdrawn, and seven were found plying with serious violations, hinting at a major scam in illegal sand mining. The police action under Zonal DCP Neelotpal showed trucks booked online for Buldhana and Jalgaon trips with 13-hour permit were heading to different locations in Nagpur city and Hingna to location which can be covered within an hour. This indicates the trucks would make multiple trips on this single permit. Out of 12, five trucks were found carrying sand excavated from Karanjghat and Temburdoh sand ghats in Saoner taluka, where documents showed major discrepancies. Neelotpal said verification done with the help of ‘Mahamining track’ app showed the four trucks were booked for trips to Buldhana and another in Jalgaon, but the drivers had handwritten papers in which names of different traders of Nagpur and Hingna were mentioned as consignees. “It was surprising initially to see permission of 13 hours was being granted for a distance that could be covered barely within an hour or so from Saoner to Nagpur. A fact check with the revenue office showed that the 13-hour permissions were granted as the original booking through official website was for Buldhana and Jalgaon and not Nagpur city or around. In fact, the drivers never took the vehicles to Buldhana and Jalgaon,” said the DCP. Neelotpal said Koradi police under him have sent a detailed report to the district mining officer mentioning the violations. “Police would initiate legal action after receiving reply from the district mining office. We have also sought the GPS details of the vehicles,” he said. Seven trucks laden with sand were found coming to the city from Saunser and Chhindwada in Madhya Pradesh. Five trucks were allowed to leave the Koradi police station premises, where they were detained, after their documents were found legal. Two other trucks, also coming from MP, had 3 tonnes of extra sand than the permitted limits. Koradi police have alerted RTO regarding the overloaded trucks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nakabandi-withdrawal-trap-may-blow-lid-off-major-sand-mining-scam/articleshow/81435679.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Man dies while trekking to Vellingiri hills||Coimbatore: A 50-year-old man died while trekking to Vellingiri hills to offer prayers at the Shiva temple (Swayambhu) after he developed breathing difficulties on Tuesday night. The Alandurai police identified the deceased as A Kannan, a resident of Periyakulam in Theni district. A police officer said Kannan used to visit the Shiva temple atop Vellingiri hills every Maha Shivratri. “Kannan and three others from Periyakulam had reached at Poondi foothills, from where they had to trek through seven hills to reach the temple, on Tuesday night.” The four started their trek around 9pm. “When they reached the second hills, Kannan developed wheezing and he couldn’t get any help, as there weren’t any medical facilities atop hills. He died there itself and other devotees informed us,” the officer said. With the help of forest department frontline staff, a team of Alandurai police brought Kannan’s body to the plains on Wednesday evening and sent it to the Coimbatore Medical Colle and Hospital for postmortem. The Alandurai police have registered a case under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-dies-while-trekking-to-vellingiri-hills/articleshow/81437895.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Goa||About 75% chronic kidney disease patients report late, say docs||PANAJI: In the treatment of chronic kidney disease (CKD) the biggest challenge faced by doctors is patients turning up late for medical help, which reduces treatment options. “In about 75 % of CKD patients their condition gets diagnosed at an advanced stage, which leads to delay in timely intervention,” said professor and head of nephrology department, Goa Medical College (GMC), Dr J P Tiwari. Detection gets delayed because CKD manifests no symptoms many times and Tiwari said that it is for this reason that people in the high-risk category should make prevention their motto by undergoing regular medical follow ups. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is an advanced stage of kidney disease that can progress to end-stage kidney failure when the kidneys stop functioning. Patients with CKD have limited treatment options — dialysis or transplant. In Goa, it is estimated that about 1,200 people suffer from CKD, of which about 200 alone visit the GMC for dialysis. Consultant nephrologist at Healthway Hospital, Dr Sheetal Lengade, said that this figure is high for a small state like Goa. “Late reportage is seen even in patients diagnosed with diabetes and whose condition was under control,” Lengade said. Diabetes is among the high-risk factors for kidney disease. The others are hypertension, family history of CKD, recurring kidney stones, people on pain killers for a prolonged period and obesity. Such patients should take measures like consulting their doctor regularly to ensure that their condition doesn’t escalate into kidney disease, Tiwari said. “High risk patients should check the functionality of their kidneys early because CKD many times will not throw up glaring symptoms and till the disease has progressed,” Lengade said. Regular check-ups will save high risk patients the trouble that they may have to undergo once the kidney functioning is disrupted, Dr Tiwari said. “If tests are done regularly, the progression of CKD can be halted if patients follow dietary plans and undergo lifestyle changes,” he said. When a patient’s condition is diagnosed at a late stage, not only is management of the disease challenging, but medical expenses also go up to anything between Rs 8,000 to 10,000 a month. Though CKD patients get free treatment in Goa, it cannot make up for the stress family members of the patient undergo, especially the caregiver who faces chances of going through depression. “It would be ideal if the patient doesn’t reach a state where he has to undergo either dialysis or organ transplant,” Tiwari said. Some patients died of cardiovascular disease even before their CKD was detected because its symptoms never surfaced and patients were said to have died of heart attack, he said. “Hence patients having heart disease should undergo a kidney test to allow for timely intervention in case he has the disease,” Tiwari said. The current pandemic is also not making things easier for CKD patients. Lengade said that they run a higher risk of getting Covid-19 infection. “People who are on haemodialysis have to visit a hospital two to three times a week and obviously are at a risk higher than any other person who does not visit a hospital frequently. Also, a dialysis unit is a closed air-conditioned environment with many patients taking the treatment at the same time, spending three hours there at a stretch. The exposure is also high,” he said. Doctors see to it that patients coming for dialysis are examined for Covid symptoms before they are admitted into the dialysis unit so that others are not exposed to the virus, Lengade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/about-75-chronic-kidney-disease-patients-report-late-say-docs/articleshow/81439642.cms||Bindiya Chari
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Will back Centre if it brings fuel under GST: Ajit Pawar||Amid the mounting pressure to reduce state taxes on fuel, finance minister Ajit Pawar, while replying to the state assembly, said that the MVA government will support the Centre if it brings petrol and diesel under the ambit of GST as the revenue generated could be equally shared by the state and Centre. Pawar said that since the Centre has levied high taxes on fuel, the state would give relief to its citizens if the Centre slashed its taxes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-will-back-centre-if-it-brings-fuel-under-gst-ajit-pawar/articleshow/81440659.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Assured investment of Rs 73k cr: Minister||Chandigarh: After struggling in the initial years, the Punjab government has managed to attract assured investment of over Rs 73,000 crore with proposed employment of 2.8 lakh crore. The total investment includes projects of companies from over 10 countries, namely US, UK, Japan, Spain, UAE, Denmark, Sweden, France and Singapore. State industry minister Sunder Sham Arora shared this information in the assembly, in response to a question by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA N K Sharma. The government bagged around Rs 25,000 crore from about 300 MoUs and projects worth around Rs 48,000 crore came directly without MOUs. A total of 1,880 project proposals have been received in the last four years. The minister shared that of the total landed investment, over 50% projects of different sectors — food processing, chemicals, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, steel, auto components and service — have started commercial production, while about 30% projects are nearing the stage of commencing production and remaining projects are at the initial stages of completing required formalities after the purchase of land. Raising doubts on the data shared by the minister, the Akali leader asked Arora to share the names of districts where the projects have been started and the number of people employed in these projects. Arora said the projects had been set up in different districts, including Mohali, Ludhiana, Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Amritsar and Bathinda. The minister said operational projects had generated employment of 1.08 lakh. No to MoUs for 2 years now Realising that the practice of entering into MOUs started in 2013 during the previous government and continued by the present government initially, is useless, the state government has stopped entering MoUs for past two years. Of the signed MoUs, less than 50% materialised for the present government. The conversion rate of the previous government was also on the lower side. The government now accepts project proposals from interested investors and facilitates them in the smooth transition of projects from proposal stage to implementation stage. Demand for old pension scheme The members of Punjab legislative assembly demanded the restoration of old pension scheme for employees hired after 2004. The issue was raised by Dr Sukhwinder Kumar of SAD, who urged the government to give pension on old pattern. Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said a committee was in place to examine the issue. He assured the House that the government would act as per the recommendations of the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/assured-investment-of-rs-73k-cr-minister/articleshow/81439671.cms||Vinod Kumar
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Chugh lashes out at TRS||Hyderabad: BJP general secretary and state in-charge Tarun Chugh on Wednesday alleged that the people of the state are not getting the benefits of the Union government’s welfare schemes initiated by the Prime Minister as the TRS regime is plagued with inefficiency and corruption. Addressing public meetings at Ibrahimpatnam and Maheshwaram, Chugh said that Telangana is tired with the politics of nepotism. “KCR and his family members are looting the state. As we see, people don’t even have basic facilities like drinking water and power supply. Roads all over the state are in bad shape. The industrial sector is facing an unprecedented crisis” he said. Meanwhile, the party’s state unit has complained against the social media campaign targetting BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar. In a written complaint to the police, they said fake news is being propagated against Sanjay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chugh-lashes-out-at-trs/articleshow/81437907.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government collected Rs 168 crore in mask fines||GANDHINAGAR: The state government collected Rs 168 crore in the form of fine for not wearing mask in the six-month period from April 2020 to September 2020. These figures were provided in a written reply on Wednesday by chief minister Vijay Rupani, who also holds the home department portfolio, in response to an unstarred question in the ongoing budget session of the state assembly. Although the state government did not provide data of mask fine collected from October 2020, if the average monthly collection of Rs 28 crore as fine for not wearing a mask is computed, the total fine collection for not wearing a mask between April 2020 and February 2021 may have crossed Rs 308 crore. The CM informed the House that the government collected Rs168 crore as fine from 16,78,922 persons at the rate of Rs 1,000 for every mask offence. The fine for not wearing a mask was Rs 200, which was subsequently increased to Rs 500 and then to Rs 1,000 during the lockdown. Implementation of the mask fines had dipped considerably during the local body elections, but collection of fine for not wearing a mask and breaching other Covid-19 guidelines has increased after the elections. Recently, the Gujarat high court also expressed serious concern over the non-compliance of Covid-19 guidelines during election rallies by political parties. Post local body elections in the state, there has been yet another spurt in Covid-19 cases across the state. A large number of people gathering for election rallies and most not following Covid-19 guidelines is said to be the cause of the spurt in Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-collected-rs-168cr-in-mask-fines/articleshow/81437901.cms||Kapil Dave
March 11, 2021||Delhi||DPCC to finalise plan to deal with batteries of e-vehicles by 2022||NEW DELHI: Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) is formulating an elaborate framework on how to manage batteries for electric vehicles to avoid pollution. It is likely to be out by next year. Delhi’s electric vehicle share has gradually been increasing over the last two years and officials say they are looking to avoid a situation where users are unaware of the proper mechanism to recycle batteries. A senior DPCC official said, at present, Battery Waste Management Rules, 2020 were being enforced. Under the new framework, the extended producer responsibility, which makes producers of these batteries partially responsible for ensuring recycling of batteries, is also likely to be a feature. In the Delhi budget speech presented on Tuesday, deputy chief minister and finance minister Manish Sisodia said that the share of electric vehicles was increasing at a faster rate compared with last year. The new electric vehicle policy was implemented in August 2020. “Prior to this policy, the total number of electric vehicles in the newly purchased vehicles in Delhi was 0.2%. Post the policy launch, 7,000 new electric vehicles have been purchased. If we compare the figures of the last three months, 2,621 electric vehicles were purchased out of a total of 1,18,482 newly purchased vehicles. The share of electric vehicles has increased from 0.2% to 2.21%. This is a major indication of the success of the e-vehicle policy,” said Sisodia. The Delhi government has set a target that by 2024, at least 25% of the new vehicles to be registered in the city will be electric vehicles. “Both lead-acid batteries as well as lithium-ion batteries will require separate disposal methods and a safe recycling set-up. Consumers should be able to contact the producer or reach out to a government facility for its safe disposal. We are looking at possible numbers for the future and how this waste will be managed,” said the DPCC official. A recent study by NGO Chintan states Delhi’s new electric bus fleet will alone be adding 21,000 tonnes of battery waste. “If Delhi-NCR sees an influx of 1,400 electric buses between 2021 and 2022, then by the end of approximately seven years, there can be 1,400 used battery packs that either need to be recycled or put to second life uses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dpcc-to-finalise-plan-to-deal-with-batteries-of-e-vehicles-by-2022/articleshow/81437917.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||Maha Kumbh: First shahi snan on Maha Shivaratri||HARIDWAR: Ahead of Kumbh Mela, starting from April 1, the first shahi snan is scheduled for Thursday on the occasion of Maha Shivaratri. According to the advisory issued by the Kumbh Mela administration, pilgrims can take bath at Har-ki-Pauri before 8 am on Thursday. Thereafter, the Har-ki-Pauri ghat will be reserved from 10 am till evening for the seven akhadas. The akhadas will carry out the shahi snan (royal bath) during this time frame. Traffic routes have also been diverted for better crowd management on the day. Also, the pilgrims coming to Haridwar from other states will need to show their negative RT-PCR Covid-19 test reports. Additionally, 40 teams of the health department have been stationed at the district borders to conduct random testing for Covid-19. Meanwhile, IG Sanjay Gunjayal told TOI, “Around 15,000 vehicles were sent back from the Narsan border checkpoint as the people were not carrying negative RT-PCR reports. We have reserved the Har-ki-Pauri ghat for the akhadas from 10 am till evening. Other pilgrims can take the holy dip before 8 am on Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/maha-kumbh-first-shahi-snan-on-maha-shivaratri-stringent-arrangements-made/articleshow/81436628.cms||MS Nawaz
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Smooth ride from Sarita Vihar to Faridabad by taking traffic lights out of picture||NEW DELHI: Commuters on the Faridabad-Delhi-Noida road will soon have a smoother drive as Delhi Traffic Police and Public Works Department have decided to make the stretch from Sarita Vihar to Faridabad signal-free by creating U-turns at crucial spots where there currently are traffic lights. An officer of the traffic police said on Thursday heavy traffic jams are currently normal on Mathura Road from Sarita Vihar to Badarpur due to back-to-back traffic lights between Ali Village and the Sarita Vihar metro station. “We have decided to create U-turns by removing the red lights on this busy stretch,” the officer said. According to the plan, the traffic lights at Madanpur Khadar and Aali Village near Sarita Vihar metro station will be dismantled and a U-turn will be provided to ease the traffic chaos and waiting period there. The traffic police launched this scheme on Sunday on a trial basis for a week. After observing the traffic movement and the response of the commuters, the stretch could be made signal-free. Mathura Road is one of the busiest roads in southeast Delhi and provides connectivity to the industrial areas of Okhla, Mohan Industrial Estate, Noida and Faridabad. According to police, around 2-3 lakh vehicles use this stretch every day, with high traffic volume right from 8 in the morning to 10 at night. The officer appeared to believe that with the new scheme’s implementation, vehicles will move more smoothly and there aren’t likely to be the protracted traffic jams that mark the peak hours. “Now onwards, the commuters can take U-turns under the flyovers at Badarpur and Sarita Vihar,” said the officer. “Earlier, motorists avoided this route due to the hassles associated with the several traffic lights.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/smooth-ride-from-sarita-vihar-to-fbd-by-taking-traffic-lights-out-of-picture/articleshow/81456059.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||Scottish Church celebrates Netaji with rare docus||Kolkata: Scottish Church College displayed rare photographs and documents of Subhas Chandra Bose in an online exhibition as the institute celebrated its illustrious alumnus’s 125th birth anniversary. Bose still remains Subhaschandra Basu on the rolls of the college that accepted him as a student in one of the most difficult days of his student life. He went on to prove that he was the best at the end of his academic term in 1918. The exhibition is unique as it showcases pictures and documents on Netaji that are exclusive to the college and are not available elsewhere. Such a document is the honour roll of the college, where as the best student of arts of 1918, Subhaschandra Basu was given the Hawkins Gold Medal in 1919. The college still maintains the roll. Bose had been thrown out of Presidency College in 1916 after he assaulted a British teacher of history E F Oaten. Following that, the vice-chancellor of Calcutta University spoke to the principal of Scottish Churches College (the name at that time) and got Bose admitted there. After passing out of the college, Bose wrote a letter of thanks to principal W S Urquhart, conveying his gratitude for accepting him in that difficult phase of his life. That letter has also been displayed in the online exhibition. A photograph also shows a young Subhas, with a crown of black hair and no trace of his familiar bald pate. At that time he was the secretary of the philosophical society of the college and wrote several articles about different philosophical questions that moved him. Those were published in the college magazine and have since been digitized; they are also part of the exhibition. There is another letter of greetings that the boys of the college wrote to Bose in 1938, when he was elected the president of the Indian National Congress. Following an old tradition of the party, he was called “Rashtrapati” and the students of the college congratulated him in the letter. “He had given his autograph on the letter and it has been preserved. We have exhibited it, too,” said Supratim Das, vice-principal of the college. The principal of the college, Arpita Mukerji, said that Netaji and Vivekananda were two illustrious alumni who would be celebrated. At the time of Netaji, the school section was also a part of the college and hence the school held a philatelic exhibition. A first-day cover was also released, said principal Bivas Saniel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/scottish-church-celebrates-netaji-with-rare-docus/articleshow/81437997.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 11, 2021||Goa||Supreme Court lists council polls SLP for Fri||PANAJI: The Supreme Court, which on Tuesday reserved the order on the special leave petition pertaining to the Goa council polls, has listed the matter for Friday, advocate general Devidas Pangam said. The SC has granted the parties — the government and others who are respondents in the SLPs — time to file written submissions till March 12. Challenging the high court order cancelling elections to five municipalities over reservations of wards, the state government moved the SC on March 2 on the grounds that courts cannot interfere in the election process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-lists-council-polls-slp-for-fri/articleshow/81439670.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||MIDC took back 1800 plots in 3-4 years: Maharashtra minister||MUMBAI: State industries minister Subhash Desai told the state assembly on Wednesday that over the last 3-4 years, the MIDC had taken back 1800 plots of land they had given to industry since these had not been utilized. He also clarified that the Tesla company had not opted out of Maharashtra for Karnataka as suggested by BJP MLA Atul Bhatkalkar. “It has set up a sales outlet and workshop in Bangalore, not a production unit. It plans to set up sales outlets in different parts of the country so it can gauge the demand for their cars,” he said. Desai also defended the Bajaj company over charges that it had not developed large tracts of government land in its possession. “It is developing the land in stages as its plants expand. The state had issued notices to the company in the past for the return of the and the issue had gone to the high court,” said Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-midc-took-back-1800-plots-in-3-4-years-industries-minister/articleshow/81440787.cms||---
March 11, 2021||India||PM Modi failed to speak in LS due to opposition protests: Minister||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi was unable to make a statement in Lok Sabha on the plans to celebrate India’s 75th year of independence due to disruptions, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said on Wednesday even as the two Houses failed to function due to opposition’s protests over rise in fuel prices and farm laws. Joshi said Modi wanted to make a statement in Lok Sabha on ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’ but was not able to do so due to disruptions. The PM will launch the programme from Gujarat on March 12 and also flag off a 21-day ‘Dandi March’ from Sabarmati Ashram. “The PM wants to make a statement in the House but there is no consensus, though the Speaker has given permission. Whenever there is consensus in the House, the PM will make a statement,” Joshi said in Lok Sabha. Government sources said earlier, Speaker Om Birla had chaired a meeting of floor leaders to end the logjam and opposition parties barring Congress were amenable. “Congress party continued disruptive tactics. They were requested for a second time to allow peaceful proceedings for just five minutes so that a statement can be given by the PM. They did not relent,” a source said. The opposition’s protests continued for the third day in arow even as Lok Sabha took up a few questions during question hour and passed a bill amid the din, and also heard members’ concerns over death of Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar. Raising Delkar’s suicide, members demanded action against Dadra and Nagar Haveli bureaucrats, alleging that they forced the MP to take the extreme step. Lok Sabha tried to take up the demand for grants for railways in the second half but BJP MP Ramkripal Yadav’s speech was marred by protests and the House was adjourned till Monday. The story was the same in Rajya Sabha with opposition parties demanding rollback of the three farm laws and disrupting proceedings, prompting chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to say that “disruptions” don’t help the cause of farmers, but “discussions do”. Rejecting the demand for adiscussion on farm laws, he said the House had a detailed discussion on the issue in February and there would be ample opportunities during the working of the agriculture ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-failed-to-speak-in-ls-due-to-opposition-protests-minister/articleshow/81441161.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||Some saw death coming, survivors get a 2nd life||NAGPUR: Separated from their near and dear ones due to the tough Covid norms, critically ill-patients who passed away as well as the survivors left behind tales of sorrow, regret and reconciliation in the ICUs where they had only the healthcare teams to confide in and console themselves. Doctors from different Covid hosptials vividly recall the phase of impending doom their patients faced. “Before breathing their last, we could see the fear on their faces. Some would give up but we tried to keep them hopeful. The survivors called it a ‘second life’ and gave up their addictions. The elderly would not show eagerness to live while the young were sad to have landed in the Covid ICU,” said Dr Mohan Nerker, one of the directors of Seven Star Hospital. Dr Nerker, a physician, treated more than 1,000 Covid patients in the hospital. City’s first Covid victim, who passed away on April 4 last year, had one last video call with his family members from his IGGMCH ward. He missed seeing his son who had gone out at the time. “A fellow woman-patient had called on my number. We are still unable to trace the woman to thank her,” said a relative. A man, who was told about the poor chance of his mother’s survival, was ready to take the risk of going inside Covid ICU to speak to her at Kingsway Hospital. As the protocol didn’t allow it, the hospital found a better way of helping the son speak to his mother face to face when she was taken out for the CT scan. “A couple of hours later, she passed away,” said internal medicine expert Dr Harshvardhan Bora. OCHRI Covid team member Dr Aves Hasan still wonders how three of his patients could predict their end. “A woman told me that she is going back next day and we can’t stop her. Two men told me their time was up and they would be gone next day. When I returned, I came to know they passed away. It was baffling as a lot of patients recovered and actually went home,” he said. Axon Multispecialty Hospital director Dr Santosh Dhole said sometime in October, out of the blue, a 70-year-old man demanded that they call up his daughter late in the night. “He told his daughter he won’t survive,” Dr Dhole said. Another director of a hospital said at times they felt helpless when patients’ condition deteriorated and they passed away within hours. “There was no specific treatment. Sometimes, we also fell short of ventilators,” he recalled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/some-saw-death-coming-survivors-get-a-2nd-life/articleshow/81437912.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 11, 2021||Coimbatore||AIADMK to contest in 9 constituencies in dist, leaves 1 to BJP||Coimbatore: Of the 10 assembly constituencies in the district, AIADMK will contest in nine constituencies, leaving Coimbatore South to its ally BJP. While sitting MLAs VC Arukutty (Kavundampalayam constituency), OK Chinnaraj (Mettupalayam), A Shanmugam (Kinathukadavu) and Kasthuri Vasu (Valparai reserved constituency) were denied tickets this time by the party, the other five sitting MLAs from the district - SP Velumani (Thondamuthur), PRG Arunkumar (Coimbatore North), Amman K Arjunan (Coimbatore South), Pollachi V Jayaraman (Pollachi) and VP Kandasamy (Sulur) – are in the fray. While minister for municipal administration SP Velumani will contest from Thondamuthur assembly constituency to retain his seat, AK Selvaraj, former minister and ex-MP, is contesting from Mettupalayam assembly constituency. VP Kandasamy, who is the sitting MLA of Sulur assembly constituency, will contest from the same assembly constituency again. PRG Arunkumar, who is sitting MLA of Coimbatore North assembly constituency, will contest from Kavundampalayam constituency for the upcoming assembly election. Amman K Arjunan who is sitting MLA of Coimbatore South assembly is going to contest from Coimbatore North assembly constituency as the Coimbatore South assembly constituency has been allotted to BJP. While Coimbatore urban district MGR youth wing secretary KR Jayaram is contesting from Singanallur assembly constituency, former minister S Damodaran will contest from Kinathukadavu assembly constituency as sitting MLA Shanmugam was denied a seat. Deputy speaker Pollachi V Jayaraman will try his luck for the second time from Pollachi assembly constituency. As Valparai sitting MLA Kasthuri Vasu denied seat, Amul Kandasamy is going to contest from there. Meanwhile, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) released names of candidates for 15 assembly constituencies on Wednesday. R Duraisamy alias Challenger Durai is going to contest from Coimbatore South assembly constituency. He contested on behalf of AIADMK in 2011 in the same assembly election and won. Later, he joined AMMK. K Sugumar is going to contest from Pollachi assembly constituency in AMMK ticker. He was elected as AIADMK MP from Pollachi Lok Sabha constituency in 2009. Later, he joined AMMK. Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) announced the candidate list on Wednesday. Renganathan (Sulur constituency), A Siva (Kinathukadavu) and D Senthilraj (Valparai) are contesting in MNM tickets. Naam Tamilar Katchi has already introduced its candidates for all the 234 assembly constituencies. Six women candidates and four male candidates are contesting from the 10 assembly constituencies in Coimbatore district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aiadmk-to-contest-in-9-constituencies-in-dist-leaves-1-to-bjp/articleshow/81437914.cms||A Subburaj
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Two daily deaths recorded after 26 days in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The last time Gujarat recorded two deaths in a day during the pandemic was on February 11, when the daily cases were 285 and the total deaths were 4,399. In the next 26 days, the daily cases figure reached 581 and Gujarat recorded deaths of 19 corona patients of which 17 or 89% were from Ahmedabad city. Tuesday marked another landmark – Surat district surpassed Ahmedabad in daily new cases after 17 days. Against 126 cases recorded in Ahmedabad, the number was 147 for Surat – cumulatively, the two districts accounted for 47% of Gujarat’s cases. “Share of the four major cities on Tuesday was 65%, which came down from 70% last week. The figures show a rise in positive cases in other parts of the state as well,” said a city-based critical care specialist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-daily-deaths-recorded-after-26-days/articleshow/81437915.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Power employees JAC to support TRS||Hyderabad: Telangana state electricity employees joint action committee (JAC) on Wednesday announced its support for TRS in the upcoming MLC polls. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday the JAC leaders comprising various unions such as Telangana Power Engineers Association, the leaders said they decided to support TRS as the ruling party has been employee-friendly and gave them facilities. They said the Centre was trying to privatise power sector by introducing new power bill in the parliament which is detrimental to their interests. They demanded the Centre to withdraw the new Bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-employees-jac-to-support-trs/articleshow/81437909.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||In Punjab assembly, paddy, budget, land acquisition take centre stage||Chandigarh: Legislators of the opposition parties in Punjab, including the AAP and the SAD, on Wednesday termed the fourth budget presented by finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal as less of a budget and more of a Congress manifesto for the assembly elections next year. During the discussion on budget estimates for the financial year 2021-22, AAP MLA from Kotkapura Kultar Singh Sandhwan told the finance minister that though he had made many announcements, he should ensure these promises were not confined to the paper. “It looks less of a budget and more of a Congress election manifesto,” he said. He added the document did not mention steps taken to fill up government coffers when the debt on the state was increasing by Rs 15,000 crore every year. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA from Dera Bassi, N K Sharma, said Manpreet had this time presented the budget just opposite to his personality, as he had not been loosening the purse strings during the last four years. Leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema accused the finance minister of fudging the financial figures in the budget. Paddy from UP, Bihar sold in Punjab The SAD MLA from Nakodar, Gurpartap Singh Wadala, attracted attention of the House towards ‘illegal purchase’ of paddy in Punjab grain markets which was being transported from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. “Area under paddy cultivation is reducing in the state since 2017-18, but paddy procurement is on the rise. We hardly catch a few such trucks and, ultimately, it is leading to losses of state farmers,” said Wadala. Sharma opposed the central government’s decision to directly transfer the amount for paddy procurement into farmers’ bank accounts, stating that it would become difficult for farmers doing contract farming to prove girdawaris and jamabandis. Fair compensation for expressway land Public works department minister Vijay Inder Singla assured the House that the state government had taken up the issue with the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and the Centre, and it would ensure a fair compensation amount was paid to farmers whose land had been acquired for Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway. He said the state government committee had already held two meetings with farmers and NHAI had also agreed to some demands. Live broadcast of House proceedings Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu said that the Punjab vidhan sabha should make its proceedings live on electronic channels or social media from the next session because legislators are accountable to the people who vote them to power. He also urged that there was also a need for 40 sittings of the vidhan sabha so that every MLA gets time to speak about the issues of his or her constituency. Indiscipline in House Highlighting the issue of SAD MLAs and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema disrupting the speech of finance minister Manpreet Badal by shouting slogans by coming near his seat, school education minister Vijay Inder Singla said it was a serious issue. Parliamentary affairs minister Brahm Mohindra also said there was a need to bring a mechanism to maintain discipline in the House. Speaker Rana KP Singh said it was the responsibility of every legislator to ensure smooth functioning of House. He told the SAD MLAs: “You have a right to protest, but you cannot disrupt House proceedings.” Guru Tegh Bahadur as Human Rights Day The AAP legislator from Jagron demanded that the birthday of ninth Sikh master Guru Tegh Bahadur should be celebrated as National Human Rights Day keeping in view his sacrifices for mankind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-punjab-assembly-paddy-budget-land-acquisition-take-centre-stage/articleshow/81439720.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Kalyan-Dombivli puts 7pm deadline on shops and roadside food stalls||MUMBAI/PUNE: With Covid-19 cases surging in Kalyan-Dombivili, the twin townships’ municipal commissioner Dr Vijay Suryawanshi on Wednesday announced restrictions on shops and markets. Starting Thursday, non-essential shops cannot stay open more than six days a week and beyond 7 pm, and they have to stay shut either on Saturday or Sunday on an alternate basis. Restrictions have also been announced for shops under the essential services category. They will have to down shutters by 9pm, two hours ahead of the current deadline of 11pm. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has also ordered vegetable markets to run at 50% capacity from Thursday. However, there are no curbs on hotels and restaurants. They can continue to stay open and deliver food till 11 pm. But complaints of crowding near roadside food stalls have prompted the administration to set a 7pm deadline for them instead of 11 pm. Kalyan-Dombivli, the second worst-affected city in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region region, recorded a sudden spike in Covid-19 patients on Wednesday, reporting 392 Covid-19 cases which took the overall tally to 65,462 including 1,208 deaths. Dr Suryawanshi on Wednesday held meetings with police personnel, health officials and private doctors from the Indian Medical Association to discuss the situation. Later, addressing mediapersons, he announced the restrictions on commercial establishments and social gatherings. He said police cases will be filed against those violating the 50-persons norm for weddings and other functions. Meanwhile, Thane district collector Rajesh Narvekar on Wednesday issued a circular saying March 15 onwards, schools for classes 5-8 will remain closed till further orders in rural areas. Expressing concern over the increasing cases in the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said, “We do not like to impose lockdowns, but we have to take a decision on this if people do not follow Covid norms.” He urged citizens to take precautions and follow the rules. “We still have time to control the spread. We have also started a vaccination programme, but people need to follow norms,” said Thackeray. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said even though the state is seeing a surge in cases, a lockdown is not the answer. "We need to learn to live with Covid by taking precautions,” he said. He also expressed doubts over the caseloads being reported by other large states, including Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat (all three have reported lower caseloads than Maharashtra). “Either they are not testing enough, or there is something wrong with the data being reported," he said. As for the vaccination programme, Tope backed the idea of door-to-door vaccination or even 24/7 inoculation camps to boost the pace of coverage. (With inputs from Nisha Nambiar )||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kalyan-dombivli-puts-7pm-deadline-on-shops-and-roadside-food-stalls/articleshow/81439765.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||Number of candidates registering for this year’s UTET record a dip||Dehradun: The number of candidates registering for this year’s UTET (Uttarakhand Teacher’s Eligibility Test) has taken a fall. The number of aspirants this year has reduced by 17,802 as compared to 2019 when the exams were last held. The test consists of two separate papers. In 2019, 1,03, 198 candidates appeared for the test while this year, 85,387 candidates have registered for the exam. Experts have pointed out the delay in the appointment process by the state government as the primary reason behind this fall. The Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE) has planned to hold the test on March 24 in 177 centres across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/number-of-candidates-registering-for-this-years-utet-record-a-dip/articleshow/81436759.cms||Mohammad Anab
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||Riverbed land near Sahastradhara transferred to private parties: HC directs MDDA V-C to conduct in-depth probe||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday directed the vice-chairman of the Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority (MDDA) to conduct an in-depth probe and inform the court about the officers responsible for the transfer of riverbed land to private individuals near Dehradun’s Sahastradhara area. The direction came from the bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma while it was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by Doon-based social worker Ajay Narayan Sharma. Sharma had alleged, in his PIL, that the encroachment has been made in the upper region of Sahastradhara road on a rivulet named Aanwala-Ki-Rao which is now facing an existential crisis because the illegal construction and plotting has led to a change in the course of the rivulet. “Even in such jal magna bhoomis (water holdings), revenue records are being systematically converted into banjar bhoomi (banner land) and construction has been allowed... This is changing the very character of the said rivulets in the pristine area of Doon Valley, which has been a notified Eco-Sensitive Area since 1989,” read the petition. Speaking to TOI, Abhijay Negi, counsel appearing for petitioner, said that the court has also issued notices to the state government as well as district magistrate Dehradun and has directed all three respondents to file their responses by April 7. “The court has directed the MDDA vice-chairman to tell what actions have been taken against the responsible officials and what steps have been taken to cancel all illegal transfers. The court has now listed the case for further hearing on April 8,” Negi said. The rivulet Amwala-Ki-Rao is a tributary to Doon Valley’s Rispana river. “That the coming up of the said encroachments is not just blatant encroachment of revenue land, it also compromises the much touted program of the government, namely the rejuvenation of River Rispana. It is noteworthy that river Aamwal-Ki-Rao is a direct tributary of Rispana and therefore, any impact on its ecological flow and health will directly impact the flow of the river,” the petition added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/riverbed-land-near-sahastradhara-transferred-to-private-parties-hc-directs-mdda-v-c-to-conduct-in-depth-probe/articleshow/81436683.cms||Prashant Jha
March 11, 2021||Goa||This is just the start, FC Goa will win trophies soon: Ferrando||Panaji: Juan Ferrando has had little time to think of FC Goa’s campaign in the Indian Super League (ISL). The tiebreaker loss against Mumbai City FC in the semifinals was hard, but the coach has had to immediately turn his focus on the AFC Champions League. At the team hotel where he has spent the last five months, Ferrando took time off to speak exclusively with TOI… How difficult was it to accept the loss against Mumbai City in the playoffs? It was very difficult. In my mind the target was to win the ISL trophy. But sometimes you have to understand that there is new chapter, new young players, and the targets could be different. Somewhere else, maybe it’s only the trophy that matters. But when I speak with the president Akshay (Tandon) and (director of football) Ravi (Puskur), I am told Goa want the trophy, but it’s also important to develop young players. Then we have our style of football. I am happy with some aspects, but the loss on penalties in the playoffs is painful. What did you see in the dressing room after that loss? The players were very upset. There were lot of emotions. I didn’t speak with any of the players (individually). I just thanked them all for what they have done. For five months, they believed in our way, our style, our methodology. They worked hard every day. My words for Phrangki (who didn’t get a game), and for Edu (Bedia), who played many matches, were the same. I had to thank all of them. How tough was it to leave Igor Angulo on the bench against Mumbai? After all, he is the teams and the league’s highest goal scorer... It was a tactical decision. I am happy with Igor Angulo, I can talk about him for two hours. When we played the first leg 4-3-3 (formation), sometimes we lost the position like No 10. I was thinking if not Princeton (Rebello), maybe Alberto (Noguera) can use that space (in the second leg). I thought maybe we should play without a No. 9, or a false nine, and ask Redeem (Tlang) and (Alexander) Romario to use the free space (being the full-backs). Judging by what’s happening on the field, our plan was to change a (foreign) centre-back and attack (with Angulo). The plan with Angulo was 4-4-2, (but) players told me, ‘coach, I am very, very tired’. I wanted to switch to two strikers, but had to be careful about players getting cramps and being forced to substitute. You gave Ishan Pandita 75 minutes against Mumbai when he was always fielded towards the end. What made you change your mind? Now Ishan understands the time of the press. When we played a friendly game for the first time, Ishan was full of energy and running everywhere. I told him, ‘Ishan, in our style, it’s important to have a high press, the timing is important’. It’s the same I’ve been telling Redeem, Phrangki, Devendra, Chothe. Everyone needs time. Game by game, Ishan has improved, he’s understood things better. He needs to improve more. If he played 75 minutes, it’s because we trust him. But it’s also necessary to protect him. FC Goa had a record 15-match unbeaten run, but Goa won just five of these matches. Could the team have done more during the league stage? In a longer season, we would get better results. This is not an excuse, but the first six matches were like friendlies as we tried to know who is better -- Redeem or Chothe or Romario. If you see our first lineup, Len (Doungel) started and Romario was a substitute. The first five to six games were very difficult for me, because we were trying to find out the best lineup, the best substitute. Then we had to prepare plans, A and B. There is so much information which I want to give to the players, but they are humans, not robots. You had seven domestic players who played in ISL for the first time and three who got little time last season. Did this team lack experience? I look at this differently. My job is very similar to when Louis van Gaal went to Barcelona. In the late nineties, I remember van Gaal was at the academy of Barcelona to check the players and he decided to come with seven Dutch players. Why? Because in this moment, he explained, the young players need to understand the methodology. After 10 years, you know what happened with Pep Guardiola. They won all the trophies, won all games. It was incredible. This is my dream. I came here with Alberto, Ivan, Ortiz, Edu, Igor to help the young players, to help with the basic tactics. When Dheeraj is 27, Devendra is 29 and Princeton is 29, they will in turn help the younger players. They will win games on their own, win trophies. This is my dream. This is only the start of something beautiful and FC Goa will soon win trophies. How much did the foreign players help this team? The job of the foreign players was incredible. They are the little coaches on the field; sometimes we talk, sometimes they help with the dressing room atmosphere. I am very happy for all the players. They are the best. They are important because we are here to help. I also have to make a mention of the coaching and technical staff. They are incredible. I have worked in a lot of countries and at a lot of big clubs, and I can safely say, these are amazing people. Will you be here next season? The truth is I am not thinking about the future. I am thinking of the Champions League. After Champions League, fingers crossed we will go far, then we will talk with the president and our work will be there for him to judge. If he is happy, we can continue; if not, we can say thank you, shake hands and move on. Right now, I am not thinking about anything. All that is on my mind is preparing this team for Champions League. We start (training again) from Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/this-is-just-the-start-fc-goa-will-win-trophies-soon-ferrando/articleshow/81454851.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 11, 2021||Delhi||New board won’t affect IX to XII students, yet||NEW DELHI: While the recently announced board for secondary education for Delhi will become operational from the current academic session with 20-25 government schools affiliated to it, students of classes IX to XII need not worry about the change. They will continue following the curriculum under the Central Board of Secondary Education. A government official who has been part of the board creation process explained, “The new board will be a pilot for students of classes nursery to VIII. Students of classes X and XII will continue what they are doing. Only when the current Class VIII students reach Class X does the question of board exams arises. So, Delhi government has one or two years to decide what needs to be done.” The official said the pilot period would be used to “see the challenges, how workable the idea of new education board is and how it can be done efficiently”. A few schools from one particular zone will be chosen to be included in the initial implementation. At present, only the curriculum for classes nursery to VIII has been prepared. As per the earlier government announcement, the new board will entail continuous assessments and would not focus on end-term exams for evaluation. However, in these classes, the no-detention policy is still applicable. The Right to Education Act had brought in continuous assessment, following which the Class X board exams had been rendered optional, though the status quo was restored in 2018. Delhi last has its own education till 1952 before merging with CBSE. Deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia disclosed in his budget speech on Tuesday that the new board would facilitate the shift from rote learning and “provide opportunity for children to better understand their subjects and improve their personality”. Sisodia had elaborated, “We want to nurture children who are patriotic and are prepared to uphold the responsibility of the country in every domain in the future. We want our children to become good, benevolent human beings and this board shall also enable children to find their footing in the world and become independent.” Many educationists believe that private schools would refrain from affiliating with the new board, at least for a couple of years. Meanwhile, the state government is optimistic of all government and private schools coming under the aegis of the new board over the next 4-5 years. Right now, almost all Delhi schools are affiliated to CBSE. A private school principal said, “When anything new is started, there are apprehensions about what and how will things will be done. If in the pilot period, the government addresses such concerns and shows results, we might consider a shift.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-board-wont-affect-ix-to-xii-students-yet/articleshow/81437980.cms||Shradha Chettri
March 11, 2021||Delhi||AUD suspends student for defacing university property||New Delhi: Dr BR Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD) has suspended a BA honours student and barred him from entering the campus pending inquiry over the student allegedly “defacing university property”. The student, Priyansh Maurya, was suspended after a proctorial committee was formed to look into the March 9 incident, when several students had assembled at the Kashmere Gate (KG) and the Karampura campuses of the varsity demanding reopening of the campuses and restarting of physical classes. The students had allegedly made graffiti on the varsity walls. Students’ Federation of India claimed that the graffiti was part of their protest and said: “Anyone who has ever been to the KG campus before 2020 knows well the loudness of AUD walls in expressing the voice of its students...The university belongs to its students.” The university administration claimed that the suspended student was “found to be defacing the property of the university and writing derogatory languages against the university.” “The Kashmere Gate campus has 15 ‘Walls of Democracy,’ where they are allowed to do graffiti, but the student did that in a different place. The campus was recently renovated because of the scheduled visit of a NAAC peer team,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aud-suspends-student-for-defacing-university-property/articleshow/81456087.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Nail-reinforced barricades to prevent repeat of violence: Govt||New Delhi: The Union home ministry told Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that nail-reinforced barricades were erected along the road at farmers’ protests site on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border “to prevent any possible repeat of the conduct displayed on January 26”. In reply to a question, junior home minister G Kishan Reddy said, “Delhi Police informed that on January 26, the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha broke barricades in violation of permission granted for taking out kisan tractor parade on a mutually accepted route. They proceeded towards central Delhi despite being stopped at other barricades inside the city and broke those barricades as well.”  “In view of this experience, and the manner in which the protesting farmers used tractors as weapons for breaking the barricades and injuring policemen, the barricades at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border were strengthened to prevent any possible repeat of the conduct displayed on January 26,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nail-reinforced-barricades-to-prevent-repeat-of-violence-govt/articleshow/81437949.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Coimbatore||71 Indo-Pak war veterans felicitated in district||Coimbatore: On the golden jubilee year of the 1971 Indo-Pakistan war, which came to an end with the surrender of about 93,000 Pakistani soldiers and the liberation of Bangladesh, Brigadier Mahadevan recalled his memories about the Battle of Gangasagar that took place near a railway station on the international border. As Tripura side was filled with jungle and the other side with paddy fields and marshland, the brigadier said the team had to plan cautiously. Once he, along with two majors, had crossed the border to collect data. He had also infiltrated Gangasagar from the southern side, when the opponents were least expecting it. Despite his severe injury, the brigadier fought the battle till the end and was rescued by the Indian Air Force. He was speaking at a felicitation ceremony that was organized at the PSG Institute of Medical Science and Research (PSG IMR) in the city on Wednesday to honour the Indo-Pakistan war veterans, who are residing in Coimbatore, Tirupur and Erode. As many as 71 war veterans participated in the ceremony. Launching the golden jubilee celebrations, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on December 16 lit a victory flame in New Delhi. The victory flame reached the district on Wednesday, after two days of tour to the Madras Regimental Centre, Wellington. Addressing the gathering, Commodore Ashok Rai, Commanding Officer of INS Agrani, said, “When a nation goes to war, it’s not just the armed forces that go to war. It is the whole nation that goes to war – each and every citizen is directly or indirectly involved in the fighting.” Explaining that it is possible for the citizen to fight a war by attacking the enemy’s mind, he said the nation should become strong not only in militarily front but also in economic front that the adversary should be dissuaded from thinking of engaging in a war. “For a nation to de facto be considered a great nation, it needs to have more than just material strength. It needs to develop those intangibles such as national character. This can happen only with true education, ethics and value systems,” the commodore said. Air Commodore Rajnish Verma, Commandant of Air Force Administrative College; Colonel Piyush S Katal, Station Commander, Station Headquarters, Coimbatore; corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian and other officials participated in the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/71-indo-pak-war-veterans-felicitated-in-district/articleshow/81437924.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Breach of privilege motion against Maharashtra home minister by ex-CM||MUMBAI: Leader of Opposition in state assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday moved a breach of privilege motion against state home minister Anil Deshmukh for stating that Fadnavis as chief minister scuttled a probe in Anvay Naik suicide case. Deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal will examine the motion. “What he said was untrue, it was done to intimidate, when I was demanding the arrest of assistant inspector Sachin Waze in the Mansukh Hiren murder case,” Fadnavis said. Deshmukh claimed it was a murder case, when it was a suicide case, he said. SC ruled that abetment of suicide could not be established. It meant police investigations were above board, said Fadnavis. “Deshmukh knew SC’s verdict but tried to defame me, insult SC and mislead assembly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-breach-of-privilege-motion-against-home-min-by-ex-cm/articleshow/81440685.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
March 11, 2021||Allahabad||City to host Phalguni Vyanjan Mahotsav from March 12-14||Prayagraj: Much to the delight of city folks, a first of its kind ‘Phalguni Vyanjan Mahotsav’ 2021 is all set to tickle the taste buds of food lovers. The three-day Phalguni Vyanjan Mahotsav, to be organized by the UP State Tourism Development Corporation (UPSTDC) from March 12 to 14, promises to offer a variety of delectable dishes of different states like Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra at Rahi Illawart Tourist Bungalow.UPSTDC senior manager DP Singh told TOI, “This is for the first time in the history of the city that a Phalguni Vyanjan Mahotsav will be organized on the eve of Holi festival”. He added that the event has six special stalls named Chatori Gali, Punjabi Dhaba, South Indian stall, Maharashtra special, Mughlai Swad, and Tarotaja stall. Under the Chatori Gali stall, food items like basket chaat, tikiya, gol guppa with five type of jeerajal, Tomato chat and chaat papdi will be made available to the foodies.Similarly, dishes like chola kulcha, aloo paratha with butter, paneer paratha with butter and chaach will be served under the Punjabi Dhaba stall. Dishes like masala dosa with sambhar and chatni, idli and vada with sambhar and chatni will also be served under the South Indian stall. If you want to enjoy Pav Bhaji and Bhelpuri, the Maharashtra stall is there to satisfy your taste buds, said Singh.Moreover, dishes like Muglai Paratha, Rumali Roti, Sammi Kabab, Galouti Kabab, Tangri Kabab, Mutton Kabab, Chicken do pyaza and other non-vegetarian dishes will be served under the Mughlai Swad stall. Residents will also be able to enjoy Thandai, Mishrambu, Lassi with malai, ice-cream, cold drink etc. under Tarotaja corner. According to Singh, there will be a total of 34 vegetarian and non-vegetarian preparations which will include a majority of indigenous foods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/city-to-host-phalguni-vyanjan-mahotsav-from-march-12-14/articleshow/81432765.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Vocal outside, JJP MLAs keep mum on farm issues in House||Chandigarh: While the non-confidence motion brought by the Congress, which is the main opposition party in Haryana legislative assembly, has fallen flat, most of the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) MLAs who were very vocal in their constituencies in supporting the farmers’ stir against the Centre’s three contentious agriculture bills, voted against it. These JJP legislatures include Jogi Ram Sihag from Barwala constituency in Hisar, Devender Babli from Tohana, Amarjeet Dhanda from Julana in Jind and Ramkaran Kala from Shahabad in Kuruskhetra. Sihag was even sitting with farmers during protests since the beginning of their agitation against the Centre’s farm laws and seen openly criticising the BJP leadership for introducing such laws. Similarly, Kala had once offered to resign while addressing a farmers’ group in his constituency on the issue. Dhanda claimed to be son of the soil and had been making statements in his constituency that he is with farmers. Babli, who had even asked the JJP to withdraw support from its coalition partner BJP a day before the no-confidence motion was to be moved in the state assembly, also voted for the government. Although Babli, Kala and Sihag were not given a chance to speak during discussion on the no-confidence motion, Dhanda, who was allowed to speak, only targeted the Congress for the attack on him in his constituency a few days back. He said the person behind the attack on him has Congress support and has been addressing farmers sitting on protest on the Delhi border. He did not raise any farmer-related issue in the assembly. Political analysts pointed out that leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, who moved the no-confidence motion, may have faced a defeat but now he can also target these JJP legislators by visiting their constituencies and “exposing” them for their dual stand by announcing support to them in their constituency and then supporting the BJP against their issue in the House. About the defeat of the no-confidence motion, Meham MLA Balraj Kundu told media persons later that it might have been so but it has exposed most of the JJP legislators who were speaking for farmers outside the House. He also claimed that he knew that Congress would fail in the numbers game on the motion but still he supported it to boost the farmers’ morale. He clarified that his support was not for Congress but to the no-confidence motion brought on the farmers’ issue. Besides Congress, which has 30 MLAs, only two independent MLAs, Kundu and Sombir Sangwan from Charkhi Dadri strongly criticised the government on farmers’ agitation and supported the no-confidence motion. JJP MLA gives caste colour to farm stir Senior JJP leader and Guhla (reserve) MLA Ishwar Singh tried to give caste-colour to the farmers protest, saying there is no office-bearer from the labour class or the category he belongs to. He claimed that people of his community are integral part of farming community but have not been given prominent place in the agitation. He also attacked Bhupinder Singh Hooda for various kinds of atrocities on Dalits during his regime, including the Mirchpur incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vocal-outside-jjp-mlas-keep-mum-on-farm-issues-in-house/articleshow/81437958.cms||Ajay Sura
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||SAD motion against finance minister: Fudged figures||Chandigarh: The SAD legislative wing moved a privilege motion against finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, demanding that proceedings be initiated against him for fudging budget figures. The Akalis accused the finance minister of cheating the people of Punjab by making provisions under various heads in successive budgets but not releasing the funds for the same. The privilege motion, which was submitted to the speaker, also accused the minister of lying on the floor of the House and demanded that due action be taken against him. Led by their legislative wing leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Bikram Singh Majithia, the SAD MLAs alleged the minister had fudged figures to the tune of Rs 69,676 crore in the budget by inflating the state GSDP. They said the GSDP for 2019-20 was Rs 5.74 lakh crore and it fell by 6.4% in 2020-21 due to Covid pandemic by the state’s own estimates on page nine of the Budget at a Glance document. “This should have made the GSDP Rs 5.37 lakh crore in 2020-21 but the finance minister fudged figures to show a GSDP of Rs 6.07 lakh crore for 2020-21,” they said. The privilege motion also pointed out that Manpreet had misled the House vis a vis Rs 8,359 crore loan taken by the state by not taking into account the 2020-21 estimates. They said if this was taken into account the state debt for 2020-21 would become Rs 2.61 lakh crore and not Rs 2.52 lakh crore as stated in the budget and the same would rise to Rs 2.73 lakh crore in 2021-22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-motion-against-finance-minister-fudged-figures/articleshow/81439762.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Akali MLAs heckle Khattar, Hry officials fume||Chandigarh: Punjab’s Shiromani Akali Dal legislators heckled Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on the combined Vidhan Sabha premises on Wednesday, leaving the Haryana authorities fuming. Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta condemned the incident as “indecent behaviour contrary to parliamentary traditions and principles” and took up the issue with his Punjab counterpart, Rana K P Singh. In a press statement issued here later, Gupta claimed that the Punjab speaker had also regretted the incident and promised to take strict action to prevent a repeat. Gupta said: “The Punjab MLAs have set a wrong precedence, which will spoil the brotherhood and harmony on the combined Vidhan Sabha premises.” Khattar was addressing journalists at the speaker’s gate after the completion of the budget session in the Haryana assembly when the Akali legislators came there raising slogans of ‘Khattar-Modi Kisan Virodhi’, ‘Kisana nu insaaf davao’, and ‘Haryana-Punjab bhai bhai’. They said if Haryana’s Bharatiya Janata Party government wasn’t anti-farmer, it should pass a resolution against three central agri-marketing laws and bring amendments to declare the entire state a single mandi to stop the implementation. The SAD MLAs included its legislative party leader, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, besides Bikram Singh Majithia, Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal, N K Sharma,Manpreet Singh Ayali, Gurpartap Singh Wadala, Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra, Kanwarjit Singh Barkandi, and Baldev Khaira. They also accused the Khattar government of torturing human rights activists Nodeep Kaur and Shiv Kumar, and demaned a withdrawal of cases against them and the farmers, besides dismissal of the cops who put them in jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabs-akali-mlas-heckle-khattar-hry-officials-fume/articleshow/81437946.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Corpn officials tighten preventive measures||Coimbatore: The city corporation has resumed the drive to inspect commercial establishments and other public places to check for violations of Covid-19 guidelines in the wake of a spike in daily count. On Wednesday, the civic body has collected a fine of Rs 1.03 lakh for violations of Covid-19 protocols. A city corporation official said, “We have been inspecting commercial establishments and other public places. Penalty will be slapped on the owners of commercial establishments for violations, if any, as it is their responsibility to ensure adherence to Covid protocols by their customers. On Wednesday, we fined both individuals and commercial establishments and collected Rs 1,03,100. The drive will continue.” A few days ago, the city corporation had directed sanitary officials to impose a fine of Rs 200 on people without face masks and Rs 500 on those violating social distancing norms, as per the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939. “While there hasn’t been any major spike in the number of cases in the city limits, we need to be cautious and wear face masks and maintain social distancing to control the spread. We have been testing more than 1,000 samples daily. The number of people getting infected within a family is, however, increasing gradually,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-officials-tighten-preventive-measures/articleshow/81437972.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Khattar govt survives no-trust vote||CHANDIGARH: The Manohar Lal Khattar-led ruling Bharatiya Janta Party and Jannayak Janta Party (BJP-JJP) alliance goverment on Wednesday survived the no-confidence motion moved against it by the Congress party on Wednesday. Of the 87 MLAs who voted after the six-hour discussions, 55 voted against the motion and 32 in favour of it. While the ruling BJP-JJP was batting on a comfortable wicket with numbers on their side, moving the motion, the first no-trust vote which 16-month old Khattar government faced, Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Hooda claimed the ruling dispensation has lost people's trust. The discussions were supposed to be over hin two hours, by 1 pm, but Speaker Gian Chand Gupta extended the duration of House sitting four times. Besides 30 MLAs from Congress, two independent MLAs -- Balraj Kundu, an independent legislator from Mehem, and Somvir Sangwan, MLA from Charkhi Dadri constituency -- supported the motion. Both made it clear that they had backed the motion in the interest of farmers not because it was moved by Congress party. Devender Babli and Jogi Ram Sihag, two JJP MLAs, who had been vocal in criticising the government, the alliance in general, and their own party in particular, too voted against the motion. Babli had hinted the previous day that his hands were tied due to the whip. Besides 40 MLAs from BJP and 10 MLAs from JJP, the motion was opposed by five independent MLAs and Haryana Lokhit Party (HLP) party MLA from Sirsa, Gopal Kanda. The latter, who is facing trial in the air hostess suicide case, was once a confidant of former CM Om Parkash Chautala as well as leader of opposition Bhupinder Hooda. BJP had refused to take his support as well. The proceedings of the no-confidence motion began soon after the question hour got over at 11am, with the speaker asking the Congress legislature party members to vote or whether they wanted to have discussion on the motion. Hooda started the discussions, launching a direct attack on Khattar and Dushyant Chautala and referred to the Kaimla and Uchana incidents where their official choppers were not allowed to land. Hooda also listed issues related to registries’ scam, law and order situation, increasing costs, increasing crime against women while supporting the move. He categorically urged all legislators to support the motion in the interest of farmers and farming community. After Hooda, it was parliamentary affairs minister Krishan Pal Gujjar who opposed the motion. He elaborated on the farmer-friendly steps taken by the government and asked as to why the previous UPA governemnt as well he (Hooda) been sitting on the Swaminathan report. The discussions ended with the CM’s reply, wherein he touched on every issue raised by Hooda and other Congress MLAs. The speaker then announced the voting, first asking who supported the motion and who opposed it. Whips ensure 100% presenceBJP, JJP and Congress parties had issued whips to their MLAs a day prior to the motion. While BJP and Congress had issued whips asking their MLAs to be present in the assembly, JJP, through its chief whip Amarjit Dhanda, had asked its mebers not just to be present, but to vote against the no-confidence motion moved by Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/khattar-govt-survives-no-trust-vote/articleshow/81437931.cms||Manvir Saini
March 11, 2021||Delhi||7 held for running fake job portal in Janakpuri||New Delhi: Delhi Police on Wednesday claimed to have busted a job scam with the arrest of seven persons, including three women, from a fake call centre in west Delhi’s Janakpuri. The men have so far cheated at least 200 job seekers on the pretext of offering them lucrative jobs within India as well as abroad. The seven arrested accused have been identified as the owner of the fake call centre, Shailendra (31), and his associates Himanshu Kohli (25), Mohammad Shadab (24), Amit Kumar Karn (28), Sunita (22), Swati (25) and Parul (23). The call centre was raided following a tip-off on Monday. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel said, during questioning, the seven persons revealed that they have a web portal by the name “Group Naukri” and that they cheat victims on the pretext of providing lucrative jobs in India and abroad, especially gulf countries. “The victims were made to transfer the money online. Two complaints have already been received online on official mail ID wherein the victims have claimed that they have been cheated of Rs 52,000 and Rs 40,000, respectively. Details of more than 100 victims have been found in the documents/laptop seized from their possession. The SIM cards, which were used to call victims, were procured on fake IDs,” Goel said. The DCP said the accused admitted to have duped at least 200 job seekers so far worth lakhs of rupees. They also changed their office’s location every 3-4 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/7-held-for-running-fake-job-portal-in-janakpuri/articleshow/81438000.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Man confesses to murdering friend; search on for body||Coimbatore: A friend of a 19-year-old youth, who went missing on March 7, told police that he had pushed the youth into the Contour canal during a heated argument. Police have launched a search for the body and the missing case would be altered into a murder case after they recover the body. The Vadakkipalayam police said A Sathiya Priya, 39, from Athiyur, the mother of missing youth, A Prasath, lodged a complaint on March 8, in which she stated that her son last spoke to her around 10am the previous day and informed her that he was going to a friend’s house in Anaimalai, but he didn’t return till March 8 morning. Police filed a missing case and picked up Prasath’s friend for questioning. “During questioning, the friend said Prasath had borrowed Rs 40,000 from him and they were having an argument about it. Then he said that he pushed Prasath into the canal,” inspector Vijayan said. “We have been searching the body for the past two days, but yet to find it,” the inspector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-confesses-to-murdering-friend-search-on-for-body/articleshow/81437941.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Varanasi||Nightingales ready to serve, 39 nursing cadets commissioned in Indian Army||Lucknow: Following in the footsteps of Florence Nightingale, the third batch of 39 young women cadets passed out from College of Nursing, Command Hospital, Central Command and were commissioned in Indian Army as nursing officer with rank of lieutenant. The commissioning ceremony of probationer nurses took place on Wednesday at Army Medical Corps (AMC) followed by oath and ‘alankrit’ parade in the presence of reviewing officer Maj Gen Dr Ramesh Kaushik, the commandant of CH (CC) Lucknow, Brig Sunita Sharma, principal matron CH (CC) and other officers. Maj Gen Kaushik also presented awards to meritorious officers: Lt Suman Rawat (23), a gold medallist, for securing first rank in final year of examination conducted by KGMU, Lt Pooja Bharti and Lt Ayushi Mishra (24) for securing the second and third ranks and Lt Chanpreet Kaur (22) for best clinical nursing cadet. Lt Swati Dogra and Lt Nidhi Rawat were awarded for highest marks in midwifery and obstetrical nursing. “After four years of rigorous academic and hard training, nurses are well prepared and equipped to shoulder the responsibilities of the dynamic nursing profession where they have to perform, looking after the sick and the wounded during peace and war. It demands highest order of dedication, commitment, compassion, and integrity,” said Maj Gen Kaushik. Brig Sunita Sharma, principal matron of the college, said, “Nursing is a profession which has got recognition during the period of Covid. Our officers worked round the clock. There was no option of ‘work from home’ for us. The officers commissioned today gained lot of experience in these extraordinary circumstances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/nightingales-ready-to-serve-39-nursing-cadets-commissioned-in-indian-army/articleshow/81439769.cms||Arvind Chauhan
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Not obliged to take part in NTA process, say JNU teachers||New Delhi: Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association has raised concerns over a communication sent directly from National Testing Agency for the 2021-22 entrance examination. In a statement issued, JNUTA said, “Since NTA is an autonomous society, JNU faculty members have no automatic obligations as per service rules to participate in the NTA process.” They have also alleged that as the vice-chancellor, M Jagadesh Kumar, is a member of the governing body of NTA, “assigning the task of conducting examinations, an assignment that has major financial implications, to an independent society amounts to conflict of interest”. A senior NTA official, however, said: “It’s a request and not obligatory. If any expert is unwilling, they can decline.” JNU VC Kumar said that a few faculty members were spreading malicious, unfounded and baseless misinformation about the collaboration between JNU and NTA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/not-obliged-to-take-part-in-nta-process-say-jnu-teachers/articleshow/81456103.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Rape accused ASI gets bail in Alwar||A local court in Alwar on Tuesday granted bail to suspended Aravalli Vihar police station ASI Ramjit Gujjar who is accused of raping a woman for two years on the pretext of marrying her. The court observed that the victim had slapped similar charges against another person in 2017, which turned out to be false. The court also observed that the victim retracted from her statement after slapping a case against one Rajesh in 2017. The court also pointed out that in 2018, the victim had slapped a rape charge against her husband and her brother-in-law along with a domestic violence case. “The case against her brother-in-law was dropped after the court didn’t find the allegations to be true. Thereafter, she slapped the domestic violence case against her husband,” the court said. Gujjar’s advocate said the court considered his plea that Gujjar has a clean working record and has never been implicated in any case. “The accused should cooperate with the probe agencies and remain present in the police station as and when required,” observed the court. He was suspended on March 8 and an arrest warrant had been issued on the same date. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rape-accused-asi-gets-bail-in-alwar/articleshow/81437961.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||16 panchs arrested for ostracising Ajmer family||Ajmer: The police on Wednesday arrested 16 panchs of Karot village here for ostracising a family after a youth got married to a widow. The panchs also imposed Rs 2 lakh fine on the family and again demanded Rs 5 lakh more.The family of the victim had approached the police and police took action after investigation. TOI on March 3 published a report in this regard.According to police, a youth got married to a widow in Karot village. Annoyed with the marriage, the khap panchayat ordered social boycott of the family and imposed a fine of Rs 2 lakh. The youth and his family paid the fine imposed by panchayat, but they again demanded Rs 5 lakh from the family. The victim made a complaint to the police, but no action was taken against the panchs of the village. The couple and their family on Tuesday came to SP office of Ajmer and demanded relief, police said.Police said they have arrested Ramesh Berwa, Om parkesh, Mahaveer, Bharulal, Jagdish, Laduram, Arjunram, Dayal ram, Shivraj, Rameshwar, Gopal, Beramdev, Bhagwatram, Shyoji, Hemaram and Ramparsad. Police said they will file a chargesheet against all accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/16-panchs-arrested-for-ostracising-ajmer-family/articleshow/81437994.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya to get hi-tech bus station||Lucknow: State department of tourism and UP State Road Transport Corporation have signed an MoU to develop a hi-tech multi facility bus station in Ayodhya. Exchanging the documents at a simple ceremony here on Wednesday, officials said the step has been taken to facilitate domestic tourists who throng the temple city in large numbers for pilgrimage. Officials said a private player will be roped in to develop facilities like restrooms, dormitories, retirement rooms, booking stations, eating joints. Principal secretary tourism, Mukesh Meshram said about two crore domestic tourists from all over the country visit Ayodhya each year on festivals and for pilgrimage. “The numbers suggest that Ayodhya is one of the most visited destinations of the country in the domestic sector and recent assessments indicated that there is need for better connectivity to the place,” he said. Principal secretary, transport, Rajesh Kumar Singh said that the spot chosen for the bus station was along the bypass road. “The location is strategic keeping in mind the convenience of visitors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-to-get-hi-tech-bus-station/articleshow/81439830.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Rajkot||Kin of slain Dalit RTI activist threatened||Rajkot: A relative of slain RTI activist Amra Boricha was threatened in Bhandaria village of Bhavnagar district on Tuesday allegedly for attending Boricha’s funeral.Mohan Makwana (67), a resident of Bhandaria lodged a complaint against Kshatrapa Odarka and one unidentified person for allegedly thrashing and threatening him for attending the funeral of Boricha in Sanodar village in Ghogha taluka in Bhavnagar.Boricha, who was provided police protection after a threat to his life, was murdered near his house in Sanodar village last week. Police have booked ten persons for the murder of Boricha.“On Tuesday night, when I was returning from my farm, two persons on a bike passed by me. After going a distance, they returned and threatened me for attending the last rites of Boricha. They said I will end up the same way. They also hurled caste-based abuses at me,” alleged in his police complaint.Police have booked Odarka and the unidentified accused under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and launched a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kin-of-slain-dalit-rti-activist-threatened/articleshow/81435774.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||College fee cuts: Gujarat HC seeks progress report||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has asked the state government to inform it about the development in the proceedings before two committees established to address the issue of fee reduction in private and aided colleges. The institutions had remained shut for the most part of the year due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. The high court had earlier sought to know the status of the committees’ work on the issue by October last year. However, nothing came forth from the government. This led the bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora to ask the government on Monday to apprise the court of “the developments, if any, pursuant to the deliberations initiated by the two committees…” by March 22, when further hearing has been posted on the issue. The government has established two committees headed by Justice (retd) Akshay Mehta. The court said that if the government and the Fee Regulatory Committee (Technical) “do not deem it fit to place any report on record as regards the deliberations undertaken by the two committees, then at least, this court may be apprised of the developments in that regard orally”. This happened in response to a PIL filed last year by an NGO — An NGO Bridge Forum For All requesting the HC to direct the government to form a policy for all colleges and institutes of higher education to partially waive off tuition or college fees as long as they remain shut and charge only reasonable fees to students. The colleges should not collect charges for miscellaneous activities, which are not taking place while the campuses are closed. The PIL also urged the court to ensure online education for all students irrespective of payment of tuition fees till the universities resume physical functioning. During pendency of the PIL, four private universities approached the HC and requested it to permit them to join the litigation and submitted that they would be the affected parties due to the outcome of the litigation. The high court has said that it would hear the advocate general first before taking a decision on impleading them in the litigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/college-fee-cuts-hc-seeks-progress-report/articleshow/81437993.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Guj woman who had come to visit dargah gangraped||AJMER: A 30-year-old woman who had come from Gujarat to offer prayers at the dargah was gangraped in the city. Police have arrested four accused in the matter and detained a minor. The main accused is an auto-rickshaw driver. After the incident, SP Ajmer on Wednesday issued directions to all police stations to verify the auto-rickshaws and drivers in their jurisdiction to check such crimes. Police said that a woman had come to Ajmer alone to offer prayers at the dargah and after the prayers, she went to railway station. Since there were no trains at the time, she went for a stroll around Padav area, where she met Akash Lohar (19), a resident of Ajay Nagar. While talking to her, he offered her an intoxicated cigarette and then raped her behind some closed shops. At that time, Akash and others including Lokesh, Bharat and a minor accused were present there. Later, they took the woman to Sansi Basti and gangraped her. The woman could only be rescued when the cops on patrolling heard her screams. Police reached the spot while all the accused fled from scene, even taking the woman’s clothes with them. The police provided her with clothes and took her for medical examination and registered a case. Police said that four accused were arrested and a minor was detained, in the matter. The accused could be identified as they left their auto-rickshaw behind while fleeing from the spot. Police took the survivor to the court to have her statement recorded under Section 164 of CrPC. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guj-woman-who-had-come-to-visit-dargah-gangraped/articleshow/81437992.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||As CM, Trivendra Singh Rawat had a mixed bag||DEHRADUN: The tenure of Trivendra Singh Rawat government that came to an end almost nine days ahead of the completion of his four years in the office is marked with several highs and lows. Keeping the CM office away from any major corruption charges, taking action against two senior IAS officers in the NH-74 scam and making Gairsain the summer capital of Uttarakhand were among a few notable achievements of Trivendra Singh Rawat during his tenure as the CM. Since the beginning, Rawat has been calling his government a ‘zero-tolerance government’ against corruption. Rawat also won plaudits for introducing a law that made Uttarakhand women joint holder in the ancestral property. The move will not only help women become financially independent, but they will also be able to take loans from banks for self-employment or entrepreneurship. Besides, Ghsyari Kalyan Yojana brought cheers to the faces of women in the hills as they have to go to the forest to collect fodder daily. The scheme is expected to benefit nearly 3.41 lakh women in the state. The most notable achievement of Rawat was, however, organising the first investors’ summit in Uttarakhand during which investment proposals worth several hundred crores were signed to generate over 10,000 employment opportunities. The tenure of the former CM, however, did not remain untouched by controversies. His style of functioning came under attack after he publically rebuked and suspended a schoolteacher, Uttara Bahuguna. Even his party colleagues were unhappy with the way Rawat had treated the schoolteacher, who was seeking a transfer. Rawat also drew flak for the formation of the Devasthanam Board in a bid to take over the management of 51 key temples, including Char Dham shrines, in the state prompting priests to move the high court against the government’s decision. Besides, senior BJP leader Subramanian Swamy had even filed an SLP in the Supreme Court against the Board. Welcoming the ouster of Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday, the priests of Char Dham shrines burst crackers while terming his exit a “divine retribution”. Besides, there had been complaints about the former CM being unapproachable for the public and his party MLAs and relied heavily on bureaucrats. On several occasions, his ministers and BJP MLAs had expressed their resentment over the “excessive dominance” of bureaucrats in the functioning of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-cm-trivendra-rawat-had-a-mixed-bag/articleshow/81436778.cms||Gaurav Talwar
March 11, 2021||Dehradun||Question mark hovers over celebrations on completion of 4 years of Trivendra Singh Rawat-led govt||DEHRADUN: Uncertainty looms over the proposed large-scale celebrations on coming March 18 to mark the completion of four-years of Trivendra Singh Rawat-led government in Uttarakhand. Hoardings were put up across the state highlighting the government’s achievements which showcase Trivendra Rawat as CM. Besides, publicity material was prepared at a cost of several crores. Speaking on the issue, state BJP president Banshidhar Bhagat said, "Only the face has changed, the work done by the state government remains the same and we are going to showcase the achievements to the people. The Tirath Singh Rawat-led government is going to continue the development works started by Trivendra Rawat." Sources told TOI that Trivendra Rawat was very keen to celebrate the four-years of his government as after ND Tiwari, he was to be the second CM to complete four-years. The party was planning to hold programmes with slogans like 'Baatein kam, Kaam zyada' (work more, talk less) and 'Safalta ke chaar saal' (four years of success). Sources said that the dilemna within the party now is whether to replace Trivendra’s photos with the new CM or cancel the programme altogether. “Party leaders are going to sit and decide on the scheduled celebrations on March 18,” said a senior BJP leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/question-mark-hovers-over-celebrations-on-completion-of-4-years-of-trivendra-singh-rawat-led-govt/articleshow/81436775.cms||Gaurav Talwar
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Satyagraha in support of farmers’ stir to be organised in Delhi: Jat||Jaipur: Kisan Mahapanchayat leader Rampal Jat on Wednesday informed that a “Satyagraha” in support of farmers’ agitation will be organized in Delhi. In the first phase, 200 Satyagrahis will be selected from all the assembly constituencies in Rajasthan.As apart of the Satyagraha, they will be observing fast, stage demonstrations, organise hunger strikes and submit memorandum addressing the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi).“The farmers’ movement in the country is becoming a mass movement. A decision has been taken to begin a ‘Satyagraha’ in Delhi. A workshop will be organized in Jaipur on March 13 and 14 to provide training to these Satyagrahis. A resolution will be passed at that time to finalize the date and place of Satyagraha,” said Jat.“The path of truth, peace and non-violence will strengthen the movement of the farmers. Only a non-violent and peaceful movement will open up the avenue for an acceptable solution to the farmers’ problems. The government should bring a law guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) for agricultural produce and must withdraw the three farm laws that have been enacted to help the corporates,” he added.The heavy rains on Tuesday night at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border caused heavy destruction at protest site. The tents at the site collapsed and their beds got wet completely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/satyagraha-in-support-of-farmers-stir-to-be-organised-in-delhi-jat/articleshow/81438006.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Man accused in 20 robbery cases detained under Goondas Act||Coimbatore: A 32-year-old man with a history of waylaying women and threatening them at knife-point was detained under the Goondas Act as per an order from collector K Rajamani on Wednesday. The accused was involved in more than 20 robbery cases in Mettupalayam, Karamadai and Sirumugai police station limits. Sirumugai police inspector A Thavamani said that the accused, Chitti Babu alias Syed Ibrahim, 32 , is a resident of S M Nagar, Mettupalayam. “He is known for waylaying women walking alone, threatening them at knife-point and asking them to hand over their valuables and belongings,” he said. A Abuthahir, 42, from Sakthi Nagar at Jadaiyampalayam lodged a complaint with the Sirumugai police on January 21. He told in his complaint that he was an autorickshaw driver and was residing along with his wife Mahanathi and daughter at Jadaiyampalayam. He was standing in front of his house on January 20 around 3.15pm when three people came and one of them threatened him. He said his name was Chitti Babu and he was a notorious rowdy in the area. Chitti Babu snatched one sovereign of gold chain from Abuthahir and the other two took away a motorcycle from him. They managed to escape from the place. Based on his complaint, the Sirumugai police registered a case against the trio under sections 394 and 397 of the Indian Penal Code and arrested them on January 24. They were remanded in judicial custody. However, the Sirumugai police attached the most recent case with the earlier 19 cases against Chitti Babu and sent a detailed report to the superintendent of police’s office. After perusing the case documents, the SP made a recommendation to the collector that Chitti Babu should be detained under the Goondas Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-accused-in-20-robbery-cases-detained-under-goondas-act/articleshow/81438002.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Fake cop gets VIP security in 4 dists, nabbed||Ajmer: City police on Wednesday arrested a person who received VIP security in Banswara, Chittorgarh, Udaipur and Ajmer after he sent fake mail to Rajasthan police headquarters stating that he is a high official of Delhi Police. The accused accompanied by his wife and two children came to Rajasthan from Maharashtra after crossing Gujarat. Even Ajmer police provided him VIP security while visiting the dargah and Pushkar. Police suspected about his claims while he was in Ajmer and the SP directed dargah police to investigate the matter. After investigation, it was found that the e-mail sent to Rajasthan police state headquarters was fake. Police found that Puneet Singh Chandok, a resident of New Delhi, was a businessman and to get VIP security in Rajasthan, he sent a fake e-mail to Rajasthan police. On Saturday, Ajmer police got the e-mail from police HQ stating that an high-level officer of Delhi Police should be provided security during his family visit. For three days, security and arrangements were made for the accused and his family and he got VIP treatment in the district. Sources said officials suspected that the proclaimed police officer was not behaving like a police officer. The matter was given to CID to verify. During verification it was found that the mail to Rajasthan police was not from official Delhi Police e-mail ID and no officer from Delhi Police called the control room. When Chandok was called for interrogation, he accepted that he faked himself as an high-level police officer of Delhi Police. Sources said that Chandok visited Banswara, Udaipur and Chittorgarh with the same VIP security, but police of three districts had not verified the mail or investigated about him. Dargah police said Chandok had been booked for cheating and misappropriation of government money. The city police reported the matter to police headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fake-cop-gets-vip-security-in-4-dists-nabbed/articleshow/81438004.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||Tracking Covid||TRACKING COVIDTIMELINE  2020 * Feb 6: IGGMCH begins Covid testing * Mar 5: Ward for suspected patients at IGGMCH * Mar 10: Bajaj Nagar resident, who returned from US, admitted as suspected patient * Mar 11: He was first from Vidarbha to test positive* Mar 12: His wife & 2 colleagues admitted as suspected patients * Mar 13: His wife & one more colleague positive * Mar 13: State govt evokes Epidemic Diseases Act- 1897 * Mar 13: MLA Hostel quarantine centre for suspected patients * Mar 14: Another colleague too tests positive * Mar 14: Closure of malls & non-essential shops *Apr 6: 68-year-old man from Satranjipura dies at IGGMCH on April 5. Report positive on April 6. It was first death of the district * Apr 8: NMC makes masks mandatory * Apr 24: District crossed 100 cases * May 19: City excluded from Red zone but then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe reverses decision *June 5: Non-essential shops allowed to open with odd-even system, the start of unlocking phase * July: Private hospitals start treating positive patients. Earlier, treatment only in govt hospitals * July 27: Home isolation of positive patients, home quarantine of suspected and high-risk contacts allowed * July 29: District crossed 100 deaths * Aug 3: NMC starts six testing centres * Aug 10: Cases crossed 10,000 * Aug 14: District registers over 1,000 cases in a day for the first time * Aug 18 to Sept 30: Peak of pandemic with huge surge in cases and deaths * Aug 30: District crosses 1,000 fatalities * Sept 4: Experts from Mumbai ensure changes in testing, containment, treatment etc * Sept 20: Deaths over 2,000 * Oct 1: Cases start to decline * Oct 26: NMC seeks list of healthcare workers for vaccination * Oct 31: Cases cross 1 lakh * Nov 23: RT-PCR test of air passengers coming from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat & Goa made mandatory * Nov 25: Fine for not wearing mask increased to Rs 1,000 in rural * Dec 22: NMC quarantines and tests flyers from Europe, Middle East and South Africa; six tested positive and admitted as suspected patients of mutated variant emerged in UK 2021 * Jan 2: Dry run of vaccination * Jan 16: Vaccination of healthcare workers begins * Feb 5: Frontline workers start to get vaccine * Feb 11: Again, cases rise for second wave * Feb 15: 2nd dose for healthcare workers starts * Feb 22: Minister Nitin Raut announces closure of educational institutions, weekly markets, marriages in lawns, halls etc and weekend restrictions * Mar 1: Vaccine rolled out for the first time for citizens beginning with 60+ and 45+ with specified comorbidities * Mar 5: Daily and weekend restrictions extended to March 14||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tracking-covid/articleshow/81438011.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 11, 2021||Delhi||As mercury soars, Delhi firemen work overtime||NEW DELHI: With the rise in temperatures and an increase in the number of fire-related calls, Delhi Fire Service has restricted the leave of its staffers. Special arrangements have been made for crop protection too as calls from outer Delhi regarding crop fires are being received frequently. The fire department has also restricted providing fire tenders for standby service on payment to ensure maximum numbers of tenders are available for deployment. The fire department on average receives 150 calls per day in summers, almost double of what they receive in winters. Last year, the department received 25,416 calls out of which around 3,500 were of bird rescue calls and 1,204 human lives were saved. Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Service, said: “It is just March but already the mercury is rising and the number of fire calls has almost doubled. Keeping this in mind, we have prepared our staffers and have taken some measures to ensure we are ready to deal with the increased number of calls in summers.” Five main measures, which have been taken, include leave restrictions, preventive maintenance of equipment and vehicles, special arrangements of crop protection, public awareness and sensitisation and restriction of standby service on payment. The leaves will be sanctioned by the head of departments at headquarters level and by the divisional officers at divisional level. “All vehicles and equipment have been overhauled and kept in ready for deployment. This is the first time the maintenance contract has been given to authorised agencies, so as a downtime of the vehicles can be reduced. Earlier, the fire officials had to ensure the vehicles were serviced/taken to authorised repair centres, or towed away in case of an issue. But now, to reduce the load, we have given the contract to a company that will take care of towing the vehicle and ensuring that the damage is fixed,” said Garg. Outpost fire stations, such as Narela and Khera Dabor, have been selected to deal with the crop fire. Each fire station will also educate the general public about the steps that can be taken to prevent the occurrence of fire, and the mitigation measures to deal with emergency situations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-mercury-soars-firemen-work-overtime/articleshow/81438074.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi cop shot at while chasing criminals||NEW DELHI: A Delhi Police constable was injured after being shot at in the leg while chasing two criminals in south Delhi’s Defence Colony on Wednesday. According to police, constable Naveen of Defence Colony police station, who was coming from BRT towards the police station around 9am, spotted a bike without a number plate and started chasing it. He was joined by his colleague Manish. They intercepted the bikers but one of them shot at them. The accused were identified as Dharmender (29) and Navdeep (20) of Badarpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cop-shot-at-while-chasing-criminals/articleshow/81438016.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Allahabad||Markets in city remain closed on bandh call given by HCBA||Prayagraj: The Prayagraj bandh (closure) call given by the Allahabad High Court Bar Association (HCBA) in protest against the Education Service Tribunal Bill received an overwhelming response as majority of markets of the city remained closed on Tuesday. The bandh call was supported by various traders, students, teachers, employees’ organizations of the city. The call for the closure was given by the lawyers to mark their protest against the Education Service Tribunal Bill, which proposes to set up the principal seat of this tribunal at Lucknow instead of the Sangam city. On this occasion, a meeting was also organized at the Civil Lines crossing of the city, where apart from lawyers, leaders belonging to trade, students, employees, teachers and other organization addressed the gathering. The speakers vehemently criticized the government for transferring all important organizations from Prayagraj to Lucknow one by one, thereby reducing the importance of this historical city. They also lamented the effort to curtail the jurisdiction of Allahabad High Court in the name of tribunals. Subsequently, in a meeting of HCBA, which was presided over by president of HCBA, Amrendra Nath Singh, and conducted by its secretary Prabha Shankar Mishra, it was resolved to continue boycott of judicial work on Wednesday on the same issue. This agitation, which was initiated by the Allahabad High Court Bar Association gradually got the support of people from all walks of life like former city MLA, leaders of employees’ organizations, the leaders of trade organizations, student leaders and councillors of Nagar Nigam etc. According to HCBA joint secretary (press) Rajendra Kumar Singh, a general house meeting of HCBA will be held at 10.30 a.m. on Wednesday to decide future course of action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/markets-in-city-remain-closed-on-bandh-call-given-by-hcba/articleshow/81432798.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
March 11, 2021||Lucknow||Executive meet next wk, UP BJP morchas await revamp||Lucknow: The much anticipated revamp of UP BJP’s frontal units (morchas) is on the cards even as the saffron party calls a state executive meeting next week. The party will chart out a roadmap to take on the Opposition in the panchayat elections which are seen as a semi-final before the UP elections next year. Top UP BJP sources said that a rejig, due anytime, could lend further traction to the party’s bid to groom a new set of organisational leadership that could potentially essay consolidation of targeted voters at the grassroots. The spotlight on the frontal units comes almost eight months after the party affected a reshuffle in the organisational leadership comprising state vice-presidents, general secretaries, secretaries and regional presidents in August last year. The changes came months after Swatantra Dev Singh was appointed as UP BJP chief in January last year. The party has seven frontal units including those for SC, ST and OBCs to work among backward communities and bring them closer to the saffron party. While the SC morcha is headed by Mohanlalganj MP Kaushal Kishore, the ST morcha is looked after by Ramdhani Gaur. The OBC wing is looked after by Sitapur MP Rajesh Verma. Likewise, the party has dedicated morchas for minorities, farmers and women headed by Haider Abbas Chand, Chaudhary Raja Verma, and Darshana Singh, respectively. BJP’s youth wing, the Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha, is presided over by Subhash Yaduvansh. However, he was shifted as party secretary in the last reshuffle but has been asked to look after BJYM till a new president is appointed. Sources said the existing team of frontal organisational leaders was appointed during the tenure of former UP BJP chief Mahendra Nath Padey who was given the charge of politically crucial UP in August 2017. “Every state president appoints his own team of frontal organisational leaders. Therefore, a new team is expected, especially in the wake of the state executive meeting which is attended by chiefs of morchas,” a senior functionary said. “These morchas work among various communities and establish a dialogue with them vis-à-vis party ideologies and work done by it. They have a significant role in carrying out the party’s various campaigns,” said UP BJP spokesperson Harish Chandra Srivastava. He added that chiefs of morchas are considered office-bearers who attend important meetings to take forward party activities. These morchas are like lateral extensions of the party that work with various groups of the society and strengthen the hold of the party among these groups, said another senior party functionary. The office-bearers for the ‘morchas’ have to be appointed by the party President. In July 2019, Swatantra Dev Singh was appointed as UP BJP President and in January 2020, he was elected the state BJP chief. Since then the ‘morchas’ are awaiting reconstitution. “Old team is continuing. In all likelihood, at least 60% to 70% of the office-bearers are retained. Only 30% who have not been very active are removed. Party brings in active members on the vacant posts keeping in consideration their expertise,” said a party leader. Who all will be retained and who would go has led to confusion. “Many of the active party workers who are aspiring to be on these posts are also in doldrums,” said a party functionary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/executive-meet-next-wk-up-bjp-morchas-await-revamp/articleshow/81439868.cms||Pankaj Shah
March 11, 2021||Pune||KCB turns dumping ground into ‘scrap garden’||Pune: A patch of land at Ammunition Factory Khadki (AFK) in Range Hills, which was a dumping ground for nearby housing societies, is being converted into a ‘scrap garden’ by the Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB). The garden is being developed from scrap and waste material like tyres, metal and iron pipes, among others. Debris, earlier dumped at the site, have been used to carve the pathway, giving it a beautiful look. Pramod Kumar Singh, chief executive officer, KCB, told TOI, “Our endeavour is to inculcate a habit of reusing scrap material among citizens and students. To achieve this objective, we are conducting workshops for them in the garden. We have conducted preliminary tests. This initiative will not only help us in disposing waste materials, but also recycling them.” This is the first such project in the cantonment in Pune district. “I had developed a similar garden in Bareli when I was posted there as defence estates officer in 2018. Local residents had responded very positively to the project”, Singh added. Benches, footpaths and water tank have been fashioned out of waste material. “The garden will be opened for public within a fortnight as some work is still going on at the site,” he added. Kian Taware, president, Range Hills shopkeepers’ association, said, “Garbage dumping in open areas has been a big issue for the last many years. This new garden will helpfully address the concerns.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kcb-turns-dumping-ground-into-scrap-garden/articleshow/81438082.cms||Sandip Dighe
March 11, 2021||Pune||Early evidence suggests Covaxin ‘is effective’ against Brazil, SA variants||PUNE: There is now preliminary evidence to suggest Covaxin may also be effective against both the Brazil and South African variants of SARS-CoV-2, a top expert from the Indian Council of Medical Research has said. A study in January had said the shot can protect against the UK variant. Dr Samiran Panda, head of the ICMR’s epidemiology and communicable diseases division told TOI on Wednesday that the new findings are still in the early stages of scrutiny. He said, “We are yet to receive detailed information. But this should not push people away from followingprecautions as the virus is still spreading.” Dr Panda said while the vaccine was proving to be effective against the variants, the recent upsurge in Covid cases in the country cannot be attributed to them. “Be it variants or old circulating versions, transmission route remains the same: infected people coming in close proximity to susceptible individuals through non-compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour. That is the cause of the surge,” he said. Explaining how the Covaxin could be effective against the variants, former chief epidemiologist of the ICMR, Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, said it targets the entire virus, and not just a few parts. “Covaxin is a whole-virion inactivated coronavirus vaccine; it uses the entire inactivated virus particle. Many other vaccines use only the spike protein to produce an immune response. The virus has multiple components, spike protein is just one of them.” He added, “The new variants are said to have undergone mutations in the spike protein, so a vaccine targeting only this area may or may not target these mutations. So theoretically, a large proportion of the SARS-CoV-2 variants is still likely to be vulnerable to a whole virus vaccine, which uses all components of the virus to produce an immune response.” Giridhara Babu, member of the Epidemiology, Surveillance, & Research group constituted by ICMR Task Force for Covid-19 said, “Because Covaxin uses a whole inactivated virion, theoretically, it might target many of the mutations in different regions of this virus. If the virus is considered to be an entire body, Covaxin, in theory, can target all of it. Many other vaccines target just one part, namely the spike protein. But this theory will have to be tested in more studies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/early-evidence-suggests-covaxin-is-effective-against-brazil-sa-variants/articleshow/81438030.cms||Neha Madaan
March 11, 2021||Pune||In 10 days, more than 50,000 senior citizens given first dose in Pune Metropolitan Region||PUNE: Over 50,000 senior citizens (ages 60 and above) in the Pune Metropolitan Region have now received a dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. The inoculation drive began for citizens on March 1. Health officials said, so far, 42,914 senior citizens have received a shot in PMC areas and 16,232 have received jabs within Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits. On Wednesday, the PMR recorded the highest number of vaccine beneficiaries, all thanks to the increased number of sites. A total of 27,791 people were vaccinated in the region — the number included senior citizens, people aged 45 and above with underlying conditions and health and frontline workers (HCWs and FLWs). The total also included the 2,550 HCWs and FLWs who were given their second dose. Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (medical), Pune circle, said the administration had picked a target to vaccination 25,000 beneficiaries daily. “That was finally achieved through a joint effort by private and government hospitals in the region. On Wednesday, we also increased the total number of vaccination sites in PMC limits to 81. In Pimpri Chinchwad, he had 21 operational centres. The inclusion of more private hospitals has started to streamline the entire vaccination drive.” Deshmukh said Wednesday’s surge in beneficiaries was also because of a high number of primary health centres that organised vaccine sessions for senior citizens. Officials from the PMC have said that they are expecting a fresh batch of vaccines soon. Rubal Agarwal, the additional commissioner of the PMC said, “The civic body is expecting delivery of one lakh more doses by Friday. As of now, there is adequate stock available for the vaccination drive.” Officials from Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation said more people should come forward for the vaccination. They urged citizens to contact their health department (via the helpline number, 8888006666) if they have any queries related to the vaccine or the vaccination process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-10-days-more-than-50k-sr-citizens-given-first-dose/articleshow/81438056.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||Short-circuit in worn-out wires led to Strand Road fire, finds probe||KOLKATA: A short circuit on the 13th floor of New Koilaghat building sparked the fire that claimed nine lives, a joint survey by forensic experts and detective department officers have confirmed. With the fire raging for nearly eight hours before it was tamed, the temperature shot up to 1,100 °C, high enough to melt glass. The cause of the short circuit was old wire that had carbonized, the probe has revealed. The team also found signs of railway staffers’ attempts to douse the fire on Monday evening. Seven used fire extinguishers were found lying in the debris. The floor though had no provision of sprinklers, hydrants, water pump, fire lift and alternative power source. Police are sending letters to both railways and the fire department to know the last time a fire drill was conducted at the building. Forensic experts also collected some materials from the scene to ascertain when the fire started and when those who had travelled up the elevators had died. The team has sought a map of the building and sent queries to the electrical department that maintains the elevator and to the elevator manufacturer. “There is a clear indication of lack of maintenance. The carbon deposits on wires could not have happened overnight. They needed to be changed a long time ago,” explained a forensic expert. Joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma and DC (DD) Debasmita Das led the DD-SIT team. A meeting was later held at Lalbazar to take stock of the situation. The police are drawing up a list of railway employees whose statements will be recorded. Statements of fire-fighters who were at the scene on Monday will also be recorded. Fire services ADG Abhijit Pandey said three fire tenders had reached the New Koilaghat by 6.25pm and that electricity line was still on then. The ill-fated ride in the elevator happened shortly thereafter. “The fire call had come at 6.10pm on Monday and the first fire tender from Lalbazar had reached the spot within five minutes. Between 6.22pm to 6.25pm, two more arrived from the headquarters. The power supply was still there,” he said, adding that fire officers would inspect the site on Thursday and submit the report within seven days. A CESC official said they had received the emergency call at 6.22pm on Monday and a team from BBD Bag had reached New Koilaghat around 6.45pm. Thereafter, the team was asked to wait for instruction to disconnect power supply as the building was still being evacuated. “We got the nod at 7pm and supply was switched off then,” the official said. Sources in Eastern Railway said the electricity line had been maintained to ensure smooth evacuation. “The fire happened after dusk. If power supply had been switched off, the building would have plunged into darkness and there would have been chaos and possibly stampede. The connection was disconnected as soon as the evacuation was over,” a source said. Preliminary inquiry into why the firemen used the elevator and travelled to the 13th floor suggest that they were overwhelmed by the news of people being trapped in the fire. Still, they acknowledged it was very unusual as firemen had taken the staircase to reach the fire on the 21st floor in Nandaram Market a few years ago. “Fire-fighters are supposed to stay cool and follow the fire-fighting SOPs. Fire personnel are not supposed to take command from other agencies and officials,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/short-circuit-in-worn-out-wires-led-to-strand-rd-fire-finds-probe/articleshow/81436791.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 11, 2021||Jodhpur||Doctors boycott work over lack of facilities||JODHPUR: Unhappy over the lack of basic amenities at their hostels, resident doctors boycotted work for two hours suspending all their duties across the hospitals under SN Medical College on Wednesday. They submitted a demand charter to the principal of medical college. This boycott caused trouble to the patients who had to wait until they resumed their duties and led to disruption in functioning of the hospitals, which are largely dependent on resident doctors. President of Resident Doctors Association Rajendra Fageria said that they had been facing many troubles and submitted a memorandum to the principal of the college. “He had assured us to constitute a committee to resolve our demands. But nothing happened thereafter and we kept looking to the medical college administration for redressal of our problems,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/docs-boycott-work-over-lack-of-facilities/articleshow/81438048.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Allahabad||Cinema halls in city seek permission from admin to re-open from tomorrow||Prayagraj: Cinema hall owners of Sangam city have sought permission from the entertainment tax department of the district administration for allowing them to re-open the movie theatres from March 11. The fresh request comes in wake of the fact that several Hindi movies are set to release this month and the cinema owners want the Covid-19 hit trade back on track. Last year, following the ‘Janta curfew’' and the subsequent Covid-19 induced lockdown, all cinema halls across the country were forced to remain shut. After the lockdown phase was over, cinema halls of the city and that of the state were permitted to start functioning but with some riders. However, only PVR and Star World were functional in the city while single-window cinema halls remained closed as no new movie of any big banner was released. The ones who opened their screens were showing only old movies. Later, the government allowed the cinema halls to operate at full capacity from the third week of October 2021. Now, with some movies of big banners soon to be released, cinema hall owners have again sought permission from the Entertainment Tax department to allow the shows. Assistant Entertainment Tax commissioner Arvind Verma said, “We have received request letters from cinema hall owners asking for permission to show movies. They will be granted permission soon. Now the movies will be released every week, so all cinema halls will function now”, he added. “I am anxiously waiting for the release of Roohi and it would be the first time that I will be watching a film in the movie theatre after lockdown, which means that almost after a year, I will be visiting movie hall for which I am super excited”, said Smita Dikshit, a PhD scholar of Allahabad University. The movie starring Rajkumar Rao, Janhvi Kapoor and Varun Sharma and directed by Hardik Mehta will be released on March 11. Likewise, movie enthusiast of the city has made up their plans for more movies that are all set to be released in the coming days. “I and my friends have already made up a plan to see all the new releases including Time to Dance, starring Sooraj Pancholi and Isabelle Kaif releasing on March 12, Fauji Calling, Flight, Sandeep Aur Pinky Faraar and Koi Jaane Na are all lined-up to get released and is in our watch list”, said another film enthusiast from the city, Tripti Jaiswal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cinema-halls-in-city-seek-permission-from-admin-to-re-open-from-tomorrow/articleshow/81432827.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||Citizens rally to block ‘fascist’ party’s entry||Kolkata: People from all walks of life—from a hosiery factory worker to a professor to a research scholar from Geneva—marched down the streets of Kolkata on Wednesday, urging residents not to vote for BJP. More than 5,000 people—some came from as far as Nadia, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Bankura—converged on Ramlila Maidan near Moulali in the afternoon and marched to Esplanade as they participated in the ‘No Vote to BJP’ rally organized by citizen platform Bengal against Fascist RSS-BJP. The participants chanted slogans against RSS and BJP as they marched on, waving colourful flags with hand-drawn faces of Rabindranath Tagore, Vidyasagar, Surya Sen, Khudiram Bose, Kazi Nazrul Islam and Bhagat Singh. Participants of the farmers’ protest in Delhi also came down to lend their voice against “the breakdown of democracy”. Octogenarian Dilip Ghosh, who is a hosiery factory worker, came from Baguiati to take part in the rally. “I am here to protest against the draconian laws that are being implemented by the central government. Being a hosiery worker, it is my duty to stand for the rights of the working class, he said. Assistant professor at Institute of Development Studies, Kolkata, Anwesha Sengupta said, “The large presence of flags bearing the faces of thinkers and reformers shows Bengal’s glorious history of communal harmony and humanitarianism. There is no place for sectarianism and narrow communalism in Bengal. This is the best way to counter BJP and their ways of invoking the past.” Representatives of the farmers’ protest in Delhi attended the rally, urging the people of Bengal to reject BJP in the upcoming elections. Talking about Rashbehari Bose’s support to Ghadar party and hunger strike by Jatin Das and Bhagat Singh, Raminder Singh said Bengal and Punjab had deep-rooted ties since Independence. “The farmers’ protest is not just about farmers. It is a fight to protect our democracy and our constitution. We should fight this battle together and save our country from fascists,” he said. Abhimanyu Kohar, another farm leader, said, “I am not here to point out which party to vote for but I will urge the people of Bengal to reject the one party, which is against farmers, youths and the country’s long tradition of communal harmony. The common man should rise above the differences over caste, creed and religion and vote against BJP. The dignity of agitating farmers now depends on Bengal’s people.” CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya reminded the audience of Mithun Chakraborty’s dialogue at the Brigade parade ground, where he called himself “a cobra”. “We have to save our Bengal from the poisonous sting of RSS and BJP because BJP means NRC and CAA, communal hatred and rise in LPG and petrol prices,” he said.  Sazira Khan and her one-and-a-half-year-old daughter arrived from Ranaghat in Nadia to protest against the new farm law, the rise in prices of gas and fuel, NRC and CAA. She said, “I am here to save the future of my kids because if BJP is voted to power, there will be NRC and CAA.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/citizens-rally-to-block-fascist-partys-entry/articleshow/81438121.cms||Dipawali Mitra
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||BJP, Congress MLAs trade barbs on budget||GANDHINAGAR: BJP and Congress MLAs traded barbs on the first day of discussion on the 2021-22 state budget, on Wednesday. While Congress MLAs accused the ruling party over increasing public debt, reduction of budget allocation in some sectors and vacancies in almost every department, BJP MLAs including ministers contended that people have repeatedly endorsed their policies and governance, while the Congress has become synonymous with electoral defeat. Deputy leader of opposition in the assembly, Shailesh Parmar, raised the issue of vacancies in government departments and growing public debt. “There has been a reduction in allocation to some departments, even as public debt is constantly on the rise,” Parmar said. Other opposition MLAs, Harshad Ribadiya, Chandrika Bariya, Pravin Musadiya, Amrish Der and Pratap Dudhat spoke during the discussion on the state budget. Ribadiya alleged that government wasteland was being offered to industries under the pretext of horticulture promotion. Chandrika Bariya demanded setting up of an assembly committee for women and child development. Musadiya demanded setting up a government hospital dedicated for workers of Alang ship breaking industry and Amrish Der spoke about the dilapidated road network in Saurashtra. State forests minister Ganpat Vasava said institutions like the Supreme Court, Gujarat high court, IIM-A and WHO have praised the state government’s handling of the pandemic. “The people of Gujarat have repeatedly endorsed the BJPs governance. Over the next five years, two lakh persons will be recruited in different government agencies and departments,” he said. BJP MLAs Babu Bokhiria, Harsh Sanghvi, V D Zalavadiya and others also spoke on the budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-cong-mlas-trade-barbs-on-budget/articleshow/81438052.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Protect pasture lands to save camels: Samiti||Jaisalmer: Looking at the declining number of camels in Rajasthan, hundreds of camel herders of Jaisalmer submitted a memorandum to the district collector demanding to protect the pasture lands in the state.They also demanded to restart the camel breeding scheme along with checking corruption in camel protection scheme. Degrai Samiti president Sumer Singh Bhati, Lok hit Pashupalak Sansthan (LPPS) president Hanuman Singh Rathore and other camel owners gheraoed the animal husbandry department over the issue.Bhati said on Wednesday a large number of camel herders met district collector Ashish Modi and submitted a memorandum. For the last few years, the number of camels has been rapidly declining and the main reason is the encroachment of pasture lands. The huge sevan grasslands have almost vanished, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/protect-pasture-lands-to-save-camels-samiti/articleshow/81438023.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jodhpur||Doctors boycott work over lack of facilities||JODHPUR: Unhappy over the lack of basic amenities at their hostels, resident doctors boycotted work for two hours suspending all their duties across the hospitals under SN Medical College on Wednesday. They submitted a demand charter to the principal of medical college. This boycott caused trouble to the patients who had to wait until they resumed their duties and led to disruption in functioning of the hospitals, which are largely dependent on resident doctors. President of Resident Doctors Association Rajendra Fageria said that they had been facing many troubles and submitted a memorandum to the principal of the college. “He had assured us to constitute a committee to resolve our demands. But nothing happened thereafter and we kept looking to the medical college administration for redressal of our problems,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/docs-boycott-work-over-lack-of-facilities/articleshow/81446091.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||First Shekhawati fest from March 20||Jaipur: The richness of Shekhawati region revels in many spheres. The land of Birlas, Modis, Poodars, Singhanias, Goenkas, Piramals, Rungtas, Ruias, Mittals, Khetans, and Dalmias also boasts of brilliant havelis, forts and monuments. Religious places like Khatu Shyam ji and wildlife habitats like Jamwa Ramgarh Wildlife Sanctuary and Tal Chhapar Sanctuary add to its diversity.But what the region lacked was a dedicated effort to promote its vast tourism potential. But a beginning has been made. The tourism department has decided to introduce Shekhawati festival on its cultural calendar and the first-ever event is taking place from March 20-22.Not only that. In the Budget 2021-22, announced recently, the government has proposed to develop a tourism circuit for the Shekhawati region covering Alsisar, Mandawa, Nawalgarh, Dundlod, Fatehpur, Ramgarh, Jhunjunu, Mahansar, Sikar, Mukudgarh, Khetri, Khandela, Bagar and Pilani.“Be it heritage, culture, religious places or wildlife, Shekhawati region is a tourism treasure-trove. The three-day festival curated with features like heritage walk, cultural evenings with Rajasthani singers, traditional sports activities will showcase the best of the region to the tourists. Shekhawati has ample scope to attract large number of tourists and the festival is a step in harnessing that potential,” said Nishant Jain, director, department of tourism.Jain said the Budget proposal to create a Shekhawati tourist circuit is expected to give a new impetus to make the region one of the key tourism hubs in the state.A hotelier in Mandawa, said, “The region is not too far from the National Capital Region or from Jaipur. People can drive down. What we are lacking is right promotion of the tourism assets of the region.”The havelis of Mandawa and Nawalgarh or any other town in the region are like am open art gallery. The intricate architectural excellence complemented with paintings and murals can win any traveler hands down.Some in the tourism department said that the region has got prominence because of Govind Singh Dotasara, who is not only the junior minister for tourism and Devasthan but also the Pradesh Congress Committee chief. Dotasara represents Sikar assembly constituency which falls in the Shekhawati region. “The budget proposal and the Shekhawati festival have come because of his influence,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/first-shekhawati-fest-from-march-20/articleshow/81438093.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Power restored, railway booking server up again||KOLKATA: The ticket booking servers at Eastern Railway’s New Koilaghat headquarters started working on Wednesday as the electricity connection was restored on two floors of the fire-devastated building on Strand Road. The servers on the second floor cater to six zonal railways for ticket reservations. They are being linked back to the ticketing counters. “We were given clearance to use the second and third floors from today. Currently, data that were deleted in the fire are being transferred from the disaster recovery servers of Secunderabad back into the servers of New Koilaghat. By tomorrow or the day after, the entire system should be back in order,” Eastern Railway general manager Manoj Joshi said on Wednesday. In pics: Kolkata railway office fire tragedyRail bookings had crashed in the aftermath of the fire that claimed nine lives on Monday evening. The second floor of building houses the Centre for Railways Information System (CRIS), which is the nerve centre of the online reservation for six rail zones across the country. “Since Tuesday, online booking was restored to some extent with the help of the back-up server at Secunderabad. But the unreserved ticketing system (UTS) was affected. The data is gradually being transferred back into CRIS’ servers. This is taking a little time,” said Joshi. According to a CESC official, power supply was restored at 9.47pm on Tuesday after obtaining clearance from the rail authority and the fire brigade. With the 6KV power supply to New Koilaghat building back — nearly 27 hours after it was snapped — ER staff members from IT, electrical and signal and telecommunications departments returned only to the floors where access had been allowed for emergency reasons. “We pleaded with the state government to allow electricity be restored in phases, especially on the second floor where the crucial servers are installed,” said ER spokesperson Kamal Deo Das. Like Tuesday, most of the 3,500-odd railway employees were asked to stay at home on Wednesday as well. Only those on emergency duty reported outside the building from where their attendance was manually registered before they were allowed in, with strict instructions not to venture beyond the two stipulated floors. “We worked on the third floor. Currently, the cables are being fixed and efforts are on to organize the work area. The rooms are deluged. We have been told not to go to the upper floors,” said S Bhaduri, an official at the telecommunication department. Most of his colleagues are staying away from office for now. “I have been asked to remain at home for the next seven or eight days. Our office on the 13th floor has been ravaged in the fire. My seniors said our department may be relocated to Howrah DRM’s office,” said Debshankar Pramanik, an employee at the CST department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/power-restored-railway-booking-server-up-again/articleshow/81436800.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
March 11, 2021||Lucknow||Old-timers express concern over delay||Lucknow: Senior BJP functionaries have expressed concern over delay in revamping of its frontal organisations even as the party's state executive is just round the corner. They point out that the party has not been able to declare members of the state executive who collectively draw a roadmap for the party after holding deliberations on crucial issues faced by the party. The state executive will lay a blueprint for the party and the government for the upcoming panchayat elections and issues confronting the state. The meeting assumes much significance because it is being held on the eve of the panchayat elections and amid the farmers’ agitation which poses new challenges to the party in the western region. The delay in deciding names of the heads of the two frontal wings is being attributed to the party leadership’s dilemma over caste compulsions. For the two frontal outfits the party wants a Brahmin and a Rajput candidate who should be non-controversial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/old-timers-express-concern-over-delay/articleshow/81439877.cms||Subhash Mishra
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||By April 28 decide on 2 TB drugs, Bombay HC tells Centre||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Wednesday told the Centre to decide by April 28 on a representation last November for ‘compulsory licences’ to import patented life-saving anti-TB drugs, Bedaquiline and Delamanid. The license would ensure swifter and affordable access to the fairly new drugs that treat multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) and extensively drug resistant (XDR) cases, said a PIL. “Non-accessibility constitutes a violation of right to life,’’ said senior counsel Anand Grover with advocate Rahul Kamerkar, appearing for the NGO, Jan Swasthya Abhiyan and Thane resident Meera Yadav, survivor of XDR-TB, who filed the PIL. In 2019, according to India TB Report, Maharashtra had nearly 2.3 lakh TB persons notified in public and private sectors, being one of five states that contributed most to total notification, said the PIL before a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni. There is a rise in MDR-TB cases and Mumbai has high numbers, said the PIL. It said the two drugs were effective, were “recommended by WHO” and were immediately required as part of treatment protocol of government programme NTEP to treat those with multi-drug resistant TB. The PIL said drug resistant TB was declared a national emergency in 2019, and if granted compulsory licence, generic companies can make drugs affordable and help India’s goal to eradicate TB by 2025. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, for the Centre, will inform HC what decision the Centre takes. Bedaquiline is patented by Janssen Pharmaceuticals and Delamanid by Otsuka Pharmaceutical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/by-apr-28-decide-on-2-tb-drugs-hc-tells-centre-in-mumbai/articleshow/81440680.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Bhopal||516 new cases take MP Covid count to 2.66L; 309recover||BHOPAL: As many as 516 new cases of Covid-19 infection were reported in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday. With 16,635 people tested, the positivity rate was 3.1, according to health department’s daily bulletin. About 2,000 more tests were conducted in MP, compared to Tuesday. Since the pandemic began, 2,66,043 have been diagnosed with the infection. Three deaths were attributed to Covid-19 on Wednesday in MP. Deaths were reported from Bhopal, Indore and Rathlam districts. The Covid-19 death toll in in MP is now 3,877. A total 309 patients were deemed recovered from Covid-19 in the state, taking the count of recoveries in Madhya Pradesh to 2,58,251. With 184 new cases, Indore’s tally went up to 61,227 while that of Bhopal rose to 44,883 with the addition of 92 new Covid-19 cases. Indore has so far reported 938 deaths and Bhopal 621. Bhopal is now left with 751 active coronavirus cases while Indore has 1357 such cases. With 16635 new tests, the total number of samples tested for coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh has crossed 59.43 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/516-new-cases-take-mp-covid-count-to-2-66l-309recover/articleshow/81436823.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Cop’s aide, sarpanch held in bribery cases in Kota district||Kota: ACB-Kota arrested a person while accepting a bribe of Rs 40,000 on behalf of an assistant sub-inspector of Itawa police station on Tuesday. In a separate operation on the same day, the bureau arrested a sarpanch at Gaita village under Itawa police station for accepting a bribe of Rs 1,000 and 2 cheques valued at Rs 2.50 lakh. The accused ASI in the matter succeeded to flee from the police station. The trap operations of the two accused was carried out separately within an hour at the complainant’s house on Tuesday evening. The two accused were on Wednesday produced before the ACB court in Kota that ordered to send them to jail under judicial custody in both the cases till March 24. A tout, identified as Ram Singh Hada (36), a resident of Gaita village of Itawa police station was arrested after he had accepted bribe of Rs 40,000 on behalf of an ASI, identified as Ranveer Singh, posted at Itawa police station of Kota district on Tuesday evening from the complainant’s house in the same village, said ASP, ACB, Kota Chandrasheel Thakur. Sensing the trap, the accused ASI succeeded to flee from the police station and attempts are underway to nab him, he added. The accused ASI, in the name of SHO of the police station, had demanded the bribe for granting 15 days’ bail in a case under sections 420, 120 and other sections of IPC lodged against the complainant in Itawa police station, he said, adding that the complainant had already been arrested and was out after a term in jail under judicial custody. Earlier, the same ASI through the tout had demanded Rs 3 lakh to dump the case against him, but the complainant did not pay the bribe and consequently, he was arrested, he said. In another trap at the same place within an hour, the sarpanch of gram panchayat Gaita of Piplda tehsil of Kota district, identified as Bhawanishankar Nagar (55), was arrested after he had accepted a token cash of Rs 1,000 and two cheques of Rs 1 lakh and Rs 1.50 lakh, the ASP said. The accused sarpanch had demanded the bribe of Rs 1 lakh to issue death certificate for the same complainant’s grandmother and Rs 1.50 lakh to open mutation of land under the names of the successors after the grandmother’s death in July 2020, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-aide-sarpanch-held-in-bribery-cases-in-kota-district/articleshow/81438079.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Pune||Pune mayor says no plans to enforce lockdown again||PUNE: Muralidhar Mohol, Pune mayor, said on Wednesday that there was no plan to impose a Covid lockdown in the city. He said other options were being explored to contain the fresh surge. Mohol said the new measures being explored are still in the discussion stage. “A final decision to implement these steps will be taken collectively, after consultations with state authorities and police. We have already ramped up testing and surveillance. More swab collection centres are being set up,” he said. He added that healthcare systems are also being boosted across the city. “Cases have gone up over the last one month. Hospitals are on alert and we are ensuring that there are enough beds for patients. The administration is also planning to restart Covid-care centres. The situation is under control and is being closely monitored. Our primary aim is to control the spread.” Pune is currently seeing spurts of infections limited to certain pockets. Mohol said educational institutions in the city have already been shut and there are curbs on travel at night. He added, “We are also intensifying action against those not found not wearing masks in public places or at public gatherings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-mayor-says-no-plans-to-enforce-lockdown-again/articleshow/81438094.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 11, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: High-rise residents meet to address maintenance issues, plan drills||KOLKATA: Monday’s fire at the New Koilaghat building has sent shock waves across high-rises and complexes in Kolkata and led to their building committees holding meetings to step up safety measures. While the fire alarm systems and equipment are in place at most complexes, their servicing history needs to be checked and drills need to be conducted regularly, said committee members. Most committees said they need a system in place to identify infirm elderly residents so they can be evacuated quickly in case of an emergency. In some high-rise complexes, clear exit plans are not laid out and the older towers do not have automatic smoke and fire sensors with alarms. In some committee meetings it was pointed out that lobbies and passages were often constricted because residents kept shoe racks, cycles, clothes horses, empty packing boxes and even left-over material from interior work stacked up. Immediate inspection of common spaces has been planned in a large number of complexes so the areas of concern can be tackled. “We need a clear exit plan and identify fire marshals. Drills have to be conducted so that the gathering point to opening of the valves and efficiency of hose pipes can be checked,” said Vijaylakshmi Kumar, resident of Ruchira Residency and principal of a school where such drills are mandatory. At Upohar Complex, residents have asked the committee to inspect if all sharp bends can be accessed by fire tenders. “Service records of all fire safety equipment are being checked and we are planning fire drills. Repair of the fire doors has also started,” said spokesperson Sudeep Ganguly. “We will make a list of all the infirm and keep it handy so that help reaches them if an emergency strikes,” said Sankar Mookherjee, spokesperson for the South City residential complex. In a recent inspection of the complex, the fire brigade had suggested that the basement of the complex should have automated large exhaust fans which have been installed. Residents are being counselled about the pressurized stairwell they will have to get into in case of a fire. The committee at Siddha Pines has made note of the fact that older buildings and electrical meter rooms do not have automated smoke and fire sensors. “We will have to install them immediately,” said Manav Mehera, a spokesperson. Urbana residents are worried there are no mechanized staircases to reach the high floors. “That is the need of the hour,” said S Ramani, a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-rise-residents-meet-to-address-maintenance-issues-plan-drills/articleshow/81436840.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||From care to carelessness, Vidarbha on verge of second wave an yr down the line||NAGPUR: While Nagpur’s first Covid-19 patient was a USA-return technocrat detected on March 11; Vidarbha’s first cases were members of two families from Yavatmal district, who were detected a day earlier, on March 10. Owners of agriculture stores in and around Yavatmal, all these residents had gone to Dubai on a trip sponsored by a leading agriculture company. When some of them tested positive, there was panic in Yavatmal. “Today, we can laugh about it, but in March last year, people treated us like criminals or untouchables,” recalled Ramesh Yamsanwar, Vidarbha’s first confirmed Covid-19 case. “Doctors supported us a lot. We recovered due to their efforts. But everything we faced was unique. No one faced anything like that after us,” he said. Due to the panic, these patients were first hospitalized for 14 days. They underwent repeated RT-PCR tests. Even after recovery, they were asked to stay at home with police deployed outside. It was mid-May and June before their neighbours started talking to them or visited their house. Ramesh’s wife Jaya, who was second Covid-19 positive patient of Vidarbha, said she faced emotional trauma and doesn’t want to recall that phase. In Nagpur, the first Covid-19 patient of city too humbly requested not to interview him. Vidarbha’s year-long journey of Covid-19 has seen about 3.50 lakh citizens getting infected, and more than 3.10 lakh recovering so far. This is about 1.4% of Vidarbha region’s estimated population. With more than 7,600 deaths reported till date, Vidarbha’s Covid-19 death rate is reducing constantly. After the first nation-wide wave in September, Covid-19 cases have continued to reduce for three months from October to January. As New Year began, people started becoming careless about infection. Big marriage functions were held across the region, without Covid appropriate behaviour. Casual approach brought second wave like situation, which is similar to last year’s lockdown. While some are blaming it on new, more infective variant of Covid-19 virus, experts still say careless approach of people is responsible for the surge. Dr Khanindra Bhuyan, health specialist, who represents Maharashtra at UNICEF, said that marriage functions and community gatherings were super spreader events in Vidarbha and the spread is still not coming under control. “It was expected that the graph will move southwards by mid-March. But, it’s still not happening. No one can afford any more lockdown-like restrictions. We should make Covid appropriate behaviour a part of our life,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/from-care-to-carelessness-vid-on-verge-of-second-wave-an-yr-down-the-line/articleshow/81438158.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 11, 2021||Pune||Pune: Situation won’t be like last year, schools should remain shut for 2 months, says report||PUNE: The Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) and Prayas Health Group tabled a joint report before Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Wednesday stressing that the Covid situation in the city would not be as bad as it was in the last year despite the recent spike. The report recommended continuation of closure of schools and colleges for the next two months, though. Strict measures on dine outs and limiting any kind of social gatherings were also favoured in the joint report. The divisional commissioner will discuss these recommendations during the meeting with deputy chief Minister Ajit Pawar, MPs and MLAs on Friday for the final decision on restrictions to be imposed in the city to curb the spread of coronavirus. The report stressed that if schools and colleges were kept closed, there was a possibility of nearly 35% reduction in total cases. It also stated that if restaurants and eateries offered takeaways only, there could be a possibility of reduction of 25% cases, stated Rao, the Pune divisional commissioner. The report stated that gardens and playgrounds could be potential sources of infection. It recommended a very few attendees at social and political gatherings, and wedding ceremonies instead of the current cap of 200 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/report-situation-wont-be-like-last-year-schools-should-remain-shut-for-2-months/articleshow/81438125.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Pune||Pune Zilla Parishad, allocates Rs 4.24 crore for ambulances||Pune: The Pune Zilla Parishad, during its general body meeting on Tuesday, approved a proposal of Rs4.24 crore for maintaining its ambulances, paying their drivers’ salaries and the fuel cost. The district health officer Bhagwan Pawar had tabled the proposal for approval in the meeting. “The ZP runs 142 old and new ambulances across the district and more are likely to be purchased in the next few months. To run them effectively, we have to look after their maintenance, salaries of the drivers and fuel cost. Taking these aspects into consideration, we had tabled the proposal, which has got statutory sanctioned,” Pawar added. Rural Pune recorded a surge of Covid-19 cases last year. “At some places, patients couldn’t get ambulance services on time due to various reasons. So, the ZP purchased over 90 ambulances on priority-basis,” a source from the health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-allocates-rs-4-24cr-for-ambulances/articleshow/81438117.cms||Sandip Dighe
March 11, 2021||Allahabad||IIIT-A to launch 5-year integrated management course||Prayagraj: Indian Institute of Information Technology-Allahabad (IIIT-A) would soon be launching a new five-year Integrated (Dual Degree) program in management course, focusing on employable business courses. Now, any student can get admission in MBA soon after passing intermediate exam. This will be a unique curriculum being launched under the new education policy. Following this, IIIT-A would become the first institution in the country to launch such a course. Moreover, while pursing this course, students under the provisions of the new education policy will have three different exit options. Students who wish to leave this course after three years will be given BBA degree. At the same time, students who leave the course after completing four years of education will be provided PG Diploma in Management along with BBA. Students who complete the five-year course will be awarded a BBA as well as an MBA (IT) degree. “The Senate of our institution has already approved the course ordinance and its curriculum and now the proposal would be tabled in the next meeting of the Board of Governors (BOG) for final approval before its launch”, said IIIT-A director Prof P Nagabhushan. He said that the institute was also working out on the admission aspect of the course and that it would also get finalised soon. “We are exploring existing national level entrance exams existing for such courses and also looking at the need and feasibility of conducting an entrance exam at our own level,” he explained. In this new course, which is in line with similar courses being offered by few top Indian Institutes of Management but not IIITs, a student till six semesters would be equipped with knowledge of functional areas of management and after that would learn specialized aspects like finance, marketing, human resource management etc, officials shared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/iiit-a-to-launch-5-year-integrated-management-course/articleshow/81432846.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||CM’s advisor reviews refinery project work||Jaisalmer: Chief minister’s personal advisor Govind Sharma on Wednesday inspected the work at the refinery project at Pachpadra and directed the officers to finish the work in time. He reviewed the project with HRRL officers and took stock of the construction work by visiting the area. He said that it is Rajasthan’s biggest project and it will set in new dimensions of development in the state after completion. It will prove to be a milestone and thousands of people will get direct and indirect employment through it. District collector Vishram Meena, SDO Balotara Dr Naresh Soni, Pachpadra tehsildar Surendra Kumar Kachwah and HRRL officers welcomed Sharma on reaching Pachpadra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cms-advisor-reviews-refinery-project-work/articleshow/81438115.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||SI’s bail petition rejected by court||The lower court in Alwar has cancelled the bail application of SI Bharat Singh who is behind the bars in connection with raping a woman on Wednesday. Singh advocated had moved the bail application on Tuesday was head today in the court. His counsel prayed that Singh was falsely implicated in the case by the victim. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sis-bail-petition-rejected-by-court/articleshow/81438134.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Goa||This is just the start, FC Goa will win trophies soon: Ferrando||Panaji: Juan Ferrando has had little time to think of FC Goa’s campaign in the Indian Super League (ISL). The tiebreaker loss against Mumbai City FC in the semifinals was hard, but the coach has had to immediately turn his focus on the AFC Champions League. At the team hotel where he has spent the last five months, Ferrando took time off to speak exclusively with TOI… How difficult was it to accept the loss against Mumbai City in the playoffs? It was very difficult. In my mind the target was to win the ISL trophy. But sometimes you have to understand that there is new chapter, new young players, and the targets could be different. Somewhere else, maybe it’s only the trophy that matters. But when I speak with the president Akshay (Tandon) and (director of football) Ravi (Puskur), I am told Goa want the trophy, but it’s also important to develop young players. Then we have our style of football. I am happy with some aspects, but the loss on penalties in the playoffs is painful. What did you see in the dressing room after that loss? The players were very upset. There were lot of emotions. I didn’t speak with any of the players (individually). I just thanked them all for what they have done. For five months, they believed in our way, our style, our methodology. They worked hard every day. My words for Phrangki (who didn’t get a game), and for Edu (Bedia), who played many matches, were the same. I had to thank all of them. How tough was it to leave Igor Angulo on the bench against Mumbai? After all, he is the teams and the league’s highest goal scorer... It was a tactical decision. I am happy with Igor Angulo, I can talk about him for two hours. When we played the first leg 4-3-3 (formation), sometimes we lost the position like No 10. I was thinking if not Princeton (Rebello), maybe Alberto (Noguera) can use that space (in the second leg). I thought maybe we should play without a No. 9, or a false nine, and ask Redeem (Tlang) and (Alexander) Romario to use the free space (being the full-backs). Judging by what’s happening on the field, our plan was to change a (foreign) centre-back and attack (with Angulo). The plan with Angulo was 4-4-2, (but) players told me, ‘coach, I am very, very tired’. I wanted to switch to two strikers, but had to be careful about players getting cramps and being forced to substitute. You gave Ishan Pandita 75 minutes against Mumbai when he was always fielded towards the end. What made you change your mind? Now Ishan understands the time of the press. When we played a friendly game for the first time, Ishan was full of energy and running everywhere. I told him, ‘Ishan, in our style, it’s important to have a high press, the timing is important’. It’s the same I’ve been telling Redeem, Phrangki, Devendra, Chothe. Everyone needs time. Game by game, Ishan has improved, he’s understood things better. He needs to improve more. If he played 75 minutes, it’s because we trust him. But it’s also necessary to protect him. FC Goa had a record 15-match unbeaten run, but Goa won just five of these matches. Could the team have done more during the league stage? In a longer season, we would get better results. This is not an excuse, but the first six matches were like friendlies as we tried to know who is better -- Redeem or Chothe or Romario. If you see our first lineup, Len (Doungel) started and Romario was a substitute. The first five to six games were very difficult for me, because we were trying to find out the best lineup, the best substitute. Then we had to prepare plans, A and B. There is so much information which I want to give to the players, but they are humans, not robots. You had seven domestic players who played in ISL for the first time and three who got little time last season. Did this team lack experience? I look at this differently. My job is very similar to when Louis van Gaal went to Barcelona. In the late nineties, I remember van Gaal was at the academy of Barcelona to check the players and he decided to come with seven Dutch players. Why? Because in this moment, he explained, the young players need to understand the methodology. After 10 years, you know what happened with Pep Guardiola. They won all the trophies, won all games. It was incredible. This is my dream. I came here with Alberto, Ivan, Ortiz, Edu, Igor to help the young players, to help with the basic tactics. When Dheeraj is 27, Devendra is 29 and Princeton is 29, they will in turn help the younger players. They will win games on their own, win trophies. This is my dream. This is only the start of something beautiful and FC Goa will soon win trophies. How much did the foreign players help this team? The job of the foreign players was incredible. They are the little coaches on the field; sometimes we talk, sometimes they help with the dressing room atmosphere. I am very happy for all the players. They are the best. They are important because we are here to help. I also have to make a mention of the coaching and technical staff. They are incredible. I have worked in a lot of countries and at a lot of big clubs, and I can safely say, these are amazing people. Will you be here next season? The truth is I am not thinking about the future. I am thinking of the Champions League. After Champions League, fingers crossed we will go far, then we will talk with the president and our work will be there for him to judge. If he is happy, we can continue; if not, we can say thank you, shake hands and move on. Right now, I am not thinking about anything. All that is on my mind is preparing this team for Champions League. We start (training again) from Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/this-is-just-the-start-fc-goa-will-win-trophies-soon-ferrando/articleshow/81455118.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 11, 2021||Bhopal||Congress MLA Dr Vijayalaxmi Sadho tests positive for Covid, contacts to be traced||BHOPAL: Congress MLA from Maheshwar Dr Vijayalaxmi Sadho was diagnosed with Covid-19 and admitted to government-run Hamidia hospital, here on Wednesday. Dr Sadho is a former minister in Kamal Nath government and held important portfolio of medical education and culture department. She is also a former member of parliament (Rajya Sabha). “Today my report has turned out to be Covid-19 positive. During this time, anyone who has come in contact with me should get tested for Covid-19 and quarantine themselves to protect them and their families from the infection,” said Dr Sadho in a tweet at 1pm on Wednesday. Hamidia hospital medical superintendent Dr I D Chaurasia confirmed Dr Sadho was admitted to Covid-19 care facility in the government run hospital. Four other members of the MLAs family have also been admitted. It includes her younger brother, his wife and two children, he added. Dr Sadho’s condition is said to be stable. She is an alumna of Gandhi Medical College. The former minister has been attending the budget session of the MP Vidhan Sabha since March 2. She was last seen in the state assembly on Tuesday. Going by the MLA’s twitter feed, on March 5 she visited the State Election commission in Bhopal to submit a complaint about voter list in upcoming municipal elections. Dr Sadho is one of a few politicians who have been adhered to wearing facemasks in public programmes during the pandemic. When contacted, health department official said, “Contact tracing protocols would be observed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mla-dr-sadho-tests-positive-for-covid-contacts-to-be-traced/articleshow/81436870.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Just one district had farm fencing scheme implemented||Gandhinagar: In 2019 and 2020, the state government’s barbed wire fencing scheme to protect crops from animals has been implemented only in Dang district.Congress MLAs sought details of district-wise implementation of the scheme in these two years. In reply, the government said that in this period, Rs 42.12 lakh was sanctioned only in Dang district.The Congress on Wednesday said that the scheme has failed to take off because the government permits funds under the scheme only for blocks of five hectares. Most farmers do not agree to come together and form blocks of five hectares to avail of the benefits of the scheme, the Congress said.The scheme has been floated to save crops from animals like nilgai and wild boar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/just-one-district-had-farm-fencing-scheme-implemented/articleshow/81438137.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Pune||2,717 people penalized||Pune: A total of 2,717 people in the district were penalized on Wednesday for not wearing face masks and fines worth Rs12,55,600 were recovered from them. Pune police penalized 1,406 people and recovered Rs6,97,000 as fines. Pimpri Chinchwad police took action against 736 persons and recovered Rs3,68,000 fines, Pune rural police penalized 575 persons and collected Rs1,90,600 as fines from them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2717-people-penalized/articleshow/81438142.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Lucknow||Azadi Mahotsav: 4 UP cities to be fulcrum of celebrations||Lucknow: In the run-up to the mega ‘Azadi Ka Amrit’ Mahotsav (festival of independence) from March 12, the state government has identified four spots — Shaheed Smarak in Ballia, Kakori Shaheed Smarak in Lucknow, Shaheed Smarak and Freedom Struggle Museum in Meerut and the historic fort and Deen Dayal auditorium in Jhansi — where grand celebrations will kick off in UP, moments after PM Narendra Modi commemorates 75 years of India’s Independence from Gujarat. Principal secretary, department of culture, Mukesh Meshram, issued instructions to commissioners and district magistrates to proceed with the programme. Before the launch by PM, 75 cycle volunteers will hold a 45-minute ‘freedom cycle rally’ covering 7,500m to reach identified spots in four districts. Volunteers dressed in Indian attire will carry placards with slogans of independence struggle. At the inaugural, floral tributes will be paid to martyrs, balloons would be released amidst playing of the national anthem by police bands, drumming up patriotic fervour with recitation of poetry and staging of nukkad nataks and dance drama on the independence movement at the four designated places. Patriotic songs, particularly based on Dandi march will be sung in local dialects like Bhojpuri, Awadhi and Bundeli. The logo of the Chauri-Chaura centennial celebrations will be prominently displayed and events will see participation from Nehru Yuva Kendra, National Service Scheme, National Cadet Corps, Youth Club, Youth and Women Mangal Dal, said Meshram. The launch of the mahotsav by the PM will be telecast live at these four spots, after which the exhibition on freedom struggle will be opened to the people. On display will be records and archival pictures of Dandi march, Chauri-Chaura uprising, India’s freedom struggle from 1857 to 1947 and the Kargil war. The exhibition will continue till April 5. All primary and secondary schools and institutions of higher education have been asked to hold conferences, seminars, and essay writing contests on nationalism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/azadi-mahotsav-4-up-cities-to-be-fulcrum-of-celebrations/articleshow/81439899.cms||Isha Jain
March 11, 2021||Allahabad||Mahashivratri snan: No entry of heavy vehicles in city||Prayagraj: In view of the Mahashivratri snan which falls on Thursday, March 11, district traffic police authorities have implemented a road diversion plan for heavy and commercial vehicles. The diversion plan will be effective from Tuesday night to Friday morning. As per the diversion plan, heavy and commercial vehicles will not be allowed to enter city limits. For that, police have set up no entry points at Bamrauli, Sahson crossing, Habusa turn, Soraon bypass, Nawabganj bypass, Phaphamau, TP Nagar trisection, Rampur crossing and Ghurpur. Heavy commercial vehicles coming from Reewa, Satna, and Chitrakoot have been restricted at Ghurpur, and Gohania while vehicles coming from Mirzapur have also been restricted at Rampur trisection (Industrial area). Moreover, heavy \commercial vehicles coming from Varanasi towards Prayagraj have been restricted at Habusa turn while heavy and commercial vehicles coming from Pratapgarh and Lucknow towards city have also been restricted at Soraon and Nawabganj bypass respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/mahashivratri-snan-no-entry-of-heavy-vehicles-in-city/articleshow/81432872.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Fake invoices for GST evasion||The SGST team has exposed fake invoices of Rs 631 crore in Bikaner meant for evading GST of Rs 19 crore in Bikaner. The raid by anti-evasion team took place on Tuesday. CGST and central excise office said got a tip-off that some fake firms in Bikaner were engaged in malpractice to evade tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fake-invoices-for-gst-evasion/articleshow/81438159.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Patna||Bihar to get 3 more RAF companies from Punjab||PATNA: The state government’s long-pending demand of permanent deployment of an entire battalion of Rapid Action Force (RAF) will be fulfilled soon as the CRPF headquarters in Delhi has given in-principle nod for movement of three companies of the anti-riot force based in Jalandhar in Punjab to Bihar. “The entire battalion would be in Bihar much before the end of this year,” CRPF (Bihar sector) IG Hemant Priyadarshy said on Wednesday while briefing the media about the events to be organised by CRPF on its 82nd annual raising day on March 19. Priyadarshy said the three companies of 114 RAF battalion of CRPF will soon be shifted to Bihar from Jalandhar. He said one company of the 114 RAF battalion is already stationed at Muzaffarpur. “The rest three companies would be accommodated at Mokama and Muzaffarpur temporarily until the battalion’s permanent headquarters gets constructed in Vaishali,” Priyadarshy said. The IG further said that 29 acre land was acquired by the state government in Vaishali for construction of the RAF battalion headquarters. “The process is on to acquire 21 acres more. CRPF would be able to take possession of that land in the next three months. The headquarters is expected to get constructed in next three years,” he told TOI. When asked, he said shifting of two regular CRPF battalions from Maoist-affected areas in Bihar to Chhattisgarh has not made any adverse impact. “Most of the vacated areas have been overtaken by Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB). There has been no adverse input from such areas yet. Instead, CRPF has been able to continuously counter Maoist violence plans in the last several months, including the detection of more than 83 IEDs in Gaya,” he said. Priyadarshy said CRPF would organize band shows for common people at Gandhi Maidan on March 11, at Eco park on March 12 and Panchmahla and Aunta at Mokama Ghat on March 16 and March 17, respectively. “Besides, programmes would be also organised to felicitate the family members of martyrs, create awareness and sharing information with youths for joining the force, plantation and civic actions,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-to-get-3-more-raf-companies-from-punjab/articleshow/81436921.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 11, 2021||Rajkot||'I have no one to play with. Can you please provide me a sister?'||The Covid-19 induced lockdown triggered a spate of pyschological problems among people, who suddenly got disconnected with the outside world. The psychology department of Saurashtra University handled as many as 45,000 calls from all over Gujarat in the last one year with people pouring their hearts out to the counsellors about their extreme state of mind. Four professors of the department have compiled the serious and extreme cases with possible remedies in a 400 page book that will be distributed free of cost to the Abhayam helplines, counsellors, universities and libraries. The book has been prepared by Yogesh Jogsan, Dhara Doshi, Dimple Ramani Hasmukh Chavda and two students. They said the book will come handy for people in dealing with such an unprecedented crisis, reports Nimesh Khakhariya in RajkotFour girls develop severe suicide tendences: Four girls developed severe suicidal tendences after actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicie. They were counselled continuosly for eight days after parents expressed helplessness in handling their behaviour.Woman posts obscene video for maximum likes: Completely cut off with social life, a teacher’s wife started posting her obscene videos on social media, copying some porn stars. She is a mother of three children. Her husband begged with the counsellors to treat his wife.Lonely teen befriends stranger: A 13-year-old girl wore make-up, dressed up skimpily and started video chatting with an unknown person she befriended on social media. It was later revealed that the girl had got to know about her mother’s extra-marital affair. Lockdown and loneliness aggravated this behaviour.Tortured by mother-in-law for snuff: A woman was subjected to continuous harassment by her mother-in-law who was addicted to snuff. Due to lockdown, she was unable to get her daily dose and threatened her daughter-in-law to make her life miserable. Officials had to arrange for snuff and deliver it at her house.Boiling water to kill Covid virus: A woman complained that her mother and sister in law were bathing her nephew with boiling hot water, believing that it would kill Covid virus if he was infected. The little one kept crying the whole day as they bathed him more than once.Will you get me a sister?: Many single children called up the helpline asking the counsellors to arrange for a brother or sister to play with them as they felt very lonely. These child could not go outside or talk with kids of their age. Parents suspected her of physical relations: A girl in her 20s was stopped from rejoining college after lockdown after she missed two menstrual cycles. She had no relationship with anyone, but her parents suspected one. Counsellors had to convince her parents that she may have missed the periods due to anxiety and depression, which is common.Sanitizer as booze!: Several women sought help for their husbands who were liquor addicts and failed to get booze during lockdown. They had started mixing sanitizer with water to satiate their craving. Some Remedies Mental preparation for extreme situations help a lot; accepting changes will be easier Avoid excessive use of social media and spend time with family and friends Find good friends or family members and share problems with them to avoid suicidal tendencies Involve yourself in your activities like dancing, learning music, walking which are stress busters Do regular exercise and yoga The reason for such extreme psychological problems was the sudden withdrawal of exposure to the outside world. Mobile phones were the only source of connecting. We got maximum cases of depression, anxiety, aggression and obsessive compulsive disorders (OCD), the major reason being loneliness. Yogesh Jogsan | head of department, psychology, Saurashtra University||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/i-have-no-one-to-play-with-can-you-please-provide-me-a-sister/articleshow/81435899.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: 3.6kg smack worth Rs 6 lakh seized from 6 peddlers||JAIPUR: Jaipur police in two separate raids seized 3.6 kg of smack and arrested six peddlers under operation ‘Clean Sweep’ on Wednesday. Acting on a tip-off, Vishwakarma police station seized the narcotics from a luxury car amid the presence of Sajid Khan (27), Tasleem Khan (25), Azharuddin (29) — residents of Malakheda in Alwar — and Ronaq Meo (21) from Nuh in Mewat. Prima facie investigation revealed that they were repeat offenders and had been supplying drugs in different cities. “The accused revealed that they got the drugs from Madhya Pradesh and paid Rs 1.30 lakh per kilogram to supply it for Rs 1.80 lakh per kilogram. They have been using a private vehicle to ferry drugs from MP,” said Khaleel Ahmed, police inspector, CST, which is investigating the network in the state. “Soon, we will expose the network, which is spread across states, and more arrests are likely to follow,” said Ahmed. The second raid was conducted by Mansarovar Police in which they caught two peddlers —Vickram Merutha and Vijendra Merutha — near Shiv Vatika in Mansarovar with 18 grams of smack. “The accused told us that they were into supplying drugs to individuals in small quantities such as 5 grams for Rs 3,000. They admitted to having been arrested before in the same case and are repeat offenders. Jaipur cops have conducted over 700 operations under Clean Sweep in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-6kg-smack-worth-rs-6l-seized-from-6-peddlers/articleshow/81438175.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Jumbo units should be kept ready, says Dr Subhash Salunkhe||PUNE: State advisor on Covid-19 and former director general of health services (Maharashtra) Dr Subhash Salunkhe said the jumbo medical units across the Pune Metropolitan Region should be kept ready in terms of manpower and medical equipment so that whenever the need arises they could be activated within a week. He said that the decision to restart them is likely to be taken during the Friday’s review meeting to be attended by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. According to Salunkhe, the preparedness of the 1,600-bed facility in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad will be useful for handling critical Covid-19 cases. Both the jumbo units at the College of Engineering Pune (CoEP) and the Annasaheb Magar Stadium have been closed since January 15. “The equipment should be in ‘ready to use’ condition. We are not in a state to keep them shut or dismantle them,” he said, adding that MedBros Healthcare Private Limited can be reinstated as it is a readily available resource. “We need to take a decision in next eight days after studying the Covid trend in the region,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jumbo-units-should-be-kept-ready-salunkhe/articleshow/81438161.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra, Opposition clash over Maratha reservations||MUMBAI: BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday said he would move a breach of privilege motion against public works department minister Ashok Chavan for allegedly misleading the state assembly on the Maratha reservation issue. Chavan told the assembly the former BJP-led government had passed the Act giving reservations to the Maratha community in jobs and education in November 2018. In August 2018, though, the Central government had already made constitutional amendment 102, which said only the Centre can decide on the backwardness of any community. He said this had come out in the Supreme Court case. “The Centre’s stand has created doubts about the state’s law on reservations. Now all the states that have enacted reservations beyond the 50% limit have been allowed to present their arguments to Supreme Court. It has allowed private parties to present their case too, so we urge Maratha groups to do so,” he said. Fadnavis said the state law was enacted before the Centre’s constitutional amendment. Chavan said, “Instead of spreading misinformation, BJP should convince the Centre to change its stand on the issue in court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-oppn-clash-over-maratha-reservations-in-mumbai/articleshow/81436943.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||31.4 lakh BPL families live in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: Replying to a set of questions asked by Congress MLAs in the ongoing budget session of the state assembly, the state government informed on Wednesday that 31.41 lakh families in Gujarat live below the poverty line (BPL). There has been an addition of 6,051 BPL families over the past two years, said rural development minister RC Faldu in his written reply. Figures provided by the state government said that over the past two years, Amreli district has registered the highest increase of 2,411 BPL families, while there has been an increase of 1,509 BPL families in Rajkot district. The districts of Narmada, Chhota Udepur and Panchmahal have not registered any increase in BPL families over the past two years. Congress MLAs alleged that assuming there are six members in a BPL family, more than 1.8 crore people in Gujarat live below the poverty line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/31-4l-bpl-families-live-in-gujarat/articleshow/81438197.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Lucknow||Line losses spiralled during corona peak||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh recorded a spike in quantum of power line losses, essentially due to slack revenue recovery at the peak of pandemic, as per data released by the state government. Aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses went up from 30% in 2019-20 to 36.60% by December-end last year, suggesting losses shot up by over 6% within a nine-month span. In contrast, line losses had dipped from 33.40% in 2018-19 to 30.02% in 2019-20. Significantly, 36.60% line losses by December, 2020, is more than 32.8% recorded in 2016-17 when Samajwadi Party government was in power. In the previous Akhilesh Yadav regime, losses had spiralled to 38.29% in 2013-14 in the run-up to 2014 Lok Sabha elections, statistics show. Speaking to TOI, energy minister Shrikant Sharma admitted losses rose during the pandemic period because of dismal revenue recovery. “We need to step up revenue collection. Directions have been issued to distribution companies to issue bills on time and ensure consumers pay up within the deadline,” he said. Sharma said, the department ensured there were no power outages during the pandemic peak, especially during the lockdown. “Supply has been increasing gradually,” he said, while reiterating that supply to rural areas had risen by 54% in last four years. “Electricity rosters have been devised in a manner to ensure villages get power at the most suitable time,” he said. UPPCL officials said, directions have been issued at the divisional level to tap erring consumers and recover pending bills. “Collection and billing efficiency will be increased in next few months,” an official said. Earlier this month, UPPCL decided to extend the one-time settlement scheme (OTS), entailing surcharge waiver on arrears of domestic consumers till March 31. The energy department fixed a target of bringing down line losses to 15% for providing round-the-clock power supply. For this, the corporation asked discoms to monitor feeders in respective areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/line-losses-spiralled-during-corona-peak/articleshow/81439906.cms||Pankaj Shah
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||187 vacant posts in govt libraries||Gandhinagar: As many as 187 posts, including 28 for librarians, lie vacant in government-run libraries, the state government informed the state assembly on Thursday. Replying to questions posed by Congress MLAs in the ongoing budget session of the assembly, the state government informed that there are 121 government-run libraries in the state and it has filled seven posts of librarians while 28 remain vacant. In reply to supplementary questions, the government answered that of the total sanctioned posts in government-run libraries, 127 posts have been filled while 187 remain vacant. Accordingto data compiled by Congress MLAs, not a single post in libraries of Porbandar, Botad, and Morbi districts has been filled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/187-vacant-posts-in-govt-libraries/articleshow/81438222.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Higher vaccination coverage in less populous districts||BHOPAL: Relatively less densely populated districts with higher percentage of inoculation are keeping the Covid-19 curve flat in Madhya Pradesh. Since vaccination against Covid-19 began, each day more than 22,000 jabs have been administered in the state. With a little over 7 lakh population (going by Census 2011), Dindori covered 100% vaccination of health workers and frontline workers. The second dose has been administered to 79% of health workers and a little over 2,000 senior citizens have got the first shot. In another context, the district is left with only 9 active cases of the infection. For every one Covid-19 case reported in the district, 14.3 doses of the vaccine have been administered. Traditionally, the tribal areas have been more accepting of the health department’s vaccination and immunisation drives. Like Dindori, Mandla, Bhind and Seoni are reporting single digit active cases of the infection. In Mandla, Bhind and Seoni combined, 55,000 doses have been administered. The number of active cases in the three districts is a net total of 16, as of Tuesday. The number of Covid-19 tests in these districts have been much lower than urban areas. “Higher levels of vaccination and lower numbers of cases is a welcome trend. However, Covid-19 cases are frequent in densely populated districts and urban areas. Population matrix is an important factor,” said Gandhi Medical College professor and well-known pulmonologist, Dr Lokendra Dave. On the other side of spectrum are larger urban cities like Bhopal and Indore. Most of the travel, migration and business are linked to the two cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/higher-vac-coverage-in-less-populous-dists/articleshow/81436936.cms||Jamal Ayub
March 11, 2021||Allahabad||RSS sees surge of youths joiningorg after Nidhi Sangrah Abhiyan||Prayagraj: There has been a recent surge in the number of youngsters joining the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) with around 3,000 engineering, management and postgraduate students linking with the organization in the region. The rush is being credited to Nidhi Sangrah Abhiyan — the 45-day fund collection campaign for Ram Temple construction in Ayodhya — conducted by RSS and its highly impressive management. RSS volunteers, who fanned out to collect funds, inspired many and the trust shown by people who gave donations to them readily cast lasting impression. As a result, around 3,000 youngsters, including engineering, management and post-graduation students have joined the RSS in Kashi region in the past one and half months. Majority of them have joined through the RSS website and app and have even interacted with senior RSS functionaries. RSS Prachar Pramukh Murar Ji Tripathi, told TOI, “Around 150 youngsters, including those pursuing their graduation and post-graduation have joined the organisation during Nidhi Sangrah Abhiyan in Prayagraj North area alone. They also held an interaction with Sah Prant Prachark, Munish Ji, at Saraswati Shishu Mandir, Bhardwaj Nagar, Prayagraj under the banner of Sangh Parichay Varg (organisation introduction group) on Monday evening and were told about the ideology and karya paddhati (working style) of RSS.” They also discussed various national issues with senior RSS functionaries, said Tripathi adding similar interactions will be held at least 40 locations in Prayag South, North and Naini areas. In the past two months, youths between 18 and 35 years have been contacting our volunteers and functionaries to know more about the organizational structure and its working, he added. The youngsters asked how VHP, RSS and allied organisations reached out to 11 crore families during the The Nidhi Sangrah Abhiyan, said to be the biggest such campaign in the world, and students of IIM-Kolkata even studied its management. “During the campaign, we also interacted with youths with professional experience who took membership. RSS has managed to reach out to people of all communities in urban, semi-urban and rural belts of Prayag Vibhag through its volunteers,” Tripathi, said. Apart from spurt in membership, the strength of RSS shakhas has also increased manifold in Kashi Prant with women and people from all communities also attending. Senior RSS functionaries are also getting calls from youngsters willing to join the organisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rss-sees-surge-of-youths-joiningorg-after-nidhi-sangrah-abhiyan/articleshow/81432891.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Gold seizure at city airport in Jan-Feb little less than same period last year||Jaipur: Smuggling of gold at Jaipur International Airport reduced marginally in the first two months of this year in comparison to the same period last year. While gold worth Rs 125 lakh was seized this year, last year thde figure stood at Rs 136 lakh. “There was a slight difference in gold seized at the airport during the first two months of this year compared to the same duration in the previous year. However, we cannot say less gold seized this year was due to the lockdown as even last year during the first two months there was no lockdown and the conditions were similar. The difference in gold seizure will be reflected more in the coming months as the situation would be vastly different from last year due to Covid,” said a customs official at Jaipur airport. In January, a total of three cases were reported as compared to one case in 2020. In February this year, two cases were reported compared to five last year. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gold-seizure-at-city-airport-in-jan-feb-little-less-than-same-period-last-year/articleshow/81438214.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Bribe case: No pre-arrest bail for deputy registrar of socs||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court (HC) denied pre-arrest bail to a Deputy Registrar, Co-operative Societies accused of seeking a Rs 3 lakh bribe from a Khar resident to resolve a complaint of irregularities in his society in February. “It is apparent that specific role has been attributed to the applicant, which indicates connivance with co-accused,” said Justice P D Naik, after hearing his counsel Niranjan Mundari and public prosecutor Deepak Thakare with APP Swapnil Pednekar. Mundargi appearing for the accused, Gautam Vardhan, denied his client had ever demanded any bribe. The HC allowed the official who has Covid-19 to surrender by March 12. The FIR registered by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) Mumbai on February 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bribe-case-no-pre-arrest-bail-for-deputy-registrar-of-socs/articleshow/81440687.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Cops arrest 15 thieves who stole over 72 two-wheelers||JAIPUR: In a major crackdown, Jaipur police busted a racket of two-wheeler thieves by arresting 15 people in three separate operations in the last few days. In a press conference held on Wednesday, Jaipur police disclosed the names of these criminals and their modus operandi. Digant Anand, DCP (Crime), Jaipur Commissionerate, claimed that these criminals were involved in six dozen cases of vehicle lifting in Jaipur alone, under almost every police station. Police have recovered 24 vehicles and spare parts of one dozen vehicles from them. A maximum 12 arrests were made by Sanganer Sadar police station and 20 vehicles were recovered. Here, the main accused Rahul Meena and Sanne Meena, who were operating a gang, have been arrested. “The key accused Rahul Meena has been involved in lifting two-wheelers from areas like Sanganer, Pratapnagar, Malaviya Nagar, Jagatpura, Kho Nagoriyan, Kanota, Bassi and Chaksu by breaking the locks with his gang. They look for secluded areas and parking lots for lifting vehicles. Thereafter, the gang hands over the lifted vehicles to Sanne Meena whose job is to clear the engine and chassis number and replace it with other numbers,” said Anand. They didn’t stop here to make it look like a different vehicle. “They were also engaged in creating fake documents like RC in order to sell them in the market. Police is looking for those who helped them in creating forged documents,” said Anand. Most of the accused were involved in similar crimes earlier too. Police are interrogating these criminals and are likely to make more arrest in the coming days. The other accused are Abdul Hakim, Chirangi Lal, Suresh Raigar, Ramkesh Mali, Ramjilal Mali, Manoj Mali, Prem Raj Mali, Shakti Raj Meena, Dinesh Gujjar, Megh Singh, Shivram Meena, Yogendra Meena and Suresh Kumar Raigar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-arrest-15-thieves-who-stole-over-72-two-wheelers/articleshow/81438210.cms||---
March 11, 2021||India||Need compensation for content, NBA writes to Google||NEW DELHI: News Broadcasters Association, apex body of private television channels, has written to the country head of Google India asking the tech giant to create an “equitable relationship and a level playing field between global tech monopolies and traditional media organisations”. It has sought greater transparency in how the intermediary tech platform shares advertising revenues with news publishers in India. In a letter to Sanjay Gupta, the country manager at Google India, NBA president Rajat Sharma cited instances of Australia, France and countries in the European Union, which brought legislative enactments to ensure Google, Facebook and other big internet players pay news publishers adequately for news content. “Evidently, there is an urgent need to create an equitable relationship and level the playing field between global tech monopolies and traditional media/news organisations. Being a multinational organisation, the expectation is that Google will employ principles of universal parity in dealing with News Content owners and employ similar norms in India,” Sharma said. The NBA president added a changing media landscape, with the majority of public using digital platforms to obtain their news, “has resulted in a power imbalance between traditional media/news organisations and bigtech/digital platforms.” “News organisations make heavy investments in employing anchors, journalists and reporters to gather, verify and deliver credible information but are inadequately compensated - the largest share of advertising revenue flows disproportionately to Intermediary Technology Platforms such as Google, YouTube, Facebook etc….Google plays a key role in this value chain as an intermediary and plays a part in delivering this news content to its audiences albeit without sufficiently compensating the content owners,” it said. Asserting that the present situation reflects the “unfair distribution of advertising revenues and opaqueness of the advertising system” that put digital news businesses under stress because advertising revenues form the backbone of news broadcasters, the NBA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/need-compensation-for-content-nba-writes-to-google/articleshow/81441167.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Justice M R Shah to grace GU convocation||Ahmedabad: Gujarat University has fixed March 13 as the date for its 69th annual convocation. The chief guest of the event will be Justice M R Shah. The Supreme Court Judge will deliver a keynote address during the event. The annual convocation for Gujarat University will be held this week, where more than 55,000 students will be conferred their degrees. The convocation will be held on campus Earlier, the varsity had invited a celebrity from the field of sports, but due to some reason the athlete had to be quarantined and was not available for the event. With the term of the senate and syndicate members having ended earlier this month, there will be no representatives from these two bodies. Presently the university is considering the option of calling fresh elections. Alternatively, the appointment of board of governors is also being looked into, said sources in GU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/justice-m-r-shah-to-grace-gu-convocation/articleshow/81438271.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Bank nod for 60k cottage industry applications||Against 1.14 lakh applications from across the state for credit to set up cottage industries in the past two years, banks approved a little over 60,000 applications, the state government told the assembly on Wednesday. In response to written queries by Congress MLAs, the state government said that district industries centres (DIC) received 1,14,503 such applications in 2019 and 2020. Of these, DICs sanctioned 82,643 applications and recommended banks provide loans. The government said banks approved 60,094 applications in the two years ending December 31, 2020.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bank-nod-for-60k-cottage-industry-applications/articleshow/81438245.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC pulls up state govt, 8 civic bodies on illegal constructions||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Wednesday pulled up the state and eight municipal corporations in Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) for failing to comply with directions to file affidavits on action against all illegal constructions. “It appears there is no value for human life. No authority is willing to help us to check this menace. Buildings collapse, people die and compensation is paid. That’s it,’’ said the Chief Justice-led bench, questioning the state for failing to start a special cell to oversee the issue. The high court called for affidavits again and warned that it may summon all the civic chiefs if officials fail to comply with its directions. HC pulled up authorities for not providing data on illegal constructions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-pulls-up-state-govt-8-civic-bodies-on-illegal-constructions-in-mumbai/articleshow/81439970.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Army seminar on national security on Saturday||Jaipur: A conference titled Militaria@ Jaipur- 2021 will be held here on Saturday to discuss India’s military history and modern-day military operations. It will be inaugurated by Lt Gen Alok Kler, GoC-in-C, to look at the many challenges of national security from the military’s indigenisation to cyber and unconventional threats. The conference will feature speakers who are decision makers and domain experts as well as defence officers with an illustrious military history. Some of these include CEO Niti Aayog Amitabh Kant, ex-chief of Integrated Service Hq Lt. Gen Satish Dua (retd), Chief (designate), National Cyber Coordination Centre, Lt Gen (retd) Rajesh Pant, ex-GoC XIV Corps at Leh Lt Gen. P J S Pannu and best-selling writer Iqbal Malhotra. The event’s sessions will also see the presence of the MD of Tata Defence Mr Sukaran and Mr Alok Shriram of DCM. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/army-seminar-on-national-security-on-saturday/articleshow/81438240.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||When migrants were stuck, selfless souls rescued them||NAGPUR: Nine months down the line, Aftab Alam remains at his hometown (Araria in Bihar) and says he has no plans to go back to Bengaluru where he worked at a road construction site. From Bengaluru, Alam and 10 others had reached Nagpur on foot and hitchhiking when they were spotted by TOI and later helped by former state minister Anees Ahmed to reach home. Nainram Pawar had started off from Chennai driving his way to Pali district in Rajasthan on a mini truck packed with 15 others. He is back to Chennai trying to slowly revive his ice-cream business and repay debts taken to survive during the lockdown. The scenes on highways reaching Nagpur in the summer of 2020 resembled a refugee crisis. Thousands of migrant workers poured in each day like locust swarms on their way to their homes in distant villages of states like Bihar, Chhattisgarh, UP Rajasthan Jharkhand West Bengal and neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. Nagpur due to its central location became a hub for workers on way to other corners of the country. As a sea of humanity descended each day, the authorities and volunteers worked shoulder to shoulder to ensure a smooth transit for the migrants. “Each days almost 20,000 workers would reach the entry points at the highways. We had camps at each point. Food was arranged and resting areas made along the highways. Soon they would be further sent to their homes in buses or trains. Shelter homes were open in the city too, says Nilesh Bharne. “Each day we facitalted the travel for thousands only to gear up for another batch of equal number the next day. This continued for well over a month” says Bharne. “The workers were helpless. They had no money or food and their contactors had fled,” says Khushroo Poacha, a railway employee and social worker. “I still remember the condition of the 400-odd workers from Madhya Pradesh working at a brick kiln near the city. Their employer had fled and they had no means to reach home. Among them was a pregnant woman. Our volunteers helped her deliver the child at the site,” he recalls. Poacha’s efforts got him an award from the national commission of minorities. Before that, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray rang him up personally to appreciate his efforts. “We provided them with food packets, sanitizers and glucose sachets. A kitchen ran at a private hotel preparing food for the migrants. Each day my group distributed not less than 1,000 packets. The teams would immediately rush to help on getting a call from the police,” remembers Shahid Sharif, a social activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/when-migrants-were-stuck-selfless-souls-rescued-them/articleshow/81438260.cms||Shishir Arya
March 11, 2021||Rajkot||Death of 20-yr-old mother, her new-born sparks ruckus||Rajkot: Tension prevailed at the Civil Hospital in Rajkot after the death of a 20-year-old woman and her new-born baby on Tuesday. Relatives of the deceased, Anita Vaghela, accusing the doctors of negligence, staged a protest at the hospital. As things went out of control, hospital authorities called in the police. But the protests continued as relatives of the deceased climbed atop the police shouting slogans against the government. The situation was brought under control after the hospital authorities assured the protesting relatives that action will be initiated if the post-mortem report points at negligence on the part of the doctors. Post the assurance the relatives took the deceased's body for final rites on Wednesday.Sources say that Anita Vaghela, a resident of Valmikinagar behind Shethnagar on Jamnagar Road in Rajkot, along with her new-born girl, was referred to the Civil Hospital from a private hospital as her condition deteriorated. Her new-born baby died on Tuesday morning while she died later in the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/death-of-20-yr-old-mother-her-new-born-sparks-ruckus/articleshow/81435958.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Unauthorised leave: About 100 officials get notice||Jaipur: Divisional commissioner Samit Sharma on Wednesday directed to issue chargesheet and notices to nearly 100 officials of various departments, including district transport officers (DTO) of Jaipur R K Chaudhary and Rajeev Kumar Vijay, for absent from work without giving prior information or seeking permission. They were not found on duty at 9:45 in the morning on Wednesday. Instructions were also given to issue notices to CMHO-1 Narottam Sharma and CMHO II Hansram Bhadauria, district excise officers Sunil Bhati and Babulal Jat for supervisory negligence, due to non-availability of doctors, officials and staff at their offices. The divisional commissioner expressed great displeasure over non-availability of 51 of the 94 officials at the Jaipur RTO office. The excise officers were issued notices as a liquor shop was found to be open after 8. Instructions were given to chargesheet excise inspector of Chomu. Taking serious note of a woman not being provided medicines under the free medicine scheme when she went to a government hospital in Shahpura with her child late in the night, divisional commissioner instructed District Collector Antar Singh Nehra to investigate the matter and chargesheet the culprits within two days. It was also instructed to issue notices and chargesheets to a large number of doctors at various urban and rural hospitals. During the review meeting, Sharma expressed displeasure over518 pending cases of JDA, 96 cases of Jaipur Greater, 3 cases of Jaipur Heritage, 26 cases of the district collectorate and gave instructions to take disciplinary action against the officers who are responsible for the delay and impose penalties from Rs 500 to Rs 5000, as per the rules. Apart from this, Sharma also asked the official to take against at least 100 quack doctors in a month. Instructions were given to issue chargesheet for giving false reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unauthorised-leave-about-100-officials-get-notice/articleshow/81438246.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Kanpur||Rana visits Behmai, alleges Phoolan killed innocent men||Kanpur: Sher Singh Rana, accused of killing Samajwadi Party MP and former dacoit Phoolan Devi, on Tuesday visited Behmai village of Kanpur Dehat district where 20 villagers were massacred by Phoolan and her gang on February 14, 1981. Rana offered floral tributes at the Behmai memorial and on the photo of Rajaram, the main plaintiff and eyewitness in the Behmai case who had recently passed away after prolonged illness. Rana is presently out on bail in the murder case. Rana hit the headlines after he allegedly killed Devi at her official residence in New Delhi on July 25, 2001. Rana had said that he killed Phoolan to avenge the killings of Thakurs by her in Behmai. Addressing a gathering, he said, "Phoolan had killed innocent men mostly among whom were Rajputs. It was all a fake cooked-up story that Thakur men had raped her. The dead also include children, now tell me, how a child could commit a rape." He further hit at the system saying, "It's ironic that even after forty years, the families of the victims are yet to get justice." Later, Rana visited the memorial and paid floral tributes to 20 men who were massacred by Phoolan and her aides, besides he also garlanded a photo of Rajaram, the main plaintiff and eyewitness in Behmai case, who had passed away recently after prolonged illness. Thereafter, Rana and locals of Behmai observed two minutes silence to mark respect to the victims. In 2014, a lower court in Delhi sentenced him to life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on him. He appealed his case in a higher court. Meanwhile, he escaped from Tihar Jail and it is said that he travelled to Afghanistan. Upon his return from Afghanistan he announced that he had brought the remains of Prithviraj Chouhan with him. Rana challenged the lower court’s decision in the Delhi high court, which granted him bail in 2016. He also unsuccessfully tried to enter electoral politics by contesting Jevar assembly constituency in UP in 2012 assembly polls. Behmai village is situated by the Yamuna river in Rajpur block, about 50 kms from district headquarter Kanpur Dehat. It came into the national limelight when on February 14, 1981, Phoolan Devi, also known as the 'bandit queen', had with the help of her gang, shot 20 people to death, popularly known as the Behmai massacre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/rana-visits-behmai-alleges-phoolan-killed-innocent-men/articleshow/81432905.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
March 11, 2021||Lucknow||Doctors who defeated Covid returned to frontline again||Lucknow: When an IAS officer undergoing treatment on the adjacent bed in a city hospital died due to Covid-19, Dr Rupendra Kumar, who too was suffering from the same disease, lost all hopes of recovery. Battling depression, Dr Kumar, an anesthesiologist at Lok Bandhu Hospital, sent a text message to his boss: “Ma’am, likhte hue bhi dar lag raha hai, par agar mujhe kuchh ho jaye, to main on duty tha, iske proof ke saath mera insurance cover CMO aur DM se approve kara kar meri wife ko handover kar dijiyega. Please!” (Ma’am. I am terrified while writing this, but in case I don’t survive, please help my wife in getting insurance cover by attaching the proof that I got infected while on duty). Coincidentally, as soon as he sent the message, he got a call from a colleague who, on seeing his condition, had arranged a video call with his family. “I saw dull faces of my 9-year-old daughter and 6-year-old son on video call which jolted me out of depression. I told myself that I have to recover for them,” says Dr Rupendra. Many doctors caught the infection while treating Covid-19 patients. Some like Dr Kumar even fell critically ill and spent days in ICU but fought valiantly and start serving patients again with new vigour soon after recovery. Dr Kumar was posted in the critical care unit when he got infected and was admitted to the same unit for treatment in September. When his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to SGPGIMS where he spent 35 days in ICU. When medicines did not produce the desired result, doctors administered convalescent plasma therapy to save his life. After a long phase of recovery, he returned to Covid-19 patients again. The disease, however, left him with grade 3 liver cirrhosis which he will have to bear for the rest of his life. Prof Rajesh Kumar Verma of neurology department was a part of KGMU’s Covid-19 task force and caught the infection on August 15. “Amid the depressing sound of oxygen passing through the pipe, beeps of monitors and patients coughing in ICU, it is only your positivity that gives strength to fight,” he says. Chief medical superintendent, KGMU, Prof SN Shankhwar also spent 12 days in hospital. “My sons used to make video calls 3-4 times a day and reminded me that I have to get well because my family and patients need me,” he recalls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/doctors-who-defeated-covid-returned-to-frontline-again/articleshow/81439949.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
March 11, 2021||Pune||Covid cases up but lockdown is not the solution: Maharashtra health minister||PUNE: Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said even though the state is seeing a rise in the number of daily Covid-19 cases, a lockdown is not the answer. The state has been recording 8,000 to 10,000 new cases daily. But Tope said citizens and authorities should work together to contain the spread. "A lockdown is not the answer. We need to learn to live with Covid by keeping up precautions,” the minister said, adding that behavioural changes and targeted action by authorities are the only long-term solutions. "Local administrations should ensure effective implementation of Covid-appropriate behaviour, either by increasing fines or by stricter monitoring in micro-containment zones," he said. He also expressed doubts over the caseloads being reported by other large states, including Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat (all three have reported a lower caseload than Maharashtra). “Either they are not testing enough, or there is something wrong about the data being reported," he said. Maharashtra is currently carrying out over one lakh tests daily. Tope said the number can go up, especially to screen people in hotspots identified by local administrations. He admitted there has been some complacency in the implementation of precautionary measures. For instance, he called for stricter monitoring of all home-isolated cases after several reports emerged recently of patients found outside without an all-clear from local health officials. As for the vaccination programme, he backed the idea of door-to-door vaccination or even 24/7 inoculation camps to boost the pace of coverage. State technical expert Dr Subhash Salunke too said citizens have to play a key role. "Covid will continue to spread unless we take measures to protect ourselves, our families and the community," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cases-up-but-lockdown-is-not-the-solution-says-tope/articleshow/81438278.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Appeal for smoke-free nation grows louder||JAIPUR: On ‘No Smoking Day’ (second Wednesday of March), activists asked the government to remove designated smoking rooms at hotels, restaurants and airports to protect people from second-hand smoke. While appreciating the Centre for initiating the process to amend COTPA 2003, they appealed for immediate removal of current provision that permits smoking areas to make the country smoke-free. “Globally identified and accepted fatal effects of tobacco have inculcated one more disastrous health hazard – smoking, which is a risk for Covid infection. It worsens lung function, reduces immunity and those smokers who develop Covid infection have more complications and greater risk of fatality. All designated smoking areas in hotels, restaurants and airports should be abolished to ensure a 100% smoke-free environment,” Dr Dinesh Mangal, head of radiation oncology of a private hospital said. Section 4 of COTPA 2003 Act prohibits smoking in any place to which the public has access. However, COTPA 2003, presently allows smoking in certain public places like restaurants, hotels and airports in designated smoking areas. People with compromised respiratory and cardiovascular systems are at higher risk for severe Covid and death. “A smoke-free environment results in good health of customers, staff and increased business. Families prefer to dine-in at places which do not allow smoking as children, women, and senior citizens feel uneasy when exposed to tobacco smoke. We are happy that the government is strengthening the COTPA provisions to make hospitality sector completely smoke free. We support the government in its initiative for safeguarding people’s health,” says Dr Virendra Singh Raghav, owner of a restaurant. “There is an urgent need to strengthen provisions for making India 100 per cent smoke-free,” said Jayesh Joshi, secretary, Vaagdhara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/appeal-for-smoke-free-nation-grows-louder/articleshow/81438295.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Court sends Thaltej murder accused to 10-day remand||AHMEDABAD: A court at Mirzapur on Wednesday sent all five accused persons in the Thaltej double murder case to 10-day police remand. Senior citizens, Ashok and Jyotsna Patel, had been murdered in Thaltej last week. After obtaining custody of the accused from the city crime branch, the Sola police produced Bharat Gaud, his brother Rahul Gaud, Ashish Vishwakarma, Brijmohan Gaud and Nitin Gaud before the judicial magistrate and requested for their full remand. The court granted custodial interrogation for 10 days, police officials said. The investigator submitted a remand application in the court and sought custodial interrogation of the five accused persons on eight different grounds. The remand application stated that the accused persons were not disclosing details of about Rs 50,000 cash and two gold rings stolen from the bungalow. The cash and valuables were yet to be recovered from the accused, but they were not revealing where they have placed them or given to whom. The investigator wanted their custody so that police could find out who else were involved in the alleged crime of loot and murder, whether they had received any tip-off about the house and if they had received the information, then who gave them the tip-off in this regard. The police also wanted to find out who had stolen the motorcycles and from where. Though the accused have already informed the investigators that the motorcycles were stolen, but no more details came forth. A detailed investigation in this direction is required, the application reads. The police wanted to investigate into the firearm, a cartridge and stolen mobile phones that have been recovered from the accused. The presence of the accused is required for the purpose of reconstruction of the alleged crime, the investigator submitted. The police also submitted that since the accused persons are engaged in carpentry work, it is necessary to find out whether such loots involved their co-workers, and details of earlier crimes, if any.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-sends-thaltej-murder-accused-to-10-day-remand/articleshow/81438289.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Dausa ex-SP gets bail for sister’s wedding||Jaipur: Suspended IPS officer and former SP of Dausa Manish Agarwal, who was arrested by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), has been granted interim bail for 10 days by the Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday.He had to furnish a personal bond of Rs 50,000 and two sureties of Rs 25,000 each. The single bench of Justice Indrajeet Singh granted bail on an application moved by the petitioner for interim bail for 15 days citing his sister’s marriage on March 15. The ACB had filed chargesheet against Agarwal on Tuesday. Additional advocate general and government counsel V B Verma seriously opposed interim bail and pleaded that the petitioner be allowed to attend marriage only in police custody. But the court rejected the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dausa-ex-sp-gets-bail-for-sisters-wedding/articleshow/81438266.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Patna||Headless body of a woman found in Jehanabad||Patna: Police recovered the body of a woman with her head severed from an open field with long grass at Machla Badhaar in Kalpa police outpost under Town police station area in Jehanabad on Wednesday. The body could not be identified. Police reached the secluded spot around 6.30am but kept waiting there till 4pm for the arrival of forensic experts’ team from Patna. Kalpa police outpost incharge Rajesh Kumar Singh said a female purse and a PAN card were lying beside the body. “The PAN card belongs to one Anita born on January 1, 1987. Her father’s name is mentioned as Vidya Singh,” he said. Singh said the body was presumed to be of someone from Jehanabad or surrounding areas. “However, when further information about the PAN card was gathered by the SP, it turned out to be that of one Anita from Delhi,” Singh said. He said police were trying to gather details of Anita and her family members. “It’s is yet not clear if the body is of Anita or someone else. It may be possible that the PAN card has been dropped with a motive to misguide the police,” he said. Singh said the body seems to be of a woman aged between 25 and 30 years and from a well-to-do family. He further said the body had a sari and blouse with bangles on the wrists and finger rings on her feet, indicating that the woman was married. “The head seems to have been severed by a very sharp weapon. She was murdered somewhere else. Her head was severed at the place where she had been killed as there is very little blood on the spot,” he said. The incharge said there were injury marks caused by sharp weapons on all five fingers of her left palm. “Her right palm was cut after killing her as there is no bleeding from it,” he said. Singh said there are two link roads, one 500 metres away and another 1km from the spot “One leads to Jehanabad town while the other goes to Sigori in Patna. Police have not been able to find any tyre or foot marks on the spot. Sniffer dogs were roped in too but they lost track after moving some distance,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/headless-body-of-a-woman-found-in-jehanabad/articleshow/81436969.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 11, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Patwaris ‘beg’ on roads to collect money for govt||JAIPUR: Nearly 300 patwaris from Nagaur and Tonk district participated in the ‘Bheekh Mango’ programme of Rajasthan Patwar Sangh on Wednesday. After the state government refused to increase their grade pay to 3,600 citing financial crisis, they collected Rs 1,236 by begging on the streets. The money will be deposited into the state government’s treasury account through e-Gras website. “After we were denied permission by police to organise the campaign at Ajmeri Gate, we decided to beg near Saheed Smarak on MI Road. The state government told us that they can’t increase our grade pay due to the existing financial crisis. So, we decided to beg on roads and collect money, which will be deposited into the government’s treasury account,” said Rajendra Nimmiwal, president of Rajasthan Patwar Sangh. The demand of the patwaris, who have been protesting for the past one month, is that their grade pay should be increased to 3,600 (i.e. from Rs 20,800 to Rs 33,000 for L-5 patwaris). The second demand is that on completion of services for 7, 14, 21, 28 and 32 years, the patwaris should be upgraded to the next payscale. “The patwaris have stopped working in those patwar mandals, where they have been assigned additional duty,” he added. There are 12,264 sanctioned posts of patwaris under revenue department and 7,500 posts are filed. Under the irrigation department, there are 474 sanctioned posts of patwaris and 83 posts are filled; there are 160 under colonisation and 59 posts are filled; under settlement there are 713 sanctioned posts of patwaris and 113 posts are filled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/patwaris-beg-on-roads-to-collect-money-for-govt/articleshow/81438279.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Kanpur||76,293 pregnant women benefited under PM Matru Vandana Yojana||Kanpur: As many as 76,2,93 first time pregnant mothers of the district got benefited till February this year under the Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana. The object of the scheme is to reduce mortality rate of mother and child during pregnancy. A pregnant woman gets financial assistance of Rs. 5000 in three instalments for her upkeep and her unborn child. The purpose of providing financial assistance is to provide nutritious food to pregnant women. According to AK Singh, nodal officer of the project, the Central government after launching the scheme in January 2017, had directed the department concerned to give hundred percent benefit to the first time pregnant women. Efforts were being made to achieve hundred percent target. Till February 2021, around 76,293 women who got pregnant for the first time have been registered, he added. Briefing the process of financial assistance Dr Ghazala said, “After registration, in the first instalment a mother gets Rs 1000, the second instalment is released after first examination and six months pregnancy and the third instalment of Rs 2000 is given after registration of birth and vaccination”, she said. The financial assistance is given through DBT mode, she added. The beneficiary has to fill a form through Asha worker, Asha Sangini, ANM. BCPM/BPM under the supervision of incharge medical officer of a community or primary health center. The beneficiary has to furnish mother child security MCS) card, Aadhar card of the pregnant woman and her husband and photocopy of bank account pass book of the beneficiary at the time of registration and submission of form. Dr Ghazala said that the department had also released a helpline number of PMMVY- 7998799804 and any beneficiary could seek information about the scheme.  According to chief medical officer Dr Anil Kumar Mishra, the financial assistance is given so that the pregnant woman could take essential nutritional elements to keep her fit and healthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/76293-pregnant-women-benefited-under-pm-matru-vandana-yojana/articleshow/81432921.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Nagpur||Pandemic proved to be a catalyst for digitalization of classrooms||NAGPUR: At least for the last decade, digital learning has been a part of majority of schools, colleges and coaching institutes to some extent but the Covid-19 pandemic worked as a catalyst to mainstream it. As all learning institutes shut down for physical classrooms, stakeholders had to adapt at break neck speed. For educators, the challenges were of upgrading both their infrastructure and human resources. Academic Ashnarayan Tiwari said they all had to hit the ground running. “Majority of our teachers were not tech-friendly and many did not have the required infrastructure. While infrastructure can be scaled up if financial resources are available, upgrading human resources needs time as well. But because there was not much time available, teachers learnt things as the classes progressed and improvised based on their daily experience,” said Tiwari. Zafar Khan, another academic, is also president of the School Headmasters’ Charitable Association, said their organization chipped in with multiple online training sessions. “Many Zoom webinars were held where we taught teachers on how online classes are to be conducted, the nuances in dealing with kids in a virtual world, how to create digital content so that students can access them later. It was a whole new world for many of us and through collaboration each one tackled it,” said Khan. Lalit Khullar, director of Tirpude Institute of Management Education, said, “Our biggest challenge was to shift our activity-based teaching model to a similar compatible format on the Zoom platform. Earlier students would work in groups, discuss and come up with solutions. Now, they had to get used to doing all these things in an online format.” For Nagpur University, the pandemic was almost a shock and awe phase to push it into a completely online mode. Prafulla Sabale, controller of examinations at NU, said, “Conducting exams at a short notice, and that too for thousands upon thousands of students was a challenge. We started preparations in September and from the first week of October the tests began. It was a phase of learning heralded in due to the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pandemic-proved-to-be-a-catalyst-for-digitalization-of-classrooms/articleshow/81438321.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 11, 2021||Pune||Honey trap racket busted, four held in Maharashtra||PUNE: The district rural police on Tuesday busted a honey trap racket with the arrest of four persons, including two women, from Satara district on the charge of luring financially sound men and later blackmailing them for money. “The kingpin of the gang, suspended constable Ashish Pawar (27) of Bhuinj in Satara district, is among the arrested persons. The Mumbai police suspended him about two months ago. The other arrested man has been identified as Rakesh Nimbore (24) of Phaltan in Satara district. He has cases registered against him with the Satara police. The women are also from Satara district,” assistant inspector Ashwini Shendge of the Baramati City police said.. The assistant inspector said the blackmailing came to light on March 8, when a 46-year-old trader from Baramati came to the police and lodged a complaint. Shendge said a woman from the gang had contacted him about a month ago through WhatsApp. “The trader chatted with her for some time. Then the woman started blackmailing him, saying that she would make public their chats. Pawar then contacted the trader and demanded Rs10 lakh for not posting his chats on social media and not forwarding them to his family members,” Shendge said. The assistant inspector said the trader had given Rs1 lakh to the suspects on February 28. “When the suspects continued to harass him for the remaining money, he approached the police,” the officer said. She said the police on Tuesday laid a trap and caught Nimbore when he had come to collect Rs 5 lakh. “He revealed the names of his three accomplices,” Shendge said. She said the police were probing if the gang had extorted any other people. “Prima facie we are suspecting that the gang had blackmailed over five persons using the similar modus,” Shendge said. Satara cops arrest trio from district Two men from Baramati taluka and a woman from Haveli taluka were arrested last week for blackmailing and extorting money from a person in the Thoseghar area in Satara district in December last year. A Satara police team led by inspector Sajan Hankare arrested the trio acting on a tip-off. “The gang extorted money from many people in Baramati by blackmailing them. The gang contacted the victims through social media platforms,” said an officer from the Satara police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/honey-trap-racket-busted-four-held/articleshow/81438325.cms||Mihir Tanksale
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||84-year-old sews eco-friendly alternative to plastic||AHMEDABAD: She is 84 years old, but that has not stopped Vasanti Rawal from trying to tackle the problem of plastic pollution, one hand-stitched cloth bag at a time. When the Covid-induced lockdown forced people to stay at home, Vasanti decided to use the time to work towards the change she wanted to see in society. She began stitching cloth bags, which she distributes for free to friends, neighbours, and shop-keepers in her locality in Gurukul. “For years, I have carried a cloth bag wherever I go shopping. However, I used to see others use plastic carry bags and dispose it off anywhere. Left indoors without much activity during the lockdown, I decided to utilize my time constructively and took to stitching cloth bags,” said Vasanti. The octogenarian then decided to distribute the bags for free, not just to friends and neighbours but also to shopkeepers in the neighbourhood. So far, Vasanti has distributed around 1,000 cloth bags. The initiative doesn’t end at just distributing cloth bags. Vasanti with her family members also make an effort to educate people about minimizing the use of plastic. Ashutosh, Vasanti’s son and owner of a travel company in Ahmedabad, said, “A paper is stitched inside each bag, teaching people how to use plastic responsibly and minimize its waste. If even some of them inculcate the habit, our job is done.” Four shops in Gurukul, including a provision store, grocery store and a couple of eateries, have begun accepting bags from Vasanti, giving it to their customers for free, and encouraging them to reuse the bag instead of asking for plastic carry bags. “The cloth is procured from tailors nearby and every single bag is stitched by my mother,” said Ashutosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/84-yr-old-sews-eco-friendly-alternative-to-plastic/articleshow/81438334.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana govt plans to raise Rs 25k crore under revenue mobilisation||HYDERABAD: Beset with dwindling revenues on one side and introduction of new schemes on the other, the Telangana government is working out strategies to mop up funds for various schemes. The state is focusing on auctioning government lands, especially in Hyderabad metropolitan area, under resource mobilisation. Officials said the state is expecting to net Rs 25,000 crore under the resource mobilisation programme, which will be given a final shape in next couple of days. Sources said the government would make a mention on mobilisation of funds during the budget presentation on March 18. A proposal to increase market value of property registrations is also on the cards. The government had last revised the market values in 2013 when AP was united. According to preliminary estimations by finance department officials, the government requires more than Rs 1 lakh crore for both new and existing schemes. Apart from depending on the state-owned tax revenue and central share, the government is pinning hopes on resource mobilisation to make up for the total money required for the schemes. The government has already indicated that it would make budgetary allocations for new schemes like unemployment allowance, revise the salaries of state government employees, raise allocations to irrigation projects, distribute three lakh sheep under sheep rearing schemes. Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bima, loan waiver and welfare schemes, besides pensions will be continued. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at a review meeting on budget preparations said the state had incurred a loss of Rs 50,000 crore due to Covid-19 pandemic and added that the loss to the exchequer is expected to touch Rs 1 lakh crore. Official sources said the government is hoping to get over Rs 10,000 crore from land auctions at Kokapet where the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) had developed a layout in 150 acres. Sources said the land usage is mixed and it wants to auction the land in two phases to get more revenues. Another layout at Uppal Bhagat near Nagole is also being prepared for auctioning. The HMDA had auctioned earlier in the layout and got nearly Rs 1,000 crore. If the high court clears, the government is expecting Rs 5,000 crore from 25 lakh layout regularisation scheme (LRS) applications and over one lakh building regularisation scheme (BRS) applications. The plan, official sources said, is to resume land from the allottees on payment of compensation and auction them later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-plans-to-raise-rs-25k-cr-under-revenue-mobilisation/articleshow/81440019.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 11, 2021||Lucknow||Discipline, cow milk fortified 99-yr-old against coronavirus||Lucknow: Meet Vishambhar Lal Verma who – just four months short of his 100th birthday – is the oldest person in the city to have successfully defeated Covid-19. At the age of 99, the Mahanagar resident has several old age related issues – low vision, hearing and speech — but his immunity is strong. He recovered from the Covid-19 in just 22-day home quarantine without any need for hospitalisation. That’s when virus affected the elderly and those with comorbidities the most. While the virus killed nearly 1,200 persons in the city, mostly above 60 years, but this nonagenarian has shown how leading a disciplined life can defeat not just corona, but any virus. Born in 1922, Verma had seen many ups and downs in life, but always kept everything simple. He was employed in the Union government’s military dairy farms. “Babuji had been a source of inspiration to many,'' said his son Pramod. “We don’t know exactly why his immune system responded so well, but it seems that his disciplined life – early to bed and early to rise - with a healthy diet sans oily and spicy food and cow milk daily is behind the strong immunity,” Pramod, who deals with shares business, said. All the four members of the Verma family, contracted the infection in September but recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/discipline-cow-milk-fortified-99-yr-old-against-coronavirus/articleshow/81439995.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
March 11, 2021||Nashik||Prohibitory orders in Nashik city till March 31||NASHIK: The city police on Tuesday night issued a notification under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, warning citizens of legal action if they failed to follow Covid protocol. The prohibitory orders will be in force till March 31. The city has reported a steady rise in Covid-19 cases over the past three weeks and district collector Suraj Mandhare has also issued a new set of restrictions. The notice issued by police commissioner Deepak Pandey states that people will be booked under section 188 (disobeying the order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and under section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 if they are caught violating the Covid safety norms. According to the orders, it will be mandatory upon heads of the public and private establishments to follow the guidelines on social distancing issued by the ministry of health and family welfare. Every person in the limits of Nashik police commissionerate will have to use a face mask in public places. Also, spitting in the open or in public place has been banned. Meanwhile, all kinds of meets, gatherings, social and political programmes, feasts, Urus and other religious, cultural, entertainment and sports events have been banned till March 31. The weekly markets would also not take place during this period. Not more than 20 people will be allowed in a funeral and those attending the funeral will also have to follow the covid norms. In accordance with the orders issued by Mandhare, the Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) has fixed the timing of shops under its jurisdiction from 7am to 7pm. The pubic notice issued by the CBD said any shop found open after the stipulated time would invite a fine of Rs 2,000 for the first offence and the shop would be sealed on the second offence. These restrictions will, however, not be applicable for essential services and commodities, vegetables, fruits, grocery and newspaper distribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/prohibitory-orders-in-nashik-city-till-march-31/articleshow/81435072.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 11, 2021||Lucknow||Doctors faced with twin challenge||Lucknow: Covid-19 cases have declined sharply in the city in recent months but the surge in post-Covid complications has posed another challenge for the medical fraternity. Worse, there is now the threat of reinfections. More than 5,000 Covid survivors have visited post-Covid care clinics set up in every district hospital since October. “Around 75% of the patients complained of breathlessness, fatigue and psychological issues,” said director general, medical and health, Dr DS Negi. “Many survivors also experienced lowered immunity against other viral and bacterial infections. For example, secondary pneumonitis was observed in many patients,” he added. As per estimates, 10-15 cases of post-Covid complications are reported in the OPDs of KGMU, RMLIMS and SGPGIMS every week. “While most of these cases are related to fatigue and psychology, about 5% of them were found to have developed respiratory, heart, kidney and liver ailments too,” said Dr Sudhir Verma of KGMU medicine department. In some cases related to respiratory problems, Covid survivors were admitted to ICU again for a few days, he added. The silver lining is that there have been no deaths due to post-Covid complications, said Dr Srikesh Singh, Covid-19 nodal officer, RMLIMS. “But there were some critical cases of stroke and severe respiratory stress disorder wherein patients were hospitalised again,” he added. While the doctors are diligently dealing with such cases, another threat dawned this week when the mother of a senior surgeon at KGMU died of Covid-19 reinfection which occurred after a gap of six months. Prior to her, a senior journalist had died of Covid-19 relapse accompanied by stomach cancer. Doctors said the two cases indicate that reinfection may occur in Covid survivors as antibodies developed after the first infection do not last long. In fact, the immunity developed due to infection in a large section of population during the peak of coronavirus in August-September is now on the decline and this might pay the way for a second wave. This means, they added, Covid-19 still calls for precautions such as hand hygiene, regular sanitisation, and social distancing among others for the success of the mass vaccination drive. Speaking on reinfections, head medicine, KGMU, Prof Virendra Atam said the possibility of a second wave still remains high. “In several patients, we observed that antibodies are not generated in healthy numbers due to low immune response, while in others, strong antibodies were found to be present for 3-4 months. However, in both the scenarios, reinfection is highly possible,” he said. Prof Ujjala Ghoshal, head of microbiology department, SGPGI, said, “No vaccine is 100% effective. The current situation of new cases in Maharashtra and Delhi should open up our eyes to the reality that new and dangerous strains of the virus, like the UK and South African, could be around us and have not been detected yet”. Warning against complacency towards the virus, former head, microbiology, Institute of Medical Sciences, BHU, Prof Anil Kumar Gulati, said, “One cannot be solely dependent on antibodies developed after an infection for protection in the future. A UK study on Covid-19 patients showed only 16.7% were left with antibodies three months after the infection, posing risk of reinfection. The numbers are rising in Punjab and Maharashtra. European countries are fighting with different strains which we have not studied in depth so far.” So, precaution still remains the best armour against the Covid attack until the entire population is vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/doctors-faced-with-twin-challenge/articleshow/81440023.cms||Yusra Husain
March 11, 2021||Bhopal||Spiralling prices, pay cuts throw kitchen budgets out of gear||BHOPAL: Ramesh Gupta is a marketing executive with an automobile company. During the lockdown, his salary was reduced by 30 per cent, which has not been restored yet. But, in the meanwhile, his household expenses, particularly money spent on buying of essential goods -- grocery, fruits & vegetables and, of course, LPG -- has gone up in the same ratio or even more. Gupta and his family of 7 have been struggling to cut his household expenses, but with little success as the Covid pandemic has only added to the household budget in the form of more vegetables, more fruits, more protein-rich grocery and of course, sanitiser, which one year after the pandemic broke out, is still selling for Rs 600 a litre and masks — a reasonably good mask is priced at Rs 40 to Rs 50 per mask. “Where do you cut the expenses? Children and the elderly have to be taken special care of in the times of pandemic. I have a touring job, so I, too, have to be cautious. School fee of over Rs 75,000 is one of the biggest burdens,” said Ramesh. Ramesh's wife Sarika has a more minute understanding of how the household expenses have gone up over the past few months, particularly after the lockdown was lifted in phases. “Prices of edible oil are going through the roof. Pulses are selling for more than Rs 100 a kg. Even a tea pack is priced at Rs 100 more than what it used to be till October. The price of wheat flour and rice are also high. I don't know if it’s going to go up further, but the budget of my kitchen is going out of my hands. In fact, the price control mechanism has broken down in the country following the lockdown,” she said. General secretary of Bhopal Kirana Vyapari Mahasangh, Anupam Agrawal, said, “Prices of grocery items, which started going up after the lockdown, never came down. Everything from edible oil to pulses to spices, rice, wheat flour, tea or any other thing is selling 20 to 35 per cent higher than the pre-lockdown period.” He further said that the prices are only expected to go up further as the festival season is round the corner and then, there will be the marriage season. “Shivratri, Holi, Ramzan, Eid and then marriage season. Prices are only expected to go up in future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/spiralling-prices-pay-cuts-throw-kitchen-budgets-out-of-gear/articleshow/81437052.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gold price unchanged for 3 days||Ahmedabad: Declining from its peak of Rs 53,400 per 10 gram on January 6, gold price settled at Rs 46,300 per 10 gram on Wednesday — down by Rs 7,100. Analysts said that gold prices have been on a decline, especially after the duty cut on gold. This is for the third consecutive day that yellow metal prices settled at Rs 46,300 per 10g in the Ahmedabad market. Several other factors such as rising stock market indices as well as the jump in yields of the US bond coupled with the vaccine rollout have also led gold prices on a downward trend. Jewellers are rejoicing a decline in the yellow metal price, as fresh purchases of the yellow metal have resumed in full swing. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-price-unchanged-for-3-days/articleshow/81438383.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Delivery man fakes theft on local, 2 held in Mumbai||Mumbai: Within days of a delivery man complaining that his backpack had been cut open in a train and valuables worth Rs 3.7 lakh were missing, investigators with the railway crime branch found out he had faked the theft. The delivery man, Amarsingh Rajput, had joined hands with a friend, Kalusingh Rajput, and pocketed a silver brick and currency notes. Both have been arrested. Police also discovered the valuables were worth Rs 1.7 lakh collectively. But Amarsingh’s employer, who was clueless about his delivery man’s involvement in the crime, had asked him to up the value to Rs 3.7 lakh in the complaint to get a higher insurance claim. Amarsingh worked for a Bhayander-based jeweller. On February 27, the jeweller asked him to deliver a 2.7 kg silver brick and Rs 20,000 to an address in Charni Road. Amarsingh took a Churchgate fast local from Bhayander. In his complaint to the Churchgate GRP, he claimed the theft had taken place around 3.15 pm just before the train reached Charni Road. The GRP’s crime branch conducted a parallel investigation into the case. “There were some holes in Amarsingh’s statement. We had never heard of someone’s backpack being cut open from beneath and nothing other than the valuables being extracted in a train that was not too crowded. On checking his phone records, we learnt he had been in frequent touch with Kalusingh that day,” said senior inspector Shailendra Dhiwar. During interrogation, Amarsingh confessed he had faked the theft. The valuables and cash were recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/delivery-man-fakes-theft-on-local-2-held-in-mumbai/articleshow/81440095.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Kanpur||Bundelkhand should have got tapwater years before, PM did it: CM||Jhansi: Launching an attack on Opposition and critics in Jhansi on Tuesday, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the parched Bundelkhand region should have got tap water connections within the first five years after Independence, and hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for coming up with the ‘Har Ghar Nal Jal Yojana’ that will finally quench the thirst of the people of Bundelkhand. In his address at GIC ground, the CM, who is on a two-day visit to Bundelkhand, said, “The ‘Har Ghar Nal Jal Yojana’ will finally quench the thirst of the people of Bundelkhand, a work which should have been done within the first five years of Independence, but had been lingering on till now.” “While our PM is being applauded worldwide for his accomplishments and results, some people in our own country living on funding of foreign powers keep criticising him always,” Yogi added. The CM dedicated development works worth Rs 1,100 crore to the people of the region and laid the foundation of projects worth Rs 564 crore and said no previous government had ever launched so many projects in one go. “The past governments only exploited the rich resources of this region to fill their own coffers and for the benefit of their families. Only PM Narendra Modi thought of overall development of this region and has made all possible efforts for it and the results have been good and point at a bright future,” Yogi said. Lashing out at the Opposition, Yogi said, “Those who don’t know the ABCD of farming are opposing the new farm laws and misleading farmers and people of the country. The UP government has purchased 68 lakh MT of grains this year on MSP. As far as contract farming is concerned, there is no better example than the Baidyanath House in Jhansi district that has helped in increasing the income of farmers multifold through contract farming by giving orders for medicinal plants.” CM Yogi also announced that all labourers from UP, whether working here or out of the state, will be given a free Rs 5 lakh medical insurance under Ayushman Bharat and Rs 2 lakh life insurance each year. In addition, they will be eligible for an accidental benefit of Rs 2 lakh and Rs 5 lakh under disaster management scheme, he added. Hailing the woman entrepreneurship in the region, he appreciated the strawberry cultivation by a local law student and Balinee milk producer company, a self-help group (SHG) which has pioneered in milk production, recording a turnover of Rs 46 crore this year with a net profit of Rs 2 crore. Appreciating the efforts, he announced that the government will launch ‘Mahila Samarth Yojana’ to help in launching such SHGs in other parts of the state. Earlier, the CM started his trip from Jalaun where he inspected the under-construction bridge over the Yamuna as a part of Bundelkhand expressway and later went to Lalitpur to inspect a dam before landing in Jhansi where he will stay overnight before leaving for Mahoba on Wednesday. Yogi said, “The expressway will speed up the development of the region. The upcoming defence corridor will generate job opportunities for locals while the fighter planes manufactured here will defend the motherland.” Yogi said the upcoming bridge in Jalaun will be an engineering marvel as it is being completed in a record time of seven-eight months against the standard six years. The upcoming dam in Lalitpur will help irrigate 3,500 hectare of agricultural land of eleven villages. He also announced that all the educational institutes, which are more than 50 years old, including GIC, will be refurbished. CM Yogi further advised to harness more solar energy by using the catchment areas near the dam for installing solar power plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bundelkhand-should-have-got-tapwater-years-before-pm-did-it-cm/articleshow/81432951.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Consent of 51% flat-buyers must to tweak project, extend deadline||MUMBAI: Builders will no longer be allowed to get away with sketchy details or shoddy paperwork when they register their projects with the Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRera). A new circular issued by the state housing regulator mandates that developers must now meticulously submit the list of all their flat buyers along with their signatures in a proper format when seeking various permissions. The builder will require the consent of at least 51% of the allottees if he wants extension of completion date of the project. The consent will now be required with their names, flat numbers and signatures. Vasant Prabhu, secretary MahaRera, said developers will have to submit these details in a systematic manner so that there is no scope for misrepresentation. The new circular has also specified that in case developers want to change the floor plan, design or make any major alterations in the sanctioned plans, they will require the consent of two-third of the people who have booked flats in the project. Each of them will have to sign with their names and flat numbers on the promoter’s letterhead. The consent application will clearly mention the earlier building plans and the new alterations sought by the developer. “These rules already exist, but builders used to submit voluminous documents which became very difficult to cross-check and verify. The new MahaRera chief (Ajoy Mehta) has now ordered that the procedure be streamlined.” Prabhu said. The circular says developers will have to give anew the legal title report of ongoing projects, as is required in Section 4 of the annexure of MahaRera. If the title report is not in the name of the developer then he should add the name of the land owner, the memorandum of understanding between them, development agreement, the area and revenue sharing agreement. The developer will have to clearly reveal the investors or equity partners in the project. Property consultant Ashok Narang said: “These regulations will be applicable for all ongoing projects where occupancy certificate of the entire building is not received.” Narang said builders will have to disclose the land mortgage to financial institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/consent-of-51-flat-buyers-must-to-tweak-project-extend-deadline-in-mumbai/articleshow/81440691.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
March 11, 2021||Ranchi||62 new cases take active tally past 500-mark||RANCHI: Jharkhand reported 62 new Covid-19 infections for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, taking the number of active cases past the 500-mark for the first time since February 1. Notably, 36 people also recovered from the disease during the day. Ranchi district reported 35 new infections followed by East Singbhum (15), Bokaro (7) and Dhanbad (3). Gumla reported two new infections. As many as 19 districts did not report any new infections in the past 24 hours. The state’s infection tally stood at 1,20,436. The number of recoveries was 1,18,823 while the casualties were at 1,093. There were 520 active cases in the state, the highest of them in Ranchi (305) and East Singhbhum (75). Garhwa, Giridih, Godda, Khunti, Pakur and Palamu did not have any active case as on Wednesday evening. As many as 15,549 people took their first dose of vaccine on Wednesday. Of them 10,544 are senior citizens, 2,048 are between 45-59 years with comorbidities and 2,957 are frontline and health workers. As many as 14,840 beneficiaries, including health and frontline workers, took their second dose statewide. The state health department’s Covid-19 bulletin said 1,06,385 health and frontline workers have taken their second dose so far, making up 74% of the target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/62-new-cases-take-active-tally-past-500-mark/articleshow/81437514.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Ranchi||Foolproof security system at Dalma sanctuary for Shivratri||Jamshedpur: In view of recurring forest fires, the authorities at Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary (DWS) have decided to put in place a slew a safety measures ahead of Mahashivatri on Thursday. Over 10,000 devotees are expected to throng the hill-top shrine on Thursday and some have already started arriving from Wednesday evening. “A temporary camp has been set up at the entry point in Makulakocha and at the shrine for crowd management. Match-stick boxes, discarded tyres and any other type of inflammable material will not allowed inside the shrine,” the divisional forest officer at DWS, Abhishek Kumar, said. He added, “As many as 20 officials have been deployed at the camp who will see to it that the devotees deposit the match boxes, tyres and other items before entering the temple. Besides, a five member-team across 12 points each have been deployed to keep an eye on the devotees.” The DWS management has also installed streets lights throughout the 19km strech from Makulakocha to the Shiva temple. “In case there’s any issue with the street lights at any place, the devotees can switch on the torch on their cell phones. They should not, under any circumstance, light up tyres to navigate their way through the stretch,” Kumar said. He added that a mobile team will trek the stretch periodically to maintain order among the swarm of devotees walking up to the hilltop shrine. Besides prevention of forest fires, DWS has roped in around 100 volunteers from the Village Eco Committees (VEC) who will see to it that the Covid-control norms, like maintaining social distancing and wearing masks, are not violated by the devotees. The VEC volunteers will also look after the parking arrangement as many visitors are expected to come on cars, two-wheelers, etc. Kumar appealed to the devotees to be responsible and help keep the shrine and the area around it clean by using the trash cans placed at the entry and exit points for throwing water bottles and waste items. “Dalma is home to various species of animals and it is important to put in place safety measures to prevent any risk to the flora and fauna at the sanctuary,” he said. Officials at the Chandil range said that the devotees’ turnout is expected to be less this year because of the pandemic but the actual count of visitors can be determined only after the festival is over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/foolproof-security-system-at-dalma-sanctuary-for-shivratri/articleshow/81436409.cms||B Sridhar
March 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Friend’ betrays woman, steals Rs 1.2 lakh from account||AHMEDABAD: A 23-year-old woman, who works at a private hospital in Navrangpura and lives in Saijpur Bogha, had sought help from a male friend as someone was sending her obscene messages on Instagram. He asked for her mobile phone for one day to inquire into the matter and returned it. After a few months, she found that Rs 1.20 lakh had been withdrawn from her bank account by the same friend. A further inquiry also revealed that he was the same person who had sent her the lewd messages. The woman finally approached police and filed a complaint of breach of trust along with offences under the Information Technology Act against the man. In her complaint with Navrangpura police, Ria Rathod stated that she befriended the accused, Jay Chauhan, 25, a resident of Vastral, who used to meet her at Swastik Crossroads bus stop when they worked in the same part of Navrangpura two years ago. On September 1,2020, Rathod checked her bank statement and found Rs 1.20 lakh was paid through PayTM to an unknown account. She had immediately blocked her account and on seeing the detailed statement, she learned that Chauhan had withdrawn money. She said Chauhan had scanned the QR code of her phone which he used to get her account details and then withdrew the money. Rathod had given Chauham her phone in August 2020, when someone had been sending her obscene messages. She told Chauhan about the messages and he offered to help her and find the person responsible. She had filed a complaint with cybercrime police and it emerged that Chauhan was sending her the obscene messages. While pretending to help her with it, he took her details and stole the money between August 17, 2020 and September 1, 2020. She said that when she told Chauhan to return her money, he first put a condition that she withdraw her complaint from cybercrime police. She finally approached Navrangpura police and filed a complaint against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/friend-betrays-woman-steals-rs-1-2l-from-account/articleshow/81437561.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Two make video of friends in lock-up, held||RAJKOT: Shooting a video of their two friends inside a police lock-up has landed four people in serious trouble. Bhaktinagar police detained Deep Kaneria and Bharat Ahir on On Wednesday after they had come to meet their friends — Jayesh Dangar and Tushar alias Adaa Dave — in the police station after they had been detained in a case of physical assault on March 8. While Ahir engaged the police station officer (PSO) in small talk, Kaneria shot the video of his friends inside the lock-up and uploaded it on social media. Soon it went viral and the duo was caught for the felony. Ironically, while cops detained Kaneria and Ahir, their friends Dangar and Dave got bail and were released. But, police later came to know about their act too, and said they too will be rearrested soon. All four were booked under relevant sections of Information Technology (I-T) Act and IPC section 120B (criminal conspiracy).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pals-shoot-video-of-friends-in-lock-up/articleshow/81436252.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Ranchi||Slain sailor’s father demands CBI probe into son’s death||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday met the family members of slain Palamu navy sailor Suraj Dubey, who was found dead under mysterious circumstances in Maharashtra. The CM assured the family that he will recommend a probe by a central agency. “I am committed to help you get justice and I will recommend the Union government to conduct a detailed probe by a central investigating agency so that you can get justice,” Soren said while assuring Suraj’s father Mithilesh Dubey. Mithilesh Dubey, who met Soren at the Jharkhand assembly complex, was accompanied by JMM Garhwa MLA and state water resources and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur. Talking to TOI, Thakur said: “We met the chief minister and have requested him to recommend a probe into the death of the 28-year-old sailor.” Mithilesh Dubey got emotional during his meeting with Soren and told the latter: “I want justice for my son and truth can only be discovered if you help us and recommend a CBI enquiry.” Niraj Dubey, the brother of the deceased navy sailor, who also accompanied his father thanked state cabinet minister Mithilesh Thakur and said that he has been supporting the family and was instrumental in getting an audience with chief minister Hemant Soren. Notably, Suraj Dubey was found grievously injured with 90% burn injuries inside a forest near Palghar in Maharashtra on February 5 and he succumbed to his injuries during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/slain-sailors-father-demands-cbi-probe-into-sons-death/articleshow/81436421.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand High Court asks govt on steps for kin of victims of lynching||RANCHI: The Jharkhand high court on Wednesday asked the state government to submit a report on the steps taken and rehabilitation packages planned for families of victims of mob lynching. The court of Justice Ananda Sen gave the government four weeks to submit the response while citing a Supreme Court judgement of Tahsin Punawala. The court was hearing a criminal writ petition filed by Maqsood Alam seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation on the death of Tabrez Ansari who was accused of stealing a bike, tied to a pole and beaten in Seraikela on June 18, 2019. Tabrez had succumbed to his injuries four days later. Alam also petitioned before the court to take action against the policemen who were present at the spot and did nothing to avert the incident. He has also direction for a speedy disposal of the case through the fast track court. The high court ordered the government to respond in the matter and also sought information on what action has been taken against the policemen who were present at the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-hc-asks-govt-on-steps-for-kin-of-victims-of-lynching/articleshow/81437565.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Ranchi||Cops recover bodies of mother, teen son||JAMSHEDPUR: The West Singhbhum police took the help of Jharkhand Jaguar and CRPF 60 battalion jawans to recover two corpses from the forested foothills in Rovauli village under Gudri police station, about 75km from the Steel City, on Tuesday. SP Ajay Linda said that Budni Bhengra (45) and her son Daudia Bhengra (16) were killed on March 5 by four villagers — Ramrai, Barai, Baga and Mangal — because the woman had complained to the gram sabha that they had stolen her goat. The gram sabha in January had imposed a fine of Rs 15,000 on the four and asked them to give a goat to the woman. After killing the duo with a sharp weapon, the miscreants partly burnt the bodies and dumped them in the forest in a Maoist-affected area, making it necessary for the police to take the help of paramilitary forces to locate the bodies. All the four accused are absconding.“Raids are on to arrest the accused,” said an official at Gudri police station requesting anonymity. The officer in-charge of the police station couldn’t be contacted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cops-recover-bodies-of-mother-teen-son/articleshow/81437580.cms||---
March 11, 2021||Ranchi||Foolproof security system at Dalma sanctuary for Shivratri||JAMSHEDPUR: In view of recurring forest fires, the authorities at Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary (DWS) have decided to put in place a slew a safety measures ahead of Mahashivatri on Thursday. Over 10,000 devotees are expected to throng the hill-top shrine on Thursday and some have already started arriving from Wednesday evening. “A temporary camp has been set up at the entry point in Makulakocha and at the shrine for crowd management. Match-stick boxes, discarded tyres and any other type of inflammable material will not allowed inside the shrine,” the divisional forest officer at DWS, Abhishek Kumar, said. He added, “As many as 20 officials have been deployed at the camp who will see to it that the devotees deposit the match boxes, tyres and other items before entering the temple. Besides, a five member-team across 12 points each have been deployed to keep an eye on the devotees.” The DWS management has also installed streets lights throughout the 19km strech from Makulakocha to the Shiva temple. “In case there’s any issue with the street lights at any place, the devotees can switch on the torch on their cell phones. They should not, under any circumstance, light up tyres to navigate their way through the stretch,” Kumar said. He added that a mobile team will trek the stretch periodically to maintain order among the swarm of devotees walking up to the hilltop shrine. Besides prevention of forest fires, DWS has roped in around 100 volunteers from the Village Eco Committees (VEC) who will see to it that the Covid-control norms, like maintaining social distancing and wearing masks, are not violated by the devotees. The VEC volunteers will also look after the parking arrangement as many visitors are expected to come on cars, two-wheelers, etc. Kumar appealed to the devotees to be responsible and help keep the shrine and the area around it clean by using the trash cans placed at the entry and exit points for throwing water bottles and waste items. “Dalma is home to various species of animals and it is important to put in place safety measures to prevent any risk to the flora and fauna at the sanctuary,” he said. Officials at the Chandil range said that the devotees’ turnout is expected to be less this year because of the pandemic but the actual count of visitors can be determined only after the festival is over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/foolproof-security-system-at-dalma-sanctuary-for-shivratri/articleshow/81437545.cms||B Sridhar
