March 12, 2021||Business||Warburg Pincus-backed Kalyan Jewellers seeks $160 million in IPO||MUMBAI: Warburg Pincus-backed Kalyan Jewellers said it aimed to raise Rs 1,175 crore ($161 million) to use as working capital through an initial public offering (IPO) next week. Kalyan, leader of a domestic market that also includes Titan, Tribhovandas Bhimji Zaveri Ltd and regional players, opened its first showroom in the southern state of Kerala in 1993 and now has 107 showrooms in India and 30 stores in the Middle East. The IPO comprises a fresh issue of equity shares of up to 8 billion rupees and an offer for sale of shares worth 3.75 billion by promoters and existing shareholders, the company said in a statement. India is the world’s second biggest consumers of gold and consumption is expected to rebound in 2021 after falling to its lowest in 26 years last year as pent-up demand and higher economic growth are seen boosting sales. In the fiscal year ended in March 2020, the jeweller’s revenue stood at Rs 10,100 crore and net profit was Rs 142 crore, it said. The company, which derives 78% of its revenue from domestic operations, will offer shares at about Rs 86-87. The IPO will open on March 16 and the stock is expected to start trading on stock exchanges from March 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/warburg-pincus-backed-kalyan-jewellers-seeks-160-million-in-ipo/articleshow/81455284.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Traders in Kalasipalyam market upbeat about moving to E-City||BENGALURU: During the lockdown, the government decided to temporarily shift the 400-odd wholesale merchants from Kalasipalyam fruit and vegetable market to a larger space near Electronics City. However, the new location has now become permanent, with the chief minister announcing it in the budget. The vegetable and fruits wholesale merchants association, which was against the move initially, has welcomed it now. RV Gopi, president of the association, said: “During the lockdown, they wanted more space to maintain social distancing and they shifted us there. We were against it then because the place had absolutely no infrastructure. It was just an open land, but we realised as it adjoins Huskur fruit market, our market will also get a lot of buyers.” The merchants said infrastructural needs of any market will be roads, sheds, auction halls, bathrooms and parking facilities. “The chief minister said a market will be built on this land. We’ve no issues shifting with proper infrastructure. Last time, we were sent there during the thick of monsoon and it was a miserable time for us,” Gopi added. The market in Kalasipalyam is spread only about two-and-a-half acres and was last developed in 1983. In the past 15 years, there has been a huge increase in the number of people frequenting the market and infrastructure is not sufficient. Gopi said: “With hundreds of trucks moving in and out of the market and thousands of people buying stuff, there is not enough space. The drains are forever clogged. We’ll be happy to relocate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/traders-in-kalasipalyam-market-upbeat-about-moving-to-e-city/articleshow/81455542.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Was defending myself, says Zomato delivery boy who punched woman in face||BENGALURU: A day after a food delivery boy of a restaurant locator app was arrested for allegedly punching a woman in the face, he told police the customer abused and attacked him. Techie Hitesha Chandranee from Electronics City Phase I had on Wednesday filed a complaint against the delivery boy, Kamraj, 28,accusing him of punching her on Tuesday evening after she decided to cancel the order citing delay. The woman’s post on Instagram had gone viral. Police had later arrested Kamraj. “I was only trying to defend myself. The injury may have been caused by the woman’s ring,” sources privy to investigation quoted the accused as saying. The woman had claimed the food was delivered late and she was assaulted when she sought to cancel the order. Hitesha was left with a broken nose. Kamraj has been working for three years as a delivery boy. “He said the roads he took to deliver food are under construction and have over 10 blockades. While Kamraj claimed he apologised, the customer insisted on returning the food and that’s when things hotted up,” he said. Cops from Electronics City refused to share details, saying ‘the matter is under investigation’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/was-defending-myself-says-zomato-delivery-boy-who-punched-woman-in-face/articleshow/81455615.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Air India staffers held for abetting gold smuggling at Kempegowda International Airport||BENGALURU: Two Air India employees — ground staff at Kempegowda International Airport — were nabbed on charges of abetting gold smuggling from the Gulf. One of them, a 22-year-old woman, was caught on Wednesday while she was picking up smuggled gold paste worth Rs 40 lakh from two passengers. She was to hand over the paste to two gang members waiting outside the airport. All the suspects are from Malayamma in Kozhikode. KIA officials said the gold smuggling nexus with Air India contract staff came to light after Emirates flight EK 564 from Dubai landed at KIA on Wednesday morning. A couple alighted from the flight with nearly 1kg of gold paste and before heading for Customs, met the woman AI staffer inside the terminal. The trio admitted to the smuggling to an Air Intelligence Unit team and the AI woman employee said two men were waiting outside the airport to collect the paste. Customs sleuths in the guise of smugglers met the two near the parking area and apprehended them. The five suspects said a 25-year-old Air India SATS staffer, also posted at KIA, was part of the gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ai-staffers-held-for-abetting-gold-smuggling-at-airport/articleshow/81455624.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Puducherry||All pass for Puducherry students from Class 1 to 11||PUDUCHERRY: The Puducherry administration has declared all the students of all classes from 1 to 11 of all regions in the Union territory of Puducherry as 'all pass'. It comes after the declaration from the respective education boards in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. The Union territory of Puducherry does not have an education board and the schools in Puducherry and Karaikal come under the education board of Tamil Nadu while the schools in Mahe and Yanam come under Kerala and Andhra Pradesh board respectively. Puducherry lieutenant goverbor (additional charge) Tamilisai Soundararajan in a press note said the schools will function for five days a week and Saturday and Sunday will be declared holidays. "The schools will function till March 31 for class 1 to 9. The summer vacation will commence from April 1. However classes for 10, 11 and 12 standards will be conducted as per the schedule of examinations of the respective state boards (Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh)," said the release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/all-pass-for-puducherry-students-from-class-1-to-11/articleshow/81455600.cms||Bosco Dominique
March 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Granny, great-grandmom throw spl child into well; parents also nabbed||BENGALURU: A 30-year-old man, his wife, mother and grandmother landed in police custody on charges of throwing his two-year-old daughter into a well and killing her. The reason: The girl was physically challenged — she had no control over her limbs and couldn’t speak. The incident took place at a village in Satanur of Kanakapura taluk, around 80km from Bengaluru. Investigators say it’s a case they can never forget. The girl, S Mahadevi, was the only child of B Shankara and K Manasa from Maralebekuppe village. Shankara, Manasa, 21, Shankara’s mother B Jayaratnamma, 50, and his grandmother J Bhadramma, 75, were arrested. The couple works in a chemical factory in Harohalli industrial area. Jayaratnamma and Bhadramma are homemakers. In their confession, Shankara and Manasa told police they were worried about their daughter’s future. “We were spending more than Rs 10,000 per month on her medicines. Doctors said the physical immobility may remain for lifetime. How could we look after her in future? We both need to work for livelihood. Who would take care of her after the death of my mother and grandmother? So we decided to kill her,” the man said. Instead of opposing the couple’s plan, Jayaratnamma and Bhadramma agreed to the decision and said they would carry the child and throw her into the well, police said. The two elderly women took the child to a defunct well inside an agricultural farm in Yedamaranahalli, around 6km from their home, on March 8 morning. Shankara and Manasa, who knew about this, left early for their factory. On their way, the women crossed Mahadeshvara temple and its priest Siddappaji noticed them. Early evening, the women returned via the same route when Siddappaji was locking the temple door. He recalled he’d seen them carrying the child in the morning and realised they were returning empty handed. By the next day, villagers alerted police saying a child’s body was floating in the well. Soon, Kanakapura police inspector TT Krishna and his team visited the spot. The girl was identified. By then, Siddappaji, who reached the spot, told police he had seen the kid with the women in the morning. “When I saw them later, the child was missing,” he confirmed. Police visited Shankara’s residence. The couple, who didn’t go for work that day, was informed about the tragedy and taken to the spot for identification. “The couple first told us the girl could have been taken by someone and murdered. Soon, Shankara realised we had got to know that his mother and grandmother had taken the child in the direction of the well and returned empty handed. He broke down and spilled the beans,” police said. The accused were sent to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/granny-great-grandmom-throw-spl-child-into-well-parents-also-nabbed/articleshow/81455712.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Trio held for kidnapping 2 labourers from Assam||BENGALURU: Three men, including the president of a pro-Karnataka organisation, were arrested for allegedly kidnapping two dailywage labourers from Assam on Tuesday. The accused are Babu Reddy, 34, of Srinivasapura and state president of Kannada Janabhivruddhi Rakshana Vedike, and his associates Nagesh C, 28, and Lakshmipathi, 37, from Mulabagal. Police rescued Dipen Uranga, 27, and Bikash Barua, 18, residents of Pillagumpa village, near Hoskote. Dipesh and Bikash were standing near a shop in Pillagunpa village to take photocopies of their documents to apply for jobs when the trio approached them. They offered them jobs with a monthly salary of Rs 18,000. The labourers believed them and got into the car. The trio threatened them with a knife and demanded Rs 50,000 for their release. They asked Bikash to call his mother, Momita Barua, to arrange for money. Momita approached Sulibele police as she did not have cash. Police asked her to continue talking to her son whenever she got calls from the abductors and based on the call records, a police team headed by circle inspector Rangaswamy traced the suspects to Battarahalli forest area on Betamangala Road and rescued their captives by late night.  Police said the trio had no criminal antecedents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/trio-held-for-kidnapping-2-labourers-from-assam/articleshow/81455715.cms||---
March 12, 2021||India||Isro aims for 7 more launches from India in 2021||BENGALURU: With the pandemic having enveloped 2020, Isro is targetting at least seven more launches, including the uncrewed Gaganyaan mission, from India this year, while PSU New Space India Limited (NSIL) plans to launch one satellite through a foreign launch provider. Of the six other than Gaganyaan to be launched from the spaceport in Sriharikota, three will be earth observation, including one for ocean studies, one remote sensing satellite, a commercial launch, and one navigation satellite (see graphic). A science satellite to study the Sun (Aditya-L1) that was initially targeted for this year won’t happen. And, among the launch vehicles, other than the PSLV, Isro will launch three GSLV missions, including the mark-III as part of the uncrewed Gagnayaan mission. Two more will be SSLV (small satellite launch vehicles) class of rockets. Aside from this, as reported by TOI earlier, NSIL is planning to launch the GSAT-24, being acquired and launched for a private customer — Tata Sky’s DTH business — through Arianespace. Isro chairman K Sivan said: “If you look at the number, then we consider it to be 14 more missions as each launch is two missions (one launch vehicle and one satellite). We are confident of achieving this target and top priority is for Gaganyaan.” He said Aditya had to be pushed to next year as the next launch window — missions to Moon, Sun and other planets have specific windows during which launches can take place — is only available then. 5 Key Desi TechsStating that the human rating of GSLV is progressing as planned, Sivan said 2021 will see multiple indigenous technologies tested. “We will have two SSLV launch vehicles technology demonstration flights, we will be testing the revamped GSLV in terms of rockets. On the satellite technology front, we are looking to test the election propulsion on satellites, use two atomic clocks developed indigenously on the NVS-01 and also a key component called TWTA (Traveling Wave Tube Amplifiers) in a communication satellite,” Sivan said. Isro is hoping to completely stop importing these technologies, in line with the Centre’s Atmanirbhar mission, and this year will prove key in deciding how quickly the space agency can shift to indigenous technology. “Apart from giving us the edge technologically, it will also save us a lot of foreign exchange,” Sivan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/isro-aims-for-7-more-launches-from-india-in-2021/articleshow/81455856.cms||Chethan Kumar
March 12, 2021||Business||Government targets Rs 1.3 lakh crore from rail, telecom assets||NEW DELHI: The government is targeting half its asset monetisation target of Rs 2.5 lakh crore from railways and telecom, while scouting for new areas, including warehouses to store foodgrains, coal and other mines and tourism infrastructure, to mop-up resources that are proposed to be deployed to create fresh assets. In the Budget, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a massive asset monetisation initiative after the government had failed to move on the path for several years, prompting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to set an ambitious target, which has to be met over the next three to four years. Asset monetisation and privatization are the two key focus areas of the 2021-22 Budget, which aim at bringing about a complete shift in the economy to make it more efficient, and provide space for the private sector to help in the recovery. Following the PM’s push, NITI Aayog has been tasked with preparing the roadmap and also given the mandate to tie-up with ministries. After deliberations with ministries and departments it has fixed a Rs 90,000 crore target for the railways, seen as a laggard, with a focus on modernizing stations and launching private trains. The Dedicated Freight Corporation is also looking to monetise its infrastructure through steps, such as selling preferred slots or through faster goods trains. Separately, telecom towers owned by state-owned loss-making BSNL and MTNL — again, in the pipeline for years — and their optic fibre infrastructure are proposed to be monetised to mop-up around Rs 40,000 crore. In fact, the sale of towers was a key element of the revamp of the two ailing public sector companies, but the entities have failed to act on it. Experts are skeptical of the government delivering on the plan, although Niti Aayog is setting up a dashboard for tracking the progress. The strategy has been worked out by a committee of secretaries, headed by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba. Government sources told TOI that the Centre’s think-tank is also looking at other areas, which will help scale-up the target and generate more resources that can be reinvested. In fact, power and roads, two sectors where the InvIT route is being pursued, have received less ambitious targets, though they have set up the structure to implement the plan. For the other ministries, the plan is to push monetisation of airports, pipelines, sports stadiums and other assets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-targets-rs-1-3-lakh-crore-from-rail-telecom-assets/articleshow/81457008.cms||Surojit Gupta
March 12, 2021||India||Centre sounds alarm over Maharashtra surge, advises caution in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Thursday expressed "very serious concern" over rapidly rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra as eight of the top 10 districts reporting most active cases are in the state and its active caseload has more than doubled in the last month. The Centre also issued a caution for Delhi and its neighbourhood, saying there was a rise in positivity rate in the capital and NCR regions like Gurgaon and Faridabad as also Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad. On the positive side, the number of active cases in Kerala, a state which saw a worrying rise in cases, has been declining. "We are very worried about Maharashtra, across several districts of Maharashtra. This is a serious matter," Niti Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul said. Other top officials, ICMR chief Dr Balram Bhargava and health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, said the Maharashtra situation was linked to inadequate testing and contact tracing, lax Covid-appropriate behaviour and large gatherings. Maharashtra’s active cases increased to 1,00,240 on March 11 from 36,917 on February 11. Active cases have also significantly increased in Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, Bhushan said. The 10 districts with the highest active caseload include Pune, Nagpur, Thane, Mumbai, Amravati, Jalgaon, Nashik and Aurangabad in Maharashtra. Apart from these, Bengaluru Urban in Karnataka and Ernakulum in Kerala are on the list. "This has two lessons — don't take the virus for granted. It can come up unexpectedly... We need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, containment strategy, readiness of health facilities as well as vaccination has to be brought in to phase out the pandemic," Paul said. The government asked states to be vigilant with effective testing and containment measures, whereas districts with a high caseload or those seeing a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases have been advised to step up vaccination to achieve the maximum coverage of priority population groups. Dr Bhargava, while ruling out the role of the mutant virus in the surge, underlined slackness on part of the administration and people. "Maharashtra has shown a worrisome trend. The mutant strain has not been found incriminating in this surge. It is just related to reduced testing, tracking and tracing and Covid-inappropriate behaviour and large congregations," Dr Bhargava said. However, Kerala — which accounts for the second largest Covid-19 caseload after Maharashtra — is actually witnessing a decline. Active cases in the southern state have almost halved in the last one month from 64,607 in February 11 to 35,715 on March 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-sounds-alarm-over-maharashtra-surge-advises-caution-in-delhi/articleshow/81457203.cms||Sushmi Dey
March 12, 2021||India||India to make J&J’s Covid vax as part of Quad initiative||NEW DELHI: India will manufacture the US-developed Johnson & Johnson’s single-dose Covid vaccine as part of the first Quad vaccine initiative. The project will be financed by Japan and US, while Australia will use its logistics capability to ship the vaccines to Southeast Asia and Pacific countries. This will be the notable takeaway from Friday’s first ever Quad summit between Narendra Modi, Joe Biden, Yoshihide Suga and Scott Morrison. The first ever Quad summit is one of the earliest multilateral summits by the new Biden administration (he has only held a G-7 virtual meeting). It emphasises the growing strategic convergence between India, US and the Indo-Pacific members on countering China’s expansionism both in the security and economic domain. While the maritime domain remains the bedrock of security cooperation between the four democracies, the first summit will send a more evolved message to the Indo-Pacific region. The sentiment that powered the first Quad response to the 2004 tsunami is being resurrected — that democracies joining hands to secure and promote certain values and provide assistance and demonstrate power on the basis of those values is preferable to authoritarian regimes doing the same thing in a region with countries who don’t have the power to push back against a non-democratic power like China. The second takeaway from the summit may be in the area of technology as well as climate change — with all four countries diversifying from China, there will be a way to create reliable and trusted tech development and manufacturing chains — this could be anything from a joint development of 5G networks that rely less on hardware to fabricating semi-conductors. Biden has made climate change into a major part of his foreign policy and a coordinated approach between the Quad members is likely to emerge tomorrow. Sources here said, “our role in the Quad Vaccine Initiative will project and re-inforce India’s credentials as a trusted, reliable manufacturer and supplier of quality vaccines. It will strengthen India’s standing as the “pharmacy of the world”, as a critical node in global health supply chains, and as a selfless contributor to global health security.” This is only the first of the vaccines, sources said more will be added to this vaccine initiative. There is already pushback from China and Russia on the Quad, with Chinese commentators describing it as an “Asian NATO”. Sources here say that is unlikely to happen since the Quad does not plan on setting up the bureaucracy of a military alliance. They would rather keep it flexible, making it easier to address and respond to emerging global challenges. However, one of the other takeaways from th summit is likely to be the vision of the grouping going beyond the Indo-Pacific. The vaccine initiative itself could be a start, sources say. The current avatar of the Quad began in 2017, in the aftermath of the Doklam crisis between India and China. The 2020 stand-off between India and China in eastern Ladakh has only deepened India’s determination on both Indo-Pacific and the Quad. For the first time in 2020, India invited Australia to join the Malabar naval exercises, which cemented the security cooperation of the Quad. The last year also saw significant pressures from China on all the Quad members — India in Ladakh, Japan in Senkakus and east China Sea and Australia with the trade measures by China. The US-China rivalry that has been building, reached a point of no return with the tech and trade barriers erected by the Trump administration and largely continued by Biden. All four countries have barred China from their 5G networks. India this week announced it would have a list of “trusted sources” for telecom equipment imports that will effectively keep China out. An emerging tech alliance between the Quad countries could potentially be a counter to China. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar traveled to Tokyo for the second foreign ministers’ meeting on October 6, while the third was held virtually in February — the conversations participated in the second Quad Foreign Ministerial meeting in Tokyo on 6 October 2020, in the midst of the global Covid19 pandemic. Last week, speaking in Washington, India’s ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu said, the Quad is more than just a security mechanism. Rather, he said, the arrangement -- not a coalition, not a partnership, not an alliance -- has larger goals. "There is a positive agenda here," he said. "When the Quad foreign ministers had their interaction ... there was a broader touch on being political democracies, market economies, pluralistic societies, and they will work together on those issues besides a rules-based international order." Watch India to make Johnson & Johnson’s Covid vax as part of Quad initiative||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-make-jjs-covid-vax-as-part-of-quad-initiative/articleshow/81457260.cms||Indrani Bagchi
March 12, 2021||India||Vaccine FOMO makes India’s seniors give it their best shot||Country legend Dolly Parton who recently broke into a version of Jolene that went — ‘Vaccine, vaccine, vaccine, vaccine/ I’m begging of you please don’t hesitate/ Because once you’re dead, then that’s a bit too late’ — would be proud of her contemporaries in India. Contrary to the stereotypes of elderly people — wary, slow-of-gait and particularly vulnerable to misinformation about the vaccine — what emerged was a reverse of the depressing story one might have expected. The country’s senior folks have been rushing out full throttle, braving long queues, tech hiccups, and even camping from dawn at the gates of vaccination centres. ‘Fear of Missing Out’ or FOMO has taken on a whole new level among the elderlies. And as the race for the jab intensifies, so does a sense of urgency for this ticket back to normal life. “I wanted freedom from bondage!” exclaimed P Venkatraman, in jest after his “vaccine stroll-out” in Mumbai. Only half in jest though. The 64-year-old who took along a pack of 14 other sexagenarians and septuagenarians from a cardiac support group that he founded, explains: “See, we live with comorbidities and for that reason our families want us to stay locked at home. It’s a human need for us at this age to go out and socialise. Since the numbers were rising once again, I wanted to get the vaccination done as soon as possible.” This enthusiasm is probably the reason why India has already administered over 2 crore doses. For Devjeet Bhuiya in Kolkata, getting an appointment within hours of the rollout was as good as “winning a lottery!” he bellowed. “I was so fed up with living in fear that I wasn’t even interested in the vaccine controversies. I was ready for anything as long as I could get on with life but I never thought it would happen so soon,” said the 72-year-old as he recounted admonishing a few senior citizens trying to jump the queue or strike side deals on V-Day. This all-consuming focus on the coveted shot has also been dripping with “stress” for those on the other side of the great divide. “Let me just say this (also for me) because I am feeling a great deal of vaccine-related pressure. Getting the vaccine is not a race, and when you get it is not an indicator of your worth. We will all get it, in time. Don’t make this a race,” tweeted Chennai-based political analyst Swarna Rajagopalan, last week. She fears that with every conversation orbiting around, ‘Did you get it?’ or ‘Did you make an appointment? might make her “too ill for the vaccine at this rate.” But what do you say to G. Sethuraman, a 70-year-old retired industrialist in Hyderabad — who spent hours over the weekend obsessively refreshing the CoWin website for an appointment — when he says: “At this age, I understand impermanence and how fragile life is more than ever. And I don’t want it to end like this.” For a community that was used to daily excursions around their building, or to movies, soirees and holidays with their grandchildren, being confined at home and to socially-distanced waves, has been soul-crushing. And their happy place now is anywhere there’s a vial being popped. Marathoner KR Chandran embraced competitive running at 70. Now 76, he feels that his athletic ability held him in good stead as he navigated the tech crashes and logistical mishaps on Day Two of the drive at BKC. “Standing in the line for two hours was no issue at all. We brought chai, dhokla… also entertained others waiting in line,” beamed Chandra as he took pride in motivating his agemates and coordinating what turned out to be a vaccine picnic. He is also relieved that he no longer needs to hide his surreptitious visits to the bank or the neighbourhood park from his anxious children living overseas. Parenting the parents isn’t new but the pandemic certainly put a new twist on it. Mana Dey’s daily routine of responding to sun-dappled flowers, birds and sunsets every morning is on halt. “All those good morning messages have been replaced by inquiries about who’s taken the jab or at least registered,” sighed the 64-year-old, bitterly awaiting her chance to join the jab club after her daughter put a leash on her race for the vaccine. “She wants me to go after the crowd lessens,” she rued, describing the sting of vaccine FOMO as peers and family members resume normal life, while she’s left in limbo. “And when they send me vaccine selfies to mark the occasion I don’t know whether to rejoice or feel sad... I have this constant fear of whether there’ll be enough vaccines left for those who haven’t taken it yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccine-fomo-makes-indias-seniors-give-it-their-best-shot/articleshow/81457611.cms||Mohua Das
March 12, 2021||India||Govt hospitals administer over 71% of doses||NEW DELHI: A majority of anti-Covid vaccines are being administered in government hospitals with over 71% doses given in public health facilities, whereas around 29% doses were dispensed in private hospitals. Till Thursday evening (7 pm), India administered over 2.6 crore doses of the two Covid-19 vaccines — Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield (developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca) — approved for restricted emergency use. In around 17 states, including Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Gujarat, the private sector administered vaccine doses below the national average of 28.7%. However, some states and UTs like Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Tripura, which figure in the list, have very few private facilities and Covid-19 vaccination is largely driven by government hospitals. Though private hospitals were part of the vaccination drive even when the programme was initially rolled out for health and frontline workers on January 16, and the government has now allowed all hospitals that meet the requirements, their participation remains sub par. This was done in view of increasing footfalls for vaccination after the government started inoculating those above 60 and those between 45 and 60 with specified co-morbidities. So far, 13 states including Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Tripura, Goa and Odisha, have given second dose of the vaccine to more than 80% of health workers. Similarly, eight states and UTs including Puducherry, Chandigarh, Manipur, West Bengal, Gujarat and Goa inoculated more than 60% of eligible frontline workers with the second dose. Currently, private hospitals that are part of the vaccination drive are those empanelled under Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme, Central Government Health Scheme or state health insurance schemes. In some states like Odisha, Delhi, Telangana and Maharashtra, other private hospitals with required facilities are also providing vaccination. While the vaccine is given free in government hospitals, the private sector is allowed to charge up to Rs 250. Private hospitals have been permitted to perform vaccination exercise 24x7 all days a week. However, government hospitals have been directed to conduct vaccination drives for a minimum four days a week. Officials said it was necessary to ensure that non-Covid health services in hospitals continued uninterrupted along with the vaccination drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-hospitals-administer-over-71-of-doses/articleshow/81457731.cms||---
March 12, 2021||India||23,000 new Covid cases, highest since Xmas eve||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 infections continued to surge in the country with over 23,000 fresh cases reported on Thursday, the highest single-day count since December 24 last year, as numbers continued to rise in Maharashtra and several other states. India recorded 23,280 new cases of the virus. Of these, Maharashtra alone accounted for 14,317, the highest single-day tally in the state since October 7. The seven-day rolling average of daily cases now stands at 19,302, nearly 8,000 higher than where the index was on February 14, when the surge in began. Average daily cases currently are at a high of over two months. There were 119 deaths reported from Covid-19 in the country in the past 24 hours. The daily toll has stayed above 100 for the past three days. With 57 fatalities, Maharashtra accounted for over half of the tally, followed by Punjab (18 deaths), Kerala (13), Tamil Nadu (5) and Madhya Pradesh (4). While Maharashtra posted the highest rise in cases from Wednesday's count of 13,659, several other states witnessed a surge in infections. Karnataka reported 783 new cases, Gujarat 710, Tamil Nadu 685, Madhya Pradesh 530, Delhi 409 and Andhra Pradesh 174 -- all registering highest tallies in their respective states since different days in January.  Haryana reported 442 fresh infections, the highest single-day count in the state since December 24. Punjab recorded 1,309 cases on Thursday, slightly less than Wednesday’s tally of 1,422, which was the highest since September 30. The state has logged 1,000-plus fresh cases on seven of the last eight days. Over the past 10 days, the daily average of fresh Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru has shot up by about 100 compared to the daily average in February. Meanwhile, infections continued to dip in Kerala. the state's seven-day average daily growth rate has now come down to 0.22% from 0.6% on January 1. The state’s seven-day average TPR is also below 5%, while on January 1 it was 9.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/23000-new-covid-cases-highest-since-xmas-eve/articleshow/81457804.cms||---
March 12, 2021||India||3 law panel reports advised splitting SC into 2: Ravi Shankar Prasad in Lok Sabha||NEW DELHI: Should the Supreme Court split into two — a Constitutional Court in Delhi and a Court of Appeal or Federal Court sitting in north, south, east, west and central India? Responding to a question in Lok Sabha on Wednesday, law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad referred to three Law Commission reports and said all of them recommended splitting the apex court into two to help litigants. “This will reduce the distance travelled and the cost borne by litigants,” he added. In a 2010 judgment, the SC had rejected the idea of splitting the apex court but in a later writ petition, the issue was referred to a constitution bench and the matter is sub judice. “The 11th Law Commission in its 125th report titled ‘The Supreme Court – A Fresh Look’ submitted in 1988 reiterated the recommendations made by the 10th Law Commission for splitting the SC into two — a Constitutional Court in Delhi and a Court of Appeal or Federal Court sitting in north, south, east, west and central India,” Prasad said. He said the two Law Commission reports justified the split as this would reduce the distance travelled and the cost borne by litigants. The two Law Commission reports are available on its website. Again, the 18th Law Commission in its 229th report had suggested that a ‘constitutional bench’ be set up in Delhi and four ‘cassation benches’ be set up in Delhi, Chennai/Hyderabad, Kolkata and Mumbai, the minister said. “The matter was referred to the Chief Justice of India, who has informed that after consideration of the matter, the full court in its meeting held on February 18, 2010, found no justification for setting up of benches of the Supreme Court outside Delhi,” Prasad said. However, the minister said the SC later referred the matter of establishment of ‘National Court of Appeal’ to a constitutional bench while disposing of a writ petition in 2016. The matter is sub-judice in the SC, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3-law-panel-reports-advised-splitting-sc-into-2-ravi-shankar-prasad-in-lok-sabha/articleshow/81457900.cms||---
March 12, 2021||India||Delay 2nd dose for more efficacy: Experts||PUNE: Public health experts, citing emerging evidence, have said that India could consider delaying the second dose of the Covid vaccine to improve immunogenicity. Currently, the follow-up shot is being given 28 days later. Experts TOI spoke to said the country could look beyond that timeline. Dr Gagandeep Kang, a member of Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE), which is advising the World Health Organization, said the decision to delay was not just about supply constraints, but improved efficacy too. A recently published Lancet study said the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine — made in India by Serum Institute as Covishield — showed greater efficacy when its second dose was administered after a gap of 12 weeks, instead of four. The study was based on results from over 17,000 trial participants. The researchers found that efficacy of the shot had risen from an average of 55.1% (after two doses were given fewer than six weeks apart) to 81.3% when the interval was at least 12 weeks. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of ICMR’s Epidemiology and Communicable diseases division said models have shown a delayed second dose offers better protection, but real-world conditions can differ. “Delayed doses can protect a higher number of people quickly when supplies are limited. But in India, we don’t seem to have a shortage of vaccines. So the benefit is in terms of improving the level of protection.” Dr Kant added, “A closer look at the Lancet study shows the sample size was too small to draw a meaningful conclusion. Therefore, studies with adequate sample sizes are needed before we can think of changing India’s vaccination schedule for Covishield||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delay-2nd-dose-for-more-efficacy-experts/articleshow/81457931.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||As cases surge, Nagpur to see stricter curbs for a week||NAGPUR: As Covid-19 cases surged to almost 2,000 a day in Maharashtra's Nagpur district, guardian minister Nitin Raut on Thursday announced stricter restrictions in the city and its adjoining areas from March 15 to 21. With restrictions already in place for weekends, non-essential shops will remain open only on Friday. The district reported 1,979 new cases on Thursday. New cases have been in excess of 1,000 in 12 out of the last 16 days. Times ViewLockdown is a dreaded word for all of us. What has happened to Nagpur is awarning to the rest of the country. There is no substitute to Covid-appropriate behaviour. Any slackening of vigilance on this count would extract a cost on public health and the economy.In the first 11 days of March, Nagpur recorded 14,244 cases, which is higher than the figure for the whole of November (8,979), December (12,002) and January (10,507). Cases are tipped to exceed the figure for February (15,514) on Friday. After taking stock on Thursday, Raut told reporters that cases were increasing as people had started ignoring Covid-19 prevention guidelines. “I had urged everyone not to create a situation when lockdown is only option. Restrictions on a few activities were imposed on daily basis from February 23 to March 7. Restrictions were more on weekends. Curbs were extended to March 14," he said. "Still, the people did not care. Hence, we decided to impose lockdown from March 15 to 21,” he said. Raut told TOIit will be a full lockdown. “People will not be allowed to step out of their homes except for emergency or essential work. Covid-19 vaccination centres will remain open and eligible people can go and get it,” he said. The district had faced full lockdown from March third week to June 5 last year. Raut added government offices will run at 25% strength while semi-government and private offices will remain shut except for those engaged in audit and March-end works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/as-cases-surge-nagpur-to-see-stricter-curbs-for-a-week/articleshow/81458066.cms||---
March 12, 2021||India||Govt says move to use Covaxin now vindicated||NEW DELHI: The government said regular emergency use authorisation for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin outside of ‘clinical trial mode’ was a validation of India's timely decision-making based on scientific evidence and production of Covaxin was likely to increase along with its use. Niti Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul said Covaxin was granted permission for regular emergency use authorisation and both Covid-19 vaccines — Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Serum Institute’s Covishield — had the same licence status now. “The vaccine has stood the test of time in terms of great safety. It is a triumph for India’s science and technology enterprise and research and development enterprise as well as our industry and I congratulate the teams at ICMR and Bharat Biotech,” Paul said. Both Covishield and Covaxin were given EUA on January 3. However, in the absence of efficacy data from phase 3 trials, Covaxin was granted EUA under ‘clinical trial mode’ which required vaccinators to take informed consent from recipients before inoculation. It also meant that Bharat Biotech was liable for compensation in case of adverse events under the clinical trial rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-says-move-to-use-covaxin-now-vindicated/articleshow/81458221.cms||---
March 12, 2021||India||Scrap old car, get 5% discount on new||NEW DELHI: The road transport ministry will issue an advisory to all vehicle manufacturers urging them to offer a 5% discount on the sale price of vehicles to buyers, if they deposit a certificate of old scrapped vehicle during the purchase of a new one. The set of notifications to operationalise the voluntary vehicle scrapping policy for private and commercial vehicles, and mandatory scrapping of 15 year-plus government vehicles are likely to be out in the next one week, sources said. TOI has learnt that the advisory to offer discount in sale price of vehicles will be part of the overall policy for roll out of the scrappage policy. Last week, Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari had outlined the idea. The voluntary vehicle scrapping policy announced in the Union budget will be applicable for personal vehicles which are 20 or more years of age and 15 years in the case of commercial vehicles. All these vehicles will have to get valid fitness certificate for plying on roads. While unfit vehicles will have to be scrapped, the government has also proposed a huge increase in the re-registration fee of 15 year-plus private vehicles and the fee to obtain fitness certificate after automated test would be very high for 15 year-plus commercial vehicles. There are also proposals for levying green taxes and other levies on old polluting vehicles. Meanwhile, sources said the first slot of vehicles which will have to be compulsorily scrapped will be vehicles owned by the central and state government and the PSUs. They added the motor vehicle law empowers the Centre to decide the life of a vehicle and specify the age beyond which the registration cannot be renewed. Hence, the Centre would notify the rule barring registration of all vehicles owned by the governments and PSUs which have have attained 15 years of age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/scrap-old-car-get-5-discount-on-new/articleshow/81458294.cms||Dipak K Dash
March 12, 2021||Patna||Patna to get 22 more waste composting plants: Civic body||PATNA: The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has started the process of converting organic wastes collected from vegetable and fruit markets into compost and vermicompost. Altogether 15 waste composting plants of different capacities have been installed in different areas of the city to produce organic fertilizer and tackle the problem of garbage disposal. According to Patna mayor Sita Sahu, the wastes generated in vegetable and fruit markets are mostly biodegradable and easy to handle compared to the hazardous ones. “Dustbins have been placed in markets for collecting dry leaves, rotten vegetables, fruits or flowers every day,” Sahu told this newspaper, adding that the initiative had been taken on a pilot basis to maintain cleanliness and ensure that the least amount of wastes reached the landfill site in Ramachak Bairiya. PMC’s city manager Arvind Kumar said, “Of the 15 waste composting plants, two (2,000 kg capacity each) have been installed in Gardanibagh for processing the wastes collected from the Mithapur and Chitkohra vegetable ‘mandis’. Besides, two plants (500 kg capacity each) have been set up near Pani Tanki and one each near BMP Canteen, Big Hospital, Arya Kumar Road, Bazar Samiti and Digha. Two more machines have been installed near Malahi Pakri roundabout and Transport Nagar.” The civic body has now set a target to install 22 more waste composting plants in the city by March-end. “Sites for the plants are being identified. Anta Ghat and Raja Bazar are two major ‘mandis’ where the plants are likely to come up soon,” a PMC source claimed. The PMC has also started storing the compost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/civic-body-patna-to-get-22-more-waste-composting-plants/articleshow/81454115.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||Land issue stalls city’s hope for green fuel||Kolkata: The city’s clean fuel dream was somewhat thwarted by the blame game between the state and Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) on the availability of land for laying pipelines to the city. Recently, the state submitted an affidavit to the NGT to dispose of the case on making compressed natural gas (CNG) available to Kolkata. Significantly, the CNG pipeline had almost reached Kolkata’s doorstep before it stumbled into the land issue. “The state asked for a realignment of the gas pipeline as it was passing through a congested area. GAIL, in November 2019, asked the state to give them an alternative route. North 24 Parganas district authority on February 3, 2020, wrote back to provide a technically feasible alternative with consent of landowners for peaceful implementation of the process,” said green activist Subhas Datta, who filed the petition in 2015. “The delayed reply showed the district authority’s apathy and disinterest in the issue,” he said. GAIL is now thinking of supplying CNG to the city in cylinders, which is not cost-effective. “Unless it comes through the pipeline, the cost will be higher. Motorists and transporters will only use it when it is cheaper compared to fossil fuel,” said a GAIL official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/land-issue-stalls-citys-hope-for-green-fuel/articleshow/81455131.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
March 12, 2021||Patna||Police recover body of abducted Nalanda man from a well||BIHARSHARIF: Police on Thursday recovered the mutilated body of one Madhu Yadav of Asthawan village from a well in a neighbouring village Pachetan, 3 km from the deceased person's home. Police have arrested four persons in this connection. The deceased had gone missing after he went to attend a feast with his friends on March 6. When he didn't return home that night and his cellphone was found switched off, his father lodged an FIR on March 7 with Asthawan police station against his brother Nepali Yadav, his son Sanjay Yadav and one Guddu Yadav for having abducted his son. They were the ones who had taken the deceased on their motorbike on March 6 on the pretext of attending a wedding feast. Biharsharif Sadar SDPO Dr Shibli Nomani said police arrested the three named and an unnamed accused on Wednesday night and on their indication recovered the body from a well. The SDPO said that the arrested accused Guddu Yadav confessed to the crime and said Nepali Yadav had some land dispute with his brother Kailu Yadav. He said Nepali gave him Rs 48,000 to kill the only son of his brother. The police officer further said the accused took the deceased on two motorbikes to Srichandrapur on March 6 evening, strangled him and threw his body in a nearby well. The SDPO said all accused have been sent to jail. The arrests came after relatives and villagers protested by blocking Biharsharif-Barbigha NH 120 near Soeva Pul for five hours on Wednesday.  BUSINESSMAN THRASHED:Miscreants thrashed a businessman Satendra Kumar at Pawapuri under Giriak police station area on Thursday allegedly after he didn't pay Rs 50,000 extortion money demanded from him. Kumar, who owns an electric goods shop, said Navin Pande of Pokharpur village and Shankar Singh's son attacked him with bamboo sticks after he refused to pay the money. Kumar who is admitted to Vardhaman Institute of Medical Sciences, Pawapuri said the miscreants snatched Rs 10,000 from him. A police officer said the case is being investigated. Meanwhile, a delegation of the Nalanda Teachers' Association on Thursday demanded immediate arrest of culprits who critically injured a coaching institute owner Anish Kumar and his brother Nishant Kumar on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/police-recover-body-of-abducted-nalanda-man-from-a-well/articleshow/81454504.cms||Farrukh Nadim
March 12, 2021||Patna||Left parties gear up for farmers’ Bharat bandh on Mar 26||PATNA: The three major Left parties in the state have started mass mobilisation of farmers, seeking legal guarantee to the MSP on the sale of agriculture produce and withdrawal of three farm laws. The ongoing mass mobilisation of farmers by the Left parties is being seen as a build-up to the Bharat bandh called by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) on March 26. “It is not just the Left parties which have been protesting against the three farm laws in the state. The other opposition parties, like the RJD and Congress, had also supported the first Bharat bandh on December 8 last year,” state CPI(ML) secretary Kunal said. “For proper coordination, a meeting of the representatives of 32 farmer organisations active in the state will be held either on March 16 or March 19,” Ashok Prasad, state general secretary of the Bihar Rajya Kisan Sabha said on Thursday. The CPI(ML), CPI, CPI-M and their frontal organisations, meanwhile, started mobilisation of farmers on Thursday by remembering the contributions made by the legendary peasant leader Sahajanad Saraswati, who had established Bihta Ashram (located around 40 km away from Patna) dedicated to the cause of the peasant movement. Besides, members of the three parties also held meetings at all the district headquarters. The CPI(ML) and CPI have also planned marches to the state assembly on March 18 and March 24, respectively. The CPM has decided to hold district-level meetings on March 23 as a mark of respect to the martyrdom of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, CPM state secretary Awadhesh Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/left-parties-gear-up-for-farmers-bharat-bandh-on-mar-26/articleshow/81454510.cms||Abhay Singh
March 12, 2021||Business||Car tyre prices up on rising raw material cost, supply glitches||Chennai: Car tyre prices have risen between Rs 1,600- Rs 2,000 a pair for and Rs 5,000-Rs 6,000 for a pair of luxury car tyres. Companies say raw material costs have shot up by 20%-25%. “Raw materials comprise 62% of the total cost of a tyre so this increase will be passed on bit by bit. That is the trend globally too. In Q3, the industry took a 2% increase and there will be another 3%-4% hike by March end,” said Satish Sharma, president, Apollo Tyres.Tyre dealers say a combination of factors other than OEM price hikes have hit tyre sales. “Tyre companies have withdrawn incentives and discounts from the replacement market which has hit prices,” said SP Singh, convenor, All India Tyre Dealers Federation. “Also wholesale delivery time has gone up from 1-2 days to 2-3 weeks due to import restrictions which have created supply constraints and further pushed up prices,” he added.Tyre marketers say it won’t be possible for them to take the entire brunt of the raw material price hike which would require a 8%-10% rise which is unviable in the marketplace. “Replacement market is very important for us as it comprises around 70% of our sales. We cannot take price hikes to the extent that the raw material costs have gone up,” said Srinivasu Allappan, director sales & marketing JK Tyre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/car-tyre-prices-up-on-rising-raw-material-cost-supply-glitches/articleshow/81456167.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
March 12, 2021||Patna||Bootleggers face heat in state ahead of Holi||PATNA: In two separate operations, the police and excise department officials seized over 340 cartons of Haryana-made Indian foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 40 lakh from Jehanabad and Siwan districts even as surveillance has been intensified in the state to check liquor smuggling ahead of Holi festival. Deputy excise commissioner Krishna Paswan said the surveillance at border check posts in the state has been stepped up to check entry of vehicles carrying liquor from outside the state. In addition, the officials have been asked to promote intelligence gathering. “Joint teams of the excise department and police are working hard to prevent liquor smuggling,” Paswan added. Meanwhile, acting on a tip-off, a team led by SHO of Ghoshi police station Nikhil Kumar intercepted a truck coming from Nawada at Jhunki Mor in Jehanabad on Thursday. On seeing the police, the driver of the truck tried to flee. However, apprehending trouble, he abandoned the truck at some distance and escaped. The SHO said the animal fodder-laden truck had a secret iron box in which 300 cartons of illicit liquor were being transported from Haryana. “Raids are on to arrest those involved in the liquor smuggling,” he added. Jehanabad SP Dipak Ranjan said the entire network of bootleggers will be smashed after collecting evidence against them. “Operations have been launched on specific intelligence inputs,” he told this newspaper over phone. Meanwhile, a team of excise and prohibition department recovered 142 cartons of IMFL from a truck bearing registration number of Haryana in Siwan district. The truck was intercepted near Sisai village on Siwan-Malmalia road late on Wednesday night. Siwan excise superintendent Priyaranjan said the consignment was booked from Haryana and it was to be delivered to a liquor smuggler in Saran district. “Details about the person who had booked the consignment are being gathered,” he added. Around 4,000 bottles of liquor worth Rs 25 lakh were seized from the truck. “The driver, Jitendra Singh, a resident of Sonipat in Haryana, is being interrogated,” the excise superintendent said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bootleggers-face-heat-in-state-ahead-of-holi/articleshow/81454431.cms||Ramashankar
March 12, 2021||Chennai||CMRL looks to scrap four stations from phase-2||CHENNAI: At least four metro stations including the one planned on Venkatanarayana Road, T Nagar and on OMR, Semmencheri may be off the phase-2 project as the distance between these stations and the next is only a few hundred metres. Sources said Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) officials are discussing if they could scrap four stations – Doveton Junction, St Joseph’s College, Foreshore Estate and Natesan Park – from the phase, which has a total of 128 stations across three corridors. These stations were also not mentioned in the construction tenders floated so far. Construction for phase-2 is likely to begin by June 2021 and is expected to be ready by 2026. “Those stations are very closeby, so we are looking at how we can optimise that. We are trying not to have those stations,” said an official in the know. Sources said taking these stations off the route may also save time and money spent on construction. CMRL earlier made a number of changes to bring down the cost of the project from Rs 89,000crore to Rs 61,843crore. Generally, metro stations in the city are planned for every 1km to make it easy for evacuation of passengers during emergency situations. But these four stations, if built, will be within 600m to 850m. For instance, at T Nagar, Natesan Park station is planned between a station at Panagal Park and at Nandanam. The distance between Panagal Park and Natesan Park is around 632m and the distance Natesan Park and Nandanam is 625m. At OMR, St Joseph’s College metro station is planned between stations Sathyabhama University and Semmencheri. The station is 827m away from Sathyabhama University station and 805m from Semmencheri station. Similarly, near Marina Beach, the distance between Light house station and foreshore state station is 786m, which is 958m away from the next station at Kutchery Road. Doveton Junction station is also 614m away from the next station at Pursaiwalkam High Road and 829m from a station at Perambur Barracks Road. In phase-1, except for Central Metro and Government Estate Metro stations which are located more than 1.5km apart, the rest of the stations are built between 850m to 1km distance. To make up for the long distance between Central Metro and Government Estate metro, an emergency shaft has been built inside May Day Park at Chintadripet, which could be used to evacuate passengers during emergencies. Hence, even in phase-2, sources said CMRL may come up with an option of building a facility for emergency evacuation in place of these stations. In a attempt to cut down the cost of the project, CMRL had earlier scrapped a maintenance depot planned at Siruseri SIPCOT and replaced it with only stabling lines for parking of trains after daily services. It also changed a few stations from underground to elevated and trimmed the size of the stations by 25% compared to stations in phase-1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cmrl-looks-to-scrap-4-stations-from-phase-2/articleshow/81455229.cms||U Tejonmayam
March 12, 2021||Patna||‘Move to give taxation rights to panchayats a poll gimmick of govt’||PATNA: A day after panchayati raj department minister Samrat Choudhary’s announcement in the House that taxation rights will be delegated to the panchayats, the state president of Mukhiya Mahasangh, Ashok Singh, described the move as a “mockery” of the system and an “eyewash”. Reacting to the minister’s announcement, Singh said it was an attempt to befool the representatives ahead of the upcoming panchayat election scheduled to be held in April-May. “The minister’s statement is worthless. It doesn’t make any sense when mukhiyas and other representatives have not been given their due rights,” Singh told this newspaper on Thursday. The minister had said in the House that the government was planning to delegate taxation power to the panchayats to make them reliant. The rules for the same would come into effect after the panchayat polls, he had added. As per the proposal, the panchayats would monitor the commercial activities under their jurisdiction and levy taxes on them accordingly. For example, the landowners who have rented out their land for installing towers of different telecommunication companies will be charged Rs 1,000 as tax per month. Similarly, the four-wheeler vehicles used for commercial purposes will be asked to pay Rs 100 per month. Similar charges will be collected from brick kiln owners and shopkeepers other than those dealing with agricultural tools, fertilizer and other minerals. Additional chief secretary of the panchayati raj department, Amrit Lal Meena, said the modalities to delegate taxation rights to the panchayats were being finalised. “The idea is to strengthen the panchayati raj institutions,” he added. Earlier, CM Nitish Kumar had favoured giving taxation rights to the panchayats at a function in Madhubani district. Multipurpose bldgs in panchayats soon: State panchayati raj department minister Samrat Choudhary said in Samastipur on Thursday that multipurpose buildings would be constructed in panchayats in view of the problems faced by people’s representatives as well as the locals. The buildings may be used for wedding ceremonies as a number of people migrate to the towns and big cities for the purpose. “Plans are afoot to install CCTV cameras as well. In addition, sanitation facilities will be enhanced,” the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/move-to-give-taxation-rights-to-panchayats-a-poll-gimmick-of-govt/articleshow/81454485.cms||Ramashankar
March 12, 2021||Patna||Minister seeks blueprint for development of higher education in Bihar||PATNA: Education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary on Thursday asked the Bihar State Higher Education Council (BSHEC) to submit to the government a blueprint for the all-round development of higher education in the state. Addressing a meeting of the BSHEC, the minister opined that the council should ensure academic reforms and work towards raising the quality of higher education by improving the infrastructural facilities in institutions. It was decided that a state-level management information system would be set up for ensuring a better coordination among all the institutions and framing a well-laid out policy framework for the standardization of higher education. It was also decided that a number of posts would be created in the council for strengthening its infrastructure and increasing work efficiency. Additional chief secretary of the education department, Sanjay Kumar, suggested that all the conventional universities should assess their minimum infrastructural requirements and send them to the council which, in turn, would forward a detailed proposal to the government. The meeting was attended by BSHEC chairman Kameshwar Jha and the vice-chancellors of Central University of South Bihar, Patna University, and Munger University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-seeks-blueprint-for-development-of-higher-education-in-bihar/articleshow/81454128.cms||B K Mishra
March 12, 2021||Patna||Govt all set to launch special vaccination drive in Bihar||PATNA: The state health department is all set to start special Covid-19 vaccination drive under cohort (comprehensive oral health assessment and treatment) registration system by involving Asha and anganwadi workers, Jeevika didis, local representatives and district officials who will mobilise people, especially senior citizens and those above 45 years of age with comorbidities. The state hopes to meet 70% of its vaccination target in the third phase through cohort registration. Under this drive, the local representatives will take the lead to ensure that the target groups are actively mobilised and brought to the vaccination centres. In Patna district, the number of vaccination centres will be increased to 168. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh said about 3,331 Asha workers and more than 4,000 Jeevika didis have been roped in to help senior citizens and those above 45 years with comorbidities reach the vaccination centres. Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh said the officials concerned would coordinate in the inoculation drive. Meanwhile, the state recorded 45 fresh Covid cases in the last 24 hours. With this, the state’s Covid tally has increased to 2,62,909. There were, however, only 323 active cases in the state on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-all-set-to-launch-special-vaccination-drive-in-bihar/articleshow/81453999.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 12, 2021||Kanpur||Man beaten, head tonsured for molesting girl||With Pic Kanpur:A mob thrashed, tonsured and blackened the face of a man for allegedly molesting a three-year-old girl in Kalyanpur of the city on Thursday. The police have taken the man into custody. Kalyanpur Inspector Janardan Tiwari said, “The girl’s mother, who runs a ‘pan -masala’ kiosk outside her house, alleged that the man, Ankit, a resident of Shivli Road, Kanpur Dehat who works as a class four worker at a private hospital, had come to purchase ‘guthka’ at her shop. However, he barged into her house, picked up her three-year-old daughter and molested her. As she raised an alarm, the family members nabbed him. Locals of the area also gathered there and along with family members assaulted him.” “The man’s head was tonsured and face blackened when he was taken into custody by a police team. We also came to know that he was beaten up in full public view. We were not informed by the girl’s family about the incident. We only came to know about the incident when some passersby alerted the police control room,” police said. “We have received a complaint from the girl’s family and lodged an FIR under IPC sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and relevant sections of POCSO against the man,” he said. He added that the girl was sent for medical examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-beaten-head-tonsured-for-molesting-girl/articleshow/81454546.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
March 12, 2021||Patna||Despite stern action & awareness campaigns, lynchings continue in state||PATNA: Despite the state police headquarters keeping a close watch and a statewide awareness campaign against lynchings, the "horrendous acts of mobocracy" as termed by the Supreme court, continue to rise. The apex court had given detailed and strict directions in July 2018 that such incidents should be countered with an iron hand by state governments to instil the fear of law among people involved in such acts. The latest incident took place at Dulhin Bazaar in the state capital where at least five of a family allegedly beat their relative Satyendra Yadav (25) to death using rods and sticks at village Sarkuna around 7 pm on Wednesday. SHO Ashok Kumar said Satyendra’s elder brother Atal Bihari has lodged an FIR against alleging that they beat him to death over a property dispute. “All accused are evading arrest. Raids are on to nab them. The body was handed over to the family after post-mortem at AIIMS on Thursday,” he said. CID ADGP Vinay Kumar on Thursday said the state police headquarters monitors such cases to ensure a quick arrest of all accused and charge-sheet submission in a timebound manner for a speedy trial. “Even during the lockdown convictions in some lynching cases took place in the state due to continuous monitoring by the police headquarters. SPs and SSPs have been directed to monitor such cases at their level too in districts,” he said. ADGP Kumar said till the lockdown, awareness campaigns were run across the state against lynchings. “The Panchayati Raj department also works with police to avert such incidents and curb rumours which on several occasions leads to lynching. The state government is following Supreme Court's detailed guidelines to curb lynching,” Kumar added. Kumar said a detailed standard operating procedure for action to avert mob-lynching and required action after such offence was issued in 2019. “Study shows lynching takes place after road accident with drivers, over child-theft rumours, theft and other crimes accused, on molestation charges in fairs, with boys in love-marriage and some others. All possible scenarios are mentioned in the SOP with directions on what should be done,” he added. However, even after all these efforts, at least one case is getting reported almost every month in the state. Last month, a group of villagers lynched Vijay Sah (22) and injured his associate Roushan Kumar (20) at village Lodipur Lakhraj under Mahnar police station area in Vaishali, on February 28 for stealing sound boxes and amplifiers from an orchestra. On January 7, Shyamanand Yadav (36) was lynched while two of his associates Manon Yadav (40) and Kailash Sah (25) were thrashed when they were allegedly trying to flee after stealing cattle from village Kadgama under the Krityanand Nagar police station area in Purnia. On December 28, irate villagers lynched Sonu Paswan (22) and Suraj Das (25) at Mayurba under the Sonbarsa police station area in Sitamarhi when the duo had reached there to extort money from a home guard at gunpoint. On December 16, one Mohammad Alamgir was lynched after being tied with a pole allegedly after being caught stealing cattle at Phulwarisharif in Patna. Phulwarisharif SHO Rafique-ur-Rahman said all seven persons accused of lynching were arrested and sent to jail adding charge sheet has also been submitted in the case. Mahnar and Sonbarsa SHOs sought time to give details on developments made in the cases till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/despite-stern-action-awareness-campaigns-lynchings-continue-in-state/articleshow/81454462.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 12, 2021||Patna||Farmers undertake ‘padyatra’ in Purnia||PURNIA: A ‘padyatra’ was carried out by farmer leaders under the banner of All India Kisan Mahasabha here on Thursday. Members of the farmers’ forum, an affiliate of CPI (ML), started the march from Indira Gandhi Stadium and it culminated at R N Shah Chowk, close to the Purnia Collectorate. Nyaz Ahmad, an AAP activist and coordinator of Kisan Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti, Purnia unit, said since Swami Sahajanand Saraswati, a pioneer of peasant movement in the country, was born on Mahashivaratri, the day is celebrated as ‘Kisan Diwas’. “Sahajanand was the first person to fight for the farmers’ cause in the country. He had conducted several farmers’ movements in the country,” he added. Earlier, farmer leaders Avinash Paswan, Jamuna Murmu, Vijay Kumar and others shouted slogans against the three controversial farm laws enacted by the Centre and demanded their immediate withdrawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/farmers-undertake-padyatra-in-purnia/articleshow/81454536.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Nurse ordered to pay Rs 10,000 to doctor for false charge||AHMEDABAD: A staff nurse has found herself in a tight spot after accusing a doctor of molesting her because the court has found her charges false and ordered her to pay Rs 10,000 compensation to the doctor for “mental, physical and social harassment” caused to him. The nurse has been ordered to pay compensation to the doctor within a month, and upon default, she will have to undergo 30-day imprisonment. After finding the molestation charges false, the court has also ordered the police to lodge an FIR against the nurse for instituting false prosecution against the doctor. The court has also directed the commissioner of health for a departmental inquiry and action against the nurse. The case is from Suigam in Banaskantha district and involves a nurse, who is still on probation at the Community Health Centre (CHC), and its in-charge superintendent Dr Ashok Chaudhary (31). On December 12, 2019 night, the nurse accused the doctor of placing his hand on her shoulder, hurling abuses and threatening her. The doctor was placed on a trial. After the trial, the court concluded that no evidence came on record that the doctor touched her, used abusive language or criminally intimidated her. But the nurse, who was keen on getting herself transferred to her native, was found to have allowed her relatives to use CHC rooms for stay. She was also found to be redirecting patients to private hospitals by discouraging them to obtain treatment in public hospital by telling them that certain facilities were not available in government health centre. The court further concluded that since the nurse feared that the doctor might report her actions to the superior officers and that he had already rebuked her for letting her relatives sleep in CHC, she filed the complaint to teach a lesson to her superior. “Moreover, it appears that the complainant has misused the law for protection of women and it is necessary to stop such people from misusing the law,” observed judicial magistrate first class at Suigam, Atul Kumar. The court also cited a judgment of the Madras high court suggesting amendment in women protection laws and how they are misused for extortion racket and termed such practice as ‘legal terrorism in India’. The court also observed that from witness statements it was established that the nurse did not perform her duty sincerely and redirected patients to private hospitals. “The complainant’s act is dangerous for social health,” it said and ordered the commissioner of health for appropriate inquiry and action against the nurse and report to the court within 30 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nurse-ordered-to-pay-rs-10k-to-doctor-for-false-charge/articleshow/81455643.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Lucknow||4 years of hard work under able leadership showing results||As the Yogi Adityanath government inches close to completing four years in power, it is an occasion to look back and assess the journey undertaken so far. The journey, though a short one, stands out for many achievements which are unprecedented.A look at the fifth budget of the UP government pegged at a staggering Rs 5.5 lakh crore shows that while the economy of the state is the second-largest in the country, the state is also set to double its per capita income by the end of the current fiscal.This achievement of the state government is no mean achievement as the gigantic strides in the economy have been achieved when the Corona pandemic had rattled the biggest economies in the world and had brought them to their knees.It goes without saying that with the wheels of development spinning full speed, jobs will be created for youth in many of these industries that are being set up in the state. With all and order taken care of, systems put in place, the investment landscape is also changing fast in the state under the watch of the chief minister. Increasing per capita income, buoyancy in exports, and getting the world’s top companies in the field of electronics and other industries to invest in Uttar Pradesh, many new important units are coming up in UP in textile, electronic manufacturing, and manufacturing. Implementation of irrigation schemes that were rusting for years in the agriculture sector will give a tremendous boost to the rural ecosystem.UP is now setting up the roadmap of development through the unprecedented task of laying a network of roads and expressways from Bundelkhand to Purvanchal, which are sure to spur development in the state and make UP emerge as a trillion-dollar economy.And remember, all this did not happen overnight. This is a result of unprecedented hard work, leadership, creation of a blueprint and to top it all existence of a double engine in form of the state and the central government working in tandem. How did we benefit from the double engine in this? I know from my own personal experience because there was an absolute lack of coordination between the Center and the state earlier. The most significant example of the change from then to now is the Jewar International Airport, which will be commissioned in the next three years. The process of setting up many other small airports in different regions of the state has also started. It was necessary to bring industries here to increase the GDP and employment opportunities in the state. For this, the state government has rapidly revamped several major policies and formulated new policies. Due to these, in July 2019, the foundation stones of 250 projects worth about Rs 65,000 crore rupees were laid. Despite Covid-19, seven of these units with an investment of more than Rs 8,500 crore have been commissioned. During the four-year tenure of Yogi Adityanath, investment of more than Rs 3.88 lakh crore has been done in UP. That is, an average of over Rs 205 crore being invested every day. This is unprecedented. How did this happen? This achievement is not possible only by the efforts of the authorities. The officers have always been the same - the difference is in the leadership of the government. That has been the game-changer. Today, the results of what is happening in the electronic manufacturing, renewable energy, telecom, and manufacturing sectors in the state will be visible in the next two-three years. 10 companies have invested Rs 32,000 crore in manufacturing.It’s all on the ground for all to see and the ball has been set rolling for World Trade Center in UP (Rs 10,000 crore), Vivo Mobiles (Rs 7,500 crores), Oppo Mobiles India Pvt., Holytech India (Rs 7,500 crores, Sunvoda Electronic India Private Limited (Rs 1,500 crore), KHY Electronics India (Rs 350 crore), LCE (around Rs 300 crore) - has started the in Gautam Buddha Nagar. The second largest investment has been made by 18 companies in Renewable Energy at a cost of about Rs 16,000 crore. The manufacturing sector is also growing rapidly. Infosys Limited has proposed an investment of Rs 5,000 crore and Tata Consultancy Services Rs 23,000 crore and is in a position to start operations.The result of the ‘Double Engine’ is also visible in form of the new defense corridor. The central government made a policy change in defense production, allowing the private sector. To take immediate advantage of this, Yogi Ji took the first initiative to set up a defence corridor in UP and invited big global producers to invest in Lucknow Defence Expo. And for the first time in the field of defence, a huge investment of Rs 4,500 crore is being made in UP. It is not just about the amount of investment, but the will power and commitment of a state which is very backward from the industrial point of view, which UP has shown.Yogi government’s ‘One District One Product Scheme’ (ODOP) has also proved to be a game-changer in terms of providing employment to workers in the state. People are getting help for employment and self-employment through the self-sufficient package in every district of the state. ODOP is not just a government scheme but will take the form of a movement in the coming times. Businesses are being helped to succeed by continuously strengthening it and strengthening marketing and e-commerce companies too.There is increasing interest in it. As a result, this ODOP scheme of the MSME department has provided employment to lakhs of people. According to the data of the MSME department, 8.67 lakh new units were started in the state in the past eight months, which were given loans worth Rs 30,840 crore by banks. Over 1.5 crore employment opportunities have been created by banks by providing loans totaling more than Rs 2,12,000 crore.The Covid-19 pandemic was an unprecedented tragedy that threw a huge challenge at the state government. Millions of migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh returned from many states. Taking responsibility for them, the state government rose to the occasion and provided them all assistance by providing transport facilities. An unprecedented arrangement of Covid testing and treatment was ensured by Yogi Ji himself. Daily and accurate updates were sought, the entire healthcare and administrative setup were spruced up. This even when the constraints of all sorts, including that in the healthcare sector, were known to all. The change in the culture of governance and administration of Uttar Pradesh, however, has changed remarkably. As the saying goes, the winners do not do different things, they do things differently. (The writer is former chief secretary of UP govt. Views expressed here are personal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4-years-of-hard-work-under-able-leadership-showing-results/articleshow/81457096.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Business||ITAT denies BoI Rs 183cr refund for foreign tax||Mumbai: The Mumbai bench of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) has denied in a recent order a refund in respect of foreign taxes aggregating to Rs 182.6 crore paid by Bank of India (BoI). The denial came as the bank had losses and did not have any tax liability in India. However, the taxes paid overseas will be allowed as a deduction in computing the bank’s business income, added the ITAT. The order, if jurisdictionally applicable, is likely to have wide ramifications for a large number of Indian corporates having overseas operations. BoI has several branches abroad, both in countries with which India has a tax treaty and non-treaty ones. It had earned profits from its branches in the UK, the US, France, Belgium, Kenya, Japan, Singapore, China, Hong Kong, Cambodia and Jersey, and paid taxes in these countries. The bank incurred a tax loss during the financial year 2011-12, even after setting off the foreign income. Hence, it did not have any Indian tax liability on such foreign income. However, it claimed a credit of Rs 182.6 crore (and consequently a refund) of foreign taxes (known as foreign tax credit) as a primary claim and alternatively as a business expense deduction. During assessment, as there was no income tax payable by the bank in India, the I-T officer had denied the credit for foreign taxes paid. “Relief of taxes paid in foreign countries is given against the income tax chargeable under the I-T Act. Section 90 does not stipulate that the tax paid in foreign countries would be refunded in cases where the income tax chargeable under the I-T Act is nil.” On these grounds, the claims of the bank were denied by the I-T officer and the commissioner (appeals). Finally, BoI filed an appeal with the ITAT. The ITAT bench comprising vice-president Pramod Kumar and judicial member Vikas Awasthy observed that foreign incomes should be “subject to tax” or “doubly taxed” in both countries (the other country and India) in order to avail the foreign tax credit. Further, such credit is available only to the extent of the Indian tax liability. However, the ITAT held that the taxes paid in foreign countries can be claimed as a business deduction in computing profits, since no credit of such foreign taxes was allowable against an Indian tax liability. In other words, this deduction will further inflate the taxable losses, which can be set off against profits in future years, within the prescribed time frame.According to EY India tax partner Anish Thacker, “The ITAT order reaffirms the conventional understanding that an Indian tax resident cannot expect refund of foreign taxes from the Indian exchequer. Foreign tax credit under the tax treaties or domestic tax rules can merely relieve the Indian tax liability and cannot result in refund of Indian taxes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/itat-denies-boi-rs-183cr-refund-for-foreign-tax/articleshow/81457098.cms||Lubna Kably
March 12, 2021||Business||Microfin loans grow in Q3 after shrinking for 2 qtrs||Mumbai: After shrinking for two quarters due to the pandemic-induced lockdown, the microfinance sector grew 1.2% to reach Rs 2,26,500 crore as of December 2020 from Rs 2,24,000 as of September 2020. A large chunk of the lending was part of relief offered by banks under the guaranteed emergency credit line scheme to help borrowers tide over the exceptional situation brought about by Covid. According to the Microlend report released by credit bureau CRIF High Mark, the microfinance sector grew by 6.4% year-on-year as of December 2020. Both urban and rural markets witnessed a nominal quarterly growth of 0.6% and 1.7% respectively. There was a reversal of trend compared to the first two quarters of the financial year. On a year-on-year comparison, the rural portfolio has grown by 8.4% over December 2019, while the urban portfolio has grown much slower at 3.8%. Banks remain the largest lender of microfinance at 41.8%, followed by non-banking finance company microfinance institutions (NBFC MFIs) at 31.8% of the gross loan portfolio (GLP) and small finance banks at 16.9% as of December 2020. Banks and NBFC MFIs witnessed quarterly growth of 1.2% and 4.6% respectively in the portfolio coming into December. Boosted by Covid relief schemes offered by banks to existing borrowers, the share of disbursements of loans below Rs10,000 increased 11% over the previous quarter with a nearly 24% jump for banks alone. Small borrowers continued to face financial stress with early delinquencies at 6% higher than the pre-pandemic levels. However, there is a marginal improvement in the stress situation from the second quarter when compared with 7% over the previous quarter. The top 10 states retained 83% of the national GLP as of December 2020. The regional distribution of the microfinance portfolio has largely remained consistent from the previous quarter with the eastern region dominating the market with a share of (34.1%), followed by south (26.1%), west (14.6%), north (10.6%), central (7.9%) and northeast (6.7%). The quarterly growth in national GLP is attributable largely to the central region (4.1% quarter on quarter). North, west, east and south regions witnessed slightly lower quarterly growth in GLP coming into December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/microfin-loans-grow-in-q3-after-shrinking-for-2-qtrs/articleshow/81457108.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Patna||Patna reverberates with holy chants, temples take out 22 ‘shobha yatras’||PATNA: Different city temples took out 22 ‘shobha yatras’, which culminated at the Shiva temple in Khajpura, on the occasion of Mahashivaratri on Thursday. Chanting ‘Har Har Mahadev’ and ‘Om Namah Shivay’, thousands of devotees participated in the ‘yatras’ organised under the aegis of Shri Shri Mahashivaratri Mahotsava Shobha Yatra Abhinandan Samiti. The entire city wore a festive look while men dressed as Lord Brahma, Vishnu and Mahadev sat on chariots during the ‘shobha yatras’. Each ‘yatra’ depicted mythical events related to the wedding of Lord Shiva with Goddess Parvati and was livestreamed at 45 temples across the city. The devotees were served water and ‘prasad’ at the Khajpura temple where a prayer service and a cultural event were organised in the evening. Digha MLA Sanjeev Chaurasia also felicitated the members of different puja samitis at the temple. Dignitaries like chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar, his former deputy Sushil Kumar Modi and education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary were present on the occasion. Extending his wishes, the CM wrote on his Twitter handle, “We should celebrate the festival of Mahashivaratri with mutual love and social harmony. This festival will bring happiness, peace and prosperity to all the people of the state.” (sic) Meanwhile, lakhs of devotees thronged Shiva temples and prayed for the prosperity and good health of their families and loved ones. 3,000kg of ‘Naivedyam laddoos’ sold: Secretary of the Mahavir Temple Trust Committee, Acharya Kishore Kunal, told this newspaper that nearly 5,000 devotees offered ‘jalabhishek’ between 5am and 11am and 50 families performed ‘rudrabhishek’ on Thursday. “As many as 20,000 devotees visited the Mahavir Temple on Mahashivaratri and bought 3,000kg of ‘Naivedyam laddoos’ till 8pm,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-reverberates-with-holy-chants-temples-take-out-22-shobha-yatras/articleshow/81454077.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 12, 2021||Patna||Patna: Senior citizens drive up daily vaccination||PATNA: With several dignitaries and VIPs coming forward to take the Covid-19 jab, the city hospitals are witnessing a steady rise in the footfall of senior citizens and a minor increase in those above 45 years of age with comorbidities. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh said the vaccination drive has gained momentum and the beneficiaries are coming forth to take the Covid-19 vaccine. “All selected sites are witnessing rise registration as well as in vaccination drive as people are not hesitant anymore because of awareness about Covid-19 vaccination,” Dr Singh told this newspaper. She added, “There are about 80 selected sites in the district where the beneficiaries take the vaccine jab. This number has increased as the vaccination drive has also started at 60 health and wellness centres and primary healthcare centres.” As per information provided by the district authorities, around 167 people above 60 took the jab on March 1 while 207 people in the age group of 45 to 59 with comorbid conditions take the jab. The number of daily vaccination figure has increased to 2,661 above 60 and 400 in the age group of 45 to 59. So far, 17,635 people above 60 whereas 2,266 people in the age group of 45 to 59 got the first shot of vaccine in the district till Wednesday evening. The nodal officer for Covid at AIIMS-Patna, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said there has been around a 28% increase in the registration for the third phase in the last couple of days. “The number of registration has increased as the hesitancy has eases. Besides, more people are contacting the vaccination officials for registration,” he said. Dr Manish Mandal, superintendent of Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna said on Day 1 of the third phase, around 200 to 300 people registered, however, the number of registration has now increased up to 500 for the last couple of days. “On Women’s Day, around 586 people were registered and vaccinated, which was so far the highest in the third phase,” he said. At the PMCH, around 2,500 people registered and took the vaccine so far. Superintendent Dr IS Thakur said the number of people registering for the vaccination has increased, however, the maximum increase was seen among senior citizens. Dr Binod Kumar Singh, superintendent of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital-Patna said as more people are getting aware that there are no side-effects, they have become more confident about the vaccine. “Besides, we conducted an awareness drive in nearby areas from March 6 to 8,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/senior-citizens-drive-up-daily-vaccination/articleshow/81453945.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Vadnagar’s treasure trove: 7 coin and cowrie hoards found||AHMEDABAD: The site of experiential museum at PM Narendra Modi’s hometown Vadnagar, currently excavated and developed by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), has thrown in numismatic treasures. The team of researchers has found six hoards of coins and one hoard of cowrie shells from the site during excavation. A gold coin, believed to be of Mameluke dynasty of Egypt dating back to 15th century, has also been found. It signifies the ancient town’s trade connection overseas. The ASI team had displayed the finds on Wednesday as Raghavendra Singh as secretary of culture, visited the PM’s hometown to review the progress of the experiential museum work. It was discussed during the secretary's visit that till 500 years ago, the cowrie shells were used as a lower denomination currency. While scattered cowries are found from many archaeological sites, here the team has found an earthen pot full of 1,100 cowries – pointing at the ancient method of burying the currency for safekeeping. The biggest coin hoard contains 1,300 silver coins – believed to be about 1,000 years old and belonging to the Solanki dynasty of Gujarat. Other cache includes two pots of 100 coins each, one of 50, another of 70 and one of 20 coins. It’s one of the biggest coin cache recovered in Vadnagar where over six sites have been excavated so far. The museum will exhibit all the treasures unearthed to the public. The team of ASI, in Vadnagar since 2015, has thrown light on the Buddhist heritage of the town – believed to be existing on the same spot for over 2,000 years – finding Buddhist sites as mentioned by the Chinese traveler Hiuen Tsang during his visit to the town in 7th century. The state archaeology department had earlier excavated a nunnery from the town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vadnagars-treasure-trove-7coin-and-cowrie-hoards-found/articleshow/81455852.cms||Parth Shastri
March 12, 2021||Business||Sebi, IFSCA look at setup for ‘blank cheque companies’ in India||MUMBAI: Two government regulators — domestic markets watchdog Sebi and its counterpart for Gujarat’s GIFT City, the International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) — are on track to facilitate launching of Special Purpose Acquisition Companies (SPACs) in India. As the name suggests, SPACs are formed with a definite purpose of acquiring one or more companies but, at the time of formation, the entities do not disclose the name(s) of the target. SPAC-like structures have been in existence for years now, floated mainly by private equity players. But of late, they have gained popularity in the developed markets. These structures are also called ‘blank cheque companies’ since investors, other than those setting these up, usually do not know for which acquisition target or the assets of a company they are putting in money till those are bid for by the SPAC. This aspect inherently makes these structures a risky proposition for retail investors, market players said. On Thursday, Sebi formed a committee to examine the feasibility of introducing SPAC-like structures in India, news agency PTI reported. The decision by Sebi came a day after IFSCA chairman Injeti Srinivas said the regulator was on track to come up with its own regulatory framework “to facilitate startups to raise capital through sale of equity”. The development comes even as the corporate affairs ministry is pushing for norms on direct listing of companies on foreign stock markets — an issue that has been hanging due to the reluctance of the revenue department to give up its right to tax the capital gains. While ReNew Power has already announced its plans to use the SPAC route to raise funds, others such as Grofers are exploring the option with more Indian companies expected to join the bandwagon in the coming months. Sebi has mandated its Primary Market Advisory Committee (PMAC) to look into this structure and submit its report at the earliest, the report said. Sebi wants to explore the potential of SPACs while at the same time building adequate checks and balances in a regulatory framework to take care of the associated risks. The Sebi committee on SPAC will have to address several regulatory challenges for these structures. Among those are if retail investors could be allowed to invest in these structures, given the high risks associated with SPACs. If they are allowed, what kinds of safeguards they should have, including at what stage these investors could be allowed. There are legislative challenges to SPACs. “As per the Companies Act, 2013, a company is required to commence business within one year of incorporation. This may not suit a SPAC which may not have business for nearly two years,” a company secretary was quoted as saying in the report. IFSCA, which operates in a relatively new and emerging environment where several of the Indian laws are not applicable, intends to develop as a global business hub and wants to move with the global trends in the sphere of business and finance. “We are soon coming up with the SPAC regulatory framework because that is the flavour of the day. When it comes to startups, they are not very well known entities. If they themselves come with an IPO, there may not be many takers,” Srinivas said at a Ficci conference. “So, some established players with a blank cheque company will come and they with their credibility will mobilise money and then identify a proper target company and merge with that, in a two-year or three-year time span,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-ifsca-look-at-setup-for-blank-cheque-cos-in-india/articleshow/81457082.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Business||Pandemic turns India into Edtech capital of the world||Chennai: Many Indian ed tech companies are witnessing a sharp increase in international enrolments as demand for AI, ML, data sciences and cloud computing bring in more learners. Switzerland-based kiteboarder and translator Ursina Sanderink (25), has enrolled with Simplilearn as it was cheaper and within her budget. Simplilearn’s founder andCEO Krishna Kumar said, “About 60% of our revenues are from overseas markets.” The education tech platform saw global learners enrollment growth at 70% in 2020-21, as compared to previous 45% growth in the previous year. Besides the US, the company saw demand coming from Canada, UAE, Thailand, South Africa, and Saudi Arabia. Great Learning, launched in 2013, witnessed a 5x growth in overseas student enrolment at over 10,000 students between March, 2020 and March, 2021, over 2019. Its co-founder Arjun Nair says, “Demand for our courses is largely due to their longer tenure (six-month courses), compared to those offered in the international market which are about 10-12 weeks long. The price point is also on par with international competitors making it an attractive offer.” “Cost of operations is much cheaper in India, mirroring the manpower cost. In a foreign country it would cost $1,20,000 to hire a teaching staff for Data Science, in India it costs only $30,000.” Edtech platform upGrad said it has seen enrollment from abroad doubled to over 400, across 50 countiers, in the last one year. Its co-founder and MD Mayank Kumar said, “In this quarter (JFM 2021) we have almost reached 400 learners, and given the remaining days in March and the kind of trend we see during March end (appraisals) we’re quite confident that we’ll easily have a hundred more” . All these Indian EdTech companies have signed collaboration agreements with global universities in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pandemic-turns-india-into-edtech-capital-of-the-world/articleshow/81456124.cms||Mamtha Asokan
March 12, 2021||Trichy||Trichy corpn asked to restart penalization of violators||Trichy: The Trichy district administration has directed the corporation to intensify penalization drive against facemask violation after the district witnessed a 67% surge in fresh Covid-19 cases in the past four days. The civic body has sent out circulars to commercial establishments to instruct visitors to wear masks and maintain social distancing. Since January 2021, the adherence to mask rule in public places gradually declined with around 70% people not wearing masks. Meanwhile, since March 7, as fresh cases kept on increasing, the corporation was urged to enhance the enforcement against violations. Following this, they sent out the circulars. “Earlier, people used to fear the random penalization drive, but now, they hardly wear a mask,” S Vadivel, a resident of Devathanam said.Although the civic body increased the penalty from Rs 100 to 200 for not wearing a mask in September 2020, the drive slowed down after the number of cases fell since December. “We have instructed commercial establishments to allow the customers inside only if they wear a mask. From Friday, the penalisation drive will be intensified,” a corporation health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-asked-to-restart-penalization-of-violators/articleshow/81456247.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Patna||Lakhs throng Areraj temple amid Covid safety protocols||MOTIHARI: More than one lakh pilgrims and ‘kanwariyas’ from different parts of the state visited the Someshwar Nath Mahadev Temple at Areraj in East Champaran district on the occasion of Mahashivaratri on Thursday. Adorned with flowers and illuminated with colourful lights, the temple gates were opened at 4am amid tight security arrangements. The district administration ensured foolproof security and made proper lighting and drinking water arrangements for the devotees who offered ‘Gangajal’ to the Shiva linga at the Areraj temple. “We have made elaborate arrangements in order to make sure that no untoward incident takes place. Covid safety protocols are also being followed strictly on the premises of the temple,” Areraj SDM Sanjeev Kumar told this newspaper. Additional cops and 100 magistrates were also deployed at strategic points to help the devotees. “The control rooms are keeping tabs on the devotees through the 21 CCTV cameras installed inside the temple. Doctors and paramedical staff are also on duty here,” DSP Jyoti Prakash said, adding that volunteers were helping police keep the temple clean. The ‘mahanth’ of the Someshwar Nath Mahadev Temple, Ravi Shankar Giri, claimed that over one lakh ‘kanwariyas’ and devotees from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Nepal had offered ‘Gangajal’ to Lord Shiva. However, a devotee from Nepal, Niren Thapa, rued the absence of ‘dharamshalas’ in Areraj. He claimed, “A large number of pilgrims, including women and children, were compelled to sleep on the roadside or in open fields at night.” Echoing similar views, social worker Gappu Ray and political activist Krishna Mishra alleged that the pilgrims had a tough time because of the lack of toilets in and around the temple. Celebrations in W Champaran: Shiva temples in West Champaran district also witnessed huge footfalls on the occasion of Mahashivaratri on Thursday. A large number of devotees queued up outside Sagar Pokhra Temple in Bettiah, Narmadeshwar Temple in Ramnagar, Jata Shankar Temple in Valmikinagar, Pakki Bawli in Bagaha and Birla Mandir in Narkatiaganj. They performed puja and arti while offering milk, honey, curd, ‘Gangajal’, flowers and fruits to Lord Shiva. Many devotees also observed fast and participated in a procession of Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvati with elephants, horses and camels in Bettiah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lakhs-throng-areraj-temple-amid-covid-safety-protocols/articleshow/81454108.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Patna||‘Misutilization’ of UGC grants: Team to visit state next week||PATNA: Following the intervention of the Patna high court (HC) in a case relating to the misuse of various grants sanctioned to different colleges during the period of the 11th and 12th plans, a team of the University Grants Commission (UGC) will visit the state. A three-member team, headed by Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University’s vice-chancellor Karamjeet Singh and accompanied by other staff of the UGC, will first visit Patna University (PU) for two days on March 15 and 17. It will interact with the principals of 62 colleges of PU, Veer Kunwar Singh University (VKSU) and Jai Prakash University (JPU). The members will then camp at Magadh University (MU) in Bodh Gaya from March 17 to 19 to examine the utilization of the UGC grants sanctioned to different colleges. They will also visit Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU) after completing their work at MU. PU development officer Parimal Kumar Khan told this newspaper, “In 2017, a PIL was filed in the HC by an NGO, Veteran’s Forum for Transparency in Public Life, against universities for not submitting utilization certificates of Rs 287 crore to the UGC since 2007.” The court on January 10, 2018 asked PU, MU, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University, TMBU, Chanakya National Law University, JPU, Lalit Narayan Mithila University, Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University, Bhupendra Narayan Mandal University, and VKSU to file counter affidavits within six weeks. Later, on January 28, 2020 the HC ordered the UGC secretary to physically appear before the court and explain the manner. Recently the commission decided to get all the cases of utilization of grants examined and settled by sending its team to the universities concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/misutilization-of-ugc-grants-team-to-visit-state-next-week/articleshow/81454456.cms||B K Mishra
March 12, 2021||Patna||24 women employees of Danapur division felicitated||PATNA: The Women Welfare Organization (WWO) of the Danapur division felicitated 24 employees at a function organized at Khagaul-based Railway Officers’ Club on Thursday. They were honoured for performing their duties efficiently on International Women’s Day on March 8. Some of the women, who were felicitated on the occasion, included Danapur Railway Hospital matron Renu Gupta, guard Neha Kumari, loco pilot Richa Kumari, station master Sonam Kumari, gatewoman Ratna Singh, traffic inspector Sanju Parjapati, porter Meena Devi, reservation clerk Aparna Thakur and commercial staff Bina Kumari and Reena Kumari. Speaking on the occasion, Danapur divisional railway manager Sunil Kumar said, “Altogether 550 railway employees belonging to different departments have been given certificates as well.” He urged the women railway employees to work hard for achieving all-round development of the division. Senior railway officials, their wives, other employees and union representatives attended the function. Train likely to be diverted:The Railway Board is likely to divert the Anand Vihar-Agartala Rajdhani Express (20501/20502) via the Patna-Kiul-Jamalpur-Munger route to cater to the needs of the frequent commuters in Jamalpur and Munger. At present, the train runs via the Danapur-Patliputra Junction-Barauni-Katihar-New Jalpaiguri route. An official claimed that a few representatives from Munger University and some local bodies had urged the Railway Board to start a superfast train like Rajdhani Express from Jamalpur and Munger to Delhi so that the people could travel easily. “The railways may add the Anand Vihar-Agartala Rajdhani Express to its schedule in the new timetable that will be released in April or June,” the official added. Meanwhile, the chief public relations officer of the East Central Railway, Rajesh Kumar, said, “The Railway Board is yet to inform the ECR about the proposed diversion of the Anand Vihar-Agartala Rajdhani Express.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/24-women-employees-of-danapur-divn-feted/articleshow/81454497.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Varanasi||CM performs Shiv Puja at Piteshwarnath temple, Gorakhnath temple||Gorakhpur: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath performed jalabhishek at Piteshwarnath temple in Bharohiya block in Pipiganj area of Gorakhpur district and at Gorakhnath temple on the occasion of Mahashivratri on Thursday. CM Yogi’s helicopter landed at Bapu PG College in Pipiganj on Thursday afternoon from where he went to Piteshwarnath temple and performed Jalabhishek and puja of Lord Shiva. MLA Fatehbahadur Singh along with others and administrative officials was also present on the occasion. The chief minister also inspected the newly-constructed rooms at Guru Gorakshnath Vidyapeeth at the premises of Piteshwarnath temple. The principal Manish Kumar Dubey welcomed the CM with flowers. The chief minister also discussed about the running of school with him and also gave him some instructions regarding the schools. The chief minister also met around 200 locals at Piteshwarnath temple and gave them blessings on Mahashivratri. He then left for Gorakhnath temple. CM Yogi is Peethdhishwar of Gorakshpeeth and like every year he performed puja and Rudrabhishek there on the occasion of Mahashivratri. Guru Gorakshnath is believed to be the incarnation of Lord Shiva in the Nath sect and Mahashivratri is considered to be a very important occasion in the sect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-performs-shiv-puja-at-piteshwarnath-temple-gorakhnath-temple/articleshow/81454528.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Business||NCR enables interoperable UPI at ATMs||Mumbai: ATM maker NCR has launched what it claims is the first interoperable cash-withdrawal solution based on the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) platform. The bank has already installed its solution in City Union Bank and is running pilots with a few others. The company has said that customers of any bank which signs up for the facility will have access to ATMs of other banks already on-boarded to the UPI solution. “The beauty of our solution, versus others in the market, is that ours is scheme-agnostic — it will work on Mastercard, Visa and RuPay networks and it is completely interoperable. The customer of one bank can do UPI-based withdrawal from ATM of another bank,” said NCR India CEO Navroze Dastur. UPI was a platform to enable instant account-to-account transfers using an email-like id without having to share credentials. For in-store payments, UPI was enabled to initiate transfers instantly by scanning a QR code without even entering the UPI handle. Earlier, AGS Transact Technologies was the first to launch a UPI QR-based cash withdrawal feature on Bank of India ATMs. “National Payments Corporation of India has set the standards for this. We have been working along with them and are now enabling ATMs for whichever bank that wants to offer cardless withdrawal through UPI,” said Dastur. Customers do not need to make any change in their phone applications and their existing UPI apps will work. Also, the bank does not need to make any changes to its ATM switch. “We are making use of the existing infrastructure and this solution can be rolled out en masse. The application can be deployed remotely once the bank signs up with us. We do not need to physically visit every ATM,” he added. A customer who visits a UPI-enabled ATM will need to scan the QR code on the screen and authorise the withdrawal through his mobile phone. However, unlike stores where the QR code is static, the one on the ATM screen will change constantly to prevent fraud. “The biggest advantage of this technology is that there is no fear of card skimming or forgetting the card at the machine. All those challenges which were there earlier are no longer there,” said Dastur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ncr-enables-interoperable-upi-at-atms/articleshow/81457130.cms||Mayur Shetty
March 12, 2021||Business||Kalyan Jewellers IPO price fixed in Rs 86-87 range||MUMBAI: Warburg Pincus-backed Kalyan Jewellers has fixed a price band of Rs 86 to Rs 87 per equity share for its initial public offer (IPO), which will open for subscription on March 16. The IPO, which constitutes 13% of Kalyan’s fully diluted equity, values the retail jeweller at Rs 8,961 crore at the higher end of the price band. The offer, a combination of fresh issue of shares and a partial sale of shares by founder T S Kalyanaraman and investor Warburg, will close on March 18. Kalyan, the latest to join the primary market rush that has continued into this calendar year, plans to raise Rs 1,175 crore from the IPO. It had initially planned to pool Rs 1,750 crore from public investors, but reduced its IPO size due to unfavourable market conditions. Kalyan’s will be the biggest IPO from the consumer retail segment after D-Mart’s Rs 1,870-crore issue in 2017. The jeweller, which started its operations in Thrissur, Kerala, in 1993, plans to use the proceeds from the IPO for working capital requirements, debt reduction and other corporate purposes. Kalyan had a debt of Rs 3,667 crore as on December 30, 2020. The last time a pure-play jeweller launched an IPO was in 2012 when PC Jeweller hit the primary market with a Rs 600-crore issue. Kalyan’s IPO price is higher than Warburg’s share conversion price as on March 4. Warburg converted Kalyan’s preference shares into equity ones at Rs 51apiece. Warburg will own 26% in Kalyan after the IPO, while the founder will hold 61%. Kalyan, which now has 107 stores in India and 30 showrooms in the Middle East, reported a loss of Rs 799 crore on a revenue of Rs 5,550 crore during the nine months of fiscal 2021. Performance was impacted mainly due to business restrictions induced by the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kalyan-jewellers-ipo-price-fixed-in-rs-86-87-range/articleshow/81457124.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Patna||Patna: Falling gold prices cheer customers||PATNA: Falling gold prices have brought some cheer for customers ahead of the wedding season, but city jewellers claim that the market is yet to reach the pre-pandemic levels despite a dramatic increase in sales. The rate for 24-carat gold in Patna on Thursday was Rs 4,471 per gram, whereas 22-carat gold was Rs 4,371 per gram. The gold prices are at their lowest compared to February, but jewellers claimed that the sales are yet to peak due to the fluctuating prices and many customers waiting for the prices to fall further. "The rates are gradually returning to what they were before the pandemic due to which the numbers of buyers have drastically increased, but a lot of customers are still hoping that the prices will fall more," Vishal Gupta, owner of a jewellery store said. Economist D M Diwakar said the recent fluctuations in gold prices are due to the ongoing pandemic and its subsequent economic imbalance. "It is a wise decision to invest in gold right now as we are heading towards the wedding season. Also, the rates may fluctuate in the coming days depending on the persistent economic pressure," he added. Neeraj Kumar Singh, the owner of a prominent gold shop at Jagdeo Path, said, "The price depreciation is good for the customers as they were waiting for the prices to fall. But for a businessman, it’s not that profitable." The price of gold has been declining since the beginning of this year. "When the rate of gold increases the market also rises, but a decline in the rates gives the customers hope that it will fall further, making them wait for more," said Rajesh Kumar, a jewellery shop executive. As opposed to the gold traders, the customers are elated with the decline in prices. Neelam Gupta, a frequent buyer, said, "It is a good time for investment in gold but we are still hoping the rates to fall further." Echoing similar views, Seema, a resident of Gola Road said, "The fall in the price of gold is highly beneficial for customers like me, as we all know women can never get enough of gold jewellery." "Gold is the sign of wealth and prosperity so, no matter what the price is we will buy it at any cost," said Lalu Singh, a customer at a jewellery showroom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/falling-gold-prices-cheer-customers/articleshow/81454032.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Trichy||Civic issues turn poll plank in cities||Trichy: With elected councils having been missing forfive years in urban local bodies, the void is likely to play a crucial role inthe upcoming assembly election. There are enough signs that the civic troublesthat were left unaddressed by local bodies and the disappointment over absenceof councillors who acted a bridge between the people and the administration ingrievances redressal are turning a poll plank. In the absence of councillors, voters had expectedthe MLAs to play the role of people’s representatives with regard to civicbodies too. So, a section of the public associate grievance redressal in citiesand towns as responsibility of MLAs and lack of problem solving is seen as areflection of the MLA’s performance. “This election will be different. Voters will usuallyhold us responsible in case of any civic grievances during elections. But withthe council absent, MLAs will be held responsible,” Mohamed Mustafa, a three-timecouncillor of Trichy Corporation, said. Since 2016, corporation and municipality commissionerswere given powers as special officers to execute works as elections to urbanlocal bodies were deferred. Although the rural local bodies went for polling inDecember 2019, the status of urban local bodies sans elected council remained the same.Issues such as erraticwater supply, bad roadsand faulty drainage infrastructure are plaguing every city. Madurai Central was one place, in the heart ofMadurai city, that felt the absence of its elected corporation councillor verybadly in the last five years.“The roads were dug up, and water supply disrupted,due to the ongoing smart city work, but we could never get it redressedimmediately, as there was no councillor. Since our MLA P T R PalanivelThiagarajan, was from the opposition party, even he could not do much,”' said TSundaraman of Simmakkal. “The officials in the local body refused to interact with us” S Panjabagesan, a voter in Thiruverumbur, Trichy said. Opposition parties said they will play up theissues of the civic grievances during their campaign. (With inputs from Padmini Sivaraj in Madurai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/civic-issues-turn-poll-plank-in-cities/articleshow/81456246.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||After high-profile wedding reception, many test positive||PANAJI: That it is still not safe to give a slip to Covid-appropriate protocol while at a function, whether it is a party or a wedding or any gathering, became glaringly clear after several guests, including a South Goa politician’s son, who attended the high-profile wedding reception of an industrialist family tested positive. It was held at a starred hotel in the city. The state has been seeing a rise in cases, and the government has appealed to the people to take all precautionary measures. But there has been no enforcement of it. A senior counsel who was among the invitees has been hospitalised after he tested positive. His condition is said to be stable. The health authorities have been tight-lipped not are willing to reveal the number of guests who have contracted the virus after the wedding. The video of bride and groom dancing along with other guests without wearing masks and not following other SOPs, which was uploaded on social media, has gone viral after the guests tested positive. However, the source said the list of those who contracted the virus is certainly huge since all beds of the corporate hospital that is known to treat prominent personalities have all been taken. Most of the Covid positive guests are either from Margao or Panaji, including close family members of bride and groom, the source said. Since last week, both Margao and Panaji have witnessed a rise in infections. On Thursday, the caseload of Panaji urban health rose to 107, while that of Margao went up to 96. A health official said nobody keeps a tab on the number of people who attend a wedding and whether the guests wear masks. “It is humanly not possible to keep checking and people should learn to behave responsibly. We know how Covid-19 spreads, so must take precautions,” he said. Though vaccination has commenced, he said “we don’t know how fast all segments of the population will be covered”. “If there is a spike again, it will be a difficult situation. As a doctor, I can’t bear to recall the harrowing five months when Covid cases started rising from June last year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-high-profile-wedding-reception-many-test-positive/articleshow/81457262.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||Duo attempts bail citing Covid chances in jail||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has denied bail to the two murder accused who sought to get out on the pretext getting infected with Covid at the Colvale Central Jail. “So far as pandemic situation of Covid-19 is concerned, the vaccination process is on,” the court held. “Considering the nature of offence punishable with life and death and taking into consideration other facts on record, there is every possibility of the accused interfering and threatening the witnesses. The matter is ripe for trial…” the court held. The two inmates — Dayashankar Sahu and Umesh Lamani alias Rathod — told the court that during the outbreak of Covid-19, they face a grave threat of being infected with Covid-19 due to congestion in the prison. They also said that due to the pandemic, there is every possibility of the trial getting delayed. The court found that the offence is heinous and serious and there are eye-witnesses who had identified the accused during the identification parade. There is also a CFSL report showing presence of blood stains of the deceased on the clothes of the accused. The two were arrested in 2019 in connection with the murder of 41-year-old hotelier and pub owner at Candolim. They were accused of allegedly stabbing Vishwajeet Singh with swords in the parking lot of an apartment. They were earlier denied bail by the additional district sessions judge on November 12, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/duo-attempts-bail-citing-covid-chances-in-jail/articleshow/81456322.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Lucknow||UP CM Adityanath Yogi orders additional Covid vigil in 4 districts||LUCKNOW: Following a surge in Covid-19 cases in Lucknow, Kanpur, Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday instructed officials to step up the surveillance and testing activities in the four districts. Data from the state health department shows that as many as 1,264 new cases have been reported in UP since March 1 till March 11. Of these, 480 or 37.9% of the cases belong to the four districts. Directing officials that the edge over coronavirus in UP must be maintained, he said that every possible step must be taken to weaken the chain of viral spread for which surveillance and testing must remain in top gear. “The situation in the districts recording a surge in cases must be examined at the micro level so that the problem can be nipped in the bud,” the CM told officials. He added that focused testing activity must be conducted with festival season just a few days away. Later, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that focused testing activity is being launched from March 13 in which shop keepers in markets and mall, vendors, workers in restaurants will be tested. The CM also appealed to people to follow Covid-19 protocol to keep trouble at bay. Reviewing the status of vaccination, the CM said that districts with a population of over 25 lakh people must vaccinate 5,000 persons per day while those having a population of less than 25 lakh must cover 3,000 persons per day. Meanwhile, 146 new cases in the past 24 hours took the state’s tally to 604791. Of the total, 5,94,308 including 89 in the past 24 hours, have recovered. One person died of Covid-19 complications taking the total number of deaths to 8,741.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-yogi-orders-addl-covid-vigil-in-4-dists/articleshow/81457113.cms||Shailvee Sharda
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Seniors steal jab thunder, 1.3L get the shot in 10 days||Hyderabad: With elderly population in the city turning up for Covid vaccination in large numbers, the number of elderly vaccinated has touched 1.34 lakh within 10 days of the drive. In fact, many are turning up in small groups of 3 to 7 people — sometimes with all the elderly from the extended family and some are convincing and dragging their friends together for the vaccination. In just 10 days of the vaccination programme being rolled out for category of elderly and people with comorbidities, the elderly population alone has surpassed the vaccination coverage of frontline workers and has reached 60% of the coverage of healthcare workers. For 82-year-old Lakshmi Krishamurthy, the pandemic had brought her life to a grinding halt. When the vaccination programme for the elderly was rolled out, she took the lead to convince her daughter, son-in-law and her best friend to go for the jab. “We four go together everywhere and spend time together, but these last few months I didn’t venture out unless it was an absolute emergency. They had to get everything to me as I could not go out. Since I am the oldest of the lot, I talked to everybody, convinced them, fixed a time and we took the vaccine. Now we can move freely,” she says. Many others who had been waiting to begin their social life are getting in tow their friends, neighbours and family to get protection of the vaccine. Eleven elderly from a gated community at Kondapur got together and went to a private vaccination centre on Thursday. “They approached us and we got all the elderly to Medicover Hospital for vaccination. We came early, booked slots on the spot and all our residents have been vaccinated,” said Srinivas Rao, secretary, Aditya Sunshine. For 62-year-old Annapurna from Kawadiguda Gandhinagar, staying alone through the pandemic meant complete dependence on neighbours. “Although my neighbours and relatives had taken care of me as I was not venturing out, I wanted to get the vaccine to restart my social life. I convinced another friend and we approached our neighbours, who took us for vaccination,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seniors-steal-jab-thunder-1-3l-get-the-shot-in-10-days/articleshow/81457103.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||Covid-19: Eight of India’s 10 worst-hit districts in Maharashtra, Centre ‘very worried’||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: Eight of the ten districts with the highest active cases in the country are from Maharashtra, the Union health ministry said on Thursday, calling the surge a “tipping point”. Pune, Nagpur, Thane and Mumbai are the top four. "We are very worried about Maharashtra. Across several districts in Maharashtra there is a rise. A strict lockdown has been imposed in Nagpur. We are reaching a situation where those approaches are being brought back,” said Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul, adding that the surge shows the virus cannot be taken for granted. “It can come up unexpectedly, with dynamics we don't know of." The state’s active caseload has more than doubled in the past month, from 36,917 on February 11 to 1,00,240 on March 11. Dr Balram Bhargava, director general of Indian Council of Medical Research, said no mutant strains were responsible and blamed Covid-inappropriate behaviour and congregations for the rise. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said active cases in Maharashtra jumped from 36,917 on February 11 to 1,00,240 on March 11, a rise of 172%. Bhushan contrasted it with the example of Kerala that has reduced active cases from 64,607 in February 11 to 35,715 in March 11. Ernakulam in Kerala and Bengaluru (urban) from Karnataka are the only two districts from outside the state in the top 10. “Increase is related to reduced testing, tracking and tracing and Covid-inappropriate behaviour and large congregations. There is also a hypothesis that re-opening of suburban trains, weddings have led to the spike," Bhargava said. Centre also issued a caution for Delhi and its neighbourhood, saying there was a rise in positivity rate in the Capital and NCR regions like Gurgaon and Faridabad as also Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad. As per Central data, Pune district had the highest active cases (18,474) followed by Nagpur (12,724) and Thane (10,460). Mumbai was at fourth position (9,973). Amravati from the Vidarbha region and Aurangabad from Marathwada also featured in the top 10, along with Jalgaon and Nashik from northern Maharashtra. “The distribution of active cases shows that nearly every corner of the state right from Vidarbha, Marathwada to Konkan and western Maharashtra is seeing a surge,” a state official said. The state’s daily positivity rate—another crucial indicator of higher transmission—hit 15% on Wednesday, a high last seen in October. Two districts, Dhule and Buldhana, had a daily positivity of 31% and 30% respectively while five, including Nashik (26%), Pune (26%), Jalna (22%) and Nagpur (20%), shot past the state average. Seven districts, including three from Marathwada and two from Vidarbha, have a daily positivity rate between 15% and 18%. The state’s positivity has increased three times since January. Among all major cities, Mumbai seems to be an outlier with daily positivity between 5-7%. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state advisory committee said the state would continue to see a rise in the coming few weeks. “Whatever measures have been put in place will take at least a few weeks to bear fruit. Till then we have to test and trace adequately,” he said. A state official said on Wednesday, over 97,000 tests were carried out, one of the highest tallies on a single day in the past month. However, it is evident some districts—Buldhana, Dhule, for example—are not testing much. Buldhana did 580 tests on March 9 while Dhule did less than 200. (With inputs from Sushmi Dey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-of-indias-10-worst-hit-dists-in-maha-centre-very-worried/articleshow/81458699.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 12, 2021||Goa||South Goa hospital sees highest Covid admissions since November||PANAJI: The South Goa district hospital has recorded a rise in admissions of Covid-19 patients. The hospital that treats mild to severe cases has admitted 33 patients between Monday and Wednesday, and as many as 17 on Wednesday alone. This is the highest single day spike in admissions the hospital has reported since November last year. For the past five weeks, the hospital has been reporting an average of five admissions. The number would very rarely go up to eight patients. The spike seen in the context of Goa’s neighbouring states reporting a rising trend, is worrying. “We should not get such spikes. Only time will tell whether this is a one-off incident or whether it will persist. People must be more cautious and concentrate on self-protection,” nodal officer of the hospital Dr Rajesh Patil told TOI. Two of those recently admitted were obstetrics patients, one of them underwent a C-section at the hospital. The hospital has been seeing more male than female patients, most of whom are middle-aged to elderly with comorbidities including the diabetes and hypertension. Patil said people have turned complacent, and when compared to the panic that was present last year, take the disease more casually now. “In the earlier days there was panic admission. Now we have to convince many to get admitted. They would like to go home, but after clinically evaluating them we tell them that admission is required. There is also the happy hypoxia condition where patients don’t feel the stressed condition and feel all right despite them being unwell,” he said. The patients are asked to do a test brisk walk for five minutes and if their oxygen saturation is found to be falling, they are admitted. CT scans and X-rays are also used to clinically evaluate patients. The moderate Covid-19 cases are usually admitted for a maximum of 10 days and those severe sometimes longer, until they finish their course of antiviral drugs and are found clinically fit for discharge. On admission, depending on their individual case, they are started on oxygen, Remdesivir injections and some even steroids, and provided with good nutrition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/s-goa-hospital-sees-highest-covid-admissions-since-nov/articleshow/81457282.cms||Lisa Monteiro
March 12, 2021||Thane||Covid-19: Eight of India’s 10 worst-hit districts in Maharashtra, Centre ‘very worried’||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: Eight of the ten districts with the highest active cases in the country are from Maharashtra, the Union health ministry said on Thursday, calling the surge a “tipping point”. Pune, Nagpur, Thane and Mumbai are the top four. "We are very worried about Maharashtra. Across several districts in Maharashtra there is a rise. A strict lockdown has been imposed in Nagpur. We are reaching a situation where those approaches are being brought back,” said Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul, adding that the surge shows the virus cannot be taken for granted. “It can come up unexpectedly, with dynamics we don't know of." The state’s active caseload has more than doubled in the past month, from 36,917 on February 11 to 1,00,240 on March 11. Dr Balram Bhargava, director general of Indian Council of Medical Research, said no mutant strains were responsible and blamed Covid-inappropriate behaviour and congregations for the rise. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said active cases in Maharashtra jumped from 36,917 on February 11 to 1,00,240 on March 11, a rise of 172%. Bhushan contrasted it with the example of Kerala that has reduced active cases from 64,607 in February 11 to 35,715 in March 11. Ernakulam in Kerala and Bengaluru (urban) from Karnataka are the only two districts from outside the state in the top 10. “Increase is related to reduced testing, tracking and tracing and Covid-inappropriate behaviour and large congregations. There is also a hypothesis that re-opening of suburban trains, weddings have led to the spike," Bhargava said. Centre also issued a caution for Delhi and its neighbourhood, saying there was a rise in positivity rate in the Capital and NCR regions like Gurgaon and Faridabad as also Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad. As per Central data, Pune district had the highest active cases (18,474) followed by Nagpur (12,724) and Thane (10,460). Mumbai was at fourth position (9,973). Amravati from the Vidarbha region and Aurangabad from Marathwada also featured in the top 10, along with Jalgaon and Nashik from northern Maharashtra. “The distribution of active cases shows that nearly every corner of the state right from Vidarbha, Marathwada to Konkan and western Maharashtra is seeing a surge,” a state official said. The state’s daily positivity rate—another crucial indicator of higher transmission—hit 15% on Wednesday, a high last seen in October. Two districts, Dhule and Buldhana, had a daily positivity of 31% and 30% respectively while five, including Nashik (26%), Pune (26%), Jalna (22%) and Nagpur (20%), shot past the state average. Seven districts, including three from Marathwada and two from Vidarbha, have a daily positivity rate between 15% and 18%. The state’s positivity has increased three times since January. Among all major cities, Mumbai seems to be an outlier with daily positivity between 5-7%. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state advisory committee said the state would continue to see a rise in the coming few weeks. “Whatever measures have been put in place will take at least a few weeks to bear fruit. Till then we have to test and trace adequately,” he said. A state official said on Wednesday, over 97,000 tests were carried out, one of the highest tallies on a single day in the past month. However, it is evident some districts—Buldhana, Dhule, for example—are not testing much. Buldhana did 580 tests on March 9 while Dhule did less than 200. (With inputs from Sushmi Dey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/8-of-indias-10-worst-hit-dists-in-maha-centre-very-worried/articleshow/81458700.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Eight of India’s 10 worst-hit districts in Maharashtra, Centre ‘very worried’||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: Eight of the ten districts with the highest active cases in the country are from Maharashtra, the Union health ministry said on Thursday, calling the surge a “tipping point”. Pune, Nagpur, Thane and Mumbai are the top four. "We are very worried about Maharashtra. Across several districts in Maharashtra there is a rise. A strict lockdown has been imposed in Nagpur. We are reaching a situation where those approaches are being brought back,” said Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul, adding that the surge shows the virus cannot be taken for granted. “It can come up unexpectedly, with dynamics we don't know of." The state’s active caseload has more than doubled in the past month, from 36,917 on February 11 to 1,00,240 on March 11. Dr Balram Bhargava, director general of Indian Council of Medical Research, said no mutant strains were responsible and blamed Covid-inappropriate behaviour and congregations for the rise. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said active cases in Maharashtra jumped from 36,917 on February 11 to 1,00,240 on March 11, a rise of 172%. Bhushan contrasted it with the example of Kerala that has reduced active cases from 64,607 in February 11 to 35,715 in March 11. Ernakulam in Kerala and Bengaluru (urban) from Karnataka are the only two districts from outside the state in the top 10. “Increase is related to reduced testing, tracking and tracing and Covid-inappropriate behaviour and large congregations. There is also a hypothesis that re-opening of suburban trains, weddings have led to the spike," Bhargava said. Centre also issued a caution for Delhi and its neighbourhood, saying there was a rise in positivity rate in the Capital and NCR regions like Gurgaon and Faridabad as also Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad. As per Central data, Pune district had the highest active cases (18,474) followed by Nagpur (12,724) and Thane (10,460). Mumbai was at fourth position (9,973). Amravati from the Vidarbha region and Aurangabad from Marathwada also featured in the top 10, along with Jalgaon and Nashik from northern Maharashtra. “The distribution of active cases shows that nearly every corner of the state right from Vidarbha, Marathwada to Konkan and western Maharashtra is seeing a surge,” a state official said. The state’s daily positivity rate—another crucial indicator of higher transmission—hit 15% on Wednesday, a high last seen in October. Two districts, Dhule and Buldhana, had a daily positivity of 31% and 30% respectively while five, including Nashik (26%), Pune (26%), Jalna (22%) and Nagpur (20%), shot past the state average. Seven districts, including three from Marathwada and two from Vidarbha, have a daily positivity rate between 15% and 18%. The state’s positivity has increased three times since January. Among all major cities, Mumbai seems to be an outlier with daily positivity between 5-7%. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state advisory committee said the state would continue to see a rise in the coming few weeks. “Whatever measures have been put in place will take at least a few weeks to bear fruit. Till then we have to test and trace adequately,” he said. A state official said on Wednesday, over 97,000 tests were carried out, one of the highest tallies on a single day in the past month. However, it is evident some districts—Buldhana, Dhule, for example—are not testing much. Buldhana did 580 tests on March 9 while Dhule did less than 200. (With inputs from Sushmi Dey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/8-of-indias-10-worst-hit-dists-in-maha-centre-very-worried/articleshow/81457646.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 12, 2021||Pune||Covid-19: Eight of India’s 10 worst-hit districts in Maharashtra, Centre ‘very worried’||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: Eight of the ten districts with the highest active cases in the country are from Maharashtra, the Union health ministry said on Thursday, calling the surge a “tipping point”. Pune, Nagpur, Thane and Mumbai are the top four. "We are very worried about Maharashtra. Across several districts in Maharashtra there is a rise. A strict lockdown has been imposed in Nagpur. We are reaching a situation where those approaches are being brought back,” said Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul, adding that the surge shows the virus cannot be taken for granted. “It can come up unexpectedly, with dynamics we don't know of." The state’s active caseload has more than doubled in the past month, from 36,917 on February 11 to 1,00,240 on March 11. Dr Balram Bhargava, director general of Indian Council of Medical Research, said no mutant strains were responsible and blamed Covid-inappropriate behaviour and congregations for the rise. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said active cases in Maharashtra jumped from 36,917 on February 11 to 1,00,240 on March 11, a rise of 172%. Bhushan contrasted it with the example of Kerala that has reduced active cases from 64,607 in February 11 to 35,715 in March 11. Ernakulam in Kerala and Bengaluru (urban) from Karnataka are the only two districts from outside the state in the top 10. “Increase is related to reduced testing, tracking and tracing and Covid-inappropriate behaviour and large congregations. There is also a hypothesis that re-opening of suburban trains, weddings have led to the spike," Bhargava said. Centre also issued a caution for Delhi and its neighbourhood, saying there was a rise in positivity rate in the Capital and NCR regions like Gurgaon and Faridabad as also Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad. As per Central data, Pune district had the highest active cases (18,474) followed by Nagpur (12,724) and Thane (10,460). Mumbai was at fourth position (9,973). Amravati from the Vidarbha region and Aurangabad from Marathwada also featured in the top 10, along with Jalgaon and Nashik from northern Maharashtra. “The distribution of active cases shows that nearly every corner of the state right from Vidarbha, Marathwada to Konkan and western Maharashtra is seeing a surge,” a state official said. The state’s daily positivity rate—another crucial indicator of higher transmission—hit 15% on Wednesday, a high last seen in October. Two districts, Dhule and Buldhana, had a daily positivity of 31% and 30% respectively while five, including Nashik (26%), Pune (26%), Jalna (22%) and Nagpur (20%), shot past the state average. Seven districts, including three from Marathwada and two from Vidarbha, have a daily positivity rate between 15% and 18%. The state’s positivity has increased three times since January. Among all major cities, Mumbai seems to be an outlier with daily positivity between 5-7%. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state advisory committee said the state would continue to see a rise in the coming few weeks. “Whatever measures have been put in place will take at least a few weeks to bear fruit. Till then we have to test and trace adequately,” he said. A state official said on Wednesday, over 97,000 tests were carried out, one of the highest tallies on a single day in the past month. However, it is evident some districts—Buldhana, Dhule, for example—are not testing much. Buldhana did 580 tests on March 9 while Dhule did less than 200. (With inputs from Sushmi Dey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/8-of-indias-10-worst-hit-dists-in-maha-centre-very-worried/articleshow/81458698.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai:Mgmt college postpones edu trip to Dubai||Mumbai: Borivali management college which was planning to take over 80 students on an industrial visit to Dubai this month has put off the plan till further notice. The Global Exposure Programme was an integral part of the curriculum for the two-year post graduate diploma management (PGDM) course at Aditya Institute of Management Studies and Research and carried three credit points, said the institute, in a statement. TOI had earlier reported that a section of students is not willing to go on the trip in the middle of the pandemic and were keen on getting the fees waived off. The institute, in a statement, however, mentioned that over 75% of the batch had shown their willingness to join the trip and had already given their parents’ consent. The students who wanted to opt out were given the option of joining the online certificate course from Harvard Business School to complete their credits. But some students did not want to go for the expensive online programme as well and instead wanted the institute to waive off the fees. The decision to postpone the trip was taken after a few students raised their concerns with Mumbai University’s senate member. The students were to travel in two batches on March 18 and 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaimgmt-college-postpones-edu-trip-to-dubai/articleshow/81457120.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: Eight of India’s 10 worst-hit districts in Maharashtra, Centre ‘very worried’||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: Eight of the ten districts with the highest active cases in the country are from Maharashtra, the Union health ministry said on Thursday, calling the surge a “tipping point”. Pune, Nagpur, Thane and Mumbai are the top four. "We are very worried about Maharashtra. Across several districts in Maharashtra there is a rise. A strict lockdown has been imposed in Nagpur. We are reaching a situation where those approaches are being brought back,” said Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul, adding that the surge shows the virus cannot be taken for granted. “It can come up unexpectedly, with dynamics we don't know of." The state’s active caseload has more than doubled in the past month, from 36,917 on February 11 to 1,00,240 on March 11. Dr Balram Bhargava, director general of Indian Council of Medical Research, said no mutant strains were responsible and blamed Covid-inappropriate behaviour and congregations for the rise. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said active cases in Maharashtra jumped from 36,917 on February 11 to 1,00,240 on March 11, a rise of 172%. Bhushan contrasted it with the example of Kerala that has reduced active cases from 64,607 in February 11 to 35,715 in March 11. Ernakulam in Kerala and Bengaluru (urban) from Karnataka are the only two districts from outside the state in the top 10. “Increase is related to reduced testing, tracking and tracing and Covid-inappropriate behaviour and large congregations. There is also a hypothesis that re-opening of suburban trains, weddings have led to the spike," Bhargava said. Centre also issued a caution for Delhi and its neighbourhood, saying there was a rise in positivity rate in the Capital and NCR regions like Gurgaon and Faridabad as also Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad. As per Central data, Pune district had the highest active cases (18,474) followed by Nagpur (12,724) and Thane (10,460). Mumbai was at fourth position (9,973). Amravati from the Vidarbha region and Aurangabad from Marathwada also featured in the top 10, along with Jalgaon and Nashik from northern Maharashtra. “The distribution of active cases shows that nearly every corner of the state right from Vidarbha, Marathwada to Konkan and western Maharashtra is seeing a surge,” a state official said. The state’s daily positivity rate—another crucial indicator of higher transmission—hit 15% on Wednesday, a high last seen in October. Two districts, Dhule and Buldhana, had a daily positivity of 31% and 30% respectively while five, including Nashik (26%), Pune (26%), Jalna (22%) and Nagpur (20%), shot past the state average. Seven districts, including three from Marathwada and two from Vidarbha, have a daily positivity rate between 15% and 18%. The state’s positivity has increased three times since January. Among all major cities, Mumbai seems to be an outlier with daily positivity between 5-7%. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state advisory committee said the state would continue to see a rise in the coming few weeks. “Whatever measures have been put in place will take at least a few weeks to bear fruit. Till then we have to test and trace adequately,” he said. A state official said on Wednesday, over 97,000 tests were carried out, one of the highest tallies on a single day in the past month. However, it is evident some districts—Buldhana, Dhule, for example—are not testing much. Buldhana did 580 tests on March 9 while Dhule did less than 200. (With inputs from Sushmi Dey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/8-of-indias-10-worst-hit-dists-in-maha-centre-very-worried/articleshow/81458701.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 12, 2021||Lucknow||Dalit anointed head priest of Lord Shiva temple near Lucknow||LUCKNOW: In reverence to the Lord Shiva on the festival of Mahashivratri on Thursday, a member of a Scheduled Caste -- Pasi — has been anointed as the head priest of a newly built temple on the Lucknow-Sultanpur road. Akanasha Dubey, who has done international law from the Stanford Law School and University of Cambridge and is settled in Lucknow as an advocate of the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court, has constructed a huge Lord Shiva temple Shri Devadhidev Mahadev Sthanam on the Lucknow-Sultanpur road, about 25 km from Lucknow. Talking to TOI, she said: “I feel Lord Shiva symbolises equality, compassion and goodness and is destroyer of all ills plaguing the society. Following the Shiva’s virtues and his philosophy, I have decided to nominate Phooldev, a Scheduled Caste, as pujari (priest) of the temple.” Akansha, a pass-out of the New York State Supreme Court, organised a massive ‘Rudrabhishek’ programme to formally hand over the temple to Phooldev. Amid chanting of Om Namah Shivay by hundreds of people, the new priest performed ‘Rudrabhishek’. Senior politicians and government officers also attended the ritual. Recalling her decision of anointing an SC as the head priest, Akansha said some construction work was going on near the spot where now exists the temple when some locals spotted an idol of Lord Shiva. “At that very moment we all decided to construct a grand Shiva temple on the spot,” she said and added that Phooldev, who was working as labourer on the construction site, had good knowledge of religion and priesthood. “I immediately decided to make him the head priest of the temple,” she added. “Initially, there was a muted criticism of Phooldev’s nomination as temple priest. But later people accepted him. Today, he formally became the head priest of the temple,” Akansha, who described her decision as ‘sanskritisation’ (cultural purification) of the society, said. “Main kya bolu. Main to kabhi sapne mein bhi nahi soch sakta tha (What should I say. I had never imagined that I would be head priest of a temple one day),” remarked the priest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dalit-anointed-head-priest-of-lord-shiva-temple-near-capital/articleshow/81457117.cms||Subhash Mishra
March 12, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Bullbars are back on cars of politicians||CHENNAI: Crackdown and force-removals notwithstanding, use of bullbars on cars and sports utility vehicles (SUVs) is on the rise as poll campaigns intensify — politicians are the main culprits. The illegal structures, which could stop airbag deployment during accidents, are fit to frame or car chassis to carry party flags and name boards so that they can seek exemption at toll plazas and skip queues in public. Last December, the state transport department launched a state-wide drive to stop installation of such crash guards, which was banned under the Motor Vehicles Act of 1988. Officials started collecting a penalty of Rs 1,000 from each of the violators. After several top bureaucrats and ministers were found violating the rule, chief secretary K Shanmugham wrote to all of them asking them to remove such extra fittings. But this did not put an end to it. Indeed a car in the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy's convoy, which met with an accident near Tuticorin, had bullbars fit on them. Central government agencies like goods and services tax (GST) office too did not adhere to the ban. After TOI highlighted this in a report in January, hundreds of government vehicles queued up at the central workshop at Guindy to get the guards removed. Six weeks down the line with elections round the corner, bull bars are back on cars of politicians. A Sreenivasan, a road safety advocate from Madurai, said these accessories not only distort the airbag system but also pose a safety hazard to pedestrians. "Moreover, vehicle owners stand a chance of losing their insurance claims. There have been several instance in the recent past where insurance firms have denied accident compensations because of attaching such illegal accessory to a car," he added. When asked about this, a senior transport department official said there was no change in the manner in which the rule is implemented and action taken by officials wherever they spot a violation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bullbars-are-back-on-cars-of-politicians/articleshow/81455249.cms||Ram Sundaram
March 12, 2021||Vadodara||Work begins on gold plating of Shiva idol in Sursagar||Vadodara: Work of applying a gold plating on the colossal statue of Lord Shiva in the heart of Sursagar began here on Thursday, the day Maha Shivratri was celebrated. Around Rs 8 crore will be spent on the ambitious project.The plan to plate the Sarveshwar Mahadev statue in Sursagar with gold was made in 2018 by the minister of state for Narmada and urban housing Yogesh Patel. On Thursday, the plating began in the presence of chief minister Vijay Rupani, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel and state BJP chief C R Patil. The 11-feet idol was dedicated to the city in 2002 even as work on it began in the year 1996. The statue that was later christened Sarweshvar Mahadev was made by the Satyam Shivam Sundaram Samiti floated by Yogesh Patel who used to represent the Raopura constituency when the statue was erected. In 2018, Yogesh Patel floated the Suvarna Sankalp Foundation to plate the idol with gold. When it was made, the statue had a concrete core with copper plates fitted on it from the outside. Work on the project began with erecting scaffoldings around the statue and then cleaning it. The work of preparing the surface for the gold plating began in August last year. The plating of the idol with gold began on Thursday. Speaking at the event Rupani said that the state was always blessed by Lord Shiva. He said that he had prayed for the prosperity, safety and strength of the state. He also participated in a ‘maha aarti’ on the occasion along with other dignitaries.Heavy rush at Shivji Ki SavariThe annual Shivji Ki Savari procession was planned to be low key affair this year in wake of Covid-19. However, a heavy rush was witnessed at the event and many were even seen participating in it without masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/work-begins-on-gold-plating-of-shiva-idol-in-sursagar/articleshow/81454322.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||Industry says ‘no’ to lockdown, yes to self-discipline||NAGPUR: The major trade and industry associations have said that imposing restrictions is not at all a solution to fight coronavirus. It can be done only through self-discipline and strict enforcement. Reacting to the administration decision to impose stringent restrictions by closing down shops, markets, and private offices among other establishments, Pratap Motwani, general secretary of the Wholesale Grains & Seeds Merchants Association, said, “These restrictions won’t help. Even after weekend controls, the cases have increased.” “We will unite to fight out against the decision as we did in Amravati. This is an attempt to promote online business majors. Already, traders have not come out of the shock of Covid-19 last year. Traders are the backbone of our economy and any restrictions will weaken the economy,” said Motwani. “I agree that lockdown is not a solution but it is a very complex situation. We need to control coronavirus by self-discipline only and life has to go on. The latest restrictions will not only slow down all economic activities but will also cause inconvenience to the common man and daily breadwinners,” said Suresh Rathi, president of Vidarbha Industry Association (VIA). Chandrashekhar Shegaonkar, president of MIA, agrees that the ongoing pandemic has put huge stress on the industry. “It will have a cascading effect on industry sector, especially when all have to achieve their targets by financial year-end. If targets are not achieved it will affect already depleted financial commitments.” “The restrictions in the city on the movement of people and transport will affect labour force and dispatches and also affect the supply of raw material,” adds Shegaonkar. Immediately after guardian minister Nitin Raut announced the decision, the wildlife tourism industry was panicky. However, Pench CCF & field director RS Govekar said, “We have not received any direction from the district administration.” Tadoba field director Jitendra Ramgaonkar said, “It was business as usual and tourists are in no mood to cancel visits.” However, talking to TOI, Raut clarified that the restrictions are for the city only. Tourists coming from outside and visiting wildlife parks will be allowed to go after showing tickets.” District collector Ravindra Thakre late night made it clear that tourists from Nagpur visiting parks like Pench and Umred-Karhandla in the district will be allowed.” “It is due to the irresponsible behavior of some section of citizens that brought this situation. Imagine what will happen to poor people who are already reeling under financial crisis and lost employment. Those eke out a living daily will be the worst sufferers,” said Ansuya Kale-Chhabrani. Chhabrani also demanded to utilize food stock at FCI godowns to supply kits to the needy people through NGOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/industry-says-no-to-lockdown-yes-to-self-discipline/articleshow/81455256.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 12, 2021||Bareilly||‘Insulted’ at school, class 12 student kills self after his dad fails to arrange Rs 8k for school fees||Bareilly: Anoop Kumar, 17, who was a student of class XII, allegedly killed himself with a country-made pistol after his father couldn’t arrange for his school fees in a village in Nigohi area of Shahjahanpur district. His father, Parmeshwar Dayal, works as a labourer and told police that his son was upset because he couldn’t arrange Rs 8,000 to pay his school fee. Anoop was reportedly insulted at school and was told that he wouldn’t be permitted to appear for the exams until his dues are cleared. On Wednesday, the student allegedly had a heated argument with his father and thereafter, he locked himself in a room and shot himself dead. The boy’s father told TOI, “Anoop had asked for Rs 8,000 on Monday and I told him that I am trying to arrange for it. But his school was not ready to wait anymore and they kept pressuring him to deposit the fees and only then come to the school. I am a poor labourer and don’t even have any agricultural land or cattle to sell. On Wednesday, Anoop came back home from school and asked for the fees but I didn’t have the money so he shouted at me. I didn’t realise that he was quite upset. After sometime, we heard a gunshot from his room. We rushed and found him lying in a pool of blood. He died on the spot. I won’t be able to forgive myself ever in life.” Superintendent of police (city) Sanjay Kumar said, “The boy’s father told us that his son killed himself because he could not arrange the money for his school fee.” Nigohi station house officer Manohar Singh said, “We are trying to find where he got the country-made pistol from? The family has not given any written complaint against the school administration, but we have sent the body for autopsy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/insulted-at-school-class-12-student-kills-self-after-his-dad-fails-to-arrange-rs-8k-for-school-fees/articleshow/81453594.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 12, 2021||Lucknow||Ex-bureaucrats ask farmers to end stir||Lucknow: Former bureaucrats, a retired police officer and a farmer leader have written an open letter to farmers, telling them to trust the government over the three new farm laws and to end their protest. The letter, written by former UP chief secretary Atul Gupta, former IAS officer Sudesh Ojha, former DGP Sulkhan Singh and chairperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Manch Devendra Tiwari, contains an appeal to farmers who have been protesting for over two months to not get swayed by vested interests and to end their protest which is causing inconvenience to the common man. “Farmers should know about these farm laws. The Central and state governments have taken several steps to increase the farmers’ income. Special provisions have been made in the budget as well aimed at doubling the farmers’ income. A provision in the farm law states that a party which signs an agreement with a farmer cannot end the agreement without the farmer’s consent,” the letter says, adding that there is also a provision of bonus for farmers if the party signing the agreement makes ‘additional profit’. The letter goes on to say that contract farming is nothing new and has already been in practice in several parts of the state. The contract, it claims, is only for the produce and not for the land and farmers are being misled into believing that their land will be taken away. Listing out the government’s efforts to improve the farmers’ condition, including payment of Rs 1.15 lakh crore to sugarcane farmers and restarting closed sugar mills. The new laws will not lead to closure of mandis or ending of MSP. They also said farmers can sell their produce to anybody and at any place of their choice. “Innumerable rumours are being spread about the farm laws. The government has actually increased MSP. The new laws will ensure that the buyer is legally bound to make timely payments and issue receipts,” the letter says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ex-bureaucrats-ask-farmers-to-end-stir/articleshow/81457125.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||NMC seeks 50% of new vaccine stock, plans 30000 jabs per day||NAGPUR: The Nagpur division would be receiving around 3.75 lakh vaccine doses comprising 2.75 lakh Covishield and one lakh Covaxin from Pune by late Thursday evening or early Friday morning. The city managed to pull through yet another day amid the looming vaccine shortage following redistribution of unused vials from Wardha and Gadchiroli, and is now completely dependent on the new batch arriving on time. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has requested the deputy director of health services (DDHS) office to allocate to it 50% of the new stock considering the overwhelming response from age-appropriate groups and its own plan to achieve 30,000 inoculations per day. The civic body is starting additional centres at dental colleges, ayurveda college and Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital and Research Centre at Indora, beside many other government healthcare facilities to ensure the 60+ and 45+ with comorbidities take their first dose by first week of April. The dispatch of new stock has ensured the ongoing drive doesn’t lose steam. Civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar, who is holding charge of DDHS, said his office received 7,000 Covaxin doses which were delivered to NMC. “We are receiving 6,000 doses each of Covaxin and Covishield from Gadchiroli on Thursday for Nagpur district. Another lot of 2,75,000 Covishield and 1,00,000 Covaxin doses are expected to arrive from Pune by early morning tomorrow for Nagpur circle.” Regarding NMC’s request for 50% share of the new stock, Dr Paturkar said, “We shall finalize distribution as per instructions.” Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said considering 9% of the city’s population has to be given the first dose by first week of April, the per day inoculation must reach 30,000. “Once we get the new stock, we will go up to 15,000 jabs per day. But if we have to ensure that the entire age-appropriate groups receive their first dose, then the daily achievement has to be doubled. We shall be starting new centres in a couple of days.” On Thursday, the footfall at Covid vaccination centres was unusually low in most part of the day. Officials said the rush was less due to people fasting and praying on the occasion of Mahashivratri. At 60 centres, 7,284 took the jab while the number had risen to over 9,000 per day in last few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-seeks-50-of-new-vaccine-stock-plans-30k-jabs-per-day/articleshow/81455286.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Man in suicide bid seeks Rs 8.7L back from govt in Mumbai||Mumbai: City police on Wednesday saved an Ahmednagar resident who attempted suicide at the bungalow of state cabinet minister Balasaheb Thorat at Altamount Road. Pandurang Wagh, who poured kerosene over his body but was caught by security personnel, was handed over to Gamdevi police. Sources said he had in 2018 got permission for digging and carrying sand in Ahmednagar and had paid fees of around Rs 8.7 lakh. But local residents did not allow him. He told police that as he could not start his work, he wanted his money back. He had been visiting government offices for his money. Police counselled him and issued a notice to him not to repeat it, and he was sent home. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-in-suicide-bid-seeks-rs-8-7l-back-from-govt-in-mumbai/articleshow/81457142.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Varanasi||VDO killed in clash with dhaba owner, staff||Times News Network Varanasi: A village development officer (VDO) Vijay Yadav (26) was killed while his brother Som Yadav suffered grave injuries when they were attacked by the owner and staff of a ‘dhaba’ in Tulsipur area under the limits of Kotwali police station in Ghazipur district. SP Ghazipur OP Singh said, Vijay and Som were attacked with bottles of soft drinks and iron rods by the dhaba owner and the staff following a brawl between them on Wednesday late night. They sustained serious injuries in the clash and were rushed to Trauma Centre of BHU in Varanasi where Vijay succumbed to injuries during the course of treatment at wee hours on Thursday. Condition of Som is stated to be stable. On the complaint of Vijay’s family, a named FIR against dhaba owner, manager, other staff and six unidentified persons has been lodged. The dhaba owner, manager and two other workers have been taken under custody for interrogation. Vijay, son of retired nayab tehsildar Mahendra Yadav and a native of Gora Bazar in Ghazipur, was posted as VDO in Dobhi block of Jaunpur district. It was his birthday on Wednesday and to celebrate the same, Vijay along with Som and three other friends had gone to a dhaba in Tulsipur area for dinner, said police. After dinner they had some argument with the dhaba manager and staff, which led to a clash between them. SP Ghazipur said that when police reached the dhaba, a large number of broken bottles of soft drinks and rods were found lying there. Vijay had suffered grave head injuries in the clash while Som was also wounded, he said adding that on being informed about the incident, the inspector Kotwali Vimal Kumar Mishra reached the spot and rushed the injured persons to hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vdo-killed-in-clash-with-dhaba-owner-staff/articleshow/81454506.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Kanpur||UP beat Gujarat to sail into final of Vijay Hazare Trophy||Kanpur: Uttar Pradesh entered into the final of Vijay HazAre Trophy on Thursday, defeating strong contender Gujarat by 5 wickets in the first semi-final held at Arun Jaitley Stadium in New Delhi. Credit goes to Akshadeep Nath and wicket-keeper Upendra Yadav who pulled their side to a comfortable victory after a bad start. Gujarat electing to bat first had posted 184 runs in 48.1 overs and UP after losing top order cheaply managed to score 188 runs for the loss of five wickets in 42.4 overs. UP has now an opportunity to win the title solely. They had shared the trophy once with Tamil Nadu in 2004-05 and next year, i.e., 2005 they were runners-up. In the final they will have to face the challenge of Mumbai, who had defeated Karnataka by 72 runs in the second semi-final. Gujarat batsmen except Het and former UP player Piyush Chawla could not face the UP bowlers confidently. Opener Dhruv Raval in between them contributed 23 runs before falling prey to Shivam Sharma. Het who was middling the ball confidently fell prey to a bad call and adjudged run out after scoring 60 runs in 87 balls plundering 5 boundaries. Piyush Chawla contributed 32 runs in 42 balls with the help of two boundaries and a six. He and Het executed a best 66 runs partnership for the sixth wicket for their side. For UP medium pacer Yash Dayal, who has come in place of Bhuvneshwar Kumar, emerged as best bowler claiming 3 wickets for 34 runs. UP’s chase initially proved a bad dream as they lost Samarth Singh, Madhav Kaushik and Priyam Garg on 45 runs. Thereafter in form Akshadeep Nath and captain Karan Sharma combined in the middle very well and added 89 runs in their fourth wicket union. Two batted with grit and determination and supported each other. Their union was separated when Karan was stumped by Dhruv Raval off Karan Patel. Karan Sharma contributed 38 runs in 63 balls. Aksh Deep Nath fell to his old teammate Piyush Chawla after scoring 71 runs in 104 balls at173. He sent the ball 8 times to the fence. Wicket-keeper Upendra Yadav led the side thereafter and completed the formality. Upendra who had scored a century in the previous match returned unbeaten on 31 scored in 25 balls hammering 2 boundaries and a six. UP coach Gyanendra Pandey in a telephonic conversation praised the efforts of all players and assistant coach Parvinder Singh and Ashish Jafar of the support staff. He had special words for Aksh Deep Nath who is constantly making runs. “I hope that UP will not leave any stone unturned to lift the trophy solely for the first time,” he added. Brief score Guajrat: 184 (Dhruv Raval 23, Rahul Shah 10, Het 60, Ripal Patel 11, Piyush Chawla 32, Tejas Patel 13, Yash Dayal 3 for 34, Aaquib Khan 2 for 22, Shivam Sharma 1 for 37, Aksh Deep Nath 1 for 29) UP: 188 for 5 (Madhav Kaushik 15, Samarth Singh 11, Karan Sharma 38, Priyam Garg 15, Aksh Deep Nath 71, Upendra Yadav 31no, C T Teja 2 for 30, Tejas Patel 1 for 22, Piyush Chawla 1 for 55, Karan D Patel 1 for 14)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/up-beat-gujarat-to-sail-into-final-of-vijay-hazare-trophy/articleshow/81454559.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||7k fake news, malicious rumours flagged by Maharashtra Cyber, but only 31% taken down by apps||MUMBAI: More than 7,300 online posts were flagged by Maharashtra Cyber as fake news, hate speech, malicious or defamatory rumours between March 2020 and 2021. But only about 31% of these posts were taken down by social networking sites and video sharing apps. Officials with Maharashtra Cyber pointed out that rumour mongering online was at its peak after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. As far as the Covid-19 pandemic is concerned, 808 offences were registered in various parts of the state over posting of fake news and 339 individuals were arrested. Maharashtra Cyber is a nodal office under the state government for cyber crime investigation and maintaining cyber security. “When a post is flagged for being offensive or fake, a notice is sent to the social networking website or app with a request for taking it down. But the websites consult their own legal team before reaching a decision,” said an official. Key political figures are often targets in malicious or defamatory posts. Maharashtra Cyber has a cell with six personnel working in shifts to monitor online content. “Our cell either monitors online activity on its own or on the basis of a specific complaint. We have tools to track down the source of the post,” said the official. Within days of the lockdown coming into effect, fake news about Covid-19 infections and deaths started making the rounds on messaging apps. Audio messages were also being circulated about how deaths had shot up massively in a particular area. The earliest such instance was in Nagpur where an audio clip had gone viral on WhatsApp, creating fear and anxiety among the public. Nagpur police had registered a case and nabbed three individuals on March 27, 2020. Another fake message that went viral was about orders being issued by the collector prohibiting assembly in public places. A case was registered at Akola. “A major surge in defamatory and malicious rumours was observed after actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death last year. Theories about what caused the actor’s death, who could be the people involved, whether there was a link between his death and that of his former manager Disha Salian, what circumstances did Salian die in etc., were posted on social media,” said an official. A Delhi-based lawyer had been arrested for spreading fake theories about Rajput's death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/7k-offensive-posts-flagged-but-only-31-taken-down-in-mumbai/articleshow/81456575.cms||Nitasha Natu
March 12, 2021||Varanasi||CM: Nath sect literature should be translated in other languages||Revised Gorakhpur: DDU Gorakhpur University vice-chancellor Prof Rajesh Singh met Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday at Gorakhnath temple and discussed with him the preparations of an international mega seminar on Nath sect to be held from March 20 to 22. The main topic of the seminar is ‘Nath Panth ke Vaishwik Pradey’. The meeting continued for more than half an hour. The CM said literature related to the Nath sect should also be translated in other languages as Nath sect followers live in Nepal, Bengal, Tripura, Odisha, Karnataka, Gujarat and Maharashtra. Also, there are followers and educationists of the Nath sect all over the world and it is required to associate them with the seminar. Prof Singh said that the university will ensure providing a platform in the mega international seminar to followers of the Nath sect all over the world and it will also become a place to translate the literature on the Nath sect available all over the world. Educationists participating in the seminar are Dr Vishwanand Putia of Mauritius, Dr Sri Hari Singh of MP, Dr Balwanti Jani, VC of Gour University, Prof RC Sinha, Chairman Indian Council, Kapilnath from America, Prof Sudhir Singh of Delhi University, Yogi Vilasnath from Maharashtra, Yogi Matsyendra from Russia, Dr Kushal B Chakrawarti from Bangladesh, Prof Neem Chandra Bhowmik, president of Hindu-Buddha-Christian Oikka Parishad ,etc. “The people working on Nath Panth and educationists all over the world including Yogi Hallman Nath from Austria, Bhagwan Nath from Spain, Yogini Devkinath from Brazil, Dr Madhavdesh Pandey of Michigan University, America will be connected to the seminar, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-nath-sect-literature-should-be-translated-in-other-languages/articleshow/81454539.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||Govt extends OTS for home loan scheme till April||Panaji: The state government has extended the one-time house building advance (HBA) settlement scheme for government employees till April 30. The scheme, which was introduced in January, was to remain in force till February so that eligible employees could avail of the scheme. However, given that not all employees were able to take advantage, the finance department decided to extend it. The settlement scheme was introduced over seven months after the government discontinued the housing loan scheme for its employees. It aims at providing assistance to state government employees, as well as staff employed with grant-in-aid institutions, who took a subsidised home loan. The HBA scheme was formulated in such a manner that as per government procedure, the loan would be recovered with full repayment of the principal amount in the beginning, followed by repayment of the interest component. However, certain beneficiaries who repaid the entire principal amount had to bear a sudden escalation in the balance interest amount to be paid to the bank due to discontinuation of the HBA scheme, the government formulated OTS scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-extends-ots-for-home-loan-scheme-till-april/articleshow/81456473.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Vadodara||Woman jumps to death from 7th floor after fight with husband in Vadodara||VADODARA: A woman from Pune jumped off the 7th floor flat of her apartment following arguments with her husband in Makarpura area late on Wednesday night. The woman identified as Vaishali Deshmukh suffered severe injuries on her head and died on the spot. The Makarpura police registered a case of accidental death and have begun investigations in the case. According to the police, Vaishali and Saurabh got married about three years ago and moved to Bakeri apartment in Makarpura after shifting to Vadodara from Pune. Saurabh works with a private firm in Karjan, while Vaishali was a homemaker, said police. Late on Wednesday night, the duo had a heated argument over some issue following which Vaishali went into the balcony and jumped off after some time. Local residents spotted her body and informed Saurabh, who rushed to the parking lot where her body was lying. The police said that they are investigating the case from all angles and trying to ascertain if the couple was happy together or having a troubled married life. A law graduate had ended his life in Bajwa area three days ago by hanging himself at his home. Shishir Darji had left a suicide note wherein he had accused his wife and in-laws of torturing him and pushing him to end his life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-jumps-to-death-from-7th-floor-after-fight-with-husband/articleshow/81454390.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Lucknow||323 new members in BJP state exec, meet on 15th||Lucknow: The UP BJP announced the list of newly appointed 323 members of the party state executive which is scheduled to meet in Lucknow on March 15. Of the total, 58 have been appointed from the west UP region, while 64 members have been taken from the Braj region. Kanpur and Awadh regions account for 45 and 46 members, respectively. In the case of Kashi region , 57 party workers have been included in the state executive. Similarly, the party has named 53 members from Gorakhpur. The move to appoint a maximum number of party workers from west and Braj region, experts said, signifies party’s attempt to gain a stronger foothold in the politically crucial west UP region which was recently marked by farmers’ stir against the new farm laws. The state executive is expected to chart out a roadmap for the panchayat and then the UP assembly elections due next year. The state executive has 28 permanent members, including the PM, the CM, defence minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh, former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh, former Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Katiyar. The party also announced names of 94 special invitees to the state executive which included cabinet ministers Suresh Khanna, Satish Mahana, Jai Pratap Singh, Brajesh Pathak, Swami Prasad Maurya, Ashutosh Tandon, Suresh Rana, Anil Rajbhar and Dara Singh Chauhan. Besides, 36 MPs have also been made special invitees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/323-new-members-in-bjp-state-exec-meet-on-15th/articleshow/81457127.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||23-yr-old woman kills self at home||Hyderabad: Upset with her brother’s suicide, a 23-year- old housewife ended her life at her home in Hasmathpet on Wednesday night. The victim was identified as Susmitha. Her brother Vinod had committed suicide in 2020. A case was registered under Sec-174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/23-yr-old-woman-kills-self-at-home/articleshow/81457134.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Bareilly||Azam Khan to surrender his double-barrelled gun||Bareilly: Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan will soon be selling a double-barrelled gun after the district administration — had issued a notice to the Rampur MP, saying he couldn’t own more than two licensed firearms — permits him. Khan — currently lodged at Sitapur jail along with son Abdullah Azam — owns a licensed revolver, a rifle and a double-barrelled gun, which he has decided to sell-off. The Union government had made amendments in the 1959 Arms Act last year that restricted the number of firearms possessed by a person from three to two. After the government’s directions were issued to the MP, he had written a letter to the district administration, seeking permission to sell his double-barrelled gun. City magistrate Ramji Mishra said, “The MP has been granted permission to sell his double-barrelled gun. We have also informed Sitapur jail authorities of the permission granted to him. Earlier, the government had fixed the January deadline for surrendering extra firearms, but the date was later extended till June.” Notably, Khan’s son Abdullah Azam owns a revolver, while his wife Tazeen Fatma (Rampur MLA) owns a rifle. Official sources said after the amendment, notices were served to all those who had three firearms, following which many politicians, including former MLAs Ali Yusuf Ali and Beena Bharadwaj, had surrendered one of their weapons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/azam-khan-to-surrender-his-double-barrelled-gun/articleshow/81453617.cms||Maria Khan
March 12, 2021||Lucknow||BJP machinery’s rural inroadwith ‘gram chaupal’ campaign||Lucknow: The BJP organisational machinery fanned out across the state on Thursday as part of the much awaited gram chaupal campaign which is aimed to allow saffron outfit to make aggressive inroads in the rural precincts to take on the opposition in the panchayat elections seen as a semi-final before the next year’s assembly elections. Top BJP sources said party leaders and workers have been armed with documents showcasing the achievements like construction of Ram temple, doing away with Article 370 from Jammu and Kashmir and bringing in a law against the menace of triple talaq. This will be apart from the achievements of the government which completes four yearsin the state next week. The campaign will be carried out till March 18. The concept of gram chaupal was first implemented by UP BJP in run-up to 2019 LS elections. This month, the campaign was launched by UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh from Gosaiganj near Lucknow. The party has roped in senior organisational leaders, MPs and MLAs in the gram chaupals campaign. Sources said BJP functionaries would also underline the `atmanirbhar’ campaign which is aimed at making rural populace self-reliant as part of a long drawn strategy of the Centre to put the country on a higher growth trajectory. “The idea is to reach out to the maximum possible people at the grassroots who have been benefited from schemes of the Centre or UP government,” said UP BJP spokesperson Hero Bajpai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-machinerys-rural-inroadwith-gram-chaupal-campaign/articleshow/81457132.cms||Pankaj Shah
March 12, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara readies to host IPL, ODIs in 2023||Vadodara: Soon, Barodians would be able to enjoy matches of Indian Premier League (IPL) from the pavilion in their city as the construction of the international cricket stadium at Kotambi began here on Thursday. The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) management said that the stadium will be ready by the end of 2022.“We will be able to host IPL matches in 2023. The BCA will also be eligible to host One-Day Internationals (ODI) once our own stadium is up and ready,” said Pranav Amin, BCA president after performing the groundbreaking ceremony in presence of office-bearers and committee members. Amin said that the stadium will be of international standards and provide the best of facilities for the players and spectators.In fact, the association is planning to bid for the 2023 ODI World Cup matches as the tournament will be held in India. It has already received Rs 52 crore from the BCCI towards grants and subsidies and it’s eligible to receive a total of Rs 100 crore. Recently it gave a contract of the stadium construction to two firms. “The contract is worth Rs 80 crore but the total cost of the stadium will touch about Rs 120 crore,” Amin told TOI.Last year, the BCA completed all its pending annual general meetings (AGM) paving the way for getting annual grants worth crores of rupees from the BCCI. “We have already prepared a beautiful ground with 11 wickets at Kotambi where some local matches have been played. There will be three grounds in the arena, all of international standards,” said Sheetal Mehta, BCA vice-president.Several practice wickets have also been built for net sessions next to the ground that will have access from two different roads. The BCA management had been promising a cricket stadium for the last two decades and the project was used in several poll campaigns. The land at Kotambi was purchased some years ago after a failed land deal in Sankarda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-readies-to-host-ipl-odis-in-2023/articleshow/81454272.cms||Tushar Tere
March 12, 2021||Goa||Mumbai City outsmart ATK Mohun Bagan to win ISL double||Margao: Antonio Habas was king of playoffs and master of Indian Super League finals. He had won two, including one just last year at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda. Sergio Lobera had not won a final in the Indian Super League (ISL), but this Mumbai City FC squad is clearly cut from a different cloth. On Saturday, Lobera and Mumbai won everything, while ATK Mohun Bagan lost it all. For all of Mumbai’s foreign player riches, it was an Indian who made it count. In the 90th minute with the match tied and seemingly headed for extra time, Bipin Singh struck the winner, capitalising on a defensive lapse to give his team a 2-1 triumph. Having won the League Winners Shield less than a fortnight ago – at ATKMB’s expense – this was a rare double for Mumbai, now owned by the City Football Group. Mumbai celebrated their first title like never before. As players jumped around and an overjoyed Lobera was thrown in the air, their thoughts were turned towards Amey Ranawade, who had to be rushed to the hospital at the half-way mark after a collision with Subhashish Bose. The right-back, according to sources, suffered “pain induced seizure” after the collision and required medical attention to get him back on his feet. He was taken to the hospital for scans and is now reported to be stable. ATKMB were left wondering how it all went so horribly wrong. David Williams had scored in the 18th minute to give his team the lead. But Tiri’s own goal in the 29th minute swung the momentum in Mumbai’s favour. Then, Bipin took over. For most part of the match, ATKMB’s three-man defence were finding it difficult to read his moves. He went close twice, but made it count in the end. A long ball from the Mumbai zone should have been easy clearance for ATKMB. But goalkeeper Arindam Bhattacharya rushed out and tried to chest the ball away, giving substitute Bartholomew Ogbeche the chance to win the ball. He did, and with Bipin rushing in, pulled it back. Fittingly, the only player to have scored a hat-trick this season made no mistake with his left foot to spark wild celebrations. ATKMB players had no place to hide. They had lost both games in the league stage and planned to win the all-important one. Again, Habas chose pragmatism as the players simply lobbed the ball upfront for Williams and Roy Krishna to do the rest. They tried, and succeeded in the 18th minute when their high-press forced Mourtada Fall and Ahmed Jahouh into hurried passes, before Krishna snatched it from the Moroccan midfielder. Williams was well-positioned and made the best of Krishna’s pass with a powerful shot past Amrinder Singh. Mumbai restored parity just before the half an hour mark and it came from a defensive mistake. Jahouh’s long ball saw Tiri under pressure from Bipin and the Spanish defender simply headed it back into his own goal. ATKMB struck the post once and had a goal disallowed for offside – hotly contested as Mumbai right-back Mohammed Rakip turned into his goal – but Mumbai were the superior side. There were chances for Hugo Boumous, who first shot straight into Arindam’s hands and then wide of the target. Adam Le Fondre also ended up with a weak effort on goal. With 20 minutes on the clock, Lobera introduced Obgeche and the Nigerian striker did the rest, with help from Bipin to give Mumbai a deserving double. AWARDS Hero of the League: Roy Krishna (ATKMB) Golden Boot: Igor Angulo (Goa) Golden Glove: Arindam Bhattacharja (ATKMB) Emerging Player: Lalengmawia (NEUFC) Winning Pass of the League: Alberto Noguera (Goa)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mumbai-city-outsmart-atk-mohun-bagan-to-win-isl-double/articleshow/81487823.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 12, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Covid cases rise, flying squads to penalise protocol violators soon||CHENNAI: The state health department will soon launch flying squads to fine people not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said on Thursday, when fresh Covid-19 cases rose to 685. The cumulative case tally moved to 8,57,6917, with 4,344 still under treatment compared to 4,207 on Wednesday. The five deaths took the toll to 12,535. In the past one week, there have been 4,139 fresh cases and 27 deaths. “The state which was reporting around 485 cases a week ago is now reporting close to 700 and the city 250 cases,” Radhakrishnan said, after visiting some railway stations. “Clusters in family luncheons, weddings and funerals display poor adherence to masks are pushing up cases,” he said. Over the last six months, 14.5 lakh people were fined Rs 13.74 crore for violating rules. “Flying squads like those deputed for election duty will soon be deployed to impose fines for pandemic protocol violations. Cases have been on the rise in states like Maharashtra and Punjab. If we are not careful it can happen here too,” he said. During contact tracing over the past week, officials found some private labs and doctors failing to notify the infection to the health department on time. “We will initiate legal action including sealing labs and cancellation of clinical licences if we find anyone violating norms,” he said. On Thursday, Chennai reported 292 fresh cases and 1,940 active cases compared to 1,915 on Wednesday. On January 18, it had 1,939 active cases. After Chennai, the most cases were in Coimbatore (52), Chengalpet (51), Tiruvallur (49), Thanjavur (37), Kancheepuram (23) and Tirupur (21). While 25 districts reported a single digit increase, Perambalur was the only with zero new cases. Deaths were reported from only Chennai (3) and Chengalpet (2). Active cases were the lowest in Kallakurichi and Perambalur, with five each, followed by Ariyalur (7). Meanwhile, 80,461 people including 32,313 people above 60 years and 22,025 people above 45 took the Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday. In addition, 16,411 frontline workers and 9,712 healthcare providers took it in 2,293 sessions. Until 7pm, 4,53,081 healthcare workers, 2,99,846 frontline workers, 1,70,238 people above 45 with comorbidities and 2,82,999 senior citizens got it, taking recipient tally to 12,06,164.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-cases-rise-flying-squads-to-penalise-protocol-violators-soon/articleshow/81455297.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Lucknow||Azam Khan makes his presence felt in Sunni board poll?||LUCKNOW: In jail for over a year now in connection with over a 100 FIRs lodged against him, Samajwadi Party veteran Azam Khan may be out of sight but certainly not off the political stage. So, it was no surprise when the SP’s Muslim face made his presence felt during the election of Sunni Waqf Board chairman held on Tuesday. The election saw SP-backed Imran Mabood lose the contest by one vote after a known Azam associate, Abrar Ahmed, cross-voted. Had Abrar voted on party lines, Mabood’s victory would have come as a major morale-booster for the SP cadre and the leadership. Though Abrar Ahmad claimed that initially Zufar Farooqui was the unanimous choice, but at the eleventh hour, ST Hasan and Nafees Ahmad changed their mind and asked him to vote for Mabood and he refused to change his stance, Samajwadi Party issued a show-cause notice to him seeking an explanation for his conduct. A section of SP leaders is of the view that Abrar’s cross-voting only reflected his mentor Azam Khan’s disenchantment with the SP cadre and middle-rung leaders most of whom had maintained a distance from the party veteran ever since FIRs were heaped on him eventually landing him in jail along with his MLA wife Tazeen Fatima and son Abdullah. The three had surrendered before a Rampur court on February 26, 2020. Tazeen Fatima was released on bail on December 22 while Azam and Abdullah are still lodged in Sitapur jail. "Maybe it is his way of say that he may be down but certainly not out," said one of the senior functionaries While Akhilesh not only drove down to Sitapur jail to meet Azam Khan within 24 hours of him being sent to judicial custody, he also made sure that other senior leaders visited the party MP from Rampur in jail. Barely a fortnight later, SP veteran and leader of the opposition (LoP) in the Legislative council Ahmed Hasan along with former assembly speaker Mata Prasad Pandey called on Azam at Sitapur prison, followed by LoP in the state assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary a couple of weeks later. However, Azam’s displeasure was noticed when his brother-in-law Zameer Ahmed Khan, while talking to the media said that the senior leader was disturbed by the manner in which some people stayed away when the state government started targeting him soon after BJP came to power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/azam-makes-his-presence-felt-in-sunni-board-poll/articleshow/81457146.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Couple dies after bike rams pole||Hyderabad: A 32-year-old painter and his wife died when their bike rammed into a roadside electric pole in Japal village on Thursday. The victims were identified as J Laxman and his wife J Manga. A case was registered under section 304-A of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-dies-after-bike-rams-pole/articleshow/81457154.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||CM warns of tight curbs on hotels, offices||Mumbai: More places in the state could go into lockdown and strict restrictions could be reimposed in closed spaces that attract huge footfalls, like offices and hotels, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned on Thursday. “The state will take a decision in this regard in a day or two,” said Thackeray, after taking his first dose of the Covid vaccine at JJ Hospital in the afternoon. Appealing to eligible citizens to get inoculated against the virus as soon as possible, Thackeray said that the state has decided to speed up the vaccination programme. In the evening, while addressing citizens via social media, Thackeray said that Covid cases are on rise across the state, including in rural parts. “Though we have not reached the peak level of September 2020, but we should pray and try that we do not. So, everyone must follow self-restrictions and follow three principles: wear a mask, wash hands and adhere to physical distance norms to avoid strict lockdown being implemented,” he said. “We will have to impose lockdown in the next few days, in a few places. However, the local administration should take prior permission to impose restrictions or lockdown in their respective jurisdiction,” the CM said. “The overall situation still is under control, but everyone should follow Covid norms if do not want the situation to spin out of control…” said Thackeray. “Nearly 80% of the Covid positive patients are asymptomatic, but they are moving around instead of staying in home quarantine, putting their own families and others at risk.” Urging people to get themselves tested to avoid delayed treatment, the CM said: “In other countries, the second wave has weakened their healthcare system and we will not let it happen in our state…the second wave has proved to be bigger than the first one...” Pointing that Maharashtra is learning from the situation in other countries, Thackeray said: “People in Western countries are facing complete lockdown for up to three months, while Brazil is facing the worst situation.” Thackeray along with wife Rashmi, mother-in-law Meena Patankar and Shiv Sena secretary Milind Narvekar took the first dose of the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-warns-of-tight-curbs-on-hotels-offices/articleshow/81457610.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||28-year-old man hangs self||Hyderabad: A 28-year-old businessman ended his life due to financial problems, at his home in Uppariguda, Malkajgiri on Thursday. The victim, Geber Newton, was the general manager of a restaurant in Secunderabad. On Thursday evening, Geber’s friend Zaheer found him hanging at his house. A case was registered under Section 174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/28-year-old-man-hangs-self/articleshow/81457174.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Issue strict norms for enforcing SOPs’||Patiala: Expressing grave concern over resurgence of Covid cases in the state, president, Punjab Medical Council Dr A S Sekhon urged Punjab government to issue strict instructions for effective implementation of standard operating procedures (SOPs), particularly wearing of masks and hand sanitisation. Dr Sekhon said there was a marked increase in the number of new cases among school children and it had been observed that few school students and teachers wore masks. He suggested deployment of special squads from health and education departments to conduct random checks and ensure that no one was allowed to enter school premises without masks, he said. The PMC chief said whenever positive cases were reported from any school, the area should be declared a containment zone. He also called for thorough sanitisation of schools and other educational institutions to check the spurt in the number of Covid cases. Dr Sekhon urged people to take precautions to prevent the spread of the disease. In Patiala, 5% more cases were reported in the first 10 days of March as compared to 1.5% in January and 2.5% in February respectively, he noted. “If anyone has fever, breathlessness or oxygen saturation below 94, he should immediately contact the nearest Covid Care Hospital instead of endangering his life. People need to follow all Covid protocols to halt the spread of the virus. NGOs have a vital role to play in sensitisation of people about precautions, including wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands from time to time to keep the virus at bay,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/issue-strict-norms-for-enforcing-sops/articleshow/81456499.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||3 weeks later, semi-lockdown yet to arrest cases in Amravati, Akola, Buldhana||NAGPUR: After Amravati, Akola and Buldhana, Nagpur is set to become the fourth district in Vidarbha where strict restrictions will be reimposed from March 15 onwards. These restrictions are considered as semi-lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus. However, recent experience of the same in Amravati, Akola and Buldhana proves that such restrictions neither reduce number of Covid-19 cases, nor break chain of infections. Figures of new cases of Covid-19 in Akola, Amravati and Buldhana are increasing multifold despite the lockdown-like strict restrictions imposed there more than two weeks ago. As far as Akola is concerned, the restrictions were imposed when 1,540 new cases were reported in a week between February 14 and 20. But, after restrictions, the weekly case load increased to 2,210 next week and 2,975 in the second week of lockdown. Similarly, in Amravati, 4,230 cases were reported in a week when lockdown-like restrictions were imposed. Since then, next two weeks have reported 5,593 and 6,407 new cases respective. Similar is the situation in Buldhana. Though these districts have increased the daily test count to a significant level, the percentage of positive cases out of total tests is still above 20% here. This shows that the restrictions imposed on markets, shops, and public movement are proving to be of no use to reduce number of cases. TOI spoke to doctors and officials from Akola and Amravati to understand the outcome of semi-lockdown restrictions. “Present restrictions are not like the strict lockdown during 2020. Industries are open, public transport is functioning, essential services are functioning, and you can’t restrict public movement legally now. Such half-restrictions will take months to reduce cases,” said epidemiologist Dr Anand Thatte of Akola. Akola resident deputy collector Prof Sanjay Khadse said people became restless and impatient after 10 days of such restrictions and demanded relaxation on immediate basis. “We had to allow all shops, including non-essential services, to function in restricted manner from March 4. Cases are on the rise, but we have enough facilities for isolation. Also, very few people need hospitalization now,” he said. As travelling is not banned, people are commuting from contamination zones in cities to nearby villages, and now cases are coming from rural parts of Buldhana, said an official from the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-weeks-later-semi-lockdown-yet-to-arrest-cases-in-amravati-akola-buldhana/articleshow/81455343.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Fear for life’: Kaushal seeks cops’ protection||GURGAON: Expressing fears that he could be targeted by rival gangs while being taken for court hearing, notorious gangster Kaushal on Thursday filed an application in Hisar district court seeking police protection. Kaushal, who was arrested by Haryana Police’s special task force in 2019, is currently lodged in Hisar jail. His mother Sahib Kaur alleged the family has been getting threatening calls and messages from rival gang members. “Gangster Binder Gujjar hatched a conspiracy to eliminate Sandeep Gadoli. He may do the same with my son,” said Kaur, who filed the application. Claiming Gujjar may even conspire with cops to kill Kaushal in a fake encounter, she also demanded that the crime branch of Gurgaon police should not be allowed to take him in production remand. Gujjar is lodged in Bhondsi jail in Gurgaon. In his two-page application, Kaushal said his gang members who are also in that prison had informed him that rivals were planning to kill him during one of his visits to Gurgaon for a hearing. He added that to avoid any transit, he should be transferred to Bhondsi jail. In December, Kaushal had filed a plea in the district and sessions court asking to be shifted to Bhondsi jail but it was dismissed. A senior police officer the gangster is trying to revive his gang and extortion racket for which moving out of Hisar jail is crucial. “He is making all efforts to be moved to Bhondsi jail or out of Haryana,” said a senior police officer. He added that Kaushal had also tried to be shifted to a Delhi jail but failed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fear-for-life-kaushal-seeks-cops-protection/articleshow/81456509.cms||Bagish Jha
March 12, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Pregnant woman & hubby ride 700km, get kid for heart op||NAVI MUMBAI: In the midst of the lockdown, a couple from Akola travelled about 700 km on bike with their five-month-old son suffering from congenital heart disease to reach Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Centre for Child Heart Care in Kharghar, where the infant was operated upon besides 150 kids with heart diseases. Braving rains in the ghats, the infant’s pregnant mother and father reached Kharghar. Another couple took the train from Odisha with their 1-year-old, hoping their son would pull through till they reached Kharghar. Sowmya Jandhyala, head of Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Centre, Kharghar, said, “Akola infant Vidhit Tayade, whose father is a farmer, was successfully operated for a congenital heart ailment and discharged last July. Surgery for all kids was done at no cost and we even provided free accommodation and meals for the parents.” Jandhyala added, “Another infant Jyotirmay Dhal, son of a farmer from Odisha was operated upon successfully and discharged in August. As the parents lived in a remote village, with no transport during lockdown, they walked over 50 km to reach Bhubaneswar railway station and then took a train.” Sadichcha Tayade, mother of Vidhit, said, “Vidhit was diagnosed with heart ailment when he was three-months-old. Due to lockdown, we could not travel to Mumbai for his treatment. In July, we got a call from the Kharghar hospital for the surgery. We decided to travel on our bike as we could not miss this chance to save our son’s life.” The bike’s light was not working in the ghats at night. “I held a mobile torch in one hand, my son in the other. At one point, my husband held him in one hand while riding the bike.. It was a scary trip.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/pregnant-woman-hubby-ride-700km-get-kid-for-heart-op-in-mumbai/articleshow/81457252.cms||George Mendonca
March 12, 2021||India||New media rules will benefit all: Javadekar||NEW DELHI: In an interaction with members of the Digital News Publishers Association (DNPA) on Thursday, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said the new digital media rules would create a level playing field for all forms of media, including publishers who cover news on digital platforms only. During a video conference with DNPA members representing the Times of India, India Today, Dainik Bhaskar, Hindustan Times, Indian Express, ABP, Eenadu, Dainik Jagran and Lokmat among others, Javadekar said the new rules placed certain responsibilities on digital news publishers, which included adherence to a Code of Ethics on the lines of norms of journalistic conduct framed by the Press Council of India and the Programme Code under the Cable Television Network Act. DNPA welcomed the new rules and said TV and print media had been following norms laid down under the Cable Television Network Act and the Press Council Act. It also requested the ministry to treat purely digital news platforms differently from traditional news publishers who also publish news on digital platforms, since they already follow norms pertaining to traditional news platforms. Javadekar also said the rules provide for a three-tier grievance redressal mechanism and digital news publishers will need to furnish basic information to the government through a simple form which the ministry is finalising. He added that digital news platforms will be periodically required to show efforts they have made to address user grievances. The minister said while print media and TV channels had digital versions whose content was almost the same as that on traditional platforms, some content was exclusively digital. He also said the new rules will bring purely digital news platform at par with traditional media. He said the government will take note of DNPA’s suggestions and continue the consultative process for the growth of the media industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-media-rules-will-benefit-all-javadekar/articleshow/81458374.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Madurai||Few wear mask, spot fines yet to pick up too||Madurai: The mandatory mask rule in public places and a spot fine of Rs200 on violators announced by Madurai district collector T Anbazhagan on Tuesday have taken a backseat due to lack of monitoring by the authorities even as most of the public are seen without masks.The announcement was made after Covid-19 cases began increasing in the state in the past few weeks. The collector in his order had said that people would have to adhere to the Covid-19 prevention norms strictly, as medical experts had predicted that a second wave could strike the region if the people remained complacent.However, the monitoring of the rules was poor on Wednesday and Thursday. Markets, including the central flower market, which were crowded in view of the Shivrathiri festival, saw people and vendors crowding there without masks. No handwash facilities had been provided at any of the places, though the collector had specified the same.As officials and police personnel are also on poll duty, sources said that the monitoring would not be as strict as it was June to August last year. “If the fines are not imposed strictly, amidst the election season, where people will be seen crowding in public meetings and campaigns, we will definitely see a rise in cases and people have to be very careful this time,” said a government doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/few-wear-mask-spot-fines-yet-to-pick-up-too/articleshow/81457202.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||JMC-Greater chairpersons still coming to office||JAIPUR: The case related to the working committees of JMC-Greater is ongoing in Rajasthan High Court but the chairpersons of all the committees are coming to the corporation daily. All the chairpersons are sure that the 21committees will be approved and a stay order will be given by the HC. Ramesh Saini, chairman of the licence committee, said all the chairpersons are coming to the corporation to listen to the grievances of people. “We will keep sitting in our chambers till the court ruling is announced. We are aware of the fact that we do not have any right to take any decision, but we will meet people,” said Saini. Paras Jain, chairperson of the fire committee, said they would not be threatened by the ruling party which is going against the norm by rejecting the proposals of the working committees. He said all the chairpersons are coming to the corporation as per required by the law and would be taking up the work when the judgment of the high court is announced on March 15. It is kind of a statement made by the councillors and mayor Somya Gurjar, who said that all their committees are valid and they are hopeful to get a stay of order from the high court against the decision of state government in rejecting these committees. As per rule, JMC has a power to form 21 committees and additional panels will be formed after getting permission from the state government. After the state government rejected 27 out of 28 committees, JMC-Greater took the matter to high court alleging government’s action to be against the norm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-greater-chairpersons-still-coming-to-office/articleshow/81455358.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Shimla||Pb sees 1,309 new cases, 18 deaths||CHANDIGARH: Covid-19 claimed 18 lives in Punjab while 1,309 people tested positive for the virus on Thursday. Over the last 24 hours, eight persons died in Hoshiarpur, five in Jalandhar, two each in Amritsar and Ludhiana and one in Patiala. The highest of 191 cases surfaced in Jalandhar. Kapurthala reported 180 fresh cases while 152 people tested positive in Ludhiana, 149 in Mohali, 141 in Nawanshahr, 110 in Patiala, 97 in Amritsar, 63 in Gurdaspur, 52 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 29 in Hoshiarpur, 26 in Sangrur, 23 in Bathinda, 21 in Faridkot, 17 in Moga, 14 each in Tarn Taran and Muktsar, seven in Mansa, four each in Fazilka, Ropar and Barnala and five in Pathankot. On Wednesday, 4,621 people received their first dose of the vaccine in the third phase of the ongoing drive. So far, 70,644 beneficiaries in the age group of 60-plus and 45-plus with co-morbidities have received their first dose. A total of 725 frontline workers and 661 health workers were given their first dose while 398 healthcare workers and 395 frontline workers were given their second dose of the vaccine. Till date, 1,95,948 health and frontline workers have received the first dose and 59,797 have got second dose. Hry logs 442 cases Chandigarh: A total of 9,927 frontline and healthcare workers were vaccinated for Covid-19 in Haryana on Thursday. These included 8,848 who received the first dose of vaccination and1,079 who received the second dose. With this, 4,61,696 frontline and healthcare workers have been vaccinated in the state till date. Meanwhile, the state also registered 442 positive cases and one death due to the deadly virus, raising the case count to 2,73,888 and casualties to 3,065. The recovery rate in the state is 97.90% and the doubling rate 155 days. 92 Covid-19 cases reported in HP Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported 92 Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday while 29 positive patients have also recovered. The state has 59,439 positive cases, of which 662 cases are active, 57,774 patients have recovered while 990 patients have died. So far, 11,46,871 persons have been tested for Covid-19 of which 10,87,270 persons have been tested negative while results of 162 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/pb-sees-1309-new-cases-18-deaths/articleshow/81459479.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Pb sees 1,309 new cases, 18 deaths||CHANDIGARH: Covid-19 claimed 18 lives in Punjab while 1,309 people tested positive for the virus on Thursday. Over the last 24 hours, eight persons died in Hoshiarpur, five in Jalandhar, two each in Amritsar and Ludhiana and one in Patiala. The highest of 191 cases surfaced in Jalandhar. Kapurthala reported 180 fresh cases while 152 people tested positive in Ludhiana, 149 in Mohali, 141 in Nawanshahr, 110 in Patiala, 97 in Amritsar, 63 in Gurdaspur, 52 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 29 in Hoshiarpur, 26 in Sangrur, 23 in Bathinda, 21 in Faridkot, 17 in Moga, 14 each in Tarn Taran and Muktsar, seven in Mansa, four each in Fazilka, Ropar and Barnala and five in Pathankot. On Wednesday, 4,621 people received their first dose of the vaccine in the third phase of the ongoing drive. So far, 70,644 beneficiaries in the age group of 60-plus and 45-plus with co-morbidities have received their first dose. A total of 725 frontline workers and 661 health workers were given their first dose while 398 healthcare workers and 395 frontline workers were given their second dose of the vaccine. Till date, 1,95,948 health and frontline workers have received the first dose and 59,797 have got second dose. Hry logs 442 cases Chandigarh: A total of 9,927 frontline and healthcare workers were vaccinated for Covid-19 in Haryana on Thursday. These included 8,848 who received the first dose of vaccination and1,079 who received the second dose. With this, 4,61,696 frontline and healthcare workers have been vaccinated in the state till date. Meanwhile, the state also registered 442 positive cases and one death due to the deadly virus, raising the case count to 2,73,888 and casualties to 3,065. The recovery rate in the state is 97.90% and the doubling rate 155 days. 92 Covid-19 cases reported in HP Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported 92 Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday while 29 positive patients have also recovered. The state has 59,439 positive cases, of which 662 cases are active, 57,774 patients have recovered while 990 patients have died. So far, 11,46,871 persons have been tested for Covid-19 of which 10,87,270 persons have been tested negative while results of 162 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-sees-1309-new-cases-18-deaths/articleshow/81456529.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Manali venture rejected, HP govt revives ski village project in Rohru||Shimla: While the Himalayan ski village project proposed during the previous Congress regime in Manali area of Kullu district failed to take off due to stiff opposition from local residents and deities, the BJP government has now planned another ski village project at Chanshal in Rohru sub-division of Shimla district. The tourism department of the state has issued Rs 1,200 crore expression of interest for the project. Sources said recently, a meeting was chaired by tourism secretary Devesh Kumar to review the progress of new initiatives for the promotion of tourism in the state. They said the ski village project would be executed on public-private partnership basis. The state government will assist investors for acquisition of private land for the project. During the previous Congress regime, the Himalayan Ski Village proposed in Manali attracted international attention in 2006. This is when oracles of over 100 local deities are said to have gathered at Jagati Patt temple in Naggar town of Kullu district and expressed their opposition to the project. Fearing that they would lose rights over natural resources, people from affected panchayats expressed their ire during a public hearing held on June 6, 2009 at Kothi village near Manali. The overall cost of the project was Rs 1,581.10 crore and it was to be constructed over 93.1 hectares of land. While in power, the previous BJP regime cancelled the project in 2010. Cut to the present, the government aims at promoting tourism in the countryside and to unexplored areas by developing tourism infrastructure projects on public private partnership (PPP) format. Development of the ski centre at Chanshal (Rohru), Shimla district is one of the flagship projects of the tourism department to be developed on the PPP format. The department intends to undertake development of Chanshal by establishment of a world class ski resort and winter sports training centre as well as ski lift to promote skiing, camping, trekking, adventure and eco-tourism. To improve connectivity, development of an air strip and helipad has also been proposed near the river bank at Chirgaon–for landing of smaller aircraft and helicopters. These shall be connected to the site by a ropeway. Supporting infrastructure in and around Chanshal will also be part of the proposal. The proposed project has the potential to be developed on PPP basis due to demand of tourists, proximity to Shimla, availability of quality tourism products in the region, availability of slope and trekking routes. All these contribute to make Chanshal a promising location to promote business tourism, said the expression of interest document. Situated at a height of 3,750 mtrs, Chanshal is the highest point of Shimla district. The Chanshal Pass is a link (75Km) which connects Rohru and Dodra Kwar. The Chanshal Peak is located 50km from Rohru. The valley is famous for its scenic beauty and has several trek routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/manali-venture-rejected-hp-govt-revives-ski-village-project-in-rohru/articleshow/81456523.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||NMC moves home isolation violators to quarantine||NAGPUR: Two days after taking a tough stance against violation of home isolation norms, the civic body by Thursday had placed over 40 asymptomatic Covid positive persons in institutional quarantine centres at Pachpaoli Police Quarters and VNIT hostel. The Ashi Nagar zone submitted a complaint application against a Covid positive man, who was not found at the address given to the civic body during his testing, while he could also not be contacted on his mobile number. It also moved three violators to CCC, as per the NMC spokesperson. Laxmi Nagar zone’s assistant municipal commissioner Ganesh Rathod, who is holding charge of Ashi Nagar too, said the man was untraceable throughout the day. “The cops are trying to trace him through cell tower location,” he said. Rathod also said that 14 persons in Laxmi Nagar zone not following Covid norms were placed in quarantine at the VNIT centre. The VNIT centre was restarted for international flyers but the Laxmi Nagar zone accommodated the 14 persons there as they refused to go to Pachpaoli centre. Among the home isolated , some were asked to move to the centres after the zonal medical health teams visited their homes and found people roaming around or they don’t have sufficient space. The district now has 13,188 active cases. Of these, around 4,000 are hospitalized while rest are said to be in home isolation. Rathod said the flying squad comprising rapid response teams (RRTs) are visiting each positive pesrson in the four different prabhags of the zone. The RRTs are now accompanied by Nuisance Detection Squad, who ensure people comply with RRT decisions in case they are asked to move to a quarantine centre. The Pachpaoli centre too witnessed a sudden admission of over 25 to 30 persons, who were among the 300 testing positive in the day. “Of these, 90 persons were found positive. We insisted that at least some of them stay in isolation as they didn’t have facilities,” said a centre official. The civic body is being assisted by NGOs and citizens in monitoring the asymptomatic positive persons living in home isolation. The zones are receiving tip offs following which flying squads visit homes of violators. The action on 14 in Laxmi Nagar zone was through a complaint by alert citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-moves-home-isolation-violators-to-quarantine/articleshow/81455360.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Ship of desert in troubled waters amid govt apathy||JAISALMER/JAIPUR: Camels — which have survived the harshest desert and sweltering temperatures over the years — are now struggling for existence due to the state government’s apathy and alleged corruption in the animal husbandry department. Camel herding communities — who are staging a protest to receive their long-pending dues under the previous Ushtra Vikas Yojana (UKY), which discontinued in 2018 — highlighted the alleged anomalies in disbursement of funds. Degrai Vikas Samiti president Sumer Singh Bhati said, “The state government in 2016 allocated Rs 4 crore for approximately 12,000 camel breeders who had registered under the scheme. However, the camel breeders never received the funds. Moreover, the money was transferred to the fake account holders who never had camels.” The camel breeders also demanded action against animal husbandry officials as they not only released the funds in fake accounts, but also allegedly took bribe from the poor camel farmers to release the aid in their accounts. Lokhit Pashupalak sansthan (LPPS) president Hanuman Singh said, “A probe should be initiated to unearth the scam. The state government should trace out in which accounts the money was transferred. Also, the officials also demanded money to release the funds in entitled camel breeders’ accounts.” After the economic incentives discontinued for the communities who are traditional guardians of camels in 2018, the population of the state animal is dwindling amidst the absence of funds. The camel breeders also demanded to re-launch the scheme. In October 2, 2016, with an aim to encourage camel breeding, a Camel Development Scheme (Ushtra Vikas Yojana) was launched, under which the camel farmers were provided an incentive of Rs10,000 each on the birth of a calf. The aid was provided in three instalments. “First instalment of Rs3,000 was given at the time of birth. Similarly, second instalment of Rs3,000 was provided at the age of 9 months and the third instalment of Rs4,000 was released after 18 months. The scheme was withdrawn after the change in regime in 2018,” said an official. With no support from the government, breeders who have been hit hard during the pandemic, are abandoning their camels. Shiva Raika, who owns a camel says, “The per-day expense to feed a camel is approximately Rs 350-Rs 400. As camel trade was disrupted, camel breeders were forced to set male camels free. This has also led to an increase in cruelty cases.” Meanwhile, district collector, Jaisalmer Ashish Modi said, “We have appointed a tehsildar to conduct probe. The other demands of the camel breeders are also under consideration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ship-of-desert-in-troubled-waters-amid-govt-apathy/articleshow/81455362.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Pune||Trio arrested for illegally carrying meat||Pune: The Chakan police on Wednesday arrested three men from Mumbai on the charge of transporting 550kg of meat suspected to be beef. The three men landed in the police net when their car met with an accident at Mahalunge around 3am. “The meat was in the car’s boot,” a police officer said. The trio were on their way from Sangamner in Ahmednagar district to Mumbai. After the car met with the accident, two of the occupants fled the spot. “The remaining three sustained minor injuries,” the officer said, adding that the trio were arrested under relevant sections of the Maharashtra Animal Protection Act and Indian Penal Code. The two other persons have been booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-arrested-for-illegally-carrying-meat/articleshow/81455364.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||MPSC exam delayed again; CM Uddhav Thackeray says new date today||PUNE: Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) examination scheduled on Sunday (March 14) has once again been postponed until further notice, upsetting several candidates across the state. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced the exam should be conducted within the next eight days and the new date will be announced on Friday. He also said the government was working out a way to ensure that candidates do not lose out due to the age limit. “Covid-19 cases are going up and we want to ensure exams are conducted safely, hence we are postponing them only for a few days. We don’t want to play with the emotions or the future of the aspirants,” said Thackeray. He also appealed to the students to not get restless and not to let this be made into a political issue. The decision, announced by the Relief and Rehabilitation Department in a circular, sparked protests by students and also drew flak from leaders of the ruling coalition as well as opposition BJP. Congress leader and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar claimed he was kept in the dark. “The decision has been taken at the secretary level without even discussing the issue with me. I know nothing about it....there will be an inquiry into this matter,” he tweeted. The examination was to take place in April last year but was repeatedly delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Speaking to reporters in Pune, senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan said, “If the government can permit weddings, hold budget session and conduct exams for the health department, then it is wrong to cancel the MPSC examination.” BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis demanded that the decision be reversed. “The exams have been pushed forward already and it would result in the loss of opportunity for many students who invest their best years in preparation,” he tweeted. Rohit Pawar, NCP MLA and grandson of party chief Sharad Pawar, tweeted that the examination can be conducted in a fair and safe manner. (With PTI inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mpsc-exam-delayed-again-cm-says-new-date-today/articleshow/81456547.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||Farmers to intensify anti-farm law protests||JAIPUR: In a bid to intensify the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws, the Samyunkt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has announced a series of programmes, apart from organising Bharat Bandh on March 26. The farmers will be observing anti-corporate day and anti-government day on March 15. As part of this, protests will be organised against rising prices of diesel, petrol, LPG and other essential commodities by submitting memorandums to district magistrates and SDMs (sub-divisional magistrates). With the support of trade unions, protests against privatisation will be organised at railway stations across the country on the same day. On March 17, a convention will be organised with the support of labour organisations and other public rights bodies to make Bharat Bandh a success. On March 19, as a part of ‘FCI and Kheti Bachao programme’, protests will be held in mandis across the state. On March 23, the martyrdom day of Bhagat Singh, youngsters from all over the country will join the farmers’ agitation at Delhi borders. On March 28, ‘anti-farm laws’ will be burnt as a part of Holi Dahan. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait will also address a few Kisan Mahapanchayats in Rajasthan this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-to-intensify-anti-farm-law-protests/articleshow/81455363.cms||---
March 12, 2021||India||LS may return to business next week as Oppn leaders relent||NEW DELHI: After several days of disruptions, Lok Sabha is likely to function smoothly from Monday after Speaker Om Birla urged leaders of parties to utilise the remaining part of the budget session and complete the scheduled business. Lok Sabha sources said Congress was initially adamant that it will continue with protests over fuel prices and other issues, but changed its stance after being isolated as floor leaders most of the opposition parties, during their meeting with the Speaker, were unanimous that the House should be allowed to function. The first part of the budget session was also marred by disruptions and resumed routine proceedings after defence minister Rajnath Singh made an appeal urging all parties to cooperate. As the remaining part of the session is likely to be curtailed, most of the party leaders assured the Speaker of cooperation so that important bills could be cleared. Sources said PM Narendra Modi, who could not speak on Wednesday on the plans for 75th anniversary celebrations of Independence, is likely to speak in Lok Sabha either on Monday or Tuesday on “Amrut Mahotsava”. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi had informed the Lok sabha that since the celebrations of ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’, marking 75 years of Indian independence, begins on March 12, the PM would like to give a statement in the House. All parties agreed to it, except Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ls-may-return-to-business-next-week-as-oppn-leaders-relent/articleshow/81458435.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||State survey: Most Covid violations during travel; but no restrictions on public transport||NAGPUR: A survey conducted by the state health department shows that highest 64% of violations of Covid appropriate behaviour were noticed at bus stations, during public transport, and at tourist destinations. Interestingly, there is no ban on bus travel, or on public transport as well as on visits to tourist spots anywhere in the state. This survey was conducted in Nagpur, Pune, Amravati, Akola, Nashik and a few other districts in state, where cases of Covid-19 are on the rise in last few days. The results show that after bus stations and tourist spots, 16% visitors at malls and retail shops break Covid rules. Total 11% violation have been noticed at restaurants and hotels while 6% at clubs and wedding venues. Interestingly, only 3% visitors violated the norms at religious places like temples and mosques. Still, the visit to such places is banned in the restrictions declared in Nagpur city on Thursday. “Government’s own survey shows that bus stations and public transport record highest violations. Cases are rising alarmingly in most parts of the state. Instead of restricting shops and timings of markets, it’s better to restrict unnecessary travel,” said Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, former president of IMA and present treasurer of World Medical Association. The recent guidelines about additional restrictions in Nagpur make it clear that the police will check reason if anyone steps out of home and ask for identity proof. This may bring curb on unnecessary movement of people. But public transport is still allowed with 50% capacity. Several examinations are scheduled next week in Nagpur, which will increase number of visitors and users of public transport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-survey-most-covid-violations-during-travel-but-no-restrictions-on-public-transport/articleshow/81455372.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||Mild showers increase worries of farmers||JAIPUR: Mild to moderate showers accompanied by hailstorm were witnessed at several areas in Kota division on Thursday evening. Jaipur Met office said in the coming days, many places in Bharatpur division are likely to witness showers and hailstorm. This has increased the worries of farmers who are eying to harvest Rabi crop. According to weathermen, the places which saw showers and hailstorm are Kota, Bundi, Jhalawar and Tonk. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office has asked farmers from Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Alwar, Bharatpur, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur and Dholpur to remain alert as there is a possibility of hail and thundershowers at these places in the coming days. “From Mid-march to mid-April, there has been record rainfall and hailstorm in the last three years. Thus, farmers eying harvest of Rabi crop have to be very careful,” said an officer with the agriculture department. Meanwhile, mercury continued to take an upward swing across the state except some places in the Kota division where rain prevent rise in temperature. Attributing the rainfall and hailstorm to the active western disturbances, Jaipur Met office said by the end of this week, many places are likely to get mild to moderate showers and hailstorm. Phalodi (Jodhpur) remained hottest logging 37.4°C. People in Jaipur woke up to a warmer morning with a minimum temperature of 19.6°C. It was followed by a sultry afternoon when a maximum temperature of 34.2°C was recorded. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office said mild to moderate showers accompanied with hailstorm are likely to occur at many places in the southern and eastern parts of the state in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mild-showers-increase-worries-of-farmers/articleshow/81455366.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||State sees 69 new cases, 39 recoveries, 1 death on Thursday||PANAJI: Goa reported 69 new Covid-19 cases, 39 recoveries and one death on Thursday. The tally of active cases now stands at 703. With the death of a 49-year-old woman from Bicholim, the state’s mortality count rose to 804. The woman, who suffered from multiple comorbidities, died at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, after undergoing treatment for a week. The case positivity rate dropped a little to 3.8% with 1,778 swab tests conducted during the day. Thursday saw 30 patients opt for home isolation while 19 were admitted to hospital. The tally of urban health centres at Panaji and Margao increased to 107 and 96 respectively. In North Goa, Mapusa, Chimbel and Porvorim witnessed marginal rise in infections. Other centres too reported some new cases. In South Goa, Ponda and Cansualim reported a marginal rise while Vasco and Curtorim saw their cases dropping by few numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-sees-69-new-cases-39-recoveries-1-death-on-thu/articleshow/81456556.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||PMAY-G: Dept miffed with slow progress of work done in Feb||JAIPUR: Rural development department additional chief secretary (ACS) Rohit Kumar Singh has expressed displeasure over slow progress of work by the districts under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Grameen (PMAY-G) as only 15.3% (33,334) of its target was met in February. The districts were supposed to complete construction of 2.35 lakh houses under the scheme in February. Singh has written to all the collectors to complete construction of 2.84 lakh remaining houses under PMAY-G by March 31. The chief executive officers (CEOs) of the zila parishads have also been instructed to conduct a review of the progress of work in the districts and ensure completing it by the set deadline. A rural development department report stated that of the 2.84 lakh incomplete houses under PMAY-G, highest number of such houses was in Barmer district at 43,652 followed by Banswara at 28,692 (up to February 26). Jodhpur is at the third position in terms of incomplete houses at 18,597. Of the 13.34 lakh sanctioned houses under PMAY-G from 2016-17 to 2020-21, construction of 10.50 lakh has been completed, according to the rural development department data. In all, 71,113 houses are yet to be completed even 12 months after sanctioning of first instalment of the money, 77,007 houses are yet to be completed even after nine months of sanctioning of first instalment of the money and 1.55 lakh houses are yet to be completed even after six months of sanctioning of the first instalment of the money. After 18 months, 15,300 houses are yet to be completed. Meanwhile in Jaipur, of the 13,464 sanctioned houses under PMAY-G, construction of 11,001 houses has been completed and 2,223 are still incomplete, according to the data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pmay-g-dept-miffed-with-slow-progress-of-work-done-in-feb/articleshow/81455365.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Dehradun||Covid protocols go for a toss at first shahi snan as lakhs of devotees turn up in Haridwar||Haridwar: Not even an inch of space was visible at the Har-ki-Pauri ghat throughout the day on Thursday. All one could see was a sea of people, most of them without face masks, hardly following any social distancing. With lakhs of pilgrims from across the country congregating at Haridwar on the occasion of the first shahi snan of the Maha Kumbh on Maha Shivaratri, the Covid protocol issued by the Centre went for a complete toss. While the administration had deployed over 10,000 police and paramilitary forces, who officials said had been on 24-hour duty, the large turnout of over 32 lakh pilgrims — as per official estimates — made it difficult for much screening to be done or enforcement of Covid norms to be carried out. According to the Centre's SOPs to be enforced during the shahi snan, entry to the mela premises, hotels and even public transport was permissible only after pilgrims showed their RT-PCR test report. However, on Thursday, pilgrims were seen walking around without anybody questioning them about their Covid report. Also, many pilgrims complained of mismanagement, alleging there were no signboards and neither were there arrangements made to facilitate ease of access to the ghats. “No one was checking the RT-PCR reports. We took a train till Delhi and then arrived here on a bus on Wednesday. I came here thinking that there will be strict norms, so there may be less crowd. But, what I have been seeing are unimaginable crowds,” said Nitin Upadhyay, came to Haridwar from Jaipur along with his wife and 13-year-old son. The health department in Haridwar, however, claimed that they conducted around 40,000 rapid antigen tests randomly in the entire mela area, including border regions. Ten people were tested positive, officials said. IG Kumbh Sanjay Gunjyal told TOI, "More than 2,500 vehicles were turned back from the Narsan border. They did not have proper registration and negative Covid-19 report. We are collecting the data on the registered pilgrims through the official portal." Meanwhile, a senior cop, on the condition of anonymity, said that it was impossible to manage such a crowd in Haridwar which has scores of big and small lanes that takes one to the ghats. “People should have understood the importance of mask and social distancing themselves. If we become strict, they will say that we have hurt their religious sentiments and efforts that they made to arrive here. If we don’t, we bear the brunt of media and government,” he added. Even though many policemen tried to help pilgrims in pointing out directions, several pilgrims alleged that they faced problems since routes were not clearly marked. “Pilgrims were forced to walk 4km to 7km to reach the Ganga ghats for bathing as roadways buses and pilgrims' vehicles were not allowed to enter the city and there were no signboards to the ghats,” alleged Vipul Kumar Gupta, a pilgrim from Ludhiana. Mela officer Deepak Rawat when queried told TOI, "Har-ki-Pauri ghat was reserved for the seers of akhadas and we requested the pilgrims to take bath on the other river banks. The mela administration made adequate arrangements to implement the Covid-19 guidelines."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-protocols-go-for-a-toss-at-first-shahi-snan-as-lakhs-of-devotees-turn-up-in-haridwar/articleshow/81454478.cms||MS Nawaz
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Daily caseload in Maha highest since October 7||Mumbai: Maharashtra on Thursday added 14,317 fresh cases and 57 fatalities, taking total cases to 22.66 lakh and total deaths to 52,667. Thursday's daily detection is the highest since October 7 (14,578). Mumbai has reported over 1,500 cases for the second day in a row, but deaths remain low (four on Thursday). Caseload in Mumbai since March 2020 is 3.38 lakh and the toll is at 11,519 deaths. Active cases crossed the five-digit mark for the first time since September. However, BMC isn't too worried because “virulence” of cases is low, said BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. Cases have been rising since February second week, but number of fatalities haven't risen at all in this period, she added. Active cases in the state have crossed the 1 lakh mark on Thursday. Maharashtra has a total of 1.06 lakh active cases of which 10,563 are in Mumbai. In Panvel, 125 cases were reported on Thursday, highest in the last five months. Active caseload has now gone up to 800 from below 300 a month ago. The Nagpur city administration announced a lockdown-like situation while the administration in Pune region, which has logged the highest single day (3,088 as compared to Mumbai circle's 2,856) tally, will conduct a review on Friday. With infections surging to almost 2,000 per day in the district, guardian minister Nitin Raut announced stricter restrictions in Nagpur and adjoining areas from March 15-21. With curbs already in place for weekends, non-essential shops will remain open only on Friday. “People will not be allowed to step out of their homes except for emergency or essential work. Vaccination centres will remain open and eligible people can go and get it,” he said. Raut added government offices will run at 25% strength while semi-government and private offices will remain shut except for those engaged in audit and March-end works. District administration of Aurangabad has ordered a complete closure of all monuments, including the world heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora caves, till April 4. The Aurangabad circle of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) banned the entry of tourists at all the six heritage sites in the district, with immediate effect from Thursday. In Dhule district, the entire village of Nimgul in Shindkheda taluka of Dhule district has been quarantined after 75 residents tested positive in just five days. The district administration is set to conduct rapid antigen tests on all 7,000 residents of the village to contain the spread. State health minister Rajesh Tope played down the Pune rise, stating it is the result of more testing. The state too has been conducting more than 1 lakh tests daily as compared to other states. "I am surprised some of the other states are not testing enough as compared to us" he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-daily-caseload-in-maha-highest-since-october-7/articleshow/81456565.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||31 yrs after plea, HC decides on probate of uncontested will||Mumbai: The Bombay high court on Wednesday ended the wait for the probate of a will over 31 years after the petition, which was not contested, was filed. The HC held that the will made by a Mohammedan does not require mandatory attestation by at least two witnesses. The will was made by a Cutchi Memon woman who died in 1989, bequeathing her estate, including a large property near Masjid Bunder, to charity. Her four children, who had moved the HC in 1990, had made no claims to any part of it. The order by Justice G S Patel, said there was an “oddity”. “The first oddity about the matter, and it is truly inexplicable, apart from being a tragic and terrible commentary on our justice delivery system, is that, though uncontested, the matter has been pending in this court for the last thirty one years,” he said in the order, which was available on Thursday. The will in Urdu was executed in 1980. She had not appointed any executors. The petitioners are four of her five children. They sought letters of administration of the will. The fifth, a son, lives in Karachi, Pakistan. The petitioners’ advocate Jai Munim said they were governed by the Sunni Hanafi Mohammedan law and the will before the HC was not attested by two witnesses. During the three decades, two of the four petitioners had died and the remaining two were well into their 80s. The HC registry had raised an objection and a legal question over the will as it lacked attestation by two adults as witnesses, as mentioned in section 63 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925. Justice Patel said, “Cannot fault the registry…the objection raises a question of law.” But he said this solution to the legal question raised was “neither complex nor new”. “The answer is even older than the petition: the solution is from 1905.” “It is an answer the petition could have received much earlier.” The HC after analysing the law and relying on judgements from pre-Independence said, “The rigour of section 63 of Indian Succession Act, 1925, does not apply to wills made by a Mohammedan.” The HC said Cutchi Memons are governed by the Mohammedan law. In June 1905, Justice Badruddin Tyabji in similar case of probate of the will of Aba Satar, also a Cutchi Memon, had in a similar doubt expressed by the registrar, said, “There is nothing in the Mohammedan law which requires attestation of wills…a document which is the will of a Mohammedan gentleman requires to be proved by our Anglo-Indian Law of Evidence in the same way as any other document, but it does not require to be attested, as far as Mohammedan law is concerned.” Justice Patel also relied on and said in Mulla’s Treatise it is clear that “Mohammedan Law does not demand that a will take a written form, it does not demand any particular form at all. The commentary says that even a verbal declaration is sufficient. What is necessary is to ascertain the intention of the testator.” A probate is a declaration given by the HC to the validity and genuineness of a will. Once issued, it ensures the distribution of properties and assets as contained in the will. Law firm Bachubhai Munim for the petitioners also said civic property tax arrears of over Rs 2 lakh were due on March 12, but could not be paid as bank accounts were frozen for want of probate. On Thursday Justice Patel in a separate order directed property taxes to be paid in full by March 24 and therefore no coercive action to be taken by BMC pursuant to the warrant of attachment. The HC officer from the testamentary (relating to last wills made by a person) said a probate would be issued on March 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/31-yrs-after-plea-hc-decides-on-probate-of-uncontested-will/articleshow/81457640.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||IPB Act to be amended for faster clearances||PANAJI: The state government is working on overhauling the existing Goa Investment Promotion Act, 2014, and aims to introduce the Goa Investment Promotion (Amendment) Bill in the coming assembly session, officials said. The amendment aims to give the investment facilitation body greater powers to clear investment projects in the state with an empowered group of secretaries likely to be constituted to grant time bound clearances. While the revised Goa Investment Promotion Act aims to give clearances within 30 days, industries secretary J Ashok Kumar said that the government hopes to give faster clearances with the help of the empowered group of secretaries. Goa’s empowered group of secretaries is akin to the high-level empowered group of secretaries that the Centre constituted in July 2020. At the Centre, the empowered group of secretaries is headed by the Cabinet secretary to clear investments across the country. “Our efforts are on to introduce the amendment in the coming assembly session,” IPB chief executive officer Vandana Rao said. “We wanted to introduce it in the last session, but there were some queries from the law department which we have answered.” The proposed amendments are likely to accompany the integration of Goa IPB with the National Investment Clearance Cell, which will facilitate clearances at central and state level, and which would allow investors and industrial units to directly apply with the Centre if they wish to start business operations in Goa. “Even though we have fixed a timeline of not more than 30 days, we want to reduce that timeline to the least possible time to create confidence among investors,” Kumar said, while addressing potential investors recently. Goa IPB will also assign an investment officer to every cleared project so that if any investor faces any difficulty or problem in obtaining approvals from a government agency, the officer will be able intervene and provide assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ipb-act-to-be-amended-for-faster-clearances/articleshow/81457216.cms||Newton Sequeira
March 12, 2021||Pune||Case lodged against 3 for man’s death||Pune: The Dighi police on Wednesday registered an offence against three men on the charge of causing the death of a 30-year-old man. The victim, Faeem Ansari of Nigdi, had lent Rs20,000 to one of the suspects. When he asked for his money, the trio beat him up on February 26. Ansari succumbed to injuries during treatment. His brother, Salim (37), has registered a first information report (FIR) with the Dighi police. An officer from the Dighi police said that the victim had given Rs 20,000 to one of the suspects. He was not returning the money. “On February 23, Ansari went to the suspect’s house and demanded money from his brother,” the officer said. Angered over this, the suspect, his brother and a friend assaulted Ansari. “One of them punched Ansari in the chest. Ansari could not sustain it and died in the hospital while undergoing treatment,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/case-lodged-against-3-for-mans-death/articleshow/81455398.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Thaltej killings: Sixth accused flees to Gorakhpur||AHMEDABAD: Even while various teams of city crime branch and city police have been hunting for the sixth accused in the Thaltej double murder case — Ravi Sharma alias Panditji, a resident of Gwalior — sources said his last location was traced to near Gorakhpur in eastern Uttar Pradesh. Sources in the police said that Ravi Sharma, a conspirator in the killings of Ashok Patel and Jyotsna Patel, both 68 and residents of Thaltej, was on the run after the murder. “He had first gone to Jhansi and then his location could not be traced for a couple of days. On Tuesday, his location was traced to near Gorakhpur in eastern Uttar Pradesh,” said a police officer. City crime branch had on Monday arrested five accused – Bharat Gaud, his brother Rahul Gaud, Bharat’s brother-in-law Nitin Gaud and Ashish Vishwakarma — for killing the Patel couple at their home, bungalow No.2 of Shantivan Palace Society near Hebatpur Crossroads in Thaltej. During the inquiry, it was found that Nitin had gone to meet his sister’s husband Bharat Gaud at Ashok and Jyotsna Patel’s home when Bharat was working there as carpenter. Nitin then decided to rob the couple and took Sharma’s advice on how they could do it. Sharma told Nitin that they should be equipped with weapons like a knife and country-made revolver for the robbery. Sharma also told Nitin to do a recce of the house before the robbery. Following his advice, the accused conducted a recce for around four days to decide on the time. Sharma told Nitin to kill the victims if they saw him and insisted on killing the two saying they would have noticed them doing the recce. After killing the couple, Nitin again called Sharma who advised them to flee in Patel’s SUV from the crime scene but as they could not drive it, they fled on their motorcycles. Later, Sharma told them to go to out of the state to evade arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/thaltej-killings-sixth-accused-flees-to-gorakhpur/articleshow/81455510.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Bengaluru||21 months on, IMA depositors to get partial refund from today||BENGALURU: Exactly 21 months after the I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) scam was busted, a section of the investors will get partial refund of their deposits starting from Friday. About 3,500 of 11,492 depositors eligible for payout up to Rs 50,000 will receive refund in their bank accounts by Friday evening, said Harsh Gupta, special officer and competent authority in the IMA Ponzi case. On June 10, 2019, IMA founder Mansoor Ali Khan released a video, alleging that former minister R Roshan Baig took Rs 400 crore from him and refused to return it. He had alleged that Baig promised to bail him out by using his influence in the JD(S)-Congress government. Both Khan and Baig were arrested and they have since secured bail. The competent authority appointed in the IMA case received 65,258 claim applications from depositors with a total payout of Rs 2,695 crore. Since many depositors had received profit payouts before the scam was unearthed, the net payable was reduced to Rs 1,372 crore. Gupta said, “The hitch was that the total worth of the confiscated assets of IMA was Rs 475 crore. The special court hearing the case has confirmed the attachment of properties worth only Rs 6.5 crore. We could not return money to all depositors.” The court has ordered settling of claims up to Rs 50,000 with priority given to depositors with the lowest investment. Since there are 11,492 depositors eligible for payout up to Rs 50,000, the authority needs Rs 32 crore. With Rs 6.5 crore in hand, it has decided to pay 3,500 investors in the first instalment. Depositors hope to get full investment Other depositors will get their money back as and when the court confirms pending attachment of properties,” said Harsh Gupta, special officer and competent authority in the IMA Ponzi case. Sources said the CBI, which is investigating the case, will identify more properties for attachment as many politicians and bureaucrats are under the scanner. The CBI has already questioned Baig, two IPS officers and an IAS officer. “I’ve seen the toughest time of my life and I prefer to deal with the case legally. I do not offer comments since as my lawyers have advised against it,” said Baig. The development has brought hope among the depositors. “We may get back our full investment,” said Kareem Pasha, a depositor. Taking note of the procedural constraints involved in the case, Gupta has suggested the government set up a permanent competent authority with a court and lawyers for handling Ponzi scams. The CID, too, should have a separate KPID (Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments) cell to investigate Ponzi scams. The state government recently amended the KPID Act to investigate complaints in fraudulent transactions and attach properties of the fraudsters. “Some 120 Ponzi scams have been registered in the recent past, but assets have been attached in only 45 cases,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/21-months-on-ima-depositors-to-get-partial-refund-from-today/articleshow/81458470.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
March 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Release cash seized from DK Shivakumar aide: Karnataka high court||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court has directed the release of cash seized by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) from the registered office of a Bengaluru-based company and from the residence of Sachin Narayan, a close associate of KPCC president DK Shivakumar. Justice John Michael Cunha has said that there is no prima facie material to show the cash seized from Wellworth Software, Bengaluru, or the residence of Sachin is related to the proceeds of the crime alleged against DK Shivakumar or his wife.  No proof to show crime link to seized cash: Court As per the high court’s order, Rs 47.9 lakh has to be released in favour of Wellworth Software and Rs 5.4 lakh in favour of Sachin subject to the execution of an indemnity bond for the equal amount and surety for the like sum to the satisfaction of the trial court, in terms of guidelines issued by the Supreme Court in the Sunderbhai Ambalal Desai vs State of Gujarat case. The CBI seized the cash as part of probe into illegal assets case against the Congress leader from April 1, 2013 to April 30, 2018 under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Wellworth Software and Sachin Narayan submitted applications, seeking release of the cash. After the trial court rejected it on November 20, 2020, they moved the HC contending they were the rightful owners of the money. According to them, the company is in the business of multisystem operators and collected cash from cable operators. Before the money could be deposited in the bank, it was seized by police, they claimed. The CBI claimed Sachin is a business partner of Shivakumar’s wife, who is also an accused, and probe into the source of her funds is in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/release-cash-seized-from-dks-aide-hc/articleshow/81458479.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||We had to bring everyone on the same page: NGOs||NAGPUR: From ensuring availability of beds to regular supply of oxygen to distributing food and ration, the contribution made by city’s NGOs during the pandemic deserves appreciation. It’s been almost a year since these organizations have been working tirelessly, reaching the unreachable and bringing together different authorities. “One of our biggest challenges was to bring together the police, divisional commissionerate, Nagpur Municipal Corporation and collectorate. The main problem in the city was that every department was doing its own thing. But to fight a pandemic as big as this one, all had to be on the same page and prepare a central plan,” says Anasuya Kale Chhabrani, secretary of NGO Together We Can. The NGO has constantly been at the forefront to address different issues like managing the central helpline for hospital admissions, distributing rations, addressing grievances of patients, opposing inflated hospital bills and maintaining data. At the beginning of the lockdown in March last year, few activists foresaw the testing time that lay ahead. “We started meeting different like-minded people and in April, we had our first meeting. We were associated with different organizations but to fight this pandemic, we all came under one common umbrella ‘Together We Can’,” says Kale. Initially, no government authority was willing to come on board. “We got the biggest support from senior police officials. They provided us a complete set-up and infrastructure to start a help desk for citizens. Different teams would do different work. And by August, we were successfully on board with NMC and other agencies,” says 22-year-old Wasudev Mishra, executive member of the NGO. As a youngster who spent most of his time doing ground-work, Mishra faced various hassles. “Changing the mindset of people was the toughest task. We thought they would abide by the rules and take all precautions but many didn’t. For instance, while facilitating the migration of labourers, ensuring social distancing was a big challenge,” he says. Another sphere where activists and volunteers played a significant role was saving the lives of the sick. “People who were asymptomatic would rush to hospitals and occupy beds. On the other hand, those who were ill, feared getting hospitalized and when their condition deteriorated, we would run from pillar to post to find them a bed, oxygen facility or a ventilator. There would be times when 5-6 ambulances would run in the city finding beds for patients,” says Mishra. However tough it may be, the biggest lesson the pandemic has taught is working in collaboration. “Nobody knew corona, everybody was experimenting and struggling. In many sectors, people also took advantage and indulged in corruption. We feel the collaboration of the departments should have taken place earlier. However, better late than never,” says Kale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/we-had-to-bring-everyone-on-the-same-page-ngos/articleshow/81455441.cms||Manka Behl
March 12, 2021||Dehradun||Senior IAS officer Sailesh Bagauli becomes secretary to CM||Dehradun: In the first major bureaucratic rejig, chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Thursday appointed senior IAS officer Sailesh Bagauli as the secretary to CM. Bagauli has been given additional charge of secretary to CM as he is already holding the charge of the secretary of transport department, secretary of urban development department and chief administrator of Uttarakhand Housing and Urban Development Authority. According to TOI sources, a major reshuffle in bureaucracy is on the cards and will possibly be carried out after the cabinet members are decided and sworn in. A major grouse of his partymen against former CM Trivendra Rawat was that the bureaucrats during his tenure had become all-powerful and did not listen to ministers or MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/senior-ias-officer-sailesh-bagauli-becomes-secretary-to-cm/articleshow/81454495.cms||Gaurav Talwar
March 12, 2021||Pune||Siblings in net on charge of vandalising nine vehicles||Pune: Two siblings were arrested on Thursday afternoon for damaging cars and autorickshaws parked in the Dias Plot and Maharshinagar areas in the wee hours of Thursday.The police said the brothers (aged 43 and 45) had a fight in their house in the Dias Plot area and left home around 4 am on Thursday. In a fit of rage, they damaged nine vehicles with stones. The police studied the CCTV footage of the area and nabbed the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/siblings-in-net-on-charge-of-vandalising-nine-vehicles/articleshow/81455420.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||Don’t take Covid pandemic lightly, warn doctors||Panaji: Doctors warn people not to take Covid-19 lightly in view of cases rising quickly in neighbouring states and showing a sudden rise in Goa too. “We have to treat Covid-19 as a dangerous disease. We have got to win over the virus by continuing to follow Covid-19 protocol,” Dr Rajesh Patil, nodal officer of South Goa district hospital, said. “The elderly and those with comorbidities must be more careful. Even a mild attack can be quite bad for someone with a pre-existing condition of asthma or diabetes. It varies from individual to individual,” he says. During a pandemic one must have a “high degree of suspicion”, another doctor said. “It could start off as a bodyache, headache, fever, cough, loss of smell or taste, but one must not pass this off. Any symptoms must not be ignored. It’s better to get tested. If you’re negative what do you lose?” he said. If tested positive, treatment can be begin at the right time, the doctor said, while adding that “during a pandemic such as this, one must have a high degree of suspicion and consult a doctor and get tested”. Everyone must take the pandemic seriously, including the young, a physician said. “We cannot say for sure who will suffer a serious outcome of the disease and who will not. There’s no guarantee that Covid-19 won’t prove fatal for someone who’s young irrespective of whether they have comorbidities or not. Everyone has to be careful.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-take-covid-pandemic-lightly-warn-doctors/articleshow/81456576.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||Despite brickbats, cops show their humane face||NAGPUR: Criticism is nothing new for the police department but it had reached tormenting levels during the peak of the pandemic even when the men in khaki were fighting inner battles to keep the infection at bay with 1,682 testing positive and 17 deaths. Despite the criticism, cops had helped more than 51,000 migrants to reach their homes and also ensured more than the 51 lakh population received food, masks and sanitizers. Ranging from enforcing Covid norms on the roads to securing containment zones to managing the movement of migrants to helping the starving population with food, former CP BK Upadhyay described the experience as an ‘unprecedented crisis’ but a ‘historic moment for the police’ too. “It was a unique challenge of contradictions when cops were not using force on the masses but the enforcement had to be full-proof to break the chain and also, at the same time, the welfare of the personnel too had to be kept in mind,” said Upadhyay who added the then Addl CP Nilesh Bharne’s humanitarian work in the slums where he, by roping in the NGOs, had ensured at least 50,000 food packets were distributed. Addl SP, rural, Rahul Maknikar, who was the Zonal DCP in Zone three in east Nagpur having containment zones of Shatranjipura, Mominpura, Naik Talaoand Shantinagar, within his jurisdiction, said the police department was the only visible government agency on the roads during the pandemic and the lockdown’s initial phase which made it easy to be targeted by the flabbergasted and frustrated masses. “Police generally deal with criminals and investigate crime mostly leaving the festivals when it had to face the public. During corona, it was only the public which we were dealing with round the clock. Our roles had transformed, our duties had changed and we were doing something which was never done before,” he said. Incumbent CP Amitesh Kumar had stepped into the city to take up the reigns of the city police at a critical junction when the easing of the lockdown phases had started but a spike in the Covid cases had created a crippling shortage of beds and medicines. The death rate of the cops would have increased had not Kumar stepped in to ensure the zonal DCPs becames pro-active to help ailing cops at hospitals and also to revamp the police hospital at the police headquarters with chief medical officer Dr Sandeep Shinde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-brickbats-cops-show-their-humane-face/articleshow/81455460.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 21,000 died in road accidents in 3 years||GANDHINAGAR: Despite the government’s tall claims of increasing road safety, official figures presented in the Gujarat assembly show that more than 21,000 persons died in road accidents in the state during the past three years. In a written reply to questions in the ongoing budget session of the state assembly, chief minister Vijay Rupani, who also holds the home portfolio, informed that 21,529 persons died in road accidents in the last three years, ending September 30,2020. In addition, 46,146 persons sustained serious injuries in road accidents during the same period. The highest number of deaths and injuries were reported in Ahmedabad (1075 deaths),while Surat registered 808 deaths, 536 persons died in Rajkot and 472 died in Vadodara in road accidents in the said period. The CM,in his response regarding action taken by the government to reduce deaths and injuries due to road accidents, said all the districts and city traffic enforcement agencies have been assigned targets and tasks to minimise road accidents and spread road safety awareness. The CM added in his response that local RTO, police, R&B and urban body officials have been directed to visit accident sites and make necessary changes in case of faulty road engineering. He also said that traffic safety rives are carried out regularly. The CM said in his reply that driving licences of many rash drivers have been cancelled and road safety councils have been constituted in all districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/21k-died-in-road-accidents-in-3-years/articleshow/81455506.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Shopkeepers in Kalyan up in arms against 7pm deadline||Kalyan: Shopkeepers are unhappy with Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation’s decision to curb shop timings to 7 pm, while allowing hotel and restaurants to close at 11 pm. They have sought uniform timings for all except essential services. With Covid-19 cases surging in Kalyan-Dombivli, the twin township’s municipal commissioner Dr Vijay Suryawanshi on Wednesday announced restrictions on shops from Thursday.“We are also concerned about the rising cases, but the KDMC did not take shopkeepers into confidence while taking this decision. They have discriminated against us by issuing different timings for us and hotels and restaurants,” said Rakesh Mutha, president of shopkeepers association in Kalyan, demanding that the same rules should apply for all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-shopkeepers-in-kalyan-up-in-arms-against-7pm-deadline/articleshow/81456581.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 12, 2021||Aurangabad||Burglars attempt to rob two banks in rural Aurangabad, fail||Aurangabad: Unidentified burglars made futile attempts to rob two banks in Galleborgaon village falling under the limits of Khultabad police station of Aurangabad rural police.Branches of two cooperative banks are situated in the gram panchayat building’s first floor.The suspects reportedly cut-open the shutter of one bank to gain entry, scrambled through the documents, damaged CCTV connections before trying to damage hard disc there. They then tried to break open the locker of the bank, but in vain.The suspects then shifted their attention to the other bank, but they could only break one of the two locks installed on the main gate of the bank. The incident came to light on Thursday morning after the bank staff came to work. Soon, a team of Khultabad police, led by inspector Sitaram Mehetre, went to the spot. In his statement to the police, a security guard has claimed that he was at the spot till midnight, following which, he left for his home. The police are checking if the suspects knew about the guard’s absence.When contacted, inspector Mehetre said, “Prima facie, it appears that the suspects have just scrambled through the documents in one bank they managed to enter. No valuables or cash were stolen, and locker was intact.”A day earlier, a similar attempt was made at Ghatnandra village falling under the limits of Sillod rural police station. Police said here too, the suspects were unlucky.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/burglars-attempt-to-rob-two-banks-in-rural-aurangabad-fail/articleshow/81453722.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 12, 2021||Trichy||Rockins Road in Trichy gets median to prevent accidents||Trichy: The Trichy city police and Trichy Corporation have installed a median for a 100m stretch on Rockins Road, to prevent accidents. Police said that the absence of a median was making vehicles commute on either side of the roads. Last week, a two-wheeler rider survived an accident by a whisker while overtaking a speeding city bus. To prevent such incidents, police bifurcated a stretch dotting mobile phone shops, hotels and sweet stalls with centre medians. Although the measure was welcomed by the locals, they expressed concern over parking their vehicles. “Visitors to hotels will occupy half the carriageway. Police should streamline the street parking,” B Anbarasan, a resident of Ponnagar said. Police said that haphazard parking of vehicles will come down drastically as vehicles will be continuously moving. The civic body also has a plan for implementing paid parking in the stretch. “We will restrict the haphazard parking. The median will also prevent pedestrians from crisscrossing the accident-prone stretch,” a senior official with the city police said. Further, police have planned to identify wider roads where similar centre medians can be installed to streamline bidirectional vehicular movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rockins-road-in-trichy-gets-median-to-prevent-accidents/articleshow/81456579.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Actor beats actress, demands money||Ahmedabad: A 25-year-old actress, who lives in Satellite and works as an actor in Mumbai, has accused an actor of assaulting her, demanding money, and threatening her to kill her if she refused to work in film projects with him. Complainant Doli Modi, a resident of Om Tower near Jodhpur Crossroads in Satellite, alleged that the incident occurred on Wednesday night. In her complaint with Satellite police, Doli said that she had met accused Bhaumik Patel, a resident of Tulsipark Society near Vijaynagar Crossroads, around four months ago. She alleged that since they met, Patel had been pressuring her to work with him but she kept refusing his offer. “Despite this, he used to continue harassing me,” she claimed. She said that Patel called her up around 9.50 pm on Wednesday and said he would come to her house. She asked him not to do so, yet he landed up at her door around 11 pm. “He began knocking at my door and began screaming out by my name. I told him I will not meet him at night,” she alleged in the FIR. When he allegedly continued to insist on meeting her, she told him that she would meet him downstairs. She asked her brother to accompany her. “When he saw me, he began demanding Rs 1.5 lakh, alleging that I had taken his money. When I denied his allegations, he began abusing and thrashing me,” she alleged. She said in the FIR that she suffered internal injuries on her arms and shoulders in the attack. When her brother tried to rescue her, the accused thrashed him, too. She alleged that Patel threatened to kill her if she ever refused to work with him in the film industry. Her brother called up the police control room. Later, they filed a complaint of causing hurt, uttering abusive words and criminal intimidation against Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/actor-beats-actress-demands-money/articleshow/81455496.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||IL&FS offers to surrender rights to develop GIFT City||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani, who also holds the urban development department portfolio, informed the assembly in a written reply that the Gujarat government is yet to take a call on a proposal by IL&FS to surrender development rights of GIFT City at Gandhinagar, even as the company is passing through a financial crisis. Rupani said this in response to questions by Congress MLAs C J Chavda and Baldevji Thakor in the ongoing budget session of the assembly. He said, “IL&FS has paid Rs 323.25 crore for purchasing development rights of Gift City in Gandhinagar. The company is yet to pay Rs 256.7 crore against these development rights. The company has proposed to surrender the development rights against waiver of pending dues (Rs 256.75 crore). The proposal is under consideration.” The CM avoided answering questions on what was the deadline for the company to pay fixed fees and since what period has IL&FS not paid development rights money to the government. On behalf of the state government, Gujarat Urban Development Company Limited had done a joint venture with IL&FS for developing Gujarat International Finance-Tec (GIFT) city, which includes a multi-services special economic zone (SEZ)and an international finance services centre (IFSC). As anchor investor and co-developer in the project, IL&FS Urban was supposed to develop 7.77 million sq ft of built-up space in GIFT City. However after the company got into a financial crisis, the GIFT city development faced uncertainty. Sources said, “In the coming days, the government of India and state government will plan completion of the work without IL&FS. The state government may approve IL&FS’s proposal to surrender development rights and give the rights to some other player.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ilfs-offers-to-surrender-rights-to-develop-gift-city/articleshow/81455684.cms||Kapil Dave
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Boxing coach held for raping girl at club in Mumbai||Mumbai: A 30-year-old boxing coach, under the pretext of teaching a 14-year-old girl the sport, allegedly took her to a club and raped her, and threatened to ruin her career if she revealed anything. Tilak Nagar police on Wednesday arrested the coach from Vashinaika in Chembur on charges of rape and under sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. He was remanded to police custody. The parents told police she was unwell for some time, and as she wanted to pursue boxing as a career, she was sent for training to a club in Mulund. He called her to his house for counselling and later on Tuesday took her to the club and allegedly raped her. S Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/boxing-coach-held-for-raping-girl-at-club-in-mumbai/articleshow/81456589.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man demanding his salary assaulted||Ahmedabad: A 36-year-old man from the Vasna area of city on Thursday filed a complaint with Vasna police alleging that his employer and son assaulted him with a handle of shovel when he went to them demanding his three months’ salary which they did not give him citing financial crisis. Bharat Dabhi, a resident of Kailashdham Society in Vasna, said that he was working as a driver with accused Rajeshgiri Goswami for five months. He said that they had initially paid him a monthly salary of Rs 15,000 for around two months but later they stopped giving him salary. “As they did not give me salary for three months and as I fed up asking for it repeatedly, I decided to leave my job there and stopped working for them 10 days ago,” said Bharat. Bharat said that he was searching for job and was running out of money. On Wednesday morning, his mother Leela Dabhi demanded money for household expenditure. On Wednesday night, Dabhi went to Goswami’s house where he and his son were present. When Dabhi sought his due salary, Goswami asked him to resume job. But Dabhi told him that as he did not pay his salary, he would not work with him ever. This irked Goswami and his son Tushar who abused and attacked him with a handle of shovel leaving him severely injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-demanding-his-salary-assaulted/articleshow/81455471.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Trichy||Paddy on 1,000 acres withers away sans water||Thanjavur: Farmers who raised summer paddy on around 1,000 acres at Thirumalai Samudram in the district allege that the crops - which are getting ready for harvest - are withering due to scarcity of water. Despite repeated demands and multiple protests by farmers, PWD authorities are not releasing the required water from Mettur dam, they allege, adding that the entire government machinery is busy with the assembly polls, ignoring their plight. The standing paddy crops have completed 60-70 days and if they are irrigated for another 20-30 days, it can be harvested without any issues. “However, due to water shortage, crops raised on several hundreds of acres are withering. The fields are cracking open due to the scorching heat,” farmers said. “ Even though crops have started to wither, officials are waiting for an order from the government to release more water from Mettur. But the government is busy with the assembly polls,” NV Kannan, district secretary of Tamil Nadu Farmers Association said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/paddy-on-1000-acres-withers-away-sans-water/articleshow/81456587.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
March 12, 2021||Trichy||Vanniyar leader quits outfit, PMK||Trichy: A senior functionary of Tamil Nadu Vanniyar Sangam and PMK has resigned from both the outfit and the party over displeasure in the selection of the candidate for the Jayankondam assembly segment in Ariyalur district. The move from the PMK leader was seen as a setback for the party that was allotted the constituency under the AIADMK coalition. K Vaithi, state secretary of Vanniyar Sangam, in his Facebook post has said that there is no recognition for the hard work in the party. Sources said that Vaithi was expecting a seat for him, anticipating the segment, he had extensively carried out election campaigning in Katchiperumal and Suriyamanal villages for weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vanniyar-leader-quits-outfit-pmk/articleshow/81456583.cms||Deepak Karthik
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||Muslim groups laid Covid bodies to rest when kin stayed away||NAGPUR: When Covid casualties rose sharply during the pandemic peak last year, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and district administration faced shortage of hearse vans and even manpower to carry out last rites of the deceased. Bodies would pile up at mortuaries and inside Covid wards as the officials engaged in disposal duties struggled to keep pace with the large number of fatalities. Initially, a group of professionals and businessmen were roped in by the NMC mainly to perform last rites of Muslims. The group was later supported by volunteers from different professions and religious groups, who started carrying out not just burials but also cremation of scores of Covid deceased on the administration’s request. Jamiat Ulema Hind, Dawaat-e-Islami, Muslim Foundation and Safa Baitul Maal (SBM) were at the forefront in carrying out the last rites of Covid patients. These were later joined by Vivekanand Trust and Alfiya Training Centre. As more people joined, the volunteers divided themselves among three groups to work on alternate days while they also carried on with their professions, businesses and official duties. Jamiat Ulema Hind (Arshad Madani) Nagpur secretary Javed Akhtar said so far the JUH has performed last rites of several Covid deceased in city and peripheral areas. “We did it for humanity. We never cared about the faith of a deceased,” he said. Dr Sarfaraz Ahmed, who was in the first group, said the volunteers relentlessly worked day and night. Shahid Rangoonwala, Javed Nilo, and Moidul Ansari were also with Dr Ahmed from the start. Muslim Foundation’s Islahuddin Ansari said relatives are still reluctant to touch a Covid body. “Last week, Mouda tehsildar called us for cremation of an old man. We completed the formalities while the pyre was lit by a family member in PPE kit,” he said, adding their only aim is humanity must remain intact. Ansari said his team includes Faheem Qureshi, Afzal Karemi, Zafar Faraz and Mohammad Altmash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/muslim-groups-laid-covid-bodies-to-rest-when-kin-stayed-away/articleshow/81455491.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Infatuated man stalks teen in Ahmedabad, molests her in public||AHMEDABAD: A 19-year-old woman from the Nava Naroda area of city on Wednesday filed a complaint with Krishnanagar police alleging that she was molested by a man who was stalking her for the past seven months. The woman, a BCA student with a Gandhinagar college, stated in her FIR that she had met the accused Rohan Piprotar around one and a half years ago as he was living in the same locality where she lived. She said that as she used to talk gently and mingled with people easily, Piprotar took it otherwise and assumed that she loved him. “Around seven months ago he told me that he loved her and pressured me to accept his proposal. He fell in one-sided love with me and began harassing me sending obscene messages,” she said. She told her parents about Piprotar who talked with his parents. Despite the parents’ request that he should not harass her, Piprotar continued to send her messages pressuring her to accept his proposal. On March 5, when she was returning her home from her college, Piprotar came on his motorcycle and molested her. He, then, told her to come and sit pillion on his motorcycle. As she refused to sit pillion with him, he began abusing him in full public view in Naroda. She said that Piprotar continued to send her obscene messages and on Wednesday he threatened to commit suicide if she refused to accept his proposal. She approached Krishnanagar police and filed a complaint of molestation and criminal intimidation against her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/infatuated-man-stalks-teen-molests-her-in-public/articleshow/81455487.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||Of 7,000 listed HIV patients in state, 30 get Covid, 28 recover||PANAJI: Of 7,000 HIV patients listed at the anti-retroviral therapy (ART) centre of Goa Medical College (GMC) & Hospital, Bambolim, 30 patients contracted Covid-19 during the past few months and majority of them were cured. They could overcome their illness despite the presence of co-morbidity conditions since these patients took all the necessary precautions and prescribed medication. Also majority of the patients have so far succeeded in keeping themselves safe from the virus despite their compromised health conditions. They could do it because they followed Covid appropriate behaviour all the time, a doctor at the hospital said. “In fact, they have more reasons to worry about it than others if they fall sick but most of our patients have taken precautions right from the beginning,” she said. The doctor however said there was concern earlier when the pandemic broke out last year and Goa witnessed a surge in infections since June but fortunately most of their beneficiaries remained unaffected, though two deaths have been reported. “People with HIV positive infection are susceptible to opportunistic infections, including tuberculosis if they do not follow the ART regime. All precautions are followed when patients are called either for counselling or collecting their monthly dose of medicines,” the doctor added. Recently a 50-year-old woman from Maharashtra died at a private hospital in North Goa, reportedly a HIV positive patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/of-7000-listed-hiv-patients-in-state-30-get-covid-28-recover/articleshow/81457258.cms||Bindiya Chari
March 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||PM to launch Amrut Mahotsav today||Gandhinagar: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off the ‘Padyatra’ (Freedom March) from Sabarmati Ashram on Friday and inaugurate activities of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ (India@75). PM Modi will also launch various other cultural and digital initiatives for the India@75 celebrations and will address a gathering beside the Sabarmati Ashram. ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ is a series of events to be organized by the government of India to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Independence. The mahotsav will be celebrated as a peoples’ movement across the country. A national implementation committee headed by the Union home minister has been constituted to chalk out policies and planning of events to be undertaken for the commemoration. The curtain raiser activities are beginning on March 12, 75 weeks before August 15, 2022. The event will witness the inauguration of curtain raiser activities planned under the India@75 theme such as a film, website, song, ‘Aatmanirbhar Charkha’ and ‘Aatmanirbhar Incubator’. A cultural programme presenting the celebration of the indomitable spirit of the country will also be held. The ‘padyatra’ to be flagged off by the PM, will be undertaken by 81 marchers from Sabarmati Ashram to Dandi in Navsari, a journey of 241 miles that will end on April 5, lasting for 25 days. Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel will lead the first 75km-leg of the padyatra. Governor Acharya Devvrat, Union MoS Prahlad Singh Patel and CM Vijay Rupani will also be present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-to-launch-amrut-mahotsav-today/articleshow/81455529.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal’s paraplegic veterans show off skills at Pune centre||Kolkata: Mridul Ghosh from Murshidabad may have dabbled in colours as a pastime but his primary career was in the Indian Air Force (IAF). Airman Ghosh is a paraplegic today after meeting with an accident. He is still unable to use his limbs but leaves those at the Paraplegic Rehabilitation Centre (PRC) at Pune awestruck when he picks up the paintbrush with his mouth. He is not alone. There are five others like him from Bengal at PRC, Pune, who suffered injuries to their spines during operations, exercises or training. “The group includes Sep Md Habibur Rahman, Sep D K Giri and Naik Anup Mondal from Murshidabad. Sep T K Roy is from Bankura and Hav D K Lama is from Darjeeling. While Ghosh paints, another one is a swimmer of national fame. A veteran plays the flute and another from the state works at a call centre. The Bengal government has paid Rs 6 lakh to PRC, Pune, for the six. Those from other states have received much more,” said a veteran official. As per Recruitable Male Population (RMP), Bengal ought to be fourth in the list of states contributing soldiers to the country’s armed forces. However, thanks to a lack of facilities, it is sixth in the list. “Bengal loses out on employment opportunities by not helping youths in joining the forces. There are no Zilla Sainik Boards in 10 districts. Kalimpong that has a large number of veterans and serving soldiers is one of them. The rule to give reservation to ex-servicemen during recruitment in the state police was not followed and the Rajya Sainik Board has taken up the matter. Veterans can also be recruited on a contract basis at Public Health Centres in rural areas after they return home and settle down in villages,” said another retired official. The Rajya Sainik Board also doesn’t have a permanent address of its own and has now written to the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners (HRBC) for space on St George’s Gate Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengals-paraplegic-veterans-show-off-skills-at-pune-centre/articleshow/81455525.cms||Jayanta Gupta
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Nearly every corner of Maharashtra seeing a surge’||MUMBAI: Dr Balram Bhargava, director general of Indian Council of Medical Research, said no mutant strains were responsible for the surge in Maharashtra. He blamed Covid-inappropriate behaviour and congregations for the rise.  Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said active cases in Maharashtra jumped from 36,917 on February 11 to 1,00,240 on March 11, a rise of 172%. Bhushan contrasted it with the example of Kerala that has reduced active cases from 64,607 in February 11 to 35,715 in March 11.  Ernakulam in Kerala and Bengaluru (urban) from Karnataka are the only two districts from outside the state in the top 10. “Increase is related to reduced testing, tracking and tracing and Covid-inappropriate behaviour and large congregations. There is also a hypothesis that re-opening of suburban trains, weddings have led to the spike," Bhargava said. Read AlsoCovid-19: Eight of India’s 10 worst-hit districts in Maharashtra, Centre ‘very worried’Eight of the ten districts with the highest active cases in the country are from Maharashtra, the Union health ministry said on Thursday, calling the surge a “tipping point”. Pune, Nagpur, Thane and Mumbai are on top. The state’s active caseload has more than doubled in the past month, from 36,917 Centre also issued a caution for Delhi and its neighbourhood, saying there was a rise in positivity rate in the Capital and NCR regions like Gurgaon and Faridabad as also Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad.  As per Central data, Pune district had the highest active cases (18,474) followed by Nagpur (12,724) and Thane (10,460). Mumbai was at fourth position (9,973). Amravati from the Vidarbha region and Aurangabad from Marathwada also featured in the top 10, along with Jalgaon and Nashik from northern Maharashtra. “The distribution of active cases shows that nearly every corner of the state right from Vidarbha, Marathwada to Konkan and western Maharashtra is seeing a surge,” a state official said. Two districts, Dhule and Buldhana, had a daily positivity of 31% and 30% respectively while five, including Nashik (26%), Pune (26%), Jalna (22%) and Nagpur (20%), shot past the state average. Seven districts, including three from Marathwada and two from Vidarbha, have a daily positivity rate between 15% and 18%. The state’s positivity has increased three times since January. Among all major cities, Mumbai seems to be an outlier with daily positivity between 5-7%. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state advisory committee said the state would continue to see a rise in the coming few weeks. “Whatever measures have been put in place will take at least a few weeks to bear fruit. Till then we have to test and trace adequately,” he said. A state official said on Wednesday, over 97,000 tests were carried out, one of the highest tallies on a single day in the past month. However, it is evident some districts—Buldhana, Dhule, for example—are not testing much. Buldhana did 580 tests on March 9 while Dhule did less than 200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-nearly-every-corner-of-state-seeing-a-surge-centre-blames-crowding/articleshow/81456597.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Surat||No tax hike, focus to be cleaner air||Surat: Surat municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani on Thursday presented the draft budget of Rs 6,534 crore for 2021-22 without imposing any tax hikes or new charges. The budget size is Rs 404 crore higher compared to the previous financial year. The per sq property tax for residential properties of Rs 10 and Rs 25 for non-residential ones have also not been revised. The estimated increase of Rs 346 crore in revenue income compared to Rs 3,016 last year has been attributed mainly to the increase in the number of properties and users. “SMC is the first municipal corporation in the state that presented its budget this year. Along with fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, our focus is on growth as well. The new areas added in the city will add to the income of the corporation” Pani told TOI. SMC spent around Rs 230 crore on health infrastructure due to Covid19 and this year, an allocation of Rs 60 crore has been made, which can be increased if needed, he added. Of the major budgetary allocations of the previous year, SMC could not start work on projects like its new headquarter and multi modal transport hub (MMTH). SMC was earlier planning to develop its headquarters at the old sub-jail campus on Ring Road but it is now being reconsidered. The fresh designs for MMTH are also being studied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/no-tax-hike-focus-to-be-cleaner-air/articleshow/81454532.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Covaxin gets nod for regular emergency use authorisation||New Delhi: The government said regular emergency use authorisation for Bharat Biotech's Covaxin outside of ‘clinical trial mode’ was a validation of India's timely decision-making based on scientific evidence and production of Covaxin was likely to increase along with its use. Niti Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul said Covaxin was granted permission for regular emergency use authorisation and both Covid-19 vaccines — Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Serum Institute’s Covishield — had the same licence status now. “The vaccine has stood the test of time in terms of great safety. It is a triumph for India’s science and technology enterprise and research and development enterprise as well as our industry and I congratulate the teams at ICMR and Bharat Biotech,” Paul said. Both Covishield and Covaxin were given EUA on January 3. However, in the absence of efficacy data from phase 3 trials, Covaxin was granted EUA under ‘clinical trial mode’ which required vaccinators to take informed consent from recipients before inoculation. It also meant that Bharat Biotech was liable for compensation in case of adverse events under the clinical trial rules. Removal of ‘clinical trial mode’ is expected to increase acceptance of Covaxin, which is the first locally developed and manufactured vaccine against Covid-19, developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR. “This has taken the authorisation for Covaxin to the next level. The same level at which the other great vaccine Covishield has been operating,” Paul said. Removal of ‘clinical trial mode’ for Covaxin was based on interim findings from phase 3 trials which showed that the vaccine had an efficacy of 80.6%. Paul said Covaxin was kept under ‘clinical trial mode’ out of “abundant precaution”. “While 19 lakh doses of Covaxin have been given so far, only 311 individuals had minimal side effects,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covaxin-gets-nod-for-regular-emergency-use-authorisation/articleshow/81457255.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||Journey from 1st anniversary to 2nd can end Covid fear with appropriate actions||NAGPUR: With the vaccine here and a large number of people getting jabbed, experts are sure that the Covid-19 fear will diminish by the second anniversary of Vidarbha’s first patient, i.e. on March 11, 2022. “As compared to last year, we know many things about the virus this year. We have our treatment protocols clear. We have vaccines with us. If we continue to follow Covid appropriate behaviour (CAB), cases will definitely go down in next few weeks,” said Dr Nitin Shinde, infectious disease specialist. Other experts also stressed on CAB. “It’s not just hand hygiene, community masking and physical distancing. But, there are 15 types of CABs and we must adopt them as part of our life for next 12 months. I am sure, it will show good results,” said UNICEF health officer Dr Mangesh Gadhari. According to him, discouraging crowded events, avoiding unnecessary travel, greeting without physical contact are the simple things we can adopt for the next one year. “Do not circulate social media posts which carry unverified or negative information. Instead, seek information on Covid-19 from credible sources. This will save many from panic,” he added. Doctors said that short surges, with less severity will continue even in next year of Covid-19. “But gradually, the virus will become weak every surge by surge. We have seen similar developments in earlier viral infections,” said epidemiologist Dr Anand Thatte. He said the Covid epidemic might enter into an endemic phase in next two-three weeks in Maharashtra. “Cases will continue to remain all year round, but in lower numbers and limited to certain areas. Like swine flu, where a few cases continue to come up every year; Covid will be the same by March 2022,” Dr Thatte added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/journey-from-1st-anniversary-to-2nd-can-end-covid-fear-with-appropriate-actions/articleshow/81455550.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 12, 2021||Delhi||Labourer dies after falling off rly bridge||New Delhi: A 20-year-old labourer was killed and eight others were injured after they fell off a bridge in east Delhi’s Yamuna Khadar while repairing the railway tracks. A case has been lodged against the contractor and police have launched a manhunt to arrest him. The deceased man was identified as Shahzad, a resident of Alwar in Rajasthan. The injured labourers are Sohib (20), Kalibhawan (22), Sudhir (38), Raghubir (22), Sonu (20), Golu (20), Anis Khan (20) and Imran (21). The incident took place around 9.30pm when 20-25 labourers were working on the railway tracks. All of a sudden, a machan-like structure that they had built collapsed and nine labourers fell at least 20 metres down. Since the labourers got critically injured, the matter was reported to police and all nine of them were taken to different hospitals. Shahzad was declared brought dead and his body was sent for autopsy. His family in Alwar was informed about the incident. The other eight labourers are being treated and their condition is said to be stable. The preliminary probe revealed that one of the poles of the machan was bent, which caused the entire structure to collapse. “The contractor of the repair work being done for Northern Railway has been identified as Ramzan Khan. He is not in Delhi. The routine work was on for the past one month,” said a police officer. DCP (East) Deepak Yadav said they have booked the contractor under IPC sections 287 (negligent conduct with respect to machinery), 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life) and 304A (for causing death due to negligence). Police also found that no protective gear was given to the labourers, which may have resulted in causing fatal injuries to Shahzad, who is survived by his parents, two sisters and a brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/labourer-dies-after-falling-off-rly-bridge/articleshow/81455587.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Bank strike to affect Rs 20,000 crore worth of transactions||AHMEDABAD: Impacting financial transactions in the run-up to the end of the financial year, banking transactions worth at least Rs 20,000 crore are expected to get impacted on March 15 and 16, as banks will go on a two-day strike to protest the proposed privatizations. Public sector banks across Gujarat will remain shut for four consecutive days from Saturday to Tuesday with banks remaining shut over the weekend. With this, bank transactions including cheque clearances in addition to NEFT transactions are expected to be impacted as banking operations will come to a halt. Bankers are expecting a rush at the banks on Friday. Meanwhile, the business community is upset with repeated strikes by bankers, especially close to the financial year-end. Explaining reasons for the strike, Janak Rawal, general secretary, Maha Gujarat Bank Employees’ Association (MGBEA), said, “United Forum of Bank Unions has given a nationwide strike call for two days to protest the government’s announcement in the recent Budget to privatize two public sector banks. Nearly 60,000 bank employees and officers from across Gujarat will observe the strike.” An estimated 5,000 bank branches are likely to remain shut on Monday and Tuesday. To mark their protest, demonstrations will be held on strike day at major centres of Gujarat. In Ahmedabad, bank employees will stage demonstration from 10.30 am to 1.30 pm at Central Bank of India, Lal Darwaja Branch. “Public Sector Banks are the very vehicles of our economy’s growth and development. Today’s major infrastructural development has the highest contribution from Public Sector Banks. Instead of further strengthening public sector banking, the present policies are aimed to weaken PSBs, by starving them of the required capital, human resources, through disinvestment and proposed privatization,” said Rawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bank-strike-to-affect-rs-20k-cr-worth-of-transactions/articleshow/81455540.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Aurangabad||Wakf land: 4 from Pune booked for forgery||Aurangabad: The city police have booked four people from Pune on the charges of cheating and forgery after they filed a change report at the Aurangabad-based Maharashtra State Board of Wakf by allegedly forging the signatures of the trustee. Mohammed Amin Syed, a 65-year-old from Syed Nagar in Hadapsar, has lodged a complaint stating that the suspects allegedly committed forgery with the intention to usurp prime land of about 10,000 sqft in Hadapsar. Investigation officer and PSI Sachin Wayal told TOI: “The matter pertains to land in Hadapsar belonging to the Pune-based Abdul Qadir Shah Peer dargah. As per the complaint, 10 gunthas of prime land belonging to the dargah was acquired for road-widening works, against which, another piece of land was allotted to the dargah’s trust.” Pune officers, following the due process, recorded the allotted land in the name of the dargah’s trust. According to the complainant, the allotted land too has a market value running into crores, and was allegedly being eyed by land sharks including the suspects. Accordingly, they hatched a conspiracy with the intention to usurp it and decided to change the formation of the existing trust. On February 14, 2020, the four suspects made an application for a change report in the composition of the existing trust. Moreover, the suspects allegedly used a photo of the trustee and also forged his signatures to make it appear that the process was being carried out with his knowledge and consent. Due to the imposition of lockdown, things remained under wrap until the original trustee recently learnt about it. He reached Aurangabad and checked the submitted application and then reached out to the Cantonment police station and lodged a complaint. A preliminary probe has found that one of the accused named in the case already has a pending criminal case for allegedly committing similar cheating by impersonation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/wakf-land-4-from-pune-booked-for-forgery/articleshow/81453751.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad man donates Rs 2.5 lakh to Civil Hospital||AHMEDABAD: Jayesh Patel, a city-based builder, donated Rs 2.5 lakh to Civil Hospital after his free Covid-19 treatment at the hospital. Civil Hospital authorities said that when Patel tested positive, he decided to get admitted in Civil Hospital instead of private hospitals. Recently discharged after testing negative, Patel said that he pays mediclaim for the past three decades. “But there was no occasion for me to get hospitalized. This time, when the opportunity came, I decided to get admitted to the Civil Hospital for treatment. I was impressed by the facilities and treatment. Thus, it’s my small token of appreciation,” he said. Civil Hospital has witnessed close to 15,000 patients during the Covid-19 period. While the hospital was under scanner for the high mortality rate in the first leg of the pandemic, the hospital came to fore with its experienced team of doctors, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-donates-rs-2-5l-to-civil-hospital/articleshow/81455578.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||MSRDC: Yet to recover entire cost of Expressway in Mumbai||Mumbai: The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) told the Bombay high court that it is yet to recover Rs 22,370 crore of the Mumbai-Pune Expressway project cost. Hearing a PIL by four activists to declare toll collection on the Expressway from August 2019 illegal, the HC on February 17 had asked the MSRDC how long people are supposed to pay toll. According to the PIL, toll collection rights for 15 years from August 2004 to August 10, 2019 was awarded to Mhaiskar Infrastructure Pvt Ltd on an upfront payment of Rs 918 crore with an expected revenue of Rs 4,330 crore. But, the actual revenue as of July 31, 2019, was Rs 6,773 crore and the excess of Rs 2,443 crore was retained by Mhaiskar Infrastructure. In its reply MSRDC said the state’s toll collection notification had considered factors including of cost, traffic and rate growth. MSRDC is the concessionaire for 30 years. As of February 28, 2021, it has not recovered the project cost fully at the internal rate of return (IRR) of nearly 16%—IRR is the annual rate of growth an investment is expected to generate. “To achieve the said IRR, the MRSDC has to still recover Rs 22,370 crore towards the capital cost, operation and management charges, interest etc of the project after giving credit to the net receivables,” it said. The reply said in 2018, the state had decided against pre-closure of toll for light motor vehicles upto Mhaiskar Infra-structure’s approved tenure. The state had also decided to continue toll till April 30, 2030, it said, referring to an earlier reply to HC. MSRDC said the petitioners have “selectively highlighted” queries from the 2004-05 CAG report that wrongly interpreted the tender terms. —Rosy Sequeira||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/msrdc-yet-to-recover-entire-cost-of-expressway-in-mumbai/articleshow/81456613.cms||Rosy Sequeira
March 12, 2021||Thane||Kalyan police book parents of newlyweds||KALYAN: Police on Thursday booked the parents of a newly-wed couple after Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) officials lodged a complaint against them for violating the rule limiting the number of people at a wedding to 50. As per the complaint, around 700 people were present at the wedding held on Wednesday in Kalyan (east). An FIR has been registered at Kolsewadi police station against the bride’s father, Rajesh Mahatre, a resident of Chinchpada area in Kalyan and the groom’s father, Mahesh Raut, who hails from Kasarvadavali in Thane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-kalyan-police-book-parents-of-newlyweds/articleshow/81456609.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 12, 2021||Bareilly||Scribes thrashed during former CM’s press conference||Bareilly: A few media persons, who were covering the press conference of former UP CM Akhilesh Yadav, were injured after a few party workers and Akhilesh’s security guards went berserk at them at a hotel in Moradabad district on Thursday. One of the injured reporters, Fareed Shamsi, 40, has sustained a fracture in his leg while others sustained minor injuries. The reporters claimed that they had to hide in the kitchen in order to save themselves from Akhilesh’s supporters and security guards. One of the videos of the incident that surfaced on social media shows a confrontation between Akhilesh and the media persons while his security guards continue to push the scribes away. Shariq Siddiqui, one of the journalists, told TOI, “Akhilesh Yadav claimed that his party would defeat BJP and come back to power by “riding the bicycle”. When we asked him that he had said the same during his last visit in 2017, he got angry and refused to answer our questions. Suddenly his security guards started beating us. We have decided to lodge a police complaint on the incident.” Moradabad SSP Prabhakar Chaudhary said, “After getting the information about the incident, we sent force to the hotel and the situation was controlled. We are yet to receive any written complaint but I have sought a detailed report. Appropriate action will be taken soon.” Last week too, the SP chief had lost his temper at a journalist and said he was a “sold” journalist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/scribes-thrashed-during-former-cms-press-conference/articleshow/81454541.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 12, 2021||India||Bengal theatre artist joins BJP, loses his role in play||KOLKATA: The decision to drop theatre artist Koushik Kar from performing in Saurav Palodhi’s adaptation of Utpal Dutt’s ‘Ghum Nei’ after the actor joined BJP has left the cultural circles in Bengal divided. While many have supported this decision, some said the move smacked of intolerance. According to Palodhi, Kar’s current political affiliation is reason enough to drop him. In 2019, Kar was invited by Palodhi’s group, Ichheymoto, to play a character in ‘Ghum Nei’. “While adapting Dutt’s play, Koushik and I had created his character and named him Akhlaq. The name had a reference to the 2015 Dadri case where a mob had attacked the home of Md Akhlaq, killing him on suspicion of eating beef. Allowing someone to play Akhlaq after joining BJP will be attacking the soul of the play,” said Palodhi. He has no qualms if he is called ‘intolerant’ because of his stand. Kar, however, refuses to take any credit for writing the character of Akhlaq. “Saurav is hiding his folly by making such statements. Few Leftists who move between Dharmatala and Brigade and hyperventilate on Facebook are trying to control theatre. They have no grassroots connect. Dropping me or barring me from staging a play is only exposing the insecurity of elites who don’t even understand the essence of communism,” Kar said. He added that the entire episode exposes the “myopia of theatre professionals” and “Left-wing Fascism”. While director-actor Debesh Chattopadhyay has lent his support to Palodhi on Facebook, director Kamaleswar Mukherjee hasn’t agreed, insisting that his “casting never depends on the individual’s political colour”. Supporting Palodhi, actor Riddhi Sen described this as an “individual’s choice”. Actor-turned BJP functionary Kanchana Moitra said: “This is sheer intolerance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengal-theatre-artist-joins-bjp-loses-his-role-in-play/articleshow/81458596.cms||---
March 12, 2021||---||Bengal theatre artist joins BJP, loses his role in play||KOLKATA: The decision to drop theatre artist Koushik Kar from performing in Saurav Palodhi’s adaptation of Utpal Dutt’s ‘Ghum Nei’ after the actor joined BJP has left the cultural circles in Bengal divided. While many have supported this decision, some said the move smacked of intolerance. According to Palodhi, Kar’s current political affiliation is reason enough to drop him. In 2019, Kar was invited by Palodhi’s group, Ichheymoto, to play a character in ‘Ghum Nei’. “While adapting Dutt’s play, Koushik and I had created his character and named him Akhlaq. The name had a reference to the 2015 Dadri case where a mob had attacked the home of Md Akhlaq, killing him on suspicion of eating beef. Allowing someone to play Akhlaq after joining BJP will be attacking the soul of the play,” said Palodhi. He has no qualms if he is called ‘intolerant’ because of his stand. Kar, however, refuses to take any credit for writing the character of Akhlaq. “Saurav is hiding his folly by making such statements. Few Leftists who move between Dharmatala and Brigade and hyperventilate on Facebook are trying to control theatre. They have no grassroots connect. Dropping me or barring me from staging a play is only exposing the insecurity of elites who don’t even understand the essence of communism,” Kar said. He added that the entire episode exposes the “myopia of theatre professionals” and “Left-wing Fascism”. While director-actor Debesh Chattopadhyay has lent his support to Palodhi on Facebook, director Kamaleswar Mukherjee hasn’t agreed, insisting that his “casting never depends on the individual’s political colour”. Supporting Palodhi, actor Riddhi Sen described this as an “individual’s choice”. Actor-turned BJP functionary Kanchana Moitra said: “This is sheer intolerance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/bengal-theatre-artist-joins-bjp-loses-his-role-in-play/articleshow/81458584.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Pune||Around 40C, many parts of Vidarbha hottest in country||Pune: Vidarbha in Maharashtra is heating up, with parts of the region figuring as the hottest spots in the country since the past few days. Chandrapur, Brahmapuri and Akola in Vidarbha have been the hottest in the country on four days in the past eight days. On March 2, Akola recorded a day temperature of 39.5C, while Brahmapuri sizzled at 39.8C on March 4. Both the locations were hottest spots in India for those days. Similarly, day temperatures in both Brahmapuri and Akola crossed 40C on March 7 and March 8, respectively, making the two locations warmest in India on those days. On Wednesday, Chandrapur was the hottest spot in India with its day temperature at 39.4C. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, told TOI, “This is natural for Vidarbha during this season, as we have entered summer. Though parts of Vidarbha are witnessing ‘near heat wave’ conditions, it is unlikely that there will be a further rise in temperatures there. We expect partly cloudy skies during the evening in parts of central Maharashtra and north of Vidarbha on March 12-13. Day temperatures are not expected to go up further.” The partly cloudy conditions would be a result of an interaction between northerly and southerly winds over Madhya Pradesh. Its effects would be felt in parts of north Madhya Maharashtra and adjacent Vidarbha, he said. “Vidarbha gets hot at this time of the year due to the absence of any rain causing system in central parts of the country, dry atmosphere and low relative humidity and dry soil,” said Kashyapi. On the possibility of day temperatures to rise further in parts of Maharashtra, Jayanta Sarkar, scientist and head IMD, Mumbai, said, “We have ruled out the possibility of temperature touching 40C in in Madhya Maharashtra, Konkan and Marathwada during the next five days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/around-40c-many-parts-of-vidarbha-hottest-in-country/articleshow/81455581.cms||Neha Madaan
March 12, 2021||Aurangabad||Students to face action if more than 1 person found in test area during online exam: Bamu||Aurangabad: The Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) has announced that online examination of candidates will be put on hold and disciplinary action would be taken against them if more than one person is found in the test area. The stern warning has come ahead of the start of the second-year and third-year examinations of different undergraduate courses from March 16.“While face-recognition system will be in place during the conduct of examinations, the webcam installed at the students’ end will capture images randomly for security purposes. The online monitoring would continue throughout the examination and any malpractice would lead to disqualification,” Bamu public relations officer Sanjay Shinde said. Among other key instructions, students have been asked to ensure their face matches with the uploaded photograph and there is no noise or talking in the room during the examination.As a precursor to March 16 examination, Bamu on Wednesday started conducting mock-tests for students, who are appearing for the examination in the online mode. To be held till March 14, mock-tests are essential for students who chose the online mode of examination.“We had asked the students to convey their choice for examination — online or offline — by Wednesday. Going by the response from students, necessary arrangements will be made. The students choosing the offline option will have to appear for the examinations from their respective colleges,” Shinde said. Student activist Tukaram Saraf said both online and offline examinations should be conducted in a fair and accountable manner||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/students-to-face-action-if-more-than-1-person-found-in-test-area-during-online-exam-bamu/articleshow/81453759.cms||Prasad Joshi
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Lalapet Vijaya Dairy factory belongs to Telangana not AP, says HC||HYDERABAD: After several court hearings over the Vijaya Dairy assets distribution, the Telangana high court on Thursday said the prestigious brand’s milk products factory at Lalapet in Secunderabad belongs to Telangana. “Andhra Pradesh cannot claim any right over this,” said Justice M S Ramachandra Rao, who along with Justice T Vinod Kumar, pronounced the order after hearing elaborate arguments from both AP and Telangana authorities in a petition filed by the AP State Dairy Development Cooperative Federation. Andhra Pradesh had alleged in a petition that even before the commencement of the distribution of the assets between both the states, Telangana formed its own Dairy development federation and annexed several common assets like the milk factory to it in a unilateral manner. Telangana on its part argued that the headquarters’ assets would be divided between the two states and all other assets would belong to their respective states in tune with their location. Its advocate general BS Prasad argued that Vijaya milk products factory, situated in Secunderabad, should belong to Telangana by its location. “This cannot be part of headquarters’ assets,” he said. The bench in its judgment said that the action of the Telangana federation in moving ahead and issuing GOs annexing certain dairy assets was illegal. The bench also said that the AP Reorganisation Act did not bestow any adjudicatory role on the central government to resolve the disputes that crop up between AP and Telangana. “The high court at Hyderabad, being the common high court that heard all such issues in the past, has the primacy to resolve such tussles,” the bench stated, while upholding the action of the AP state in approaching the high court at Hyderabad for resolution of the issue. The bench said the head office of Vijaya Dairy, its guest house at Somajiguda, along with the funds lying in six bank accounts in SBH, Lalaguda, Andhra bank, Tarnaka, SBI, Lalaguda, Canara Bank, Tarnaka, ICICI, Habsiguda, and Axis Bank, Tarnaka will come under common assets and hence shall be shared in 58: 42 ratio between AP and Telangana Dairy federations. The value of the immovable assets like head office and the guest house should be assessed with the help of the comptroller and auditor general and 58% of such value should be given to AP, the bench ruled. Liabilities too should be divided using the same formula which says that all of them shall befall on their state based on their location. If it falls under headquarters assets, then it shall be borne in the ratio of 58:42.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lalapet-vijaya-dairy-factory-belongs-to-t-not-ap-says-hc/articleshow/81457259.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Dharavi Covid hero dies of heart attack||MUMBAI: Assistant police commissioner Ramesh Nangre (55), lauded for his work as chief of Dharavi police station when Covid was at its peak last year, died of a heart attack on Thursday. Nangre, survived by wife and three children, was last posted at Sakinaka. “Nangre was on night duty on Wednesday. We spoke around 10.30am on Thursday and he said he would come to Sakinaka by 12.30pm. He wanted to visit a temple in Powai for Mahashivratri. Around noon, I learnt he had passed away,” said senior inspector Balwant Deshmukh. Nangre was his immediate superior. When Nangre felt uneasy on Thursday morning he was taken to a private hospital in Kandivli. He breathed his last at the hospital. Two days back he had taken his second vaccine shot. “He was fit and used to follow yoga religiously,” said a colleague. Dharavi got a mention by WHO for breaking the Covid chain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-dharavi-covid-hero-got-who-mention-dies-of-heart-attack/articleshow/81456630.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Surat||Three ambitious projects to spur Diamond City’s growth||Surat: Battered by the pandemic last year, the Diamond City is hoping for a brighter future riding on three projects that are already refuelling the city’s growth. The Diamond Research and Mercantile (DREAM) City, Tapi Riverfront Development (TRD) and Multi Modal Transport Hub will prove to be game changers, civic body officials claim. The city has already started retelling its fortune story with the development of Surat Diamond Bourse (SDB) in DREAM City. “Many diamond industry workers in Mumbai are looking for residential properties in Surat to shift in the future. It is a major project that will give a big boost to the city’s economy,” municipal commissioner, Banchhanidhi Pani told TOI. Investment to the tune of Rs 30,000 crore is expected to be pumped into developing DREAM City on 685 hectare land. Office space of Rs 6.6 million squarefeet will be created at the SDB. “DREAM City, MMTH and TRD will define the city’s growth,” Pani reiterated. Meanwhile, Rs 1,236 crore investment is estimated for the first phase of TRD project, while Rs 2,668 investment is estimated for the second phase. At present, while a feasibility study is going on, SMC will form an SPV for the project. City planners are hoping to create a huge space for recreational activities at the TRD and its development will give the city’s economy a desired fillip. The SMC has allocated Rs 50 lakh to plan and design MMTH around the Surat railway station. Simultaneously, the government aims to develop the first phase of metro rail network at a cost of Rs 12,020 crore. Total two corridors — Sarthana to DREAM City (21.61 km) and Bhesan to Saroli (18.74 km) — of metro network are being developed in the first phase. “The minimum average time required to commute in the city is 17 minutes, which is the lowest in the country compared to a city of this size. We already have that advantage and if we develop MMTH, Metro, BRTS and city bus network we will be able to provide the best commuting facilities to the citizens which will attract even more investment,” Pani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-ambitious-projects-to-spur-diamond-citys-growth/articleshow/81454572.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
March 12, 2021||Dehradun||Past history shows change of CM in U'khand before polls never helped incumbent party||Nainital: Even though the BJP replaced the chief minister just a year before assembly elections in an effort to fight anti-incumbency, the political history of Uttarakhand shows that such a move in the past has not helped the party in power retain the state. In the 21 years since Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh, this is the fifth time that its chief minister has been replaced. The first time it happened was when the BJP replaced the state’s first chief minister Nityanand Swamy with Bhagat Singh Koshyari. The party, however, lost to Congress after which ND Tiwari was sworn in and he became the only CM to serve a full term. The BJP was successful in ousting Tiwari as it won the 2007 elections. But, the next five years were the most volatile in the state’s brief history. Even though BC Khanduri was sworn in as the chief minister, he was replaced with Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank after serving two years and 111 days. Nishank served for 2 years 75 days and then had to step down and Khanduri was brought in again as it was felt that the elections should be fought on the "clean image of Khanduri". But, the party lost power yet again to the Congress. After it came to power in 2012, Congress named Vijay Bahuguna for the CM post. However, before he could complete two years, he was replaced with Harish Rawat in the aftermath of the 2013 Kedarnath disaster. Rawat’s tenure saw the state’s biggest political rebellion till date as Bahuguna and eight other MLAs rebelled against the CM and ultimately joined the BJP. The President’s rule was imposed in the state twice. Though the Harish Rawat government was finally able to prove its majority, the 2017 election gave a resounding mandate to BJP as it won 57 out of 70 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/past-history-shows-change-of-cm-in-ukhand-before-polls-never-helped-incumbent-party/articleshow/81453770.cms||Prashant Jha
March 12, 2021||Kolhapur||13 sugar mills get notices for not paying fair price to tillers||Kolhapur: Sugar commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad has issued notices to 13 sugar mills in the state for their failure to make fair and remunerative and price (FRP) based payment to the farmers for the current crushing season. This is the first time that the state government has acted tough against the sugar mills for non-payment of bills. These 13 sugar factories totally owe Rs 556 crore to the farmers. Seven sugar mills, which have been served notices, are from Solapur district. Two each from Osmanaband and Sangli district and one each from Aurangabad and Beed district. Three are cooperative, while 10 are private. Gaikwad, under the provisions of Revenue Recovery Code, has empowered the district collectors to seize moveable and immoveable properties of the said factories to raise the funds to make the payment to the farmers. Officials in sugar commissioner office said that the factories were asked to make the payments to the farmers and were also given hearing. Factories promised to pay the bills during the hearing but did not make it, said the officials. According to the Sugarcane Control Act, it is mandatory for the factories to make the payments within 15 days of the cane being cut and taken for crushing. Uddhav Thackeray-led government has for the first time taken the step against the erring sugar mills, while the earlier BJP government had taken a similar step. It had served notices to around 100 factories. Officials said that the 183 sugar mills have generated Rs 16,275 crore as FRP-based payment by the end of February. The mills had crushed around 832 lakh tonne of sugar cane and produced 856 lakh quintal sugar at the end of February. Experts said the current crushing season is likely to witness the highest volume of crushing in the past 10 years. Last year, 141 sugar mills were involved in crushing activities, and the number went up to 187 this season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/13-sugar-mills-get-notices-for-not-paying-fair-price-to-tillers/articleshow/81453767.cms||Satyajit Joshi
March 12, 2021||Pune||Massive demand for electricity as summer cranks up the heat||Pune: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) met a record demand for 22,339 megawatts of electricity in Maharashtra, excluding Mumbai, on March 9.The previous record was set on February 19 last year when it met a demand for 21,570 MW.An MSEDCL statement attributed the increase in demand to the rise in temperature over the past few days. “The demand for power in Maharashtra, including Mumbai, was 25,203 MW on March 9,” the statement read.MSEDCL said it managed to meet the demand without resorting to load-shedding.MSEDCL sourced 7,761 MW from Maharashtra State Power Generation Company Limited, 4,216 MW from NTPC and NPCIL, 4,202 MW from private players like Adani, Ratan India, CPGL, JSW, Sai Vardha and Emco, 1,974 MW from solar projects, and 1,258 MW was purchased from Power Exchange of India and others. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/massive-demand-for-electricity-as-summer-cranks-up-the-heat/articleshow/81455592.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||Belur Math to remain closed on Ramakrishna’s birth anniv||Kolkata: Belur Math, the headquarters of Ramakrishna Mission, will remain closed to devotees on Monday, the 186th birth anniversary of Ramakrishna Paramhansa. The gates will remain closed again on March 21, the following Sunday when Sadharan Utsav will be held. These temporary closures were decided due to the pandemic as Belur Math is not “a cluster of temples”, said the general secretary of RKM, Swami Suvirananda. “We have called off the public celebrations this year. Allowing so many to gather is not safe for anyone now, so we will keep the gates closed,” Swami Suvirananda added. On Monday, from Mangalarati to special prayers and discourses, all traditional birth anniversary celebrations of the Paramhansa will be done by the monks. Those will be live-streamed on Belur Math’s own channel and on the social media, too. “Devotees can participate virtually,” he said. The gates will be open on other days following truncated timings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/belur-math-to-remain-closed-on-ramakrishnas-birth-anniv/articleshow/81455591.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||ED arrests Hyderabad jeweller’s son in Rs 100-crore gold smuggling case||HYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested Preet Kumar Agarwal, son of city jeweller and Ghanshyamdas Gems & Jewels owner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, in connection with Rs 100 crore gold smuggling case. It is suspected that the accused had diverted 250 kg of gold, which is an offence under the Customs Act. The ED Kolkata unit with the assistance of Hyderabad ED sleuths conducted searches at five locations in Hyderabad on Wednesday. The ED found evidence relating to large-scale hawala transactions during the searches. The searches were carried out at Ghanshyamdas Gems & Jewels at Abids, Shree Ganesh Jewels owned by Sanjay’s employee Avinash Soni, PH Jewels owned by his relatives and Sanjay’s residential premises. The ED initiated the probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) based on an investigation done by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) Kolkata unit on diversion of gold jewellery meant for export to the domestic market. Sanjay procured duty-free gold from MMTC, State Trading Corporation of India, Diamond India Ltd and sold the gold illegally in the domestic market and also evaded the customs duty. Sanjay was earlier arrested in February 2012 by the CBI following a complaint of fraud filed by the State Bank of India. Sanjay had allegedly availed credit facilities running into hundreds of crores of rupees from the bank by providing fake collateral securities. It was on April 4, 2018, DRI sleuths apprehended Preet Kumar at Kolkata International Airport. The ED said, “Sanjay had already boarded an Indigo Airlines flight to Hyderabad but was made to de-board by the DRI. On the same day, investigators intercepted two boxes from Indigo Airlines domestic cargo which contained 1,194 pieces of gold bangles valued at Rs 16 crore.” The ED said the modus operandi of the accused is that jewellery meant for export after completion of all formalities by the customs authorities is exchanged within the airport and brought back. “The consignment was supposed to be carried by Preet Kumar to Dubai. However, instead of bringing it to Dubai, Preet Kumar passed on the boxes containing the gold jewellery to his father Sanjay, who was waiting outside the airport. Sanjay, in turn, booked the consignment with Indigo Airlines domestic cargo so as to transfer it from Kolkata to Hyderabad,” ED officials said. Investigating agencies said Preet Kumar helped his father in diverting two sealed boxes containing gold bangles meant for export from Kolkata airport to his father. “Ajay Agarwal, brother of Sanjay, confessed that Sanjay had invested in his firm, Kalpataru Jewellers. He had also confessed that he had exported 19 consignments through Kalpataru Jewellers,” the officials said. The Delhi high court had earlier quashed preventive detention orders against the accused passed by COFEPOSA unit of the Central Economic Intelligence Bureau.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-arrests-city-jewellers-son-in-rs-100-cr-gold-smuggling-case/articleshow/81457271.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Pune||Engineer held for posing as Intelligence Bureau officer||Pune: A 25-year-old mechanical engineer was arrested on Thursday for posing as an officer from the Intelligence Bureau in New Delhi.“Probe revealed that the suspect wanted to join the Intelligence Bureau (IB) but could not because of medical reasons. He had prepared a fake identity card and was using it to get toll exemption,” assistant inspector Laxman Sonawane of the Nigdi police said.The man was produced in the court on Thursday and was remanded in police custody for a day.Sonawane said police constable Sopan Budhwad stopped the man, riding a motorcycle without wearing a mask, on Wednesday night when a Nigdi police team was talking action against people not using face covers. “When the man was told to pay the fine, he claimed that he was an Intelligence bureau officer. When Budhwad told him to show his identity card, the man said he was not carrying the hard copy and was not supposed to show it,” he said.Budhwad then told the man to contact his superior for confirmation. “But he told Budhwad that he was on leave and cannot contact his senior officials. Budhwad then became suspicious and took him to the police station,” Sonawane said.He said the police then contacted the IB’s Pune office and found that no such officer was working there. “During the questioning, the man admitted to preparing the fake identity card by taking details from the internet. He was using it at the toll plazas,” Sonawane said.Last month, a constable from the Pimpri Chinchwad traffic branch had arrested a man from Karad in Satara district for posing as an assistant commissioner of the Mumbai police. In December 2020, a man from Bhandup was arrested for posing as a police officer and duping a woman (42) from Mangalwar Peth of Rs68,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/engineer-held-for-posing-as-intelligence-bureau-officer/articleshow/81455599.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nashik||Social media post sparks tension, 1 held||Nashik: The Bhadrakali police have arrested a person for allegedly hurting the religious sentiments of a community on Wednesday night. According to Vijay Jonwal, the police sub-inspector of Bhadrakali police station, a person allegedly sent an anti-social message on a social media group which led to tension in the old city area on Wednesday. A case has been registered under sections 153 and 295 (a). The local court has remanded the accused in three-day police custody, the police said. According to the police the message was sent on the social media group at 8.30 am. Other members in the group had asked the sender to quickly delete the message, but that did not happen. Thereafter, the members of a community gathered outside the Bhadrakali police station and sought action. Other police teams rushed to Bhadrakali police station to ensure adequate police presence to thwart any untoward incident. Leaders and social workers from both the community stepped in to diffuse the situation.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/social-media-post-sparks-tension-1-held/articleshow/81453776.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Dehradun||CM Tirath meets mentor Khanduri, says I’m what I’m today due to him||Dehradun: Newly-appointed chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Thursday morning went to the residence of his political guru and mentor Maj Gen BC Khanduri (retd) at Vasant Vihar in Dehradun to seek his blessings. After the meeting, Rawat told mediapersons that he owed a lot to Khanduri. “General saab is like a father-figure to me and I have learnt a lot from him. If I have reached this position today, it is only because of what I have learnt from him.” When queried if he had also received reprimand from the veteran leader, the CM said with a smile, “Only those who care for you reprimand you.” Khanduri said that he, too, has learnt a lot from Rawat. "When I entered politics from an Army background, nobody knew me. But, since everybody in Pauri knew Tirath as he was active in politics from his student days, I used to walk behind him." “I am grateful for the support that party workers like him gave me. He has a very clean image and good organisational experience and I am sure he will get a lot of success,” Khanduri added. Khanduri's daughter and MLA from Yamkeshwar, Ritu Khanduri Bhushan was also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-tirath-meets-mentor-khanduri-says-im-what-im-today-due-to-him/articleshow/81453781.cms||Gaurav Talwar
March 12, 2021||Delhi||N corpn paves way for major revamp of Ganga Ram hosp||New Delhi: For expansion of infrastructure facilities at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in the wake of increasing footfall, North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s standing committee approved a revised layout plan on Wednesday. The proposed plan includes addition of seven floors in Block-5, two floors in Block 1 and 2, two evacuation towers, passage block between Block 1 and 2, one skywalk and one service lift and lobby to allow smooth movement of visitors. This will now go to the House for final approval. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that since it’s an important project, the standing committee gave its nod. “We have seen a layout plan and it will be placed in the House soon. Later, the hospital will need to get the building plan sanctioned from the department concerned. There is no denying that heavy footfall is witnessed at the hospital located in north Delhi and people from far-flung areas come here. To simplify the parking facility and create additional floors, the deliberative wing has approved the initial layout plan,” said Jai Prakash. Officials said that the project was in accordance with norms of MPD-2021. “However, all the necessary clearances/NOCs from external agencies, including environment, DUAC and CFO, should be obtained at the time of sanctioning of the building plan in accordance with the circulars of ease of doing business. All structures proposed for demolition should be demolished before issuance of completion for proposed building and area of multi-level car parking should not be misused,” mentioned the proposal. Sir Ganga Ram Hospital is a 675-bed multi-speciality state-of-the-art private hospital. “The hospital was founded initially in 1921 at Lahore by Sir Ganga Ram, a civil engineer and leading philanthropist of his times. After the partition in 1947, the present hospital was established in New Delhi on a plot of land approximately 11 acres. The foundation was laid in April 1951 by the then Prime Minister of India Jawaharlal Nehru and inaugurated by him on April 13, 1954,” according to the hospital’s website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-paves-way-for-major-revamp-of-ganga-ram-hosp/articleshow/81455603.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Pune||Satara police bust card-swapping gang, arrest four from Thane||Pune: The Satara police arrested four Thane residents in connection with six cases of debit card-swapping registered in various districts, including Pune. Police said the gang would swap debit cards of unsuspecting people at automated teller machine (ATM) kiosks and use those cards to withdraw cash. The four men used this trick to withdraw a total of Rs90,000 in Bhosari and at Shirwal in Satara district. The men then went to Goa for a couple of days and were arrested on their way back on Monday. Inspector U R Hajare of the Shirwal police told TOI that they tracked down the suspects using the registration number of their car and some CCTV footage from cameras on the route. With the arrest of Pradip Patil (23), Vicky Wankhede (21), Kiran Kokane (35) and Mahesh Dhangar (31), the police claimed to have solved three cases registered in Satara district and one each in Pune (Bhosari), Ahmednagar and Solapur districts. The police recovered 62 debit cards from the suspects. One of those cards belonged to Popat Gaikwad (66) of Bhosari, who had gone to withdraw cash from a public-sector bank’s ATM on March 2. “Four men were already inside the kiosk when I went there, but I entered anyway. I tried and failed to withdraw Rs5,000 twice, when one of the four men ‘helped’ me,” Gaikwad recalled. By the time Gaikwad realised what had happened, the suspects withdrew money from his account. In Shirwal, the suspects swapped Nilesh Surve’s debit card. “Surve was unable to withdraw cash and was checking the receipt when two suspects — who were inside the kiosk — diverted his attention and swapped the card from the machine,” sub-inspector S V Argade of the Shirwal police said. Later in the afternoon, Surve received five SMS alerts from his bank and found that Rs 50,000 were withdrawn from the account and approached the police. “We tracked the car using CCTV cameras on the route to Goa and nabbed the men on their way back,” Argade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/satara-police-bust-card-swapping-gang-arrest-four-from-thane/articleshow/81455595.cms||Mihir Tanksale
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||After Cov-yr pause, Presi to hold entrance tests for UG||Kolkata: Presidency University will return to the 2019 system of entrance test for the admission of undergraduate students in the coming session. Unlike in 2020, when students did not take entrance tests due to the pandemic and were admitted based on their classes X and XII scores, the West Bengal Joint Entrance Examinations Board (WBJEEB) will again hold Presidency University Bachelors Degree Entrance Test (PUBDET) and counselling this year. The tests are likely to be held on July 31 and August 1 WBJEEB president Malayendu Saha said the dates were tentative. Aspirants can apply online from the fourth week of March. “Candidates will be updated via information bulletin,” Saha said. “Since UGC has allowed to start UG classes in September, we will hold the admission tests on the scheduled dates. The results will be published in August,” said a WBJEE Board official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-cov-yr-pause-presi-to-hold-entrance-tests-for-ug/articleshow/81455604.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Pune||Arms supplier from Jalgaon lands in net||Pune: The crime branch arrested a man from Jalgaon for supplying firearms and bullets to criminals in the city. Eight revolvers, pistols and 15 live cartridges, totally worth Rs4.30lakh, were seized from his possession. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “Marathe was involved in many cases of firearms seizure.” Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Shrinivas Ghadge said, “Marathe has sold weapons to goons based in slum pockets of Pune city.” inspector Balaji Pandhare said Marathe would buy weapons a village in Madhya Pradesh and sell in Pune city. In another case, police arrested three other men and recovered four firearms from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/arms-supplier-from-jalgaon-lands-in-net/articleshow/81455608.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Court rejects ‘danger to life’ claim to deny bail for Khar murder accused||Mumbai: In an order rejecting the bail plea of 22-year-old Shree Jogdhankar, accused in the New Year’s murder of Jhanvi Kukreja, the sessions court contradicted his claims of being severely injured, and observed that when he was produced before it last week, it noticed that he was physically fit. The court said there is nothing on record to show there was danger to his life in jail due to injuries suffered in the incident in which the victim was killed. It said that the prosecution had submitted that the jail superintendent was providing necessary medical care to him. The court said that CCTV footage showed that soon after the incident, the accused left the place of the incident and he had injuries on his back. “At this juncture, considering facts of the case and overall circumstances, it cannot be said by any stretch of imagination that applicant is falsely implicated in this case,” the court said. While the bail plea was rejected on Wednesday, the detailed order copy was made available on Thursday. Among the grounds, Jogdhankar had also moved the plea to take his final exams in Bachelor of Hospitality & Hotel Administration course this month. His plea said he had to attend regular online lectures and complete 75% attendance. The prosecution opposed his plea and said he had made false statements in his bail plea and this demonstrated his criminal attitude. Jogdhankar is accused of assaulting and killing the 19-year-old along with co-accused and the victim’s childhood friend Diya Padalkar (18) on January 1. Kukreja allegedly suffered 48 grievous injuries. On Monday, the court rejected Padalkar’s bail plea. The prosecution alleged that when the party was on, Kukreja saw Jogdhankar “getting vulgar” with Padalkar and this upset her. It was alleged that this led to a heated argument and the accused brutally murdered Kukreja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-court-rejects-danger-to-life-claim-to-deny-bail-for-khar-murder-accused/articleshow/81456656.cms||Rebecca Samervel
March 12, 2021||Dehradun||Maha Kumbh: Over 32 lakh take holy dip on first ‘shahi snan’ in Haridwar on the occasion of Maha Shivaratri||HARIDWAR: More than 32 lakh devotees gathered in Haridwar — as per estimates put forth by officials — to take part in the first 'shahi snan' of the Maha Kumbh on the occasion of Maha Shivaratri on Thursday.  The pilgrims were allowed to take a dip in the Ganga from early morning hours till 8 am. Thereafter, seers from seven prominent akhadas, including Juna, Niranjani and Mahanirvani, came with their processions one-by-one to take a dip at Har-Ki- Pauri’s Brahmakund from 10 am till evening. “As per our estimation, 32 lakh devotees took a dip in the Ganga from 12 am till 5 pm on Thursday,” said Deepak Rawat, mela officer, Kumbh Mela. Newly-elected chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat also reached Haridwar along with his wife to seek blessings from the seers and participated in the 'shahi snan' ritual of the Niranjani akhada. In his first decision taken soon after taking over on Wednesday, the CM had said that devotees will be showered with flowers from choppers. On Thursday, as choppers showered rose petals on the congregation, the CM who was present with the akhada seers said that this is the first time that such an initiative was taken during the Kumbh and it was meant to honour the seers and all those who had come to take a holy dip. He added that the state government has made all the arrangements for the convenience of the public and the seers. “All are welcome to the Kumbh and no one will be stopped or harassed but I urge people to follow Covid-19 norms. Our government is committed to organising a divine, grand and safe Kumbh. I am happy that all the seers are happy and satisfied with the arrangements. We will ensure that the arrangements get better with each passing day,” Rawat said. Mahant Narendra Giri, president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, said, “Tirath Singh Rawat became the CM a day before Maha Shivaratri. He was blessed by lord Shiva. We are happy that he has decided to allow the devotees to the Kumbh without restrictions. The akhada parishad had been demanding this from the very beginning.” The mela administration in Haridwar had developed a special corridor for the seers who came in procession from their respective camps to the main ghat. Huge chariots followed by devotees, seers and heads of akhadas reached Har-Ki-Pauri while chanting hymns and vedic mantras during the day. The seers also carried their respective akhada’s deities in ‘palkis’ (palanquins) for the ‘shahi snan’. Meanwhile, a man was electrocuted during the shahi snan procession on Thursday. Identified as Nitin Das, 34, a resident of Thrissur, Kerala, he was electrocuted when he lifted a flag of Ahavan akhada which touched a high-tension live wire. He was rushed to the district hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/maha-kumbh-over-32-lakh-take-holy-dip-on-first-shahi-snan-in-haridwar-on-the-occasion-of-maha-shivaratri/articleshow/81453787.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 12, 2021||Nashik||Nashik cops nab 2 in land grab case||Nashik: The Nashik rural police have arrested two people in an alleged land grab case for using fraudulent means to show the transfer of land in the name of the accused without the owner’s consent. “It relates to fraudulent show of change in title of the property without the consent of the property holder by using photocopies of stamp papers that were already used by a third person in another case,” said Sachin Patil, superintendent of police, Nashik.Police have arrested Prakash Gangode, the sub-registrar officer-2 of stamps and registration department in Deola and Bapu Wagh, who is accused of generating records to show the land was transferred to him. The third accused, a stamp vendor, is missing. The matter came to light in December 2020, when Bhaskar Nikam wanted his name to be added to the Record of Rights of the land in Meshi village after his father’s death. He was told the land was sold to Wagh. Police said the accused took a photocopy of the latest stamp paper used by a third person, altered the content in favour of the accused and inserted the same in the RoR of the victim. The certified copy drawn showed the land had been transferred. Shravan Hardikar, inspector general of registrations, Pune, said no fake stamp was used nor a registration was carried out and there was no loss to the exchequer. “Our officials signed true copies showing property in the name of another person instead of the original owner – based on insertions in the document without verifying the originals. This is their fault,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-cops-nab-2-in-land-grab-case/articleshow/81453788.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 23% rise in sealed bldgs & floors in one week||MUMBAI: As Covid cases are rising in the city, so are the numbers of sealed buildings and floors. According to BMC data, there are 229 sealed buildings and 2,762 sealed floors as of March 9. It is a 23% rise from the 185 buildings and 2,237 floors cordoned off as of March 2. The BMC is sealing the entire building if five or more Covid-19 patients are found there, else only the floor is cordoned off. At present, nearly 4.5 lakh people are living in buildings whose floors have been shut down, and 1.4 lakh people in active sealed buildings. As per civic data, K-West (Andheri west, Vile Parle west and Juhu) has the highest number of sealed buildings (34) and sealed floors (518) as of March 9. R-South ward, which covers Kandivli and Charkop, has the second highest number of sealed buildings (30) followed by S ward (28), which covers Bhandup, Vikhroli and Powai. P-North ward (Malad) stood second in the sealed floors’ list (335) followed by R-South (310). F-North ward, which covers Matunga, Sion and Dharavi, has zero sealed buildings because there are no cluster cases yet. Local corporator Ravi Raja said: “While there were 30 cases one day, the next day, the number doubled to 60. However, these are scattered cases. No building has more than five cases so far, so there is no need to seal any building.” Ward officials have been instructed to put up notices on the sealed floors mentioning the room number where the patient is living. In addition, neighbors and other housing society members have been asked to keep vigilance to ensure that those quarantined do not step out. Corporator Swapna Mhatre from H-West ward (Bandra west, Khar west and Santacruz west) said the BMC has been instructing the secretary or chairman of the affected buildings to ensure Covid protocols are followed. “However, unlike the initial days of the lockdown when police were deployed in high-risk areas, there is no vigil now. We can only warn residents to continue to follow the safety norms,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-city-sees-23-rise-in-sealed-bldgs-floors-in-one-week/articleshow/81456642.cms||Richa Pinto
March 12, 2021||Delhi||East Delhi Municipal Corporation wants power rebate for toilets||NEW DELHI: East Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to approach the Delhi government and power discoms, seeking domestic rates for electricity consumed at public toilets run by the civic body. “At present, commercial rates are applied. When we are not charging visitors any fee and even arranging for cleaning or maintenance of public toilets from our funds, the complexes should be given power connection at subsidised rates,” said EDMC officials. The issue was discussed at a standing committee meeting and the proposal was approved on Wednesday. “The proposal was moved by former mayor Bipin Bihari and it was argued that the Delhi government is giving up to 200 units of electricity free for households and similar benefits should be extended to the civic bodies, which are spending money on maintenance of toilet complexes,” said EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain. “As soon as the proposal is placed in the House, we will approve it and follow the matter with the Delhi government as well as power discoms,” said Jain further. In EDMC jurisdiction, there are 58 community toilets, 26 public toilets and 240 standalone urinals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/edmc-wants-power-rebate-for-toilets/articleshow/81455651.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 12, 2021||Kochi||While Kerala cases dip, others see surge in Covid cases||KOCHI: Kerala’s seven-day average daily growth rate has now come down to 0.22% from 0.6% on January 1. The state’s seven-day average TPR is also below 5%, while on January 1 it was 9.7%. However, even as Kerala saw a decline in daily new cases, many states are witnessing a surge. The seven-day average TPR of Kerala is now 4 %, while the national TPR is 2.5%. In mid-February, India’s TPR was 1.6%. TPR captures the size of the epidemic and scale of testing and TPR below 5% suggests that the infection is under control. As on March 10, the confirmed new cases in India was 21,814 with 63% new cases reported from Maharashtra. Though Kerala came second with 2,475 cases, its case burden has seen a decline in the past one month. This is happening even as it continues to do on an average 60,000-65,000 tests per day, with its tests per million per day touching 1,762, even as the national average is a poor 575. “There are few states that are seeing a surge in cases, but Kerala is definitely not seeing a surge. The number of cases are declining for a month. But, now the political landscape is heating up because of elections and it would be difficult to sustain the declining trend if there is increased Covid-inappropriate behaviour,” said health economist Rijo M John. India’s average daily new cases have increased by almost 52% in a month. From 11,000 daily new cases in mid-February, now it is 17,000 cases. However, the daily average testing has seen only 10% increase – from 6.5 lakh tests to 7.3 lakh average tests per day. “Compared to other states, Kerala still has a high caseload. Our susceptible population is still large and the only way ahead is to get vaccinate maximum people at the earliest,” said IMA secretary, Kerala chapter, Dr Gopikumar P. Since the first Covid case was detected Thrissur on January 30 last year, Kerala’s epidemic has followed a different trajectory from what the rest of India experienced. Though case load continued to be high, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.4 %, with a majority of patients being either asymptomatic or having mild symptoms. “Everyone needs to be extremely careful, ensure social distancing and wear masks. Global experience tells us that the second wave was worse than the first wave and we can’t let that happen,” added Dr VP Paily from Kerala Federation of Obstetricians and Gynaecology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/while-kerala-cases-dip-others-see-surge/articleshow/81454590.cms||Preetu Nair
March 12, 2021||Pune||Crime branch nabs 6 foreigners, seizes drugs worth Rs 69L||Pune: The crime branch arrested six citizens of Tanzania and Uganda, including three women, for possessing mephedrone and cocaine worth Rs68.86 lakh. The arrests were made from a row house located at Undri in Kondhwa on Wednesday afternoon. A case has been registered under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said police naik Manoj Salunke received a tip-off that foreigners were peddling drugs. A team led by inspector Vinayak Gaikwad raided the row house in a tony society and arrested Manfred Manda (30), Annastazia Nyamhanga (26), Hasan Kasid (32) and Bekai Hamis (42) of Tanzania and Shamim Nandawula (30) and Parsey Naiga (25) of Uganda. “The team seized 1.36kg of cocaine worth Rs 9.57 lakh, 1.11kg of mephedrone worth Rs 57.55 lakh, Rs54,000 cash, a mobile phone, an electronic weighing machine and plastic pouches, totally worth Rs 68.86 lakh,” Gupta said. The suspects came to India on student, tourist and medical visas. Additional commissioner of police (Crime) Ashok Morale said “The arrested were staying in Pune for the last 1-4 years. Investigation is going on to identify the source of the drugs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crime-branch-nabs-6-foreigners-seizes-drugs-worth-rs-69l/articleshow/81455602.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Kochi||Family court can order medical examination in divorce case: Kerala HC||KOCHI: In a case seeking divorce on the ground of mental disorder, a family court is justified in ordering examination of spouse by a medical board as the medical opinion is of utmost importance for allowing or declining the divorce plea, said the high court. A division bench comprising Justice A Muhamed Mustaque and Justice Kauser Edappagath was considering a petition by a wife challenging a Kozhikode family court’s order for constituting a medical board on a plea filed by her husband in the divorce case. At the high court, the wife contended that the family court did not have a strong prima facie case and the directive affects her right to life under Article 21. The division bench said a family court can order parties to undergo medical test if there is a strong prima facie case and sufficient material before it. Such a directive won’t violate right to personal liberty under Article 21, the high court said citing per Supreme Court’s 2003 decision (Sharda vs Dharmpal). In the judgment, the high court said, “In the Original Petition, the husband has given necessary pleadings regarding the alleged mental disorder of the wife. Few documents have been produced by the husband along with the original petition to substantiate the contention that the wife was treated by the psychiatrist for the alleged illness. Those documents were perused by the court below…” “The fact that the wife’s alleged mental disorder is an issue to be decided in the case itself constitutes a prima facie case. The opinion of the medical board… may be of utmost importance for granting or rejecting a prayer for a decree of divorce… When a party to a litigation alleges existence of certain facts, the court can draw no inference of its existence unless it is proved through the manner in which the Evidence Act is envisaged. Therefore, the court shall not preclude a party from adducing evidence which may be relevant in accordance with the Evidence Act to prove his case,” the court said. For all these reasons, we hold that the court was justified in allowing the husband’s petition seeking medical examination, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/family-court-can-order-medical-examination-in-divorce-case-hc/articleshow/81454597.cms||Mahir Haneef
March 12, 2021||Pune||Pharmacist booked for molestation||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Thursday booked a pharmacist for allegedly molesting his 25-year-old employee at his pharmacy in Chakan. Police said the complainant had been working for the suspect for a few months. She was arranging medicines on a shelf on Wednesday afternoon when the suspect touched her improperly. There were no customers in the shop at the time. The pharmacist has been booked under ]Section 354-A (sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pharmacist-booked-for-molestation/articleshow/81455627.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nashik||Two killed in separate accidents||Nashik: Two people, including a woman, died in separate road accidents on Wednesday. The city police said Sushila Malgure (63) was hit by an autorickshaw when she was crossing the road near the Thakkar Bazaar area around 8pm on Wednesday. “The victim succumbed to the serious injuries she sustained. Her son has registered a complaint against the autorickshaw driver, who is yet to be nabbed,” the police said. On the same night, 18-year-old Bhavesh Gidani died due to the serious injuries he had sustained while riding a bike on February 5. “He hit a road divider near ABB circle. He had been undergoing treatment at a city hospital,” the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/two-killed-in-separate-accidents/articleshow/81453805.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Nashik||Man held for abetting suicide||Nashik: The Nashik rural police have arrested a man for allegedly abetting the suicide of a person who lost money to him. Superintendent of police Sachin Patil said an abetment of suicide complaint had been registered at Trimbakeshwar police station in connection with the death of Sandeep Medhe (27). “After investigations, we have arrested Kailas Shah, a resident of Gangapur Road area of Nashik city,” Patil said. Shah has been remanded in police custody for two days. The police have seized all the electronic devices of the suspect. Patil said Sandeep’s father, Dileep Medhe, has alleged that his son had sold the farmland worth Rs 35 lakh and had bought a shop at a cost of Rs 30 lakh and used Rs 5 lakh to gamble. The complaint further states that Sandeep lost the money. Then, the suspects, Shah and two others, started threatening him and demanding money from him. “Once he started losing money, the suspects would force him to do whatever he could to get the money back. Sandeep Medhe was a victim of such pressure tactics. Hence, the arrest,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-held-for-abetting-suicide/articleshow/81453800.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 12, 2021||Pune||Cops record Usmani’s statement||Pune: The Swargate police recorded the statement of former Aligarh Muslim University student leader Sharjeel Usmani on Wednesday evening in the case of alleged provocative speech at the Elgar Parishad 2021. The police said Usmani recorded his statement in two hours in the case registered on February 3 this year. TNN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-record-usmanis-statement/articleshow/81455650.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Family court can order medical examination in divorce case: Kerala HC||KOCHI: In a case seeking divorce on the ground of mental disorder, a family court is justified in ordering examination of spouse by a medical board as the medical opinion is of utmost importance for allowing or declining the divorce plea, said the high court. A division bench comprising Justice A Muhamed Mustaque and Justice Kauser Edappagath was considering a petition by a wife challenging a Kozhikode family court’s order for constituting a medical board on a plea filed by her husband in the divorce case. At the high court, the wife contended that the family court did not have a strong prima facie case and the directive affects her right to life under Article 21. The division bench said a family court can order parties to undergo medical test if there is a strong prima facie case and sufficient material before it. Such a directive won’t violate right to personal liberty under Article 21, the high court said citing per Supreme Court’s 2003 decision (Sharda vs Dharmpal). In the judgment, the high court said, “In the Original Petition, the husband has given necessary pleadings regarding the alleged mental disorder of the wife. Few documents have been produced by the husband along with the original petition to substantiate the contention that the wife was treated by the psychiatrist for the alleged illness. Those documents were perused by the court below…” “The fact that the wife’s alleged mental disorder is an issue to be decided in the case itself constitutes a prima facie case. The opinion of the medical board… may be of utmost importance for granting or rejecting a prayer for a decree of divorce… When a party to a litigation alleges existence of certain facts, the court can draw no inference of its existence unless it is proved through the manner in which the Evidence Act is envisaged. Therefore, the court shall not preclude a party from adducing evidence which may be relevant in accordance with the Evidence Act to prove his case,” the court said. For all these reasons, we hold that the court was justified in allowing the husband’s petition seeking medical examination, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/family-court-can-order-medical-examination-in-divorce-case-hc/articleshow/81464054.cms||Mahir Haneef
March 12, 2021||Kochi||CPM regrets ‘hurting sentiments’ on Sabarimala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran on Thursday expressed regret for the “unfortunate” incidents that rocked the Sabarimala hill shrine in 2018 following the Supreme Court verdict on women’s entry. “It was most unfortunate that the sentiments of devotees were hurt... The incidents that took place in Sabarimala in 2018 was something that pained all of us. It should never have happened. It has pained everyone... it has pained me also,” he told reporters while campaigning in Kazhakootam, a day after his candidature was announced. The minister, however, said he does not think the incidents still linger in people’s minds. “Whatever may be the final verdict of the Supreme Court, the government will implement it only after discussions with devotees and taking their sentiments into consideration. We have withdrawn all cases registered against devotees. All these are a clear message to devotees where the LDF government stands on the issue,” he said. Interestingly, Surendran had criticised the protests earlier, saying Sabarimala is not the place to show activism. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the statement was meant only to “deceive” devotees. BJP state chief K Surendran said the minister cannot wash his hands off the “sins” he committed in Sabarimala with some confession made on the eve of elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-regrets-hurting-sentiments-on-sabari/articleshow/81459415.cms||---
March 12, 2021||---||CPM regrets ‘hurting sentiments’ on Sabarimala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran on Thursday expressed regret for the “unfortunate” incidents that rocked the Sabarimala hill shrine in 2018 following the Supreme Court verdict on women’s entry. “It was most unfortunate that the sentiments of devotees were hurt... The incidents that took place in Sabarimala in 2018 was something that pained all of us. It should never have happened. It has pained everyone... it has pained me also,” he told reporters while campaigning in Kazhakootam, a day after his candidature was announced. The minister, however, said he does not think the incidents still linger in people’s minds. “Whatever may be the final verdict of the Supreme Court, the government will implement it only after discussions with devotees and taking their sentiments into consideration. We have withdrawn all cases registered against devotees. All these are a clear message to devotees where the LDF government stands on the issue,” he said. Interestingly, Surendran had criticised the protests earlier, saying Sabarimala is not the place to show activism. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the statement was meant only to “deceive” devotees. BJP state chief K Surendran said the minister cannot wash his hands off the “sins” he committed in Sabarimala with some confession made on the eve of elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/kerala/cpm-regrets-hurting-sentiments-on-sabari/articleshow/81458597.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Vadodara||Police SUV mows down 14-year-old||Vadodara: A 14-year-old boy was run over by a vehicle of Panchmahal police on Thursday when he, along with his cousins were waiting by the roadside near Godhra for a vehicle to go to a local temple. Godhra taluka police inspector B R Gohil said that the vehicle was carrying the dog squad of the Panchmahal police to Ahmedabad for the PM’s programme. An offence lodged by Arvind Bhabhor, a resident of Motivav in Dahod district, claimed that his son Mahesh was hit by a Mahindra Bolero of Panchmahal police when he was waiting on the roadside along with his cousins. Bhabhor said he had come to the Doctor Na Muvada village to meet a relative and the youngsters had planned a trip to a temple on the banks of Mahi. The children left home and went to the highway from where they planned to arrange some transportation to reach the temple. However, after the incident happened, the other children rushed home to inform their parents about the accident and by the time the elders reached the spot, the boy had already succumbed.He added that the offence had stated that the boy was standing on the side of the road when he was hit. However, the driver of the police vehicle claimed that there was a small eatery across the road and the boy seems to have gone there. On his way back, he suddenly came in front of the vehicle and was run over even before the driver could apply brakes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/police-suv-mows-down-14-year-old/articleshow/81454601.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: St George’s hosp faces water crisis, Covid patients suffer||Mumbai: The state-run St George’s Hospital, a designated Covid-19 hospital, has been hit by acute water shortage for close to two weeks and is relying on water tankers. The situation got worse on Thursday as the taps ran dry in the ICU where around 45 Covid-positive patients are currently admitted. BMC officials said that recent concretisation work on the hospital premises had caused a leak in the water supply pipeline and work is currently on to fix it. The south Mumbai hospital is also struggling to carry out dialysis of Covid-19 patients as the reverse osmosis (RO) plants cannot operate without water. “There is poor or no water supply for close to two weeks now. On Thursday, there was no water in the Covid-19 ICU,” said a senior hospital official. “In fact, we have stopped supply to the residential quarters on the premises and are using that water for the hospital, but it is not enough. We are barely managing to get dialysis done. We do dialysis for at least five Covid patients a day.” The official said that they need small-sized water tankers to reach the RO plants. “The BMC is sending big tankers, but there is no space for them to reach the location of the RO plants or the hospital’s water storage tank. The situation is serious...patients are suffering,” the official added. When contacted Dr Akash Khobragade, medical superintendent of St George’s Hospital, said: “We are in touch with the BMC and are trying to resolve the issue.” Assistant municipal commissioner of A Ward Chanda Jadhav said the BMC has appointed a contractor to fix the leak in the pipeline and restore water supply as soon as possible. “Work is on to remove the concrete and plug the leak,” said Jadhav. “Till the work is completed, we have asked the hospital authorities as well as the public works department to install small pumps to draw water from our large tankers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-st-georges-hosp-faces-water-crisis-covid-patients-suffer/articleshow/81456660.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 12, 2021||Delhi||AAP MLA Amantullah Khan’s remark on Delhi riots triggers ruckus||NEW DELHI: Delhi assembly witnessed a ruckus on Thursday after AAP MLA Amantullah Khan alleged that a political party had played a role in the riots that occurred in northeast Delhi in February last year. Khan, the chairman of the minority welfare committee of the assembly, made the remarks while presenting its report in the House. Despite speaker Ram Niwas Goel ordering that the name of the political party taken by Khan be expunged from the records, the allegation set off an uproar in the House. Amid a strong reaction from the opposition benches, BJP MLA Anil Bajpai entered the well of the House. He was then marshalled out. The speaker tried to restore order in the House and asked Khan to discontinue presenting his comments on the report. Subsequently, the House was adjourned for 15 minutes. While presenting the committee’s report, Khan said 54 people were killed in the riots. Khan said Rs 27.2 crore had been disbursed as compensation by the Arvind Kejriwal government to the affected people. Delhi government provided Rs 10 lakh to the kin of the deceased, while 244 people who got injured were also given ex gratia payment. The AAP MLA said that compensation was also given for damage to 724 residential and 1,190 commercial properties. He claimed that in the post-Independence period, the country had witnessed many riots, but Delhi government was the only one that had identified the affected and compensated them. The commotion restarted after the House began post adjournment. Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said Khan’s remarks were objectionable and urged the speaker to allow Bajpai to attend the session. While giving permission, Goel advised Bajpai to maintain decorum. Khan said the committee had received several complaints about no or less compensation after which the matter was taken up for consideration. Even after the session was adjourned for the day, he continued to attack the political party and accused it of being behind the riots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-mlas-remark-triggers-ruckus/articleshow/81455706.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Kochi||Sea cucumbers worth Rs 5.4cr seized, global racket busted||KOZHIKODE: Lakshadweep forest department busted an international racket and seized 486 dead, sea cucumbers worth nearly Rs 5.45 crore on Thursday. Two fishing boats were also seized and seven poachers were arrested as part of the operation, sources said. According to sources with the Lakshadweep administration, Lakshadweep Marine Wildlife Protection Force Watchers of Thinnakara anti-poaching camp, who were on night patrolling around Perumal Par (uninhabited island), caught the poachers red-handed. Experts said that sea cucumbers are mainly smuggled to countries like China and Malaysia for consumption. In such countries, people consider serving sea cucumber soup as a matter of prestige. So, poachers aim to export it there, making it an international trade. Sources said that a team of officials led by RFO Abdul Raheem and OIC (Agatti range) Sinan Yafus along with two foresters, five forest guards and 35 watchers of Lakshadweep Marine Wildlife Protection Force of Thinnakara anti-poaching camp (created for the protection of marine wildlife of Lakshadweep islands) successfully coordinated the entire operation in rough sea conditions. “Chief wildlife warden Damodhar AT has rushed additional forest force along with senior forest officers from Kavaratti headquarters to the site for further search and appointed an investigating officer to probe the offence and nab the kingpins behind the international trade,” said an official. Officials said that seized vessels and the accused poachers were brought to Agatti Range office headquarters. A wildlife offence report (FIR) has been registered under the Wildlife Protection Act-1972 and all the accused will be produced before Amini Island JMFC court. The arrested poachers were identified as Julius Nayagam P of Kanyakumari; Jagan Nath Das of south Delhi, Paran Das of West Bengal, Sajan P of Trivandrum, Abdul Jabbar, Mohammed Hafeelu SB and Saqalain Musthaque from Agatti. Sources said one of the boats had TN registration, owned by a Kanyakumari native, and the second boat was registered in Lakshadweep by an Agatti native.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sea-cucumbers-worth-rs-5-4cr-seized-global-racket-busted/articleshow/81454598.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Civic panel okays funds for Nesco contractor||Mumbai: The standing committee of the BMC on Wednesday passed a proposal to pay Rs 10.9 crore to a private builder who had bagged a contract to construct the Nesco jumbo Covid centre in Goregaon without any tender process. The contract was tainted with allegations of cost inflation, favouritism, corruption and violation of norms. Though the BJP had filed a complaint against the BMC with the Lokayukta, the proposal was passed unanimously. In June, the builder was awarded the Rs 10.9 crore contract to supply beds and medical equipment to a BMC Covid care centre even though the establishment was said to have no experience in the field. No tenders were invited before giving the work order for three months. Romell Realtors supplied oxygen, medical beds, mattresses, fans and humidifiers to the Covid care centre at Nesco exhibition centre in Goregaon. The BMC said it was paying the builder for only three months, and that the company would maintain and supply items till the centre is open free of cost. Once the centre shuts down, the builder will give all the equipment to the BMC free of cost. The BMC had responded to Lokayukta’s notice, claiming that during the peak of the lockdown and the pandemic, there were no other companies available to supply the items. The BMC said the items were purchased after negotiations at the lowest cost. Romell Realtors had said that its CSR contribution to the Nesco centre was worth Rs 1 crore, for X-ray machines, cabins, liquid cylinders and such. It also said that the revised work order value was Rs 8.4 crore and not Rs 10.9 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-civic-panel-okays-funds-for-nesco-contractor/articleshow/81455777.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||March @91: Reinventing Mahatma’s Trail||Ahmedabad: Exactly 91 years ago, on this day Mahatma Gandhi left with 78 Satyagrahis – who had gathered for the cause from all parts of the country. Their age ranged from 16 to 61 years. Together, with Gandhiji in lead, they embarked on a journey that shook the conscience of the world. The march, that lasted 25 days from March 12 to April 5, traversed diverse geographies and mobilized lakhs of people on the road for the movement against the British. As PM Narendra Modi is set to flag off a march to Dandi on Friday, how is the trail holding up after nine decades? The landmarks are still known by the march, even as some are in crumbling condition and some have had a facelift. Except for the larger marches organized by the celebrities or commemorative marches, the attendance is thinner. Before Dandi Path – a project that established 14 centres along the route for night stay – it was largely unorganized. “We see a rise in inquiries and activities along the route. In the past couple of years, it’s being seen as an experiential trail,” said Yogesh Sutaria, coordinator for the Dandi Path project. “There’s a rise in the yatris from foreign nations, too. We recently saw a group of four from the UK that traversed the path on bicycles.” As India will celebrate 75 years of Independence in 2022,would the iconic trail get another lease of life? Hemant Mahant, caretaker of the memorial and ashram at Kareli, where Mahatma stayed for a night on March 20 and met Jawaharlal Nehru, said that the village still gets its identity from that one incident and draws hundreds of visitors. “The initiatives to revive the trail will surely bring more traffic and more opportunities for the locals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/march-91-reinventing-mahatmas-trail/articleshow/81455757.cms||Parth Shastri
March 12, 2021||---||Shah likely to hold rally in Nandigram next week||KOLKATA/NANDIGRAM: Bengal BJP leaders have requested Union home minister Amit Shah to hold a public meeting in Nandigram before the constituency goes to polls on April 1. Shah is scheduled to visit the state on March 15 and19. Besides, actor Mithun Chakraborty is likely to hold a roadshow in support of BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari. The Bengal BJP is keen on putting this hot seat back on its poll narrative, leaving behind the Nandigram incident that has diverted public attention from the party to what happened to chief minister Mamata Banerjee over the past 24 hours. Suvendu made use of the occasion of Shivaratri on Thursday and visited a number of temples in Reyapara — where Mamata had planned to stay for the night on Wednesday — and also Sonachura, Parulbari and the Shiva temple at Amgechhia, situated on the border of Nandigram blocks I and II. Suvendu didn’t utter a word on Mamata’s leg injury, making it clear he was not getting waylaid into the controversy. Instead, he spent the day in Nandigram walking into Reyapara households to talk to residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/shah-likely-to-hold-rally-in-nandigram-next-week/articleshow/81458598.cms||---
March 12, 2021||India||Shah likely to hold rally in Nandigram next week||KOLKATA/NANDIGRAM: Bengal BJP leaders have requested Union home minister Amit Shah to hold a public meeting in Nandigram before the constituency goes to polls on April 1. Shah is scheduled to visit the state on March 15 and19. Besides, actor Mithun Chakraborty is likely to hold a roadshow in support of BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari. The Bengal BJP is keen on putting this hot seat back on its poll narrative, leaving behind the Nandigram incident that has diverted public attention from the party to what happened to chief minister Mamata Banerjee over the past 24 hours. Suvendu made use of the occasion of Shivaratri on Thursday and visited a number of temples in Reyapara — where Mamata had planned to stay for the night on Wednesday — and also Sonachura, Parulbari and the Shiva temple at Amgechhia, situated on the border of Nandigram blocks I and II. Suvendu didn’t utter a word on Mamata’s leg injury, making it clear he was not getting waylaid into the controversy. Instead, he spent the day in Nandigram walking into Reyapara households to talk to residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shah-likely-to-hold-rally-in-nandigram-next-week/articleshow/81458599.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Med students want exams postponed due to Covid spike||Mumbai: Even as final year medical exams commenced this week, students in the first, second and third years from undergraduate health science courses are seeking a postponement of exams scheduled to commence from March 23. In view of increasing Covid-19 cases and lockdown in some regions, students and parents have raised concerns over the conduct of physical exams. Maharashtra University of Health Sciences is yet to take a decision. Around 40,000 students across the state are enrolled in the lower classes of undergraduate courses. A parent said with cases rising every day, it would be risky for them to take offline exams. “There is also a rise in Covid cases in college hostels,” he added. Meanwhile, there was over 95% attendance in the final year exams. There were requests from students’ groups for an online exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-med-students-want-exams-postponed-due-to-covid-spike/articleshow/81456672.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Delhi||AAP govt to kick off 75-wk Independence Day celebration||New Delhi: Delhi government will kick-start the 75-week-long celebrations to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence on Thursday at Central Park in Connaught Place. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will be the chief guest at the event organised by the Delhi tourism department. “Heartiest congratulations to all on the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence. Let’s create an India that is inspired by the dreams of our freedom fighters and martyrs, and an India inspired by the principles of Ram Rajya. Let’s make our nation number one in the world,” Kejriwal said on Wednesday. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia will also be present as the guest of honour along with chief secretary of the capital, Vijay Dev. Although all Delhiites are invited to be a part of this celebration, the entry to the event will be limited to ensure Covid-19 safety norms and guidelines can be adhered to. A statement from the CM’s office said that the streets of the capital will come alive in the evening with performances hosted in collaboration with the art and culture department of Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-govt-to-kick-off-75-wk-independence-day-celebration/articleshow/81455767.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Rajkot||Patan girl to represent India in World University Games||Palanpur: From Hajipur village of Patan District to Chengdu, China — where the World University Games will be held in August this year — long-distance runner Nirma Thakor has indeed come a long way. A art graduate of the Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University (HNGU), Nirma, has made it to the Indian team for the international event. The journey, though, has been anything but smooth. Nirma topped the podium in the 21km trails held in Bhubaneswar, Odisha, few days back to make the cut for the Indian team. She registered her personal best of 1hour, 22 minutes, 6 seconds in the trials to take the first step towards realizing her dream.“Pahle desh ke liye, fir gharwalo ke liye bahot kuch karna hain (I want to achieve a lot for my country and family),” Nirma said. Nirma is desperate to payback for the hardships her family has faced for her. Nirma’s father owns a small farmland which doesn’t yield enough for the family to survive. So, he doubles up as a farm-labour to sustain the family and her daughter’s dream of being an athlete. Nirma says that she could have performed even better in the trials. “There were hills on the race route. It added few extra minutes to her timings. Also, I didn’t look at the watch during the race. I could have easily achieved sub 1.20 hours timing,” Nirma added. The trials saw athletes from universities across Indian vying for a place in the national team. The World University Games, also known as the Universiade, is a biennial international multi-sport extravaganza organized by the International University Sports Federation.Chirag Patel, director of Physical Education department of HNGU, the chancellor and the university staff congratulated Nirma on her achievement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/patan-girl-to-represent-india-in-world-university-games/articleshow/81454610.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Vaze transferred to control room||Mumbai: API Sachin Vaze, facing a series of charges in the murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, has been transferred from the crime branch to the main control room. Vaze was heading the elite crime intelligence unit of the crime branch. His transfer order is likely to be issued on Friday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-vaze-transferred-to-control-room/articleshow/81456679.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Rajkot||Two biodiesel sellers raided near Rajkot||Rajkot: Acting on a tip-off, teams of CID crime, Gandhinagar, carried out raids on two biodiesel sellers on the outskirts of Rajkot city on Wednesday night and seized Rs 24 lakh worth material including the fuel. Both the biodiesel stations were operating without required permission from concerned authority, said an official. According to sources, the raids were carried out at Om Shakti owned by one Abhijitsinh Jadeja and Hari Krupa owned by Mansukh Vavdi. Police seized a total 18,000 litres biodiesel, tanks and other materials from both the places and launched further probes. Sources say that a few days ago, fuel station owners (petrol and diesel) had protested against such mushrooming biodiesel stations across the state which are operating without nod and had submitted a memorandum to chief minister Vijay Rupani demanding action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-biodiesel-sellers-raided-near-rajkot/articleshow/81454616.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Delhi||Gupta alleges irregularities in DTC bus procurements, Gahlot hits back||New Delhi: Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Vijender Gupta alleged during the budget session on Thursday that there were multiple irregularities and financial loss in the procurement of 1,000 CNG-run, low-floor buses for Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC). Transport minister Kailash Gahlot retorted, saying not only had the process been transparent but the government had also saved Rs 225 crore, and “dared” BJP to stop it from getting more buses. A decision to buy the buses was taken by the Delhi cabinet in July 2019 and two separate tenders — one for the purchase and another for their annual maintenance contract (AMC) — was floated last year. Gupta said the AMC tender was floated three months later, though new buses would be under warranty. He claimed this would cost Rs 340 crore on maintenance, which could have been saved. There should be one tender and it appears the split was done to benefit a particular company, Gupta alleged. Gahlot said that despite BJP trying its best, the AAP government had been constantly bringing in buses and 1,600 had been inducted in the past one year. “We will keep procuring buses and we are not going to get scared. Do what you can.” The decision to have a comprehensive AMC for each bus was taken on July 11, 2019 after following all norms, he said. “We saved Rs 225 crore by bringing down per-kilometre rate from Rs 48.50 to Rs 45.50,” Gahlot said, adding that the warranty doesn’t include 71 items covered by AMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gupta-alleges-irregularities-in-dtc-bus-procurements-gahlot-hits-back/articleshow/81455810.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Rs 1,200 crore development plan for Gandhi memorial in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: A Rs 1,200 crore befitting memorial for Mahatma Gandhi, which will be at par with those dedicated to Martin Luther King Jr in Washington DC, and Nelson Mandela’s memorial in South Africa , and will be one of the largest in the country, is being envisioned on the 75th anniversary of Indian Independence. The Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT) will now grow from a 5-acre precinct to 53 acres. Only 65 of the 177 buildings that exist today were part of the original campus. “The 65 buildings will be part of the integrated campus and along with Bapu’s home, the Hriday Kunj,’ will not only offer a serene ambience for visitors but will be an intersectional space of simplicity, Gandhian ideals and philosophy,” said a senior state government official. “The precincts will see use of hi-tech tools for enhanced experience of the museum space. The Chattralaya building of today was where Satyagrahis were trained by Gandhiji,” he added. The plan has received an in-principle approval from the Union culture ministry. In 1960, after the death of reformer Parikshit Lal Majmudar, the main Ashram trust parted ways and split into seven trusts, six of which exist today. With these trusts now working as independent entities, it was hard to imagine a single 47 acre integrated memorial campus for Bapu. The state government, for the first time, proposed using the Gujarat Town Planning Act to rearrange various trust-owned land parcels that immediately surrounded the existing 5 acre SAPMT memorial, like the Guashala, the Khadi Udyog, the Ashram inmates, girl’s hostel and Ashram inmates with government and municipal corporation owned land that lay outside the campus of the SAPMT. This way, the government avoided any need for land acquisition. “Now instead of 10 different owners, we had the Ahmedabad municipal corporation (AMC), the state government and the SAPMT part of the chief member headed 14-member main governing council for the development and maintenance of the memorial. Only four of the six main trusts will be represented in the memorial,” said a senior state government official. The Ashram inmates on the other hand are being approached with compensation packages. “There are current negotiations for packages ranging between Rs 50 lakh and Rs 65 lakh or either a flat or tenement built on the periphery of the campus. They are not part of the governing or executive council,” claims the senior state government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-1200-cr-development-plan-for-gandhi-memorial/articleshow/81455784.cms||Paul John
March 12, 2021||---||Nandigram tense as TMC, BJP supporters hit streets||NANDIGRAM: Sporadic protests by Trinamool Congress and BJP workers were reported from Birulia in Nandigram since late Wednesday, hours after Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee suffered injuries. East Midnapore district administration officials, including the district magistrate and police superintendent, reached the spot on Thursday morning and spoke extensively to locals and witnesses. The first to hit the streets late Wednesday night were Trinamool supporters. Mamata’s chief election agent in Nandigram, Abu Sufian, said he has lodged a formal complaint urging police to investigate “criminal conspiracy” in the “attack on CM”. Sufian said they had reports that several anti-social elements were entering Nandigram from outside and that “they wanted Election Commission to probe the matter”. The TMC protests, in which party workers blamed BJP for the alleged attack, prompted counter protests by the saffron party. Proloy Pal, who stays in Birulia and is the vice-president of BJP’s Tamluk district unit, said: “Yes, there are BJP supporters in these belts. Several hundred people had thronged the road last evening to get a glimpse of the CM. What happened could have been an accident. Why is BJP being blamed? We will protest this.” A local TMC leader, refusing to be quoted, said, “The manner in which the incident took place leaves no doubt that someone in the crowd was involved. Hence the police complaint.” The blame game added to tension in the area. Around 9.30 am on Thursday, DM Vibhu Goyal and SP Praween Prakash led a huge police force and the two spoke extensively to people and some statements were also recorded. Goyal later told reporters, “We have spoken to several people, including witnesses. There was a huge crowd. None could tell us conclusively what happened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/nandigram-tense-as-tmc-bjp-supporters-hit-streets/articleshow/81458600.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||Rooftop industry exposes loopholes in RERC’s logic for new draft norms||JAIPUR: The rooftop solar industry supported by several other trade bodies made a vehement argument against the Rajasthan Energy Regulatory Commission’s (RERC) draft norms that threaten to cripple the green energy segment by depriving the developers the benefits of net-metering.  About 30 industry associations from different parts of the state participated in the virtual hearing that RERC conducted on Monday to seek views and comments of the stakeholders on the draft norms. In their comments, the industry bodies said the rooftop segment does not account for even 1% of the power consumption in the state. They said that the logic of discoms’ financial position will weaken further because of rooftop solar is misplaced. Sunil Bansal, general secretary of Rajasthan Solar Association, said, “The rooftop segment which contributes less than 1% to the total consumption of the state cannot be a reason for discoms’ financial problems. Rather, discouraging rooftop solar would deprive the citizens the benefits of green and cheaper source of power.” RERC has been vocal about the losses of the discoms and is apprehensive of high-value power consumers shifting to solar. But the industry argues that the discoms’ situation will not change a bit even if they ban solar in the state. They cited high debt-burden and unsustainable transmission and distribution losses as the sole reason for discoms’ woes. In fact, over the past 5-7 years, the solar industry in the state has been maturing and has set off entrepreneurial careers for many. As a result, lot of jobs have been created in the sector. Rajeshwer Singh Rajpurohit, member of Federation of Rajasthan Trade & Industry’s energy committee, said “The draft norms will end the livelihood opportunities of around 1.50 lakh people in the state. There are more than 500 companies, many of which are small and engage 20-25 people. They will have to fold up their businesses if the net metering benefits are withdrawn.” In fact, the Union ministry of new and renewable energy on February 13 had written to RERC not to rush with its draft regulations. In the letter, it said, “The MNRE has requested the MoP (Ministry of Power) to review the provision related to net metering and MoP is likely to come up with a revised provision for net metering in the Electricity (Right to Consumers) Rules, 2020 in a couple of weeks.” In the state, the Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation has also objected to the draft norms saying they will create headwind in growing the solar industry. The draft norms restrict net metering loads up to 10 KW, while depriving benefits to projects above 10 KW (gross metering).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rooftop-industry-exposes-loopholes-in-rercs-logic-for-new-draft-norms/articleshow/81455818.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||1,493 composite liquor shops will be re-auctioned||JAIPUR: A total of 1,493 composite liquor shops, which failed to attract bidders in the recent e-auction, will be put under hammer again on March 17 and 19. The department has completed the bid process of 6,172 liquor shops in five phases out of total 7,665 composite liquor shops in the state. As of now, 171 are pending in Sriganganagar followed by Hanumangarh (133), among otehrs. In Jaipur city, 17 liquor shops found no takes, while the figure was 27 in Jaipur rural. Baran was the only district where the bid process of a total 169 shops was completed. An official said, “In these shops, either the department did not receive any application or the bidders backtracked from depositing money. We are hoping to sell majority of shops in second e-auction.” To participate in bidding for a shop having a reserve price of Rs 50 lakh, an applicant has to deposit Rs 40,000 application fee along with Rs 50,000 security money. Similarly, for shops having a reserve price more than Rs 50 lakh and up to Rs 2 crore, the application fee will be Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh security money. Applicants will have to pay Rs 60,000 application fee along with Rs 2 lakh security money to bid for a shop having a reserve price more than Rs 2 crore. Sources said there are many bidders which did not come forward to deposit money and the department plans to sell these shops in this attempt. “Around 15% of the highest bidders did not come forward to deposit money as they have placed the bid without examining the financial viability. It was also observed many who wanted to buy a particular shop knowingly placed high bid so that no one can bid for that shop. In second round, they can bid a desired amount,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1493-composite-liquor-shops-will-be-re-auctioned/articleshow/81455801.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Delhi||AAP questions opposition by BJP to pilgrimage plan||New Delhi: Aam Aadmi Party spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Thursday said that BJP’s opposition to the Kejriwal government’s announcement of free travel to Ram Janmabhoomi for senior citizens of Delhi is beyond comprehension. In a press conference, Bharadwaj said that “We expected at least some people in BJP will praise the pilgrimage scheme, but the party members upset with this announcement.” “If Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta has never taken his parents on a pilgrimage, then tell us, AAP government will take care of their free pilgrimage,” said Bharadwaj, while also attacking Congress for describing the pilgrimage scheme as concocted dream. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, meanwhile, said that by dragging the parents of Delhi BJP chief into politics, Bharadwaj has shamed the entire political fraternity of Delhi. “AAP leaders have stooped down to a level of insulting parents of opposition leaders,” Kapoor said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-questions-opposition-by-bjp-to-pilgrimage-plan/articleshow/81455824.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Rajkot||3-yr-old killed, 15 hurt after bus turns turtle||Palanpur: A three-year-old boy was killed and at least 15 others were injured when the bus they were travelling in overturned near Shihori in Kankrej taluka in Banaskantha on Thursday morning. The accident happened around 5km from Shihori on Radhanpur road. According to the police, the bus on its way to Bhabhabhar from Surat was overspeeding while the driver, who may have been dozing, lost control of the vehicle and it turned turtle, said SV Aahir, PSI Shirohi police station. Vihan Parjapati (3), who was travelling with his parents from Surat to Bhabhar taluka, died on the spot but the others sustained minor injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/3-yr-old-killed-15-hurt-after-bus-turns-turtle/articleshow/81454631.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||Tractor sales continue to surge, up 33% in Feb||JAIPUR: Tractor sales in Rajasthan continued to outperform the broader market registering a growth of 33% in February. Passenger vehicles sales too witnessed growth of 8% even though they lagged the national average growth of 11%. “The fact that agriculture economy is doing much better than other sectors is reflected in the tractor sales. High prices of agri-commodities are fetching better incomes for farmers. Given the large parcels of land farmers own in the state, the requirement for tractors here is relatively higher than in any other state,” said Sai Girdhar, treasurer of Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (FADA). However, sales of commercial vehicles fell by 30% mirroring the slower growth in capacity utilization by the general industry. RBI estimates that after the lockdown was lifted, the growth in capacity utilization by the companies has reached only about 62%. “Commercial vehicles are directly correlated to the state of economy. Also, schools and education institutes remained closed. As the capacity utilization improves, and schools and colleges reopen, the sales will pick up,” said Sai Girdhar. On car sales, FADA said the growth has come on a low base last year as during that time India started transitioning from BS-4 to BS-6 emission norms. Passenger vehicle waiting period continued to remain as high as eight months as scarcity of semiconductors continued to linger around. The has urged the centre to hold diplomatic discussions with countries manufacturing semi-conductors like Taiwan so that the momentum which was built so far in auto sales is not lost and the industry continues to fuel the recovery process. “Consumer spending, which is the driving force behind the country’s economy and accounting for 60% of the GDP, fell 2.4% showing signs of sluggishness despite the quarter being in the festive season. This also reflects that consumers are still uncertain and worried about their income and cautious about spending,” said FADA. Sketchy Recovery Sketchy Recovery Category Feb’21 Feb ’20 Change (%) 2W 61,543 80,497 -23.55% 3W 1083 2,353 -53.97% CV 4,028 5,793 -30.47 PV 15,611 14,490 7.74% Tractor 8,322 6,253 33.09% Total 90587 109386 -17.19%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tractor-sales-continue-to-surge-up-33-in-feb/articleshow/81455819.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: RTC app to bring all services on one platform||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is set to bring all its online services under one platform. The Unified Ticketing Solution and Allied Services (UTSAS) is aimed at bringing services such as online passenger reservation system, automatic fare collection system, pass automation and account system, automatic vehicle location system (AVLS), passenger information system (PIS) and cargo & courier Management System under one roof for ease of access and better services to passengers. The state-run transport corporation has already called for request for proposal (RFP) from potential bidders to provide system integration services under the Build Own Operate and Transfer (BOOT) model. It is planning to finalise bids by the end of March or first week of April. The APSRTC has been a step ahead in technology adoption when compared to other transport corporation and has won awards for its innovations from the Union government for two consecutive years. The UTSAS is seen as another jump for APSRTC in technology adoption as it will be the first of its kind, integrated platform for all the services being offered by the transport corporation. “Once this system becomes operational, passengers can avail any kind of services through the app, with minimal human interaction,” RTC vice-chairman and managing director, RP Thakur. While the APSRTC is providing all services that will be available in UTSAS now, there are multiple apps and solutions for each service. Some services such as issuance of bus passes under various categories is not available online at present. By integrating all services at one place, the operational efficiency will improve to a large extent according to APSRTC officials. Another area the APSRTC is focussing on developing through UTSAS is its cargo services and special hire services. APSRTC witnessed a multi-fold increase in cargo services and there exists a huge potential to grow in this area with its wide network connectivity. UTSAS will provide a platform to book cargo service from anywhere and the corporation is working on providing last mile connectivity. Similarly, the UTSAS will also provide an option to book entire buses for special requirements and customers will have access to see the kind of buses available under such special hire services. Another feature that will be incorporated in UTSAS is the current booking facility at all stages. It will also have bus pass scanning facility for automatic identification and allotment of seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rtc-app-to-bring-all-services-on-one-platform/articleshow/81455113.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 12, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Low turnout won’t affect our prospects, say parties||VIJAYAWADA: Notwithstanding the relatively low turnout of voters — 62.88 per cent — in the just-concluded municipal elections in the city, all political parties are confident it won’t affect their prospects. The counting of votes will take place on March 14. The ruling YSRC said it is confident of winning 40 wards in the city. “We are confident of victory as our voters lined up to vote in large numbers early in the morning. We are not bothered about the poor voting percentage,” said Vijayawada central legislator Malladi Vishnu. Opposition TDP, too, said it expects to win around 35 seats. “Welfare and development are important. But this government completely ignored development. People who witnessed development during the TDP regime voted for us. We are not bothered about the poor turnout of voters,” said TDP leader Gottipati Ramakrishna. Jana Sena and BJP, who fought the polls together, hope to win around 20 wards in the city. “This was our first municipal elections. We put up good and clean candidates with no criminal records. The youths came out in large numbers to vote for us in many divisions. We are confident of winning a respectable number of wards in Vijayawada,” said Pothina Venkata Mahesh, the official spokesperson of Jana Sena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/low-turnout-wont-affect-our-prospects-say-parties/articleshow/81455230.cms||Venu Lanka
March 12, 2021||Amaravati||Dip in production leads to hike in prices of essentials||AMARAVATI: Essential commodities, including pulses and oils, have become costlier by nearly 60% in retail markets since last November. The shortage of production in the pulse producing states is considered to be the reason behind the rise in prices. The production of ground nut and other oil seeds went down last year. With many states facing drought conditions resulted in drop in the output of pulses and oil seeds. Dal and various oils should have become cheaper during March and April as new crop would start coming into the market. However, the trend differed in the current year due to shortage of production. Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra are top producers of pulses in the country. Gujarat, Rajasthan, AP, Telangana, Maharashtra are high producers of oil seeds. Wholesale merchants would import pulses from Myanmar and African nations whenever they notice that local crop is hit by adverse weather conditions. Sources said that China had imported huge quantities of pulses from African nations anticipating that Covid-19 pandemic might result in shortage of stocks in the country. It has tied up with every possible exporter from African countries leaving little room for importers in India to negotiate. The political tensions in Myanmar have hit imports, further triggering the price rise. India is now depending on Indonesia and Malaysia for palmolein imports while China’s advance imports during the pandemic have led to the increase in prices at the international level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/dip-in-production-leads-to-hike-in-prices-of-essentials/articleshow/81455139.cms||Samdani MN
March 12, 2021||Vijayawada||HC junks RTC’s ‘gender discriminatory’ circular||Vijayawada: The high court, which recently set aside a circular issued by AP State Road Transport Corporation barring appointment of married daughters on compassionate grounds, has struck down another APSRTC circular which barred women from taking up certain jobs like mechanic, shramik and chargeman (printing). Holding it ‘gender discriminatory’, the court found it ironic that in a nation which is moving towards gender equality with rapid pace, instrumentalities like APSRTC are advocating gender bias through such rules and circulars. One B Lakshmi had moved court in 2013 after her application for compassionate appointment was rejected by APSRTC. Her husband Srinivas, who used to work as driver, died in harness following which she applied for a suitable job under bread winner scheme. Her application was first considered for the post of conductor. Though the selection committee selected her for the post, her application was later rejected by competent authority on the grounds that she was 3 cm shorter than the required height for the post of conductor. Setting aside the circular that bars women from taking up certain jobs, the court directed APSRTC to reconsider the application for a suitable job within six weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-junks-rtcs-gender-discriminatory-circular/articleshow/81455291.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||Employees under essential services barred from going on strike for 6 months||JAIPUR: Under Rajasthan Essential Services Maintenance Act (RESMA), all emergency services including ambulances and other medical services have been declared as essential services for a period of six months from March 14, the home department said in an order. As per the notification, employees working under these services cannot go on strike or dharna for the next six months. The order was issued by senior deputy secretary of the home department Bhawani Shankar. As per the notification, the employees working under 108 emergency services, 104 Janani express base ambulances and 104 toll-free medical consultation services, have been barred from organising strikes. “Keeping the Covid situation in mind, the restrictions have been imposed so that the general public doesn’t suffer during such times. The notification has been issued afresh to provide relief to the people,” said Shankar. Under the Rajasthan Essential Services Maintenance Act, 1970, if the state government is satisfied that in the public interest it is necessary or expedient to do so, it may, by general or special order prohibit strikes in any essential service. Any person who commences a strike which is illegal under this Act or goes or remains in, or otherwise takes part in, any such strike shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to Rs 200, or with both. In view of the Covid situation in Rajasthan, the state’s home department had extended its order to impose restrictions under Section 144 in 33 districts up to March 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/employees-under-essential-services-barred-from-going-on-strike-for-6-mths/articleshow/81455826.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||ED attaches properties worth Rs 9.97 crore in Bhilwara bank case||JAIPUR: The zonal office of the Enforcement Directorate on Thursday issued provisional attachment order of Rs 9.97 crore under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in connection with the financial fraud of Rs 25 crore at the Bhilwara Mahila Urban Cooperative Bank (BMUCB) in Bhilwara. Money laundering investigation was initiated by the ED following an FIR and later charge-sheet in the case of fraud of over Rs 25 crore in which bank authorities had connived with private people and sanctioned fake loans. “In our investigation, it was found that one Ravindra Kumar Bordia, financial advisor of BMUCB and his wife Kirti Bordia, president of the bank, in active connivance with others including Dev Kishan Acharya, Mahaveer Chand Parakh and other private persons obtained loans to the tune of Rs 25.10 crore. The loan was sanctioned in the names of various private persons on the basis of forged and fabricated documents. The loan amount was later siphoned off by transferring the bank funds for repayment of old loans availed by them and for purchase of immovable assets,” said a senior officer of ED on the condition of anonymity. It was further found in the investigation that the properties which were mortgaged with the bank against loans do not belong to those who were granted the loans. “Also, the people in whose name loans were sanctioned were not even aware that the loan was fraudulently taken in their names. They had no financial capacity to purchase the assets shown as belonging to them in the mortgage documents submitted to the bank,” the officer said. Also, it was found that these fraudsters had taken KYC documents and signatures of these poor persons in the guise of opening savings bank account or some other reasons by offering small benefits to them. “All these documents were misused for obtaining fraudulent loans in the name of these persons,” the officer added. The properties that were attached belonged to the accused, including Ravindra Kumar Bordia, Kirti Bordia, Dev Kishan Acharya, Mahaveer Chand Parakh, Roshan Lal Sancheti and other residents of Bhilwara. “The properties include four bank accounts having a balance of Rs 4.39 lakh and 262 immovable assets worth Rs 9.92 crore, including agriculture land measuring 12 bigha 2.5 biswa, residential and commercial properties in Bhilwara and Asind,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ed-attaches-properties-worth-rs-9-97-crore-in-bhilwara-bank-case/articleshow/81455827.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||State expects to receive over 12 lakh doses today||Pune: A new batch of 12.74 lakh Covishield doses, expected to land on Friday, is set to give vaccination coverage in Maharashtra a boost, said officials recently. State immunisation officer Dr D N Patil said the state received 6.89 lakh doses of Covaxin on Wednesday. “By Friday, then, the state will likely have a total of around 19 lakh vaccine doses,” he said. He said if vaccination continues at today’s pace the 19 lakh doses may last around 15 days, excluding holidays. Other state officials said the inoculation programme will gain pace significantly once the new doses arrive. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in Mumbai, said the health department has designed an allotment formula based on vaccination performance of districts and people from priority groups that remain to be vaccinated. “So, to start with, we have indicated a requirement of three lakh doses. It has been communicated to us that vaccine dispatches will take place every week, depending on performance. We have so far administered nearly five lakh doses, including second doses. So, about three lakh additional doses are expected to be sufficient for us for a week, until more doses arrive,” Kakani said. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (medical), Pune circle (comprising Pune, Solapur and Satara districts), said the zone was expected to get nearly two lakh doses. “Of this, Pune district may get around 1.5 lakh doses; Solapur and Satara each may get 25,000 doses. Pune district has a higher allotment because it has two municipal corporations and high population,” he said. He added the new batch of doses will certainly help boost vaccine coverage. “On Wednesday, we crossed 25,000 daily beneficiaries. We aim to take that number to 45,000, with a minimum of 25,000 per day in Pune and 10,000 each in Solapur and Satara,” he said. Pune circle on Wednesday received a batch of 31,000 Covaxin doses. The Aundh District Hospital in the city, the only site offering Covaxin here, was given 12,000 doses. Dr Ashish Bharati, head of the PMC’s health department, said the civic body might get about 90,000 doses of Covishield on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-expects-to-receive-over-12-lakh-doses-today/articleshow/81455835.cms||Neha Madaan
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||Information commission fines officials for flouting rules||JAIPUR: The State Information Commission has imposed a fine of Rs 15,000 on two officers of rural development and panchayati raj department for disregarding the Right to Information Act. The commission imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on three officers of the local self-government too. The fine will be deducted from their salary. State information commissioner Laxman Singh imposed the fine of Rs 15,000 on the village development officer of Sata panchayat in Barmer district. The fine was imposed after Bhagwan Singh of Barmer complained in his appeal that the authorities were not giving him information for a long time. Singh on September 10, 2018 had filed an application in the gram panchayat seeking details of the materials supplied in the village. But the officer did not respond. The commission summoned the officer and asked him to clarify by sending a notice five times. But the officer did not care. Similarly, in Pali district, the village secretary of Kurna has been ordered to pay a penalty of Rs 15,000. On December 20, 2018, one Dhala Ram asked the gram panchayat for details of the meeting of the gram panchayat and details of the cash book. But the village secretary ignored his application. The commission sent a notice to the village secretary four times and asked him to give a clarification. But the village secretary also ignored it following which the fine was imposed. The commission said in its order the village secretary should invite Dhala Ram to review the records and give him up to 100 pages of information free of cost. State information commissioner Narayan Bareth imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on the secretary of Kota Urban Improvement Trust and on the executive officer of Asind municipality in Bhilwara in two separate cases. Mohammad Salim of Asind had complained that even after two years, the petitioner did not provide information on his application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/information-commission-fines-officials-for-flouting-rules/articleshow/81455823.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Outskirts had better turnout than core city in GVMC polls||Visakhapatnam: Despite two urban bodies — Anakapalle and Bheemili — along with a few villages in semi-urban areas being merged into Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) limits, voter turnout did not see a significant increase. Interestingly, turnout in the outskirts was more than that it in the core city area. Vizag city managed a turnout of only 59.4% for the GVMC elections on Wednesday with only 10.25 lakh voters casting their vote out of the 17.26 lakh eligible voters. In the 2007 elections for the corporation, Vizag city had witnessed a turnout of 52.4% when there were 72 wards with 11.36 lakh eligible voters. Since then, the area under the civic body has increased following the merger of Anakapalle and Bheemili municipalities and some villages in the outskirts, increasing the number of wards to 98. Officials had expected a good turnout, of over 70%, in the 2021 GVMC elections but these expectations were dampened as over seven lakh voters did not exercise their franchise. Meanwhile, polling percentages in Anakapalle and Bheemili areas were reported to be around 69% and 70% respectively. Polling percentage did not cross 80% in any of the 98 wards under the GVMC with Ward 80 inder Zone-VII recording the highest turnout of just over 79%. Ward 40 under Zone-V reported the lowest turnout with only 19% eligible voters exercising their franchise. “The below 60% polling (turnout) came as a shocker as Vizag has a reputation of being one of the biggest cities in the state and one of the most progressive cities in the country,” said SS Murthy, a resident of Sagarnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/outskirts-had-better-turnout-than-core-city-in-gvmc-polls/articleshow/81455207.cms||Nalla.Babu
March 12, 2021||Delhi||LG directs officials to prepare plan for e-waste management park||New Delhi: Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Thursday directed officials to chalk out a proposal for setting up an e-waste management park in Delhi for efficient disposal of electronic waste. Baijal held a meeting along with K Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific adviser to the Centre, in this regard. “Advised chief secretary, Delhi, to draw out a proposal in consultation with MoEF&CC, MeitY , etc for setting up the park in a time-bound manner,” he said in a tweet. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lg-directs-officials-to-prepare-plan-for-e-waste-management-park/articleshow/81455833.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘60% of Covid infected people traced to west Ahmedabad’||AHMEDABAD: If you live or work in the western part of Ahmedabad, you need to be extra cautious about following Covid-19 safety protocols. According to the Aarogya Setu App, the coronavirus contact-tracing app developed by the Centre, 60 per cent of people who have exhibited Covid-like symptoms have been detected in this part of the city. The app found a concentration of such people in Anandnagar, Sindhu Bhavan Road, Jodhpur, Naranpura, and even Vastrapur. Of the remaining 40%, about 20% were found moving around in Kankaria. AMC officials said they are constantly monitoring the data of Aarogya Setu app and it revealed a high concentration of infected people along Anandnagar road, SG Highway and even the Ring road. “Analysis showed that in Anandnagar, Vastrapur, and areas around Kankaria lake, the people remained stationary for a long time which indicated that they had either come there for leisure or were employed in offices,” said officials. They added that even in the recent outbreak, an increase in cases has been marked in the western parts of the city. Officials said that the city, on Thursday, recorded 149 cases which was a rise of 18% in three days. Between Tuesday and Thursday, AMC listed 11 micro-containment areas of which only two areas are in the eastern part of the city. Of the nine societies in western Ahmedabad, two are in Bodakdev and one each in Jodhpur, South Bopal, Thaltej, Juna Vadaj, Usmanpura, Ranip, and Chandkheda. The AMC is now relying heavily on the data of Aarogya Setu app. It is tracing the location and proximity of individuals to Covid-19 positive people over a fortnight to target upcoming hotspots in the city. The data even identifies emerging residential society hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/60-of-infected-people-traced-to-west-abad/articleshow/81455741.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Experts suggest delaying 2nd vaccine dose to improve efficacy||PUNE: Public health experts have cited emerging evidence and said India could consider delaying the second dose of the Covid vaccine to improve immunogenicity. Currently, the follow-up shot is given 28 days after the first one. TOI spoke to several experts who said suggested extending that timeline. Dr Gagandeep Kang, a member of the Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE), which is advising the WHO, said the decision to delay was not just about supply constraints, but improved efficacy too. A recently published Lancet study has said the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine —made in India by Serum Institute as Covishield —showed greater efficacy when its second dose was administered after a gap of 12 weeks, instead of four. The study was based on results from over 17,000 trial participants. The researchers found that efficacy of the shot had risen from an average of 55.1% (after two doses were given fewer than six weeks apart) to 81.3% when the interval was at least 12 weeks. “Results from the clinical trials with the Oxford/Astrazeneca vaccine show a longer interval between doses improves immune response and improves the efficacy of the shot. Based on the data we now have for this vaccine, it makes sense to have an interval of at least 8-12 weeks between doses,” Kang said. “I strongly urge the Indian government committee to reconsider the time-frame for the second dose,” said National Covid-19 task force member, Dr Giridhara Rao. Dr Vijay Natrajan, CEO of Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre, said The Lancet study suggests a three-month interval between doses. “It will boost immunity, but in the Indian context, the risk of contracting Covid in the 90 days between doses remains high. That’s why the government picked 28 days, or four weeks.” Dr Lalit Kant, former head of ICMR’s epidemiology and communicable diseases division said models have shown a delayed second dose offers better protection, but real-world conditions can differ. “Delayed doses can protect a higher number of people quickly when supplies are limited. But in India, we don’t seem to have a shortage of vaccines. So the benefit is in terms of improving the level of protection,” he said. He said a closer look at data in the Lancet study shows the sample size was too small to draw a meaningful conclusion. “Therefore, studies with adequate sample sizes are needed before we can think of changing India’s vaccination schedule for Covishield.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/experts-suggest-delaying-2nd-vax-dose-to-improve-efficacy/articleshow/81456760.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||CIC gets PSOs without clearance||T’puram: State police allotted two policemen as personal security officers (PSOs) for former chief secretary Vishwas Mehta, who took charge as chief information commissioner, without adhering to norms and procedures. The order granting the services of PSOs was issued without the mandatory clearance from the security review committee and election commission when the model code of conduct is in force. As per the order issued by state police chief Loknath Behera on March 3 (accessed by TOI), two CPOs – Haja Hussain MS (attached to district headquarters in the capital) and Renjith CJ (crime branch) –were appointed as PSOs to Mehta on a working arrangement basis. The order said that the matter will be subject to ratification by security review committee. The service of PSOs are offered to political executives, serving officers and individuals in X, Y, Z and Z-Plus categories as per the Yellow Book issued by the ministry of home affairs. Individuals, who are not covered as per the Yellow Book (under which CIC falls), are given PSOs only on the basis of the orders of the government from time to time, based on the recommendations of a security review committee in which top officers like the state police chief, ADGP (intelligence) and IG (security) are members. It is mandatory to avail clearance from this committee which ascertains whether a person has a threat perception on the basis of intelligence reports, nature of duties and in some cases, based on court orders. “The scrutiny is so meticulous that in many cases, even after being convinced that there is a threat to the candidate, the matter is referred to the local police station, asking it to give special attention to the individual. PSOs are given only in rare cases where there is severe security threat, or when they are originally entitled for PSO security, like top government functionaries,” police sources said. Former CICs, including former DGP Vinson M Paul, had not sought such services as the post is not considered to be among those with threat perception. Also, as the order was issued on March 3, the clearance from the office of chief electoral officer had to be obtained. As the model code of conduct is in force and all police and other government officials are deemed to be on deputation to election commission until the election procedure is completed, the clearance from CEO is required before issuing the order. In this case, clearance was not obtained, confirmed top sources. Meanwhile, Behera said that in some cases, PSOs are provided and matter is referred to security review committee for ratification later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cic-gets-psos-without-clearance/articleshow/81455831.cms||KP Saikiran
March 12, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot reports 61 cases||Rajkot: At least 61 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Rajkot on Thursday. The numbers were marginally less then Wednesday when 65 new cases were reported. Rajkot municipal commissioner Udit Agrawal said, “We have increased the surveillance in the areas from where fresh cases have been reported. The staff has begun door-to-door survey in near by houses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-reports-61-cases/articleshow/81454704.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||Negative pressure in ICUs reduces chances of infection||JAIPUR: Negative pressure in ICUs is the new technology being used in RUHS Hospital, Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), SMS Hospital and trauma centre to prevent cross-contamination and to purify the air inside the ICUs automatically where highly infectious disease patients undergo treatment. During the pandemic, ICUs in government medical colleges have come with latest and modern facilities and one among those is negative pressure to help maintain clean air in ICUs. Due to Covid, 200-bed ICU at RUHS Hospital, 50-bed at SMS Hospital, 20-bed at IDH and 16-bed ICU at Institute of Traumatolgy and Orthopedic have come up, which has expanded the critical care facilities in the city significantly. “All these ICUs have come up during the pandemic. Out of those new ICU beds, few have negative pressure for purifying the air. The hepafilters in negative pressure ICU beds cabins suck the air full of viruses and clean it before emitting it in the air. RUHS Hospital has one of the biggest ICU facilities in the country now. At SMS, advance 50-bed medical ICU has come up. These ICUs helped us in preventing mortality among Covid patients with co-morbidities and complications,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS medical college. In the 22-bed ICU at IDH, 10 beds with negative pressure have all the facilities under one roof for infectious and multiple organ failure critical patients. “We are maintaining different pressures at three levels — outside is normal, intermediate in galleries and negative inside the ICU. The benefit of negative pressure is that it purifies the air,” said Dr Ajit Singh, additional superintendent, SMS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/negative-pressure-in-icus-reduces-chances-of-infection/articleshow/81455832.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||Govt plans portability feature in health scheme||JAIPUR: Adding more benefits to Ayushman Bharat-Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Bima Yojna (AB-MGRSBY), the state government will add portability facility under which the beneficiaries will be able to get cashless treatment at hospitals in other states. Health minister Raghu Sharma informed the House on Wednesday that the portability would become possible through a platform developed by the National Health Authority. The beneficiaries of AB-MGRSBY will be able to get treatment in hospitals empaneled to Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna. Also, the beneficiaries of the scheme from other states will be able to get treatment in empaneled hospitals in the state. The health department claimed that they took the measures to strengthen the AB-MGRSBY by increasing the number of packages covered under the scheme from 1,401 to 1,576. In the current situation, AB-MGRSBY beneficiaries are able to get the treatment in hospitals which are empaneled under the scheme in the state only. Now, the state government is making efforts to ensure that they should get cashless treatment in other states as well. In the state, around 1.10 crore families, accounting for two-third of the state’s population, are under AB-MGRSBY covered and are getting benefit of free casheless treatment. Among those are beneficiaries of social and economic census 2011and national food security scheme. The government is paying premium of Rs 1,662 per family to the insurance company. Now, CM Gehlot has announced to include small and marginal farmers and contractual workers for free cashless treatment in empaneled hospitals. For rest of the families, Gehlot has proposed Rs 850 premium per family to avail the benefit of cashless treatment upto Rs 5 lakh in empaneled hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-plans-portability-feature-in-health-scheme/articleshow/81455828.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Dehradun||All eyes on central leadership again for names in Tirath Singh Rawat’s cabinet||Dehradun: The newly appointed chief minister of Uttarakhand, Tirath Singh Rawat, is likely to announce his cabinet after discussion with the party's central leadership. Sources said that Rawat is in constant touch with senior leaders in Delhi and might announce his new cabinet before the weekend. If needed, he might travel to Delhi as well to discuss the names of his likely team, a senior BJP leader said. Political pundits say that the biggest challenge before the new CM is to strike a balance between Kumaon and Garhwal legislators, accommodating the aspirations of MLAs from the hills and plains while keeping the BJP old-timers as well as new inductees into the party [Congress rebels], satisfied. It is claimed that the former CM Trivendra Singh Rawat lost his post mainly because he failed to strike a power balance between the MLAs and bureaucrats, did not expand the cabinet despite three vacant ministerial births - resulting in widespread resentment among the party legislators. Talking about the immediate challenges before the CM, political analyst, Jai Singh Rawat, said, "Firstly, he has to take everyone along, but he has less time to perform and prove before the party leadership. Within the next six months, he has to contest a byelection and win it to enter the assembly." However, the CM has an opportunity, which, according to the analyst, his predecessor missed, to ensure that the cabinet has a regional balance along with a mix of young and old faces. "He has full extra three ministerial berths, which were vacant during the last CM's tenure. Experienced and veteran MLAs can be inducted," the political analyst added. Speculations are rife in the political circles that the CM may appoint a deputy chief minister - possibly from Kumaon - to strike a regional balance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/all-eyes-on-central-leadership-again-for-names-in-tirath-singh-rawats-cabinet/articleshow/81454703.cms||Gaurav Talwar
March 12, 2021||Delhi||Ration at doorstep: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to set the ball rolling on March 25||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s doorstep delivery of ration under Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana will be launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on March 25 from Seemapuri circle. It is one of the top priority projects of the AAP government. “The CM has kindly consented to inaugurate MMGGRY with the delivery of ration to 100 households of Seemapuri circle at first instance. The scheme would be further expanded with effect from April 1, 2021 to all other beneficiaries of Seemapuri circle and other circles, including New Delhi, Ballimaran, etc,” a note by food minister Imran Hussain stated. Officials have been told to prepare an action plan by identifying 100 households, ascertaining their entitlements, biometrics, residential addresses and telephone numbers etc. for the delivery of packaged food articles, rice and sugar. The project, a brainchild of Kejriwal, aims to make quality ration available at every beneficiary’s doorstep in a packaged form to ensure right quality and quantity. The government has planned to deliver wheat flour instead of wheat and mills are being roped in to refine rice and weed out impurities. It will also help the beneficiaries financially because they will not be required to spend on milling. Under the scheme, launched last July, wheat will be transported from the Food Corporation of India godowns in the capital to the milling points. It will then be packaged in different sizes and sent to the delivery agency. Wheat flour, rice and sugar packets will come with a manufacturing and expiry date to ensure freshness and quantity. The government will monitor the delivery mechanism and the entire procedure on real-time basis from the procuring point to the final destination through CCTV, GPS, PoS devices with biometric authentication. This will help in prevention of waste and delivery of commodity under the targeted public distribution system (PDS), sources said. Under the PDS scheme, subsidised foodgrains (wheat and rice) and other essential commodities like sugar and salt are distributed across the capital through fair price shops. Delhi has over 17.5 lakh ration card holders to which nearly 72 lakh beneficiaries are linked. Altogether, 3.6 lakh quintal food articles are distributed every month. Delivery will be made at the time suitable to beneficiaries. The delivery agency will inform them about the schedule through the SMS gateway of the food department. The government had unveiled a similar project in March 2018 but that couldn’t materialise due to the Centre-Delhi power tussle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ration-at-doorstep-cm-to-set-the-ball-rolling-on-march-25/articleshow/81455851.cms||AlokKNMishra
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||Wastage of Covid vaccine is 7% in state||JAIPUR: In all, 1.63 lakh Covid vaccine doses have gone wastage till March 8 in the state since the first shot was given on January 16. In Rajasthan, the wastage of the doses is 7%, much less than the permissible limit of 10%, said health minister Raghu Sharma in assembly on Wednesday, while indicating that they had conducted the vaccination drive with best practices and saved at least 80,000-90,000 doses from going waste. Till March 8, as many as 23.2 lakh beneficiaries had received the vaccine. According to the health department official, each vial of Covishield vaccine has 10 doses and once the vial is opened, all the doses have to be given within four hours. Besides, mishandling of vaccine may also lead to wastage of doses. While the second phase of Covid vaccination drive is in the progress, the state reported 203 new Covid-19 infections in the state on Thursday taking its overall tally to 3,22,281. The fatalities stood at 2,789. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (44), Udaipur (25), Bhilwara (24), Kota(16), Banswara (14), Jodhpur (14), Ajmer (11), Rajsamand (8), Dungarpur (7), Pratapgarh (6), Chittorgarh (6), Churu (4), Bikaner (4), Barmer (3),Sriganganagar (3), Sikar (3), Jalore (2), Jhalawar (2), Bundi (2), Bharatpur(1), Alwar (1), Jaisalmer (1), Baran (1) and Karauli (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wastage-of-covid-vaccine-is-7-in-state/articleshow/81455836.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: More Covaxin centres as demand increases||Mumbai: The city will shortly be adding more centres to administer Covaxin with the state receiving fresh stocks of 6.89 lakh doses of the Bharat Biotech vaccine from the Centre. The city’s only Covaxin centre at JJ Hospital in Byculla has already seen an uptick in demand since the publication of efficacy data and is anticipating registrations to rise further. BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said the state has promised additional doses of Covaxin this week. “We are thinking of adding more centres in the suburbs,” she said. Some upcoming vaccination centres may be assigned to give Covaxin and the existing ones may be asked to add sessions. Last week, the ICMR and Bharat Biotech revealed that Covaxin demonstrated 81% efficacy in preventing Covid-19 in the interim findings of the phase III trial. On Tuesday, Lancet, which had published the phase II findings, said the vaccine was safe and immunogenic with no serious side effects. The CDSCO’s subject expert committee on Wednesday recommended doing away with the ‘clinical trial mode’ for its use and making it a case of regular emergency use authorisation. Dr Lalit Sankhe, nodal officer at JJ’s Covaxin centre said that they had started with a lukewarm response of 30-40 people in January. “At present, we are vaccinating 500 people daily. It is an overwhelming number given that we have to take consent from people and explain post-vaccination effects, among others,” he said. The hospital has administered nearly 4,000 doses till date. —Sumitra Deb Roy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-more-covaxin-centres-as-demand-increases/articleshow/81455890.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Burglars strike at Makkinampatti||Coimbatore: Miscreants decamped with gold ornaments and silverware from a locked house at Makkinampatti in Pollachi. Houseowner D Nirmala, 28, had left for Bengaluru on January 30. She returned on Wednesday to find a pair of gold earrings, a gold coin, silver tumbler, anklets and a small idol missing. The Pollachi east police have booked a case.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/burglars-strike-at-makkinampatti/articleshow/81455858.cms||---
March 12, 2021||---||A blessing in disguise for KC(M) rivals||KOTTAYAM: The split in the Kerala Congress (M) is turning beneficial for either faction -- Jose K Mani and P J Joseph -- as they are set to get 23 seats in the assembly elections between them to contest. The Jose faction has made the maximum out of the bargaining with the LDF by ensuring 13 seats and Joseph too is not lagging far behind and has been assured by the UDF of nine and may end up with 10. In its home turf Kottayam district, Jose group has even outplayed CPM and CPI, the major constituents of the LDF. Of the nine constituencies in the district, candidates of Jose faction will be representing the LDF in five while the CPM will contest from three and CPI from one. The undivided KC (M) had contested from 15 seats in the last elections in 2016. Mani group had contested from 11 seats and Joseph from four then. Mani had won in four while Joseph in two. According to senior Kerala Congress leader Joseph M Puthussery, who is with the Joseph group now, the two factions of Kerala Congress (M) contesting from a likely 23 seats is a commendable achievement. “It reminds me of the good old days when the Kerala Congress had contested from a maximum 25 seats,” said Puthussery. He also recollected the elections of 1977 when the Kerala Congress won 20 out of the 22 seats it had contested. He also agreed that going by the numbers the Jose group made the maximum in the seat-sharing talks. “We should look at this way. Jose group got 13 of the 15 seats they contested last time while we got only 10 out of the 15,” said Puthussery. “However, it has to be seen in how many seats either group will win eventually,” he added. Stephen George, senior leader of Jose faction, said that getting the recognition of the LDF as the biggest party in Kottayam district is a big achievement. “We have been given due consideration by the LDF than what Joseph group got in the UDF,” George added. The move by the CPM that eyed Christian votes turned advantageous for Jose in the seat-sharing talks. The intervention of the church was instrumental in Jose getting the better of CPI in Changanassery seat. When Jose and Joseph groups benefited the most, the other Kerala Congress groups in either front suffered huge losses. Janadhipatya Kerala Congress (LDF), which had contested in four seats last time, got only one this time. Kerala Congress (B) got restricted to Pathanapuram. KC (Jacob) will be contesting only from Piravom. Kerala Congress (Skariah Thomas), which contested from Kaduthuruthy last time, is not even in the picture. However, the Congress party had reasons to smile as they took over five seats which was contested by the Jose group while they were in the UDF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/kerala/a-blessing-in-disguise-for-kcm-rivals/articleshow/81455861.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
March 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Horticulture dept’s air-conditioned outlet boon for farmers, consumers||Coimbatore: An air-conditioned supermarket opened by the horticulture department near the busy Lawley Road junction has become the talk of the town.The Thottakalai Sales Centre, which mainly caters to residents of Saibaba Colony, R S Puram, Seeranaickenpalayam and Veerakeralam, sources vegetables and fruits directly from farmers and farmer producer organizations. “We pay farmers on the spot after checking quality and freshness of produce. We also source from state horticulture farms across the state, including from Ooty, Burliar and Kallar,” says deputy director of horticulture Bhuvaneshwari. “This is why we have fresh stock of Ooty vegetables like carrots and radish.”The centre, which opened three weeks ago, is first of its kind in the state. “The bottle gourd variety we sell is different from the hybrids, which are straight, long and thick. We also have local varieties of cucumbers and pudina. They are popular among shoppers who are looking for a different taste and flavour,” says Bhuvaneshwari.The centre witnesses 200 walk-in customers and generates sales worth Rs 15,000 a day. “We are trying to create awareness among registered farmer producer organizations, farmers and consumers,” the official says.Apart from fruits and vegetables, the centre sells value-added products including millet powders, soup mixes, health mixes for babies and vegetable chips. It has also become the go-to place for urban gardeners. “You’ll get everything needed to start a kitchen garden,” says R Mohan of Venkitapuram, who bought a drip irrigation system, vermicompost and Trichoderma viride for his terrace garden.The 2,600sqft centre has a 15-tonne cold storage and a 100sqft dry storage area. “We sell vegetables and fruits more than two days old on offer prices and send the remaining stock to our solar drying unit in Anaikatti to minimise wastage,” adds Bhuvaneshwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/horticulture-depts-air-conditioned-outlet-boon-for-farmers-consumers/articleshow/81455860.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Heavy rain lashes Kotagiri taluk||Udhagamandalam: A surprise shower drenched the Nilgiri hills on Wednesday around 11.30pm. The rain lasted for more than an hour and caused floods in Kotagiri taluk. Three vehicles were washed away as Kotagiri received the highest rainfall of 120mm for 24 hours ending 7am on Thursday. While Yedappalli registered 82mm rainfall, Coonoor and Burliar received 55mm and 50mm rain respectively.Kodanadu received 27 mm and Kundha registered 41 mm of rainfall. Of the six taluks in the district, Coonoor, Kotagiri and Kundha registered good rain. While Ooty registered 3.4mm rain, Gudalur and Pandalur taluks witnessed no rain. A car, a two- wheeler and a truck were washed away in the heavy rain, said Kotagiri tahsildar P Krishnamurthi.“The car and the two-wheeler that were parked at Quine’s Shola were found a kilometre away. They were fully damaged,” said the revenue department official. “Some houses were partially damaged and there were reports of tree fall. The flood was caused because a bridge near Quine’s Shola was blocked due to littering of garbage. Most of the garbage was found to be old clothes and household articles.” A proposal to widen the bridge has been sent to the government, Krishnamurthi added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/heavy-rain-lashes-kotagiri-taluk/articleshow/81455862.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Educational institutions to be trained on Covid norms||Coimbatore: A city-based safety products manufacturer has signed an MoU with the Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation to train faculty and staff of educational institutions across the state to help them prepare for reopening later this year.MY, the city-based safety products manufacturer, has formed Apex Skill Development Centre for Healthcare (ASDCH) in partnership with Kauvery Hospital for the purpose.It will be an online module that will be provided in multiple languages helping teachers, staff and parents understand protocols to be followed in the new normal.“This training will cover the safety aspects for all the institutions and will provide a comprehensive plan for staff on how to follow certain protocols as a part of the daily routine. The training will focus on first responder, first aid & basic life support for all the staff members,” managing director of MY Sanju Thomas Abraham said in a statement. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/educational-institutions-to-be-trained-on-covid-norms/articleshow/81455859.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Dehradun||Ex-CM takes Covid-19 vaccine jab, 69 new cases surface||Dehradun: Former Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, along with his wife, took the Covid-19 vaccine shot in Dehradun on Thursday. He urged all the elderly and people with comorbidities to get themselves vaccinated. He added that there are no side effects of the vaccine and that it will help in containing the spread of the pandemic. Meanwhile, 69 new cases of Covid-19 were recorded in the state on Thursday. With this, the cumulative coronavirus tally rose to 97,643 in Uttarakhand. According to the health department, the maximum of 25 new infections were recorded in Haridwar, followed by 22 in Dehradun, 15 in Nainital, three in Pauri, two in Bageshwar, and one each in Udham Singh Nagar and Rudraprayag districts. Also, one coronavirus-related fatality pushed the toll of the virus to 1,698. On Thursday, 26 more people recovered from Covid-19 infection, taking the cumulative tally of cured cases to 93,884.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ex-cm-takes-covid-19-vaccine-jab-69-new-cases-surface/articleshow/81454815.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Public toilets fail to keep dist open defecation free||Coimbatore: Public toilets on Prabhu Nagar Main Street are hardly usable for the slum residents in the area and they are forced to defecate in the open.While there are six toilets on the main street, they lack regular water supply and lights. The toilets were constructed two years ago under the Swachh Bharat scheme. There are another set of toilets behind the slum as well.On Thursday, the toilets on the main street were found open after 11.30am. And according to the residents, that was very unusual. One of the residents was found washing clothes there. “No one uses these toilets. So, I thought I could wash my clothes,” says Lakshmi, a resident who lives opposite the toilet block and keeps its keys.The residents say the toilets on the main street are open only from 6am to 11am on working days. “The rest of the day, we have to use the toilets behind the slum or defecate in the open,” says another resident, who didn’t want to be named.While the district has been certified free of open defecation, slum residents at Sanganoor Pallam say open defecation is still prevalent. People at Prabhu Nagar defecate in the open behind the slum or around Kavundampalayam dump yard. “It’s mostly guest workers who defecate in the open and many of them don’t know how to use toilets,” says Nandhini, a resident who lives close to the public toilets.“They go behind the fence and defecate there,” says Parvathi, who manages the toilets in the slum.The reason for open defecation could be attributed to not maintaining public toilets, which were built under the Swachh Bharat scheme, well and not keeping many of them open throughout the day. Parvathi confirmed that they keep only the toilets behind the slum open round the clock. “The one on the main street is locked after 11am, as most people go to work by then and return only by late evening, when the toilets couldn’t be used as there are no lights. We keep them closed for fear of people messing them up.”When contacted, corporation officials said they would inspect the toilets and look into the issue of open defecation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/public-toilets-fail-to-keep-dist-open-defecation-free/articleshow/81455871.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||5 members of group held for live burial stunt claim||AJMER: Five people who earned by showing stunts in rural areas were arrested at Panner village in Roopangargh town of the district on Thursday after one of the members announced to go for a live samadhi (live burial) to create sensation and to earn more money. The leader of the group is from Haryana, three are from Sikar and one from Pali. Police claimed that the incident was not related to any superstition but since the group hadn’t earned for a long time, it tried to create a sensation by going for a live burial to earn money. Roopangarh is located near Nagaur and hardly 50 km from Ajmer. The group reached Panner village six days ago and they chose an open place and started showing shows and stunt on cycles. “People gather at the spot and see the stunts and claps and give money to them,” said a local. For the last five days, the group members were riding a cycle without a break. But on Thursday, the group dug a pit at the spot and one of them announced to go for a live burial within the next 24 hours. The announcement created a sensation and people from faraway villages gathered at the spot. Someone among them informed Roopangarh police and they rushed to the spot and arrested the members. They were identified as Mohan Mahajan (30), resident of Narnaul in Haryana, Vikas Mali, Sanjay Kumar Yogi, Manoj Kumar Meena, all residents of Sikar district, and Banwari Lal Mali of Pali district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-members-of-group-held-for-live-burial-stunt-claim/articleshow/81455865.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Mahashivratri celebration live-streamed||Coimbatore: For the first time, Isha Yoga Center’s all-night Mahashivratri celebration that is filled with music, dance and meditation sessions, has been made online due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The entire celebration was live-streamed and telecasted across 100 channels in multiple languages, including English, Hindi, Nepali, Russian and French for its devotees across the world.Unlike previous years when lakh of devotees and celebrities had witnessed the celebration, this year only a few thousands of people participated in person after producing Covid negative certificates. All the government guidelines including temperature screening, ensuring face masks and social distance, were adhered to in the event. The participants were made to sit apart with social distancing norms in place.Several temples in the state saw a subdued Mahashivratri celebrations while a few witnessed as much crowd as received in the past years.“This time, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we have directed the temple management not to allow people to stay at the temple for a long time. They will have to move immediately after having darshan,” a Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department official in Coimbatore said.Usually, devotees would visit the temple in the evening and stay awake throughout the night. The temple authorities would organize satsangs, discourses and traditional musical concerts for the whole night even as special pujas would be performed for the deity. However, this year many temples had chosen to keep the celebrations low key as Covid cases are increasing. “However, most of the temples in the district are celebrating Mahashivratri by performing pujas like previous years,’’ the HR and CE official said.An official from the district administration said that they had issued strict directions to all the temples to obtain prior permission to perform pujas throughout the night and to follow all the Covid-19 guidelines at the temple premises. “Many of the temples have obtained permission from us,” the official added.According to the officials, there is no significant reduction in the crowd at many of the temples including the ones at Perur and Velliangiri hills. “I had visited Velliangiri two years back for Shivratri. I made it again this year since I missed last year,’’ said Ramesh, who is in the marketing profession. According to him, the crowd was much like what he saw during his last visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mahashivratri-celebration-live-streamed/articleshow/81455867.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Rs 45L unaccounted cash seized||Coimbatore: Poll officials have seized Rs 44.75 lakh from the people, who were carrying more than Rs 50,000 with them sans proper documents, in the district since the model code of conduct came into force on February 26. This is in addition to the gift items that flying squads have seized from several places in the district.District collector K Rajamani said many people were still unaware that they had to carry documents to prove the source of money if they were carrying more than Rs 50,000. “This is despite several announcements regarding the procedures that one needs to be followed while carrying such a huge amount. A lion’s share of the amount was seized from the individuals who did not carry sufficient documents. We are returning the amount as and when they produce documents.”According to him, they had released about Rs 2.24 lakh as on Thursday. In another instance, flying squad officials had inspected the house of city corporation engineer A Lakshmanan at RS Puram in the city on Wednesday night based on a tip that the officer had stashed Rs 5 crore at his house for the AIADMK.DMK cadres had surrounded the house, demanding transparent action against the engineer. But after hours of search, flying squad officials left the house empty-handed. “We didn’t find any trace of money at the engineer’s house,” an official source confirmed. Booth-level officials and other poll officials have, meanwhile, completed distribution of the 12D forms to more than 70% disabled people and those aged above 80 years in the district for availing postal ballots. The officials were expected to meet their target in a couple of days, the source said. The district has 14,780 disabled people and 64,680 people aged above 80 years.Pointing out that the beneficiaries would have to convey their willingness before March 16, the collector said a team comprising of a booth-level officer, micro-observer, police official and videographer would visit their houses to distribute the ballots after finalisation of candidates and their symbols. “The entire voting process will be videographed to prevent irregularities.”He said the 12D forms would also be distributed to the government officials and teachers, who have been assigned election duty, during their first training programme on Sunday. The collector had in the morning inaugurated a signature campaign to ensure 100% voting in the district and released a balloon with a message to that effect to create awareness among the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rs-45l-unaccounted-cash-seized/articleshow/81455874.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 12, 2021||Bareilly||Pilibhit: Police officer ‘forces’ village pradhan to rub nose on man’s feet||PILIBHIT: District Pradhan Sangh and local residents have demanded action against Pilibhit’s Bisalpur circle officer (CO) for allegedly forcing the gram pradhan of Marauri Khas village, Sanjeev Awasthi, to rub his nose on the feet of an alleged criminal, Guddu, who has been living illegally on a local temple premises. A probe has been ordered into the incident. Gram pradhan Sanjeev Awasthi and BJP MLA Ram Saran Verma said that CO Vineet Singh, accompanied by Bilsanda SHO Ravindra Kumar, had come to the village on Wednesday to resolve a dispute related to the temple’s land. The police officers had come at the behest of Guddu, who Verma described as “a criminal involved in several nefarious activities”. The MLA claimed that CO Singh called the pradhan and directed him to first touch Guddu’s feet and then made him rub his nose on them thrice. Legislator Ram Saran Verma said he had written to additional chief secretary, home, Rajnish Awasthi, DGP HC Awasthy and Pilibhit SP Jai Prakash Yadav, seeking immediate legal action against the CO. He has also called for an urgent meeting of the Gram Pradhan Sangh, his supporters and local residents on Friday to decide further course of action. Condemning the incident, district president of Pradhan Sangh, Ashutosh Dixit, said, “We have announced to fight a decisive battle and it will continue till a stern legal action against the erring CO is ensured.” Asked about it, SHO Kumar said he had taken over charge of the police station just four days ago and was not aware of Guddu’s criminal activities. Pilibhit SP Yadav said he had ordered additional SP Pavitra Mohan Tripathi to visit the village to probe the allegations and record the statements of all concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-officer-forces-village-pradhan-to-rub-nose-on-mans-feet/articleshow/81453318.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 12, 2021||Rajkot||Two held with Rs 86 lakh in scraped notes||Ahmedabad: Two persons were arrested with scraped currency notes having a face value of Rs 86.07 lakh from near Patidar Plaza in Mehsana town on Thursday. The accused were identified as Kishor Ode of Kheralu and Vijaysinh Rathod of Vadnagar, both from Mehsana district. According to the Mehsana local crime branch official, they had got information that two persons were looking to exchange old demonetized currency notes in the town. So, an LCB official contacted the accused saying that he would exchange the old currency notes with the old ones. The accused took the bait and reached Patidar Plaza to exchange the old notes and got caught. Besides currency notes of face value Rs 86.07 lakh, the police also seized the car in which the accused had come and their mobile phones. The accused were detained under Cr PC section 41 (D) and further investigation was launched. The Central government had demonetized Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 denomination notes in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-held-with-rs-86-lakh-in-scraped-notes/articleshow/81454837.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||Thousands throng Khyala mutt on Maha Shivratri||JAISALMER: A large number of devotees from across the country thronged the Khyala mutt, around 110km from Jaisalmer district headquarters, to take part in the fair organised as part of Maha Shivratri on Thursday. Khyala is a 200-year-old mutt of the Nath sect near Pakistan border. It has witnessed the 1965 and 1971 Indo-Pakistan wars. There are many samadhis at this mutt and it is a centre of faith for the followers of Nath sect. A devotee from the Sodha Rajput community offered a golden crown to Khyala mutt mahant Gorakhnath. Devotees throng the mutt and pray to get their wishes fulfilled. Hundreds of devotees from across the border come here on Shivratri, but after surgical strikes and Pulwama attack, bus and train services between the two countries have been terminated preventing devotees from Pakistan this year. A village elder Jugat Singh Sodha said the history of Khyala mutt goes back to 1886. Many miracles of this mutt were seen during the Indo-Pakistan war. In 1965, Pakistan occupied this mutt and began demolishing the samadhis and tried to uproot the forceps from the agnikund, but they failed and the soldiers lost their vision in this process. Pakistanis were astonished with the miracle and moved away from the mutt. He said a branch of this mutt is in Ratakot in Sindh state of Pakistan where a grand fair is organised on Shivratri and there, too, people of all castes and religions attend the fair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/thousands-throng-khyala-mutt-on-maha-shivratri/articleshow/81455873.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Forest encroached for road work: Activists||Udhagamandalam: A 12-feet wide road being developed by a private party at TR Bazaar in Naduvattam town panchayat in the Nilgiris encroaches into reserve forest, activists said.The new road starts from the main road in TR Bazaar and runs through a private tea estate to reach a patta land where a construction is likely to come up. Earthmovers were used without permission from officials concerned and boulders were broken without permission, an activist said. “Officials of the local body, revenue department and the forest departments should take stern action against the landowner,” he said.The landowner used an earthmover without obtaining permission, Ooty tahsildar Kuppuraj told TOI. “The landowner said that the road was not new and was not much used. We will check records to verify the claim. We have stopped the road work,” he said. “The landowner will be slapped with a fine for illegal use of earthmover and for breaking boulders without permission after an inquiry.”“Only when the forest department earmarks their boundary, the revenue department can ascertain if the road is encroaching revenue land,” the official added.Meanwhile, Naduvattam town panchayat lodged a complaint against landowner Kavitha Shenbagam, stating that illegal quarrying took place during the development of the road.  Assistant conservator of forests Saravanakumar ruled out encroachment. “We surveyed the forest land. The new road does not run through the forest,” he said.Kavitha Shenbagam told TOI that the road is 50 years old as per records. “We have nothing to do with its development,” she added.But activists insisted on a joint survey by the local town panchayat, revenue and forest departments in the presence of local representatives to ensure transparency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-encroached-for-road-work-activists/articleshow/81455864.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||Lt Gen Nain takes stock of operational readiness in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Lieutenant General JS Nain, general officer commanding-in-chief, Southern Command, carried out a comprehensive review of the operational preparedness and complimented the initiatives of Battle Axe Division to enhance operational capabilities here on Thursday. The officer complimented the initiatives undertaken to enhance synergy in the planning and conduct of joint training with Air Force to enhance operational capabilities. During the visit, Konark Corp core commander Lieutenant General PS Minhas and Battle Axe Division GOC Major General Ajit Singh Gehlot and other officers were present. Defence spokesman said, “Lieutenant General JS Nain visited the Jaisalmer Military Station. The general officer commanding-in-chief, southern command took stock of the operational readiness for the formation and was briefed on various operational initiatives being undertaken by Battle Axe Division to meet the challenges and exploit the opportunities in a tech-enabled network-centric battlefield environment. Nain also held a commander conference on Thursday at Jaisalmer Military Station. Nain laid emphasis on maintaining a high state of operational readiness, synergy and cooperation with sister services, to gain information ascendancy for giving a cohesive and befitting response during all contingencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lt-gen-nain-takes-stock-of-operational-readiness-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/81455884.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||No plan to shift village inside DNP: Minister Sukhram Vishnoi||JAISALMER: Minister of state for forests Sukhram Vishnoi clarified in the House on Wednesday that there was no proposal to shift any village in Desert National Park (DNP) in Jaisalmer. An NGO working in the DNP area tried shifting the village without taking the forest department and district administration into consideration which led to protests by environmentalists and experts. There are 53 villages in DNP and the government is making continuous efforts to provide them better services. Replying to a supplementary question of Amin Khan, Vishnoi said as per the rules of the government of India, for electricity lines above 11KV in national parks, it is necessary to take permission from the National Wildlife Board. For domestic or LTA lines, permission has to be taken from Rajasthan Wildlife Board. Similarly, for drinking water connection for less than 4mm pipeline, permission has to be taken from the state wildlife board and for pipelines above 4mm, it is necessary to take permission from the National Wildlife Board. Vishnoi said the state government through a notification on August 4, 1980 declared the DNP. He said as per section 26(A) (3) of Wildlife (protection) Act 1972, without the recommendation of the national wildlife board, the limits cannot be reduced, as it could adversely affect the wildlife and vegetation in the sanctuary. Former member of National Board for Wildlife Asad Rahmani said, “As the GIB survives in agro-pastoral landscape, it is essential to take local people’s cooperation. Antagonizing local people and then expecting their cooperation for wildlife conservation has not worked anywhere. Various organizations such as the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), Wildlife Institute of India (WII), The Corbett Foundation (TCF), along with few grassroots level organisations like the ERDS Foundation are working with the local communities and the forest department to protect and revive the bustard populations and protect its habitat. He said, “For last couple of years, a plan has been going around to shift some villages in Sam-Sudasri-Khuri area to create a 350-400 sq-km exclusive human-free area to protect the critically endangered Great Indian Bustard (GIB) and other wildlife in the DNP. The plan has neither been discussed with villagers and local communities, nor with the larger constituency of conservationists concerned about the deteriorating situation of the Great Indian Bustard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-plan-to-shift-village-inside-dnp-minister/articleshow/81455876.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Three members of family arrested for peddling ganja||Erode: Four people, three of them members of a family, were arrested on Thursday for selling ganja along with snack items in the district.The Andhiyur police identified the accused as P Jayapandi, 49, his son Sivapandi, 26, and son-in-law S Pandi, 40, of Thavittupalayam village, and their supplier M Govindaraj, 26, of Nallampalayam village in Coimbatore district.Andhiyur police inspector S Senthil said they had seized 21kg ganja, an omni van and two bikes from them.He said they had conducted a raid at the shop run by Jayapandi and family based on a tip that they were selling ganja along with snack items. “We found the contraband in the shop and during interrogation the trio confessed that the ganja was supplied by Govindaraj. A few more people are involved in the case and efforts are on to nab them,” the police inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-members-of-family-arrested-for-peddling-ganja/articleshow/81455882.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Teenager held for extortion||Coimbatore: The city police on Wednesday arrested a teenager for snatching Rs 1,000 from a man at knifepoint near Uppilipalayam.The arrested person has been identified as S Surya, 19, a resident of Masakalipalayam. “He demanded money from P Dhanapal, 27, of Masakalipalayam, who was on the way to a friend’s house, around 2pm on Wednesday. When Dhanapal refused, Surya brandished a knife and took Rs 1,000 from Dhanapal’s pocket,” a police officer said.The Singanallur police registered a case under Section 387 (extortion) and 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and arrested Surya later in the evening. He was remanded in judicial custody.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/teenager-held-for-extortion/articleshow/81455877.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana law on 75% quota in private sector jobs challenged in HC||Chandigarh: The much-touted Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020 that provides 75% reservation in private sector industries for the domiciles of the state has come under the scanner of Punjab and Haryana high court. M/s A K Automatics, an industrial unit based in Rohtak has challenged the law on the ground that by introducing policy of “son of soils,” the Haryana government wants to create reservation in the private sector, which is an infringement of the constitutional rights of the employers because private-sector jobs are purely based on skills and an analytical blend of mind of employees, who are citizens of India having constitutional rights on basis of their education to opt for jobs in any part of India. “The act is an attempt to introduce a domicile methodology to get a job in the private sector rather than on the basis of their education skills and mental IQ which will create a chaos in the current industrial employment structure for the industries in Haryana. Law is also contrary to the policy of ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’ of the central government whereby vision is to have an integrated and mobile labour market within the country which will also disrupt post-Covid-19 recovery of private sector and will force some private sector units to relocate their offices to other states,” according to the petition. It has also been argued that the act notified by the Haryana government is not but an act of unfair competition between deserving employees and local residents of Haryana claiming to have a right as an employee on the basis of local residence. The petition, which is expected to come up for hearing next week, has sought directions to quash the new law notified by the Haryana government on March 2 for being void/unconstitutional and sheer abuse of process of law. It has also been submitted that the law is an unconstitutional act and cannot stand the legal scrutiny as it violates the principles to meet the requirement under article 14, 15, 16 (2) and 16 (3), 19 (1)(g), 21 of the constitution. The petition has been accepted by the high court registry and may be listed for hearing next week. The principal secretary, labour department and the labour commissioner, Haryana, have been impleaded as respondents in the petition. As per the law, 75% of jobs in the new factories/industries or already established industries/institutions would be given to the domiciles of Haryana. The new law provides for 75% employment to local candidates for jobs having a salary of less than Rs 50,000 per month in various privately managed companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, partnership firms, etc situated in Haryana, which employ 10 or more persons. However, the employers will have the option to recruit only 10% local candidates from one district. The new law would be applicable only on new openings and would not affect the already working employees. The contentions against the new law: The law is not only against constitutional provisions but also sovereignty and basic principle of meritocracy that acts as the foundation for businesses to grow and remain competitive The state of Haryana is trying to force employers to engage the workforce from Haryana when there is no advanced technical system in place in Haryana as compared to other states The state of Haryana is trying to create an internal barrier on the federal structure created in our country by the Constitution without verifying the facts of the educational structures and geographical imbalance in the state The state completely forgets that employers of Haryana are contributing around 70% of the GDP of the state from industrial operations due to the efforts of skilled and professionals in various sectors like IT, automotive, textiles etc which are being hired on the basis of their analytical skills which they have acumen in by studying in various world-class universities established in various parts of India and not on the basis of their state domicile||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-law-on-75-quota-in-private-sector-jobs-challenged-in-hc/articleshow/81455878.cms||Ajay Sura
March 12, 2021||Delhi||Delhi HC sets April 5 cutoff for corporations to clear staff dues||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has fixed April 5 as deadline for the three municipal corporations to clear all the outstanding dues, including arrears payable to their employees. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli pointed out that the pandemic situation was slowly returning to normal and there was no reason why employees or ex-employees should not be paid their dues. “These matters were initially taken up when the Covid-19 pandemic was raging, and keeping in view the then prevailing circumstances, such a direction was not issued by the court, since it was well-known that the coffers of the government and its instrumentalities, including the municipal corporations, were virtually empty. The situation has since returned to near normalcy, and there can be no justification now for non-payment of salary and pension, including arrears,” the bench observed. It was hearing a batch of petitions on status of funds in the corporations and issue of non-payment of salaries to the doctors working with them. The court made it clear that the commissioners of each corporation “shall be personally responsible to ensure compliance with this direction.” During the hearing, North and East Delhi Municipal Corporations submitted that the delay in payment was on account of delay in release of appropriate funds from the AAP government. They also claimed that the government had released funds by reducing the estimated budget of 2020-21 by nearly 42%, without any basis, alleging that it was acting in a discriminatory manner, since funds released to other bodies, such as Delhi Jal Board, had been reduced by only 19%. The court asked the corporations to file their submissions on what it claimed were unfair deductions and asked the AAP government to respond to the same. Appearing for Indian Medical Association, senior advocate Maninder Singh argued that the right to receive salary and pension is a fundamental right and non-payment affected the very right to life and livelihood of the person. He cited the plight of medical and para-medic staff of the corporations who have not been paid salaries and pensions for months. Singh added that the dispute regarding release/availability of funds was an internal matter of corporations and Delhi government, due to which doctors were suffering, as those employed by the civic bodies had not been paid for four months since November 2020 to February this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-sets-april-5-cutoff-for-corpns-to-clear-staff-dues/articleshow/81455888.cms||Abhinav Garg
March 12, 2021||Dehradun||New CM can order ‘petal shower’ but has no time forseer fasting to protect Ganga, say Matri Sadan seers||Dehradun: Founder of Haridwar-based Matri Sadan, Shivanand Saraswati, said that he was surprised by newly-appointed Tirath Singh Rawat's decision to shower flower petals from choppers and meeting saints taking dip in Ganga rather than meeting a seer who has not had a sip of water for four days and been silently agitating to save the holy river. Talking to media persons on Thursday, Saraswati advised the new CM to walk in the footsteps of his mentor BC Khanduri. CM Rawat visited Kankhal, near Matri Sadan. According to the seers, a handwritten communication to the CM had already been given from their side. And yet the fasting seer was ignored, they claimed. “Tirath Rawat needs to take lessons from BC Khanduri, who happens to be his mentor, to protect the environment. Under Khanduri’s regime, mining and stone crushing was stopped. He should come forward for a discussion with us rather than following the footsteps of his predecessor,” Saraswati added. It was back in 2011-12 when Saraswati had himself set on a fast unto death and the then CM had ordered to stop mining in view of damage it caused to the environment, according to the Matri Sadan founder. Lashing out at the state government for having plans of carrying out infrastructure development works by using Ganga riverbed items, the seer said, “Using Ganga’s riverbed items for construction works will damage the entire ecological balance of this small Himalayan state and lead to disasters such as Chamoli and Kedarnath.” Meanwhile, Atmabodhanand has stopped water intake from March 8 and food from February 23. He is on a fast unto death to meet four demands - all aimed at saving Ganga from hydel plants, mining and quarrying in and around 5km of Ganga. The seers are also demanding that the Ganga Act be implemented and Ganga Council be formed of Ganga devotees only.  Atmabodhanand told TOI, “The district administration is simply completing its formality by meeting us rather than meeting our demands.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/new-cm-can-order-petal-shower-but-has-no-time-forseer-fasting-to-protect-ganga-say-matri-sadan-seers/articleshow/81454841.cms||Shivani Azad
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||With or without JJP, BJP could hold fort in Hry now||Chandigarh: While the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) might be celebrating over defeat of no-confidence motion brought against the BJP-JJP coalition government in the state assembly on farmers’ issue, the results have signalled that JJP’s ally BJP have enough numbers to run government even without JJP’s support. The effective strength of the 90-members Haryana state assembly is 88 members at present because of vacancies of two seats including Kalka and Ellenabad. The no-confidence motion fell with 55:32 votes, clearly indicating the support of 55 votes in favour of BJP-JJP and 32 votes including 30 Congress and two independents, Meham’s Balraj Kundu and Sombir Sangwan of Charkhi Dadri against the government. The 55 votes received by alliance include 39 BJP MLAs (excluding speaker), five independent MLAs, including Ranjit Singh Chautala of Rania, Dharampal Gondar of Nilokheri, Randhir Singh Gollen of Pundri, Rakesh Daulatabad of Badshahpur in Gurgaon district and Nayan Pal Rawat of Prithla in Faridabad, the only MLA of Haryana Lokhit Party, Gopal Kanda openly supporting BJP and remaining 10 votes from JJP’s MLAs. One vote of BJP’s Panchkula MLA, Gian Chand Gupta could not be cast as he was presiding the house as speaker. However, in case of tie, he had the option to exercise his vote in favour of his party. The result of no-confidence motion has clearly indicated that even by excluding the JJP’s 10 MLAs, the saffron party led by Manohar Lal Khattar has a complete majority in the house with the support of 46 legislators in the present 88-member state assembly. Even if the remaining two seats Ellenabad and Kalka are won by the opposition parties, still the Khattar government in Haryana has no immediate threat with the support of these 46-legislators and party is not entirely dependent on its alliance partner led by JJP’s Dushyant Chautala, who is presently holding the position of deputy chief minister in the council of ministers led by Khattar. Being a ruling party, BJP has an edge and can easily manage other independents, in case of any imminent threat to its government. Senior political analysts are of the view that the current situation is an alarm bell for JJP, which is a new party and needs to make a strong base on the ground to sustain politically in future. “I would say it is not a celebration time for JJP but it is time for this young party should do some introspection. The outcome of future elections in the state would not have much impact on BJP but would determine the survival of JJP. The party has to take decisions considering the pulse of its main vote bank, which is largely in the rural belt of the state,” said Balwant Takshak, a senior political analyst of Haryana, who has closely watched the state’s political developments for more than three decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/with-or-without-jjp-bjp-could-hold-fort-in-hry-now/articleshow/81455886.cms||Ajay Sura
March 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Farmers plan to contest in 6 assembly seats||Tirupur: Farmers in six constituencies have decided to contest in the assembly election to register their protest against the state government.The government failed to provide more water for irrigation, complete Anamalayaru project, waive loans from nationalised banks and legalise toddy, the farmers, affiliated to Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam (apolitical), said. They have decided to contest in Kangayem, Palladam, Sulur, Kinathukadavu and two constituencies in Karur district.“We will form alliance with political parties that agree to our demands. If not, we will contest alone,’’ said farmers association president A K Shanmugam.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-plan-to-contest-in-6-assembly-seats/articleshow/81455892.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Coimbatore||1st randomization of polling officers held||Udhagamandalam: The randomization of polling officers to the three assembly constituencies in the Nilgiris was held at the district collectorate in Ooty on Thursday.According to a press release, 4,168 government officials from various departments and schools have been selected for the election duty at the 864 polling stations in the Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur assembly constituencies in the district.Each polling station would have four polling officers each. The district administration has included a surplus of 20% officers in the list to meet emergency, if any. A training programme for the polling officers would be held at all the three constituencies on March 14. There was, however, no hint of places that would host the training programmes.“Arrangements to ensure basic facilities at the polling and sub-polling stations. and counting centre are underway,” the press statement from the district administration said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1st-randomization-of-polling-officers-held/articleshow/81455887.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||5 booked for rape of married Dalit woman||Hisar: Police have registered a case against five persons from Uttar Preadesh and Madhya Pradesh for alleged gang rape of a married woman of the Dalit community, who belonged to Firozabad district of Uttar Pradesh. Four of the accused are father and sons. The victim lodged a police complaint on October 30, 2020. She demanded action against an employee of the women’s police station for allegedly not registering a case on time. Hisar police said a case has been registered on the complaint of the 28-year-old woman of Hisar against the accused under sections 376-D (gangrape), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and section 3 (offences atrocities) of the SC-ST Act. In her police complaint, the survivor said that on June 2, 2010, two of the accused brought her to Firozabad and confined her there. She said they also switched off her mobile phone. She said when her husband registered a case at Agroha police station, the accused brought her to the police station on August 27, 2020 and under pressure, she made a statement that she went to Firozabad on her own as she was upset with her husband. After this, the accused allegedly took her back to Firozabad, where five of them raped her several times, she said. When she complained to Hisar police, the women police station employee allegedly did not take action and the accused started threatening her. After this, she said she again complained to the SP and IG saying that she could not go to Uttar Pradesh to plead her case. At this, police registered a case and sent it to UP police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-booked-for-rape-of-married-dalit-woman/articleshow/81455893.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||History-sheeter shot at by rival gang member||JODHPUR: A history-sheeter was seriously injured when a rival gang member fired multiple gun shots at him in broad daylight on Thursday. He sustained bullet injury in his stomach and was rushed to the hospital, where the bullet was taken out after a minor operation. According to DCP (west) Alok Srivastava, history-sheeter Vikram Singh Nandia was going to a temple with two of his friends in a car on Thursday morning. “Near Dali Bai Circle, they stopped the car at a sweet shop and both his friends got out of the car to purchase some sweets from the shop while he stayed put in the car,” said an officer. “Suddenly, another car stopped beside his car and a person, identified as Rakesh Manju, came out of the car with a pistol. Before Nandia could understand anything, Manju started firing at him,” said Srivastava, adding that 8-9 rounds of shots were fired, after which Manju fled from the spot in his car with his aides. One of the bullets hit Nandia, who was sitting on the driver’s seat, beside his stomach near the ribs and got stuck there, causing profuse bleeding. Shocked by the attack and considering more such attacks, he somehow managed to drive the car himself and reached Rajiv Gandhi Nagar police station, at some 3-4 km distance from the spot. Srivastava said that the thana police took care of him and rushed him to MDM Hospital. All the senior police officers also rushed to the hospital apprehending tension at the hospital. According to the officer, doctors removed the bullet from his body and he was out of danger. Doctors said that the bullet was not stuck deep so there was no threat to his life. On the other hand, taking a serious note of the shooting in broad daylight, multiple teams of police have been constituted to search for Manju, who is also a history-sheeter and brother of Kailash Manju, history-sheeter and former sarpanch of Bhatelai, currently under judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/history-sheeter-shot-at-by-rival-gang-member/articleshow/81455891.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Officials not fining party workers, say Erode folk||Erode Municipal Corporation officials on Thursday collected a fine of Rs 18,000 from people for not wearing face mask.People who were fined, meanwhile, said the officials were not taking any action against political party functionaries, who were moving around without face masks as part of election campaign.K Shanmugam, who didn’t want to reveal his place of residence, said, “While political party leaders are wearing face masks, their workers are travelling everywhere without face masks. Corporation health department officials are not taking any action against them, despite bringing the issue to their notice.”On Thursday morning, more than 1,000 AIADMK cadres had gathered at the party office to give a warm welcome to Erode (west) sitting MLA K V Ramalingam, who retained the seat. “Only a very few of them had face masks,” said S Panneerselvam, who was fined Rs 500 by the corporation officials for not maintaining social distancing at Erode bus stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/officials-not-fining-party-workers-say-erode-folk/articleshow/81455885.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||2 wanted gangsters held in Karnal||Karnal: The Crime Investigation Agency of Karnal police has arrested two wanted gangsters, identified as Krishan Dadupur and Sunny alias Mas alias Masih on Thursday and seized three weapons, 200 live cartridges, Rs 8 lakh cash and a stolen SUV from their possession. Krishan alias Kala alias Master, a resident of Dadupur Roran village of Karnal district, was carrying a reward of Rs 5 lakh on his head, while Sunny of Ladwa village in Kurukshetra district had a reward of Rs 2 lakh on him. According to police records, the accused were wanted in several cases, including attempt to murder, loot, snatching, two murders, including of a former sarpanch and liquor contractor Suresh alias Babli, a resident of Anjanthali village, and his relative Vikas alias Pintu of Dadupur village. Their accomplice, identified as Jabra, was shot in a police encounter in March 2019. Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia said they acted on a tip-off and a team led by inspector Deepender Rana arrested them from Mohali in Punjab. He said the accused will be produced in court to seek their police remand for further inquiry would be conducted during the remand. Suresh, alias Babli of Anjanthali village was shot dead at his village on July 29, 2018. His relative Vikas, alias Pintu, a resident of Dadupur was gunned down on January 17, 2019, on the National Highway-44. The duo has been at large since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-wanted-gangsters-held-in-karnal/articleshow/81455899.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||The plight and faith of P’thitta’s tribespeople||Kollam: Even as Kerala has reportedly witnessed development in recent years, which is also a hot poll topic, the Manjathodu colony in Pathanamthitta’s Perunadu panchayat offers something different. There lives the Malapandaram tribe that continues to live in abject poverty. Raju, 42 is an Ooru Mooppan (chieftain) there, who has been living in a shack made out of plastic for the last one-and-a-half years since he was uprooted from the forests on the promise that he would be given ten acres for proper housing. “Thanks to the collector sir (former collector PB Nooh) we get our ration goods here without fail. Our four children are studying in tribal schools and so they live safely in the pre-matric hostels. But I, my 75-year-old mother and wife live at the mercy of the wild animals,” said Raju. He now pays Rs 150 per week for 250 litres of drinking water provided by the panchayat. VK Narayanan, the Ooru Mooppan of the Attathodu colony, who has been at the forefront of the battle for the rights of the Malapandaram tribespeople, says they cannot get power or other amenities unless they are given land. “Only 16 out of the 42 families have been shifted to the Manjappara colony,” Narayanan said. But talking to PV Manju, a member of the Sabarimala ward and a resident of the Attathodu colony, a different picture emerges. She claims that over 360 families live there in the second-largest tribal settlement in the state. “Here more than seventy percent of the families have got houses, power supply, and other amenities like toilets. The residents have access to state highway, a hospital facility at Nilakkal, and an LP School as well. For higher classes, there is Kisumam HSS at Pambavally. Meanwhile, Manju addresses a different issue – faith. According to her, the entire populace of the Perunadu panchayat sees the Sabarimala issue with regards to the entry of women to the hill shrine as an affront to their faith. “For us, Sabarimala is everything and politics is only secondary,” said Manju. “Elections may come and go. But we want the tranquillity at the hillock to be restored and our faiths are protected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/the-plight-and-faith-of-pthittas-tribespeople/articleshow/81451289.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Delhi||No Support System? Dist Officials Step In To Get Sr Citizens The Shot||New Delhi: From ensuring that senior citizens are able to register on the Co-Win portal to providing transportation from home to the nearest vaccination sites and creating awareness at all public places that they frequent, district authorities of Delhi are making all possible efforts so that the elderly lacking a support system are not left behind in the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The Central district administration has provided vans and cabs to ensure that senior citizens in the district are able to reach their nearest vaccination centre comfortably, and in localities where the number of beneficiaries above the age of 60 years is slightly higher, buses have been arranged. A South district official said that apart from arranging transportation for the elderly, the district administration was also planning incentives to ensure senior citizens visit their nearest vaccination centre. “We are trying to start a wellness camp for senior citizens, which should act as an incentive for them to come forward for vaccination. Also, our anganwadi workers and BLOs are making sure that everybody who is eligible gets vaccinated. They have the complete data of eligible beneficiaries and they are getting in touch with them to help them get inoculated,” the official said. Officials of the West district started providing pick and drop facilities at old age homes initially, but they have now extended the facility. “We initially reached out to the elderly at old age homes as they might not have family members to get them registered. We got it done and provided vehicles for them and now, we are providing similar facilities in other areas like slum clusters where we first get their registration done and then get their vaccination done at sites,” a district official said. “District magistrate (West) Neha Bansal has fixed a target of at least 400 vaccinations by each SDM and she has also directed for arrangement of transport vehicles for needy senior citizens,” he said. “We expect to get all eligible beneficiaries in the district inoculated by March 20,” he added. “To create awareness about the vaccination, pamphlets were distributed at the temples of Lord Shiva on Thursday, during the Mahashivratri festival. Standees with information were put up at the temples in the district and audio message about vaccination was also played,” the official said. “We also held a meeting with an NGO for preparing a list of homeless beneficiaries and the number of buses we will require from Delhi Transport Corporation to take them to vaccination sites.” “Awareness audio messages are also being played through auto-tippers of corporations (used for garbage collection) in the West district jurisdiction,” the official said, adding that a request has been made to allow free of cost awareness campaign inside 15 to 20 Delhi Metro stations falling in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-support-system-dist-officials-step-in-to-get-sr-citizens-the-shot/articleshow/81474921.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||No woman would level sexual exploitation charge just to get property share: HC||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has observed that no normal woman would blame her father-in-law and close relatives, inviting stigma to her moral character by levelling allegations like sexual exploitation just to get property share. The HC made these observations while dismissing the anticipatory bail plea of a person who was charged with harassment, rape and related charges by the wife of his deceased son. “A young woman having lost her husband would not blame her father-in-law without any rhyme or reason. Furthermore, she would not invite stigma to her moral character by levelling allegations on her father-in-law of outraging her modesty and... rape... No normal woman would go to that extent just for the purpose of getting share in the property from the father of her deceased husband,” the HC has observed. Justice H S Madaan passed these orders while dismissing the pre-arrest bail petition filed by a 53-year-old resident of a village in Panchkula district. He was accused in an FIR registered against him on January 21, 2021 by Kurukshetra police on the complaint of his daughter-in-law, who had stated that she was married to the accused’s son in 2011 and the couple was blessed with two children. According to the complaint, her husband committed suicide in November last year following harassment and maltreatment by his parents and other family members. She also alleged that after his death, her father-in-law started harassing and exploiting her sexually, saying he would let her stay in the house only if she fulfilled his wishes. According to the complainant, when she told her mother-in-law about it, even she supported her husband. It was only after she revealed it all to her mother that a police case was registered against the accused at her native place in Kurukshetra. The accused had approached the high court after the lower court in Kurukshetra dismissed his anticipatory bail plea. In his plea seeking stay on arrest, the accused took the plea that the allegations levelled by the complainant were false and she was doing it as a pressure tactic to get a share in the property. The HC, however, dismissed the anticipatory bail plea, observing the allegations against the petitioner were very clear and specific.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-woman-would-level-sexual-exploitation-charge-just-to-get-property-share-hc/articleshow/81455896.cms||Ajay Sura
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mahim’s all-women vaccination centre has given 1,000 jabs in 3 days||MUMBAI: The Mahim vaccination centre, operated at the Mahim municipal maternity home premises by an all-women team, has vaccinated over 1,000 citizens in the last three days. They marked the moment by cutting a cake on Thursday. The centre was started on the occasion of International Women’s Day, and the first person to be vaccinated also was also coincidentally a woman. The centre is meant to benefit residents of Dadar and Mahim, many of who would otherwise go to the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo vaccination centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-mahims-all-women-vaccination-centre-has-given-1000-jabs-in-3-days/articleshow/81455913.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||Jodhpur sarpanch who vowed to end graft arrested by ACB||JODHPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau on Thursday arrested a sarpanch for accepting bribe of Rs10,000 from the complainant for his reappointment as pump operator at the village tube well. The ACB also found opium from his house during the raid and informed police. Interestingly, the sarpanch had recently won the election on the promise of corruption-free village and clean governance. This appeal of the sarpanch had drawn the favour of the villagers aggrieved by rampant corruption. ASP (ACB) Bhopal Singh Lakhawat said the complainant Devaram had been appointed as pump operator at the tube well of village cremation ground under Janta Jal Yojna in July 2018 on temporary basis. “His services were terminated in November 2020. So he approached Sangh Singh Rajpurohit, sarpanch of Kanodia Purohitan near Jodhpur, and requested him for his reappointment to the post,” Lakhawat said. But the sarpanch demanded a bribe of Rs 30,000 from Devaram for his reappointment. After several rounds of negotiations, the sarpanch finally settled the deal at Rs 15,000 and accepted Rs 5,000 then. Lakhawat said Devaram approached the ACB with a complaint against the sarpanch and after verification of the complaint, the ACB laid a trap. “On Thursday morning, ACB sent Devarm to the house of sarpanch with Rs 10,000. He took the money and placed it in his room under the pillow of his bed. The moment he accepted the money, the ACB raided his house and recovered the money from his room,” Lakhawat said. During this recovery, the ACB also found a packet of opium under the same pillow and informed police, which also filed a case under NDPS act against the sarpanch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-sarpanch-who-vowed-to-end-graft-arrested-by-acb/articleshow/81455895.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Allahabad||Thousands throng Shiva temples on Mahashivratri, take out Shiv ‘baraats’||Prayagraj: Devotees celebrated Mahashivratri with religious fervour in the Sangam city on Thursday as thousands thronged Shiva temples and took out Shiv baraats, besides taking dip in the Ganga. Since morning, devotees formed lines in various shiva temples of the city, including the historic Shiva temple of Daraganj, Padila Mahdeo, Mankameshwar, Takshakeshwar Nath, Rajapur, Civil Lines and Shivkuti at Teliyarganj witnessed heavy rush of devotees. Anticipating a heavy rush of crowd, the police dhad deputed adequate forces including women cops at all eminent temples to manage the crowd. Grand ‘shringaars’ of Lord Shiva was also done in these temples. Amidst chanting of mantras, devotees waited for their turn to offer prayers with various items considered dear to Lord Shiva. Besides, a large number of devotees also took holy dip in river Ganga and also in Sangam. Authorities had made adequate arrangements for the devotees at the Magh Mela area and at the ghats. The highlight was the ‘Shiv baraat’ (religious processions) that was taken at two localities of the Chowk area. While one baraat originated from Loknath, passed through Bahadurganj to reach Johnstanganj crossing, and turned towards the starting point. Many devotees in the baraat were dressed as demons. They painted their body with black paint and were seen performing some dare-devil acts. Some of the ‘baratis’ were seen carrying human skulls and few others animal bones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/thousands-throng-shiva-temples-on-mahashivratri-take-out-shiv-baraats/articleshow/81456831.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Power privatization: JERC okays T&D loss trajectory||Chandigarh: The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) has approved the transmission and distribution (T&D) loss trajectory for the first five financial years under the UT administration’s power department privatization plan. While approving the UT’s proposal, the JERC stated, “The T&D loss trajectory is to be fixed by the commission by following due process of consultation with the stakeholders as per the specific provisions of Electricity Act, 2003. However, the commission feels that the T&D loss trajectory fixed in the request for proposal (RFP) appears to be reasonable. The commission would also like to clarify here that the tariff is being determined on the basis of revenue billed and not on the basis of revenue collected”. Recently, UT adviser Manoj Parida had decided that the firm, which will be selected for power department privatisation in Chandigarh, would have to bring down transmission and distribution (T&D) losses to 7.6% in five years’ period. It was decided that the selected firm will reduce 0.4% every year, starting from 9.2% to 7.6% by the end of the five-year period. As per 2018’s directions of the JERC, T&D losses of Chandigarh were fixed 9.30% for financial year 2020-21. The department has been taking a plea that the high T&D losses occurred due to non-availability of inter-state transmission point within boundaries of Chandigarh and the metering is done at 400 KV Nalagarh, 220 KV Mohali and 220 KV Dhulekote.The commission was of the view that the intra-state distribution loss in the similar urban distribution companies, like BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL), BSES Yamuna Power Ltd (BYPL), Tata Power Mumbai, where majority of the sales is happening in domestic sector, is lower than the intra-state distribution loss of the UT power department. There is a significant potential of intra-state distribution loss reduction in Chandigarh.Recently, the Supreme Court had vacated the stay of the Punjab and Haryana high court and the UT administration once again started the power privatization process in Chandigarh. On December 1, 2020, the high court had stayed the privatisation till the next hearing and issued a notice to the Union government, the UT administration and the UT chief engineer on a petition filed by Gopal Dutt Joshi, general secretary, UT Powermen’s Union. While challenging the UT’s decision to float tender for privatization, the petitioner had submitted that the electricity rates were less in Chandigarh in comparison with the neighboring states and still the department was in profit. Despite the good financial state, the UT administration wanted to privatise it, he said.The electricity department caters to 2.47 lakh consumers.Delhi meetingDuring an inter-ministerial meeting held in Delhi on February 26, it was decided that the UTs, where the privatisation process was in the last phase, would continue with the procedure. As many as 20 intended bidders purchased the tenders, but only six companies—Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power and Torrent Power— had submitted their bids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/power-privatization-jerc-okays-td-loss-trajectory/articleshow/81454900.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
March 12, 2021||Dehradun||Akhadas, the main attraction of Kumbh, have a long & interesting history||Akhada, a word which literally translates to ‘wrestling ground’, in a religious context refers to a sect of seers who ‘defend’ faith. ‘Akhada’ comes from the word ‘akhand’ meaning ‘inseparable’. Along with an education of scriptures, seers in ancient times would also learn warfare. According to Narendra Giri, president of the apex body of 13 akhadas, Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), while akhadas still know how to use traditional weapons like swords, canes and spears, it’s more about pageantry today than actual requirement. “We no longer need armed ascetics to defend our religions, so akhadas now focus on social work. Many have opened several educational institutes, including Sanskrit schools, where students are taught for free. All akhadas follow different sets of rules but come together during Kumbh,” he said. Doon-based heritage expert Lokesh Ohri added, “By the end of the 13th century, the tradition of akhadas was well established. Religious leader Adi Shankaracharya is believed to be the founder of seven major akhadas: Mahanirvani, Niranjani, Juna, Atal, Avahan, Agni and Anand, though the historical evidence is quite sketchy. The akhadas are divided into four categories, the Sanyasi, Bairagi, Udasi and Kalpavasi.” On Thursday on the occasion of Maha Shivaratri, the ‘sanyasi’ akhadas participated in the ‘shahi snan’. The first to take the royal bath was the Juna akhada along with Kinnar akhada, followed by Panchangni and Avahan, then Niranjani and Anand and finally, the Mahanirvani and Atal akhadas. A majority of the akhadas fall under the ‘Shaivite’ group, that is they worship Lord Shiva. Of these, Juna akhada is the largest of the akhadas in terms of the number of followers. The akhada originated back in the 8th Century and was then known as Bhairav akhada. Once during Mughal rule, seers of Bhairav akhada were at war with the Nizam of Junagarh when the latter asked for a truce. The nizam then invited Bhairav akhada seers to a reconciliatory dinner and it is alleged poisoned their food, killing many ascetics. Those who survived formed the Shri Panch Dashnaam Juna Akhada. To this date, the akhada maintains a tradition of weapon-wielding ascetics among its members. They worship the deity Dattatreya. After Juna akhada, Niranjani akhada has the most members. Formed in the 11th century, the akhada is known for having the most academically accomplished members. “When Niranjani akhada was founded 900 years ago, its founders, who were illiterate, decided that education is of utmost importance for seers. This is why education has always been a proud tradition in Niranjani akhada,” Narendra Giri, who is also general secretary of Niranjani akhada, told TOI. Niranjani akhada seers worship the deity Kartikeya. Atal akhada, founded in the 6th century, along with Avahan and Anand akhada, is said to be among the first akhadas founded by Adi Shankaracharya. Weapon-wielding seers of this akhada are said to have fought against the Mughals as well as the British against attacks on their faith. It is said that Akbar gave this akhada the title of ‘Atal Badshah’, impressed by their warfare skills. Avahan akhada besides being one of the oldest is also one of the smallest in terms of the number of followers. Mahanirvani akhada seers worship Kapilmuni Maharaj. Unlike other akhadas, Mahanirvani akhada has two religious flags, a dharma dhwaja and a parva dhwaja. It is said that during the reign of Aurangzeb, when the seer community was not allowed to observe Kumbh rituals, the then mahant of Mahanirvani akhada travelled to Prayag and sought permission from the Mughal administration to observe rituals peacefully at the confluence of three holy rivers. Once he was granted permission, Giri assembled seers of all akhadas, including some 10,000 naga sadhus and resumed rituals of Kumbh which had previously been banned. The Panchagni akhada doesn’t induct naga sadhus. It inducts ‘brahmacharis’ who are given one of four names: Anand, Chaitanya, Prakash or Swaroop, according to the four mutts of Shankaracharya. Applicants are selected on the basis of their values and knowledge. The selection criteria are strict and religious watchers say that the akhada would rather select a lesser number applicants who meet the criteria rather than induct any they deem ineligible. Under the “Vaishnav” category, there are three akhadas: Nirmohi, Digamber and Nirvani. It is said Acharya Ramanand, along with some other religious leaders, united ‘Vaishnavs’ or followers of Lord Vishnu and led them to form akhadas. In terms of followers, Digamber akhada is considered to be the largest, followed by Nirmohi and Nirvani akhadas. Digamber akhada’s flag has five colours, Nirmohi akhada’s is white and Nirvani’s is red. Incidentally, Nirmohi akhada is a party to the Ayodhya Ram Mandir land dispute. The third group, “Udasin”, has ties to Sikhism. Two akhadas – namely Bada Udasin and Naya Udasin – fall under it. The latter split from the former over differences. Nirmal Das of Akhada Bada Udasin said, “Udasin akhada has four mahants who overlook operations. New seers are inducted from across the around 6,000 ashrams of Udasin akhada across the country. In the 16th century, Udasin akhada was brought together by Shri Chand, son of Guru Nanak.” The 13th akhada under ABAP, Nirmala, also has Sikh ties, as it was initiated by Guru Gobind Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/akhadas-the-main-attraction-of-kumbh-have-a-long-interesting-history/articleshow/81453959.cms||Megha Adhikari
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||SHO, constable held for accepting bribe from Bundi booze store owner||KOTA: ACB-Kota on Thursday arrested a SHO and a constable, both posted at Dei police station in Bundi district, for allegedly accepting bribe of Rs 10,000 from a composite liquor shop contractor. The duo had demanded the monthly bribe of Rs 7,000 for each of them from his two composite liquor shops in the area and had accepted Rs 4,000 at the time of verification of the complaint on Wednesday. SHO Narayanram and constable Hariram Verma were arrested after the duo had accepted Rs 10,000 from Motilal Meena (46), a composite liquor shop contractor, in Bundi district, ASP ACB-Kota Chandrasheel Thakur said. Meena approached the bureau on Wednesday and lodged a complaint against the two policemen following which an ACB team carried out the verification of the complaint on the same day, the ASP said. The constable, at the time of verification of the complaint on Wednesday, had accepted Rs 4,000, he added. The complainant called the constable with the remaining amount on Thursday near Dei police station, where ACB team led by inspector Naresh Chouhan caught him red-handed while he was taking the bribe. Chouhan added that he asked the constable to call the SHO involved in bribery following which he asked the constable to keep the bribe amount of his part with him. Meanwhile, a separate ACB team nabbed the SHO from outside the DSP office in Nainwa, he added. The two accused would be produced before ACB court in Kota on Friday, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sho-constable-held-for-accepting-bribe-from-bundi-booze-store-owner/articleshow/81455924.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Hourly parking rates likely from April, MC starts survey of lots||CHANDIGARH: With most of the paid parking lots equipped with smart features, you may have to pay hourly parking rates from April. Two teams of the municipal corporation engineering department have started survey of the paid parking lots. Sources in the MC said, “Most likely, the hourly parking charges will start from April. Since there are 89 paid parking lots divided between two contractors, establishing server rooms for their monitoring was the most complicated thing. But now both the contractors have got spaces and started work on setting up the rooms. These server rooms will have dedicated staff to monitor the activities at the lots, which is one of the important conditions in the rules for the contractors.” “The contractor of zone-I has started setting up the server room in Sector 34 and that of zone-II will come up in Sector 17. Both the contractors have sufficient space for server rooms, which will start functioning soon. Therefore, hourly rates will start from April,” said an MC official. Sources said both the paid parking contractors have set up smart features, like boom barriers, CCTV cameras, e-ticketing and display boards. They are more eager than the MC to start the service to cut revenue loss. “Last week, both the contractors held a meeting with the MC officials and raised various issues,” sources said, adding that the general house would take the final call. MC had auctioned both of the paid parking zones to contractors for over Rs 10 crore annually. It is an important source of revenue for the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hourly-parking-rates-likely-from-april-mc-starts-survey-of-lots/articleshow/81454904.cms||Deepak Yadav
March 12, 2021||Dehradun||Portals of Kedarnath temple to open on May 17||Dehradun: The authorities of Char Dham Devasthanam Board, on the occasion of Maha Shivaratri, announced that the portals of the Kedarnath shrine — which is currently closed for winter — would be opened at 5 am on May 17. The decision was taken in a meeting of the Badri Kedar Temple Committee (BKTC) at Shri Omkareshwar temple at Ukhimath. According to the statement issued by the Devasthanam board, the palanquin of the deity would leave Omkareshwar temple on May 14 after a prayer ceremony. Subsequently, there would be a night’s halt at Gaurikund on May 15 and the palanquin would reach Kedarnath on May 16 evening. After a prayer ceremony, the portals would be opened for devotees on May 17 morning. It has already been announced that the portals of Badrinath shrine would open on May 18 and the portals of Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines are to open on Akshay Tritiya on May 14. The state government has also announced that pilgrims will have to follow Covid-19 norms during the yatra. However, no restriction has been put on the number of pilgrims allowed in the shrines on a given day. Ravinath Raman, ECO of Uttarakhand Devasthanam Board, said that the state is expecting a better influx of devotees this year in the wake of relaxed norms and a decline in Covid-19 cases. “Last year, the yatra could start on July 1 for the residents of Uttarakhand and tourists from other states were allowed only from July last week. And yet we recorded a turnout of 3.2 lakh devotees in the four shrines — Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri. Out of the total, 90% devotees visited Badrinath and Kedarnath temples,” added Raman. He also said that the state has almost completed the uphill task of Kedarnath renovation and plans are in place for the re-development of Badrinath temple as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/portals-of-kedarnath-temple-to-open-on-may-17/articleshow/81454910.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana cops’ road safety initiative earns UN appreciation||Chandigarh: The UN Global Forum for Road Traffic Safety appreciated the initiative of Haryana Police to reduce deaths and injuries caused by road accidents on NH-44 (Sonipat-Ambala highway). Under this initiative, Haryana Police has fixed the target of reducing the number of road accidents and deaths on the 187km long stretch of NH-44 passing through Haryana by 33% in the current year. Director general of police (DGP), Haryana, Manoj Yadava addressed a webinar of UN Global Forum for Road Traffic Safety, wherein he highlighted various components of the initiative. In 2018, he said, 743 people died due to road accidents on this stretch, which is more than the total number of deaths in all of Netherlands and UAE in the same year. He explained that Haryana Police had signed an MoU with the Institute of Road Traffic Education (IRTE) to carry out road safety audits of every km of NH-44 passing through Haryana. Road engineering related improvements suggested by IRTE will be implemented by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) as part of the special understanding by Haryana Police and department of transport (government of Haryana). Since a large number of road fatalities are accounted for by pedestrians and cyclists who met with accidents while trying to cross NH-44, Haryana Police, along with other stakeholder authorities, will create underpasses and foot over-bridges at points where large number of pedestrians cross the road, particularly at busy points in Sonipat district and Panipat. The road safety initiative will also create a direct impact on frequent road users like bus, truck and trolley drivers as well as people who stop at food outlets as they will be educated about road safety tips. To create a strong deterrent for law breakers, Haryana Police is placing a network of speed-checking radars, interceptors, automatic number plate readers (ANPRs) and CCTV cameras at different locations along the highway passing through five districts of Sonipat, Panipat, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Ambala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-cops-road-safety-initiative-earns-un-appreciation/articleshow/81455903.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Debt-hit Telangana cotton farmer ends his life by jumping into fire||HYDERABAD: A dalit farmer in Vikarabad who jumped into a fire of cotton stubble two days ago after failing to clear Rs 6 lakh debt, died early on Thursday in a Hyderabad hospital. Police said Kotapu Srinivas, 40, of Bantwaram village was facing pressure from money lenders, but he had no means to pay back the money after a failed crop. “During the preliminary probe, we found out that Srinivas who owns over two acres of land borrowed money from money lenders known to him, for farming activity and for personal needs,” sub Inspector Praveen Reddy said. Family members said about a week ago he started acting in a strange manner and showed suicidal tendencies. “He started drinking non-potable water and also started eating sand. The family members decided to take him to a doctor on Tuesday morning,” the SI said. While he was being taken to a hospital in an auto on Tuesday morning, Srinivas asked the driver to stop the vehicle near his agricultural fields, saying that he wanted to relieve himself. “Farmers of an adjacent field were burning cotton stubble and Srinivas suddenly jumped into the flames. His family members along with others present at the nearby fields immediately pulled him out. But Srinivas suffered burns on his legs and stomach,” Reddy added. Family members initially took him to Tandur government hospital and from there he was shifted to Osmania general hospital, where he succumbed. Based on a complaint of the victim’s family, a case was registered under section 174 of CrPC. Hundreds of cotton farmers commit suicide in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh every year unable to clear mounting debts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/debt-hit-t-cotton-farmer-jumps-into-burning-stubble/articleshow/81455934.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Former Miss World’s grandfather robbed of Rs 1.5 lakh||Rohtak: Maternal grandfather of former Miss World Manushi Chillar has been robbed of Rs 1.5 lakh from outside his house in Rohtak on Thursday. The incident was captured in CCTV cameras installed in the colony. Chander Shekhar Sehrawat, a resident of Bank colony, is retired SDO from PWD department. He had come from PGIMS Rohtak with his wife Savitri around 3pm. When he was about to enter his house, a man came and tried to snatch the bag he was carrying. Chander Shekhar resisted but the accused threatened to shoot him and snatched the bag. Thereafter he fled from the spot with the bag containing Rs 1.5 lakh. A complaint was lodged at the local police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/former-miss-worlds-grandfather-robbed-of-rs-1-5-lakh/articleshow/81455932.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Allahabad||Magh Mela ends; lakhs take holy dip on Mahashivratri||Prayagraj: The annual religious congregation — Magh Mela — came to a close at the Sangam with over five lakh devotees taking the holy dip on the last snan on Mahashivratri here on Thursday. This also ended the 57 days of austerity and spirituality on the banks of the Ganga. However, facilities for pilgrims at the Sangam area would continue till June 15. The Magh Mela, which began on January 14 amidst strict implementation of Covid-19 protocol, also witnessed mammoth Covid sampling drive, screening at entry gates and millions of devotees and pilgrims arriving on the banks of Ganga from different parts of the country to seek salvation and earn punya. On Thursday, the flow of devotees flocking Sangam started since early morning hours with echoes of ‘Har Har Mahadev’ and ‘Jai Ganga Maiya’ and continued till evening hours. Senior police officials including IG ( Prayagraj range) K P Singh along with officials and personnel of RAF patrolled the ghats. IG (Prayagraj range) said, “The last snan of Magh Mela, Mahashivratri snan, passed off peacefully with no untoward incident reported from anywhere.” He added that adequate police force including companies of PAC and RAF were also roped in for crowd and traffic management. He said cops focused on both traffic and crowd management throughout the day. Personnel of Jal police and PAC flood control on Thursday were active on the ghats asking devotees not to enter into deep water zones and have a safe dip. Apart from personnel of paramilitary forces, around 100 swimmers were also deployed on ghats to keep a strict vigil and tackle any incident. Apart from parking near Sangam noze, parking arrangements were also made at five prominent spots, including plot number 17, pontoon bridge workshop, Galla Mandi (Daraganj), helipad parking, and Kali Sadak so that devotees should not walk much to reach Sangam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/magh-mela-ends-lakhs-take-holy-dip-on-mahashivratri/articleshow/81456903.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Onchiyam haunts CPM in Kuttiyad||KOZHIKODE: In the face of protests from local party supporters and members against allocation of Kuttiyadi seat to Kerala Congress (M), CPM has decided to fall back on its organisational machinery to resolve the dispute. It will hold an “explanation” meeting on March 14 which is expected to be a show of strength and senior party leaders will explain the circumstances in which the seat had to be handed over to the KC(M). KC(M), which has been taken aback by the scale of protest in the constituency, had postponed the candidate announcement for the seat. The Kozhikode district committee of KC(M) has informed the party state leadership that the party candidate will have to encounter stiff opposition from traditional CPM supporters whose support will be crucial if the party has to win the seat. “The party will respect the sentiments of LDF workers in the constituency,” KC(M) district president T M Joseph said. A senior CPM leader said the party will not take back the seat and that it is up to KC(M) chairman, Jose K Mani to take a final decision. The emergency meetings of Kunnummal and Vadakara party area committees held on Thursday, which was attended by party central committee member Elamaram Kareem and CPM district secretary P Mohanan, took the stand that the party should not give in to the public protests which amounted to challenging party discipline. Over 1,000 party supporters, including many party members had taken out a protest march in Kuttiyadi demanding that a party candidate should be fielded in the constituency. Industries minister E P Jayarajan said in Kannur that the party viewed the developments at Kuttiady seriously and that such a protest should not have happened. “We will examine how such a protest happened and will take actions based on it. As a Communist party, our experience so far has been that party cadres obey what the party decides,” Jayarajan said. Interestingly, he also invoked Onchiyam, saying that there used to be some persons who wanted to destroy the party at Onchiyam and they went out violating party discipline. Onchiyam had seen a group of rebel leaders led by late T P Chandrasekharan forming the Revolutionary Marxist Party in 2008 after they were expelled by the CPM on the basis of ideological differences. Party central committee member M V Govindan also told media that there won't be any rethink on the matter. “It is not CPM's way to make candidate selection and revoke than on the face of protest marches carried by someone. The responsibility of party workers is to implement the party decisions as the decisions have been arrived at after consultations with them as well,” he said. Meanwhile, the party will field V V Rameshan, Kasaragod district committee member of CPM, in Manjeswaram after the district leadership of the party unanimously selected him to contest from the seat. The state leadership had initially picked K R Jayananda but made a rethink following severe protests from local leaders and workers. “We have forwarded Ramesan’s name to the party central committee for its nod,” CPM state secretary A Vijayaraghavan said. (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/onchiyam-haunts-cpm-in-kuttiyad/articleshow/81455967.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Submit deadlines of ongoing projects, UT tells dept heads||Chandigarh: The UT administration has issued instructions to the heads of different departments, corporations and boards to submit deadlines of ongoing projects.The directions came after the recent meeting of UT adviser Manoj Parida with municipal corporation councillors and different department heads.A senior UT official said, “If there will be a delay in completion of projects, the official concerned will have to submit reasons for it. The step aims at checking unnecessary delays in the completion of projects.”Recently, the administration had sought details from different departments of expenditure incurred on projects in the current financial year. The details will be submitted to the finance department to prepare estimates for budgetary allocation to departments for next fiscal.As there is a shortage of budget and many projects have taken a hit, the UT wants to keep a track of important works.After Union finance ministry’s instructions, the UT administration this fiscal had decided to keep a check on the budgetary allocation for the projects, ensure timely work on important projects and prepare estimates for next financial year’s budget. Also, the step was taken as there was a dip in the revenue collection and the report regarding the fall in GST collection was even submitted in the Lok Sabha. The report showed that Chandigarh had witnessed 29.5% dip in GST collection in the first five months (April to August) of financial year 2020-21. The UT finance department has already made it clear to various departments that office expenses, barring fuel charges, will not be allowed and there will be a complete ban on LTC. Also, TA, DA and medical allowances will also be released only after approval from the adviser to the Chandigarh administrator. The UT finance department had also earmarked funds for each department and asked them to stick to the same. The department will scrutinise the expense reports on a regular basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/submit-deadlines-of-ongoing-projects-ut-tells-dept-heads/articleshow/81454924.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Cops pursuing hobbies to take a break, seek permission again||Chandigarh: The UT police personnel—who were earlier indulging in extracurricular activities, like acting in films, modelling, bodybuilding, working with NGOs, participating in singing competitions, writing articles in the media and other platforms—will need to halt for a while and seek fresh permissions. SP (headquarters) Manoj Meena has issued an order and cancelled permissions granted to 16 police personnel with immediate effect. SP Meena also warned that any violation of the order would be viewed seriously and departmental action would be initiated against violators. Among the 16 cops whose permissions have been cancelled two are of inspector rank and others are ASIs, head constables and constables.Some cops were granted permissions for participating in extracurricular activities in 2008. Head constable Jagjit Singh had taken permission for writing articles on social issues in 2008. In 2011, the department had allowed permission to inspector Ram Dayal to join NGO ‘Our Concern’ that worked for poor children in Punjab and provided them school uniforms and study material.Inspector Harinder Singh Sekhon was granted permission to participate in telefilms, documentaries, modelling shoots and bodybuilding in 2015. He had won a gold medal in a prestigious bodybuilding competition held in the USA in December 2020. He is the first Indian cop to have won the gold medal in Amateur Mr Olympia held in Orlando, USA. Bodybuilders of 53 countries had participated in it. Constable Aswani Sharma was allowed to work in short religious films, constable Satnam Singh undertook modelling as a hobby, head constable Raj Singh worked in Salman Khan-starrer ‘Sultan’ in 2016 and ASI Bhupinder Singh who sings songs to create awareness about traffic rules was allowed to participate in a TV show in which he performed in police uniform.Constable Jitender Singh was given permission to send a poetic poster of ‘Yog Ganga’ to the PM office as demanded by PM Narendra Modi in his Mann ki Baat programme in 2017. Some head constables and constables were allowed to write books, poems and participate in photo exhibitions and Punjabi and Haryanvi music albums.After the order, these cops would have to take fresh permissions to continue with their hobbies. Talking to TOI, SP Manoj Meena said the main motive to cancel these permissions was to avoid its misuse and the department would allow them again as per service rules and deal with each case separately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-pursuing-hobbies-to-take-a-break-seek-permission-again/articleshow/81454915.cms||Pawan Tiwari
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Rs 3cr property fraud: DSP’s brother in judicial custody||Chandigarh: The UT police Special Investigation Team (SIT), on Thursday, produced Rs 3-crore property fraud accused Satpal Dagar, brother of DSP Ramgopal, before a local court that sent him in 14-day judicial custody.Dagar was produced in the court after his six-day police remand expired. The SIT did not seek extension of his police remand. SIT has already arrested two persons, former journalist Sanjeev Mahajan and property dealer Manish Gupta, in the case. They are lodged in Burail jail. The team also questioned cops who were deployed in the beats of sectors 37 and 39 police stations. CID wing DSP Ramgopal had appeared before the SIT on Tuesday. In his statement, he had denied a meeting of the accused at his office in Sector 17 when he was the DSP of the central division in 2019. The SIT has summoned Rajdeep Singh, a former SHO of Sector 39 police station, for questioning on Friday. The FIR stated that Rajdeep did not take any action against the accused on fraud complaint lodged by property owner Rahul Mehta’s tenant. Manish Gupta had filed a bail application in the court, claiming he was not named in the FIR but police arrested him. It will come up for hearing on Friday. Police arrested him because he is the brother of another accused Saurabh Gupta, who had bought the house. The SIT is probing Mahajan’s role in another property fraud case of Sector 46. Police said an FIR of cheating was recommended against Mahajan in 2015, but he had ensured it was registered. It is being investigated who had helped Mahajan then. Police have kept Rahul Mehta at an undisclosed place in the city instead of sending him to an ashram in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-3cr-property-fraud-dsps-brother-in-judicial-custody/articleshow/81454905.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||Kota piped gas network to be expanded||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan State Gas Ltd will further expand the gas pipeline network of 161km and provide 8,000 new connections in Kota. Senior officials in RSGL said that seven CNG stations have already been set up in the coaching town of the country. Currently, around 15,700 households in Kota have piped natural gas connections and RSGL is trying to cover the whole city with the expansion of the new pipeline network. At a meeting on Wednesday presided by mines and petroleum secretary and chairman of RSGL Ajitabh Sharma, Mohan Singh, managing director of RSGL said that very soon, they will issue 8,000 more connections to households. Recently, RSGL set up seven CNG stations as well. A senior official of RSGL said that three more stations are also in the pipeline. Couple of years ago, RSGL set up two CNG stations having one mother station in Neemrana, Alwar and another at Kukas to cater to the vehicles plying on Jaipur-Delhi highway and also meet the needs of the industry in Neemrana. RSGL is also developing a network of urban gas distribution system in Gwalior and Sheopur in Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-piped-gas-network-to-be-expanded/articleshow/81455949.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Nilgiris to fine people Rs 200 for not wearing face mask||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris collector, J Innocent Divya, on Thursday warned to fine the people Rs 200 if they were found without face masks in public places and take action against them under the Public Health Act, which would attract a maximum punishment of six months imprisonment, if they refuse to adhere to the rules.Speaking to the media, she said, “People are taking the situation very lightly, thinking the Covid-19 pandemic is over. There are indications of a second wave. We have formed teams at the local body-level to monitor people at public places and ensure compliance to face mask etiquette and social distancing norms.”The collector said in many cases, people were not cooperating and refusing to pay the fine. In such situations, Divya said, they had instructed the authorities to take action under the Public Health Act. “Such people are posing a health threat to others.”Pointing out that the punishment under the Public Health Act could go up to six months imprisonment, she said, “We are not threatening the public. It is an effort to make them understand the seriousness of the situation. Since the Nilgiris is a tourist place, it’s all the more important for both the local residents and tourists to adhere to the prescribed standard operating procedures to keep the virus spread in check.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-to-fine-people-rs-200-for-not-wearing-face-mask/articleshow/81455935.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Dehradun||QR codes at two wards to ensure better door-to-door collection||Dehradun: Dehradun Smart City along with the municipal corporation has placed QR codes at two wards — Krishnanagar and Ballupur — of the city for ensuring better door-to-door collection in a pilot project. Nearly 25000 QR codes will be placed across the city. In case of any complaints, the QR code will show the log of door-to-door garbage collection vehicles and necessary action can be taken, officials said. The QR code will be linked to the integrated control and command centre which will track the GPS enabled vehicle meant for door to door garbage collection. A toll free number has also been given on the QR code so that the residents are able to register their complaints and suggestions related to the garbage collection. The sanitation staff is now being trained to operate the device meant for scanning the helpline QR code on a daily basis to record the daily log of their movement. In case any complaint is lodged the ICCC will be able to verify it using the QR code data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/qr-codes-at-two-wards-to-ensure-better-door-to-door-collection/articleshow/81454932.cms||Abhijeet Singh
March 12, 2021||Madurai||Plea against opening Tasmac outlet dismissed||Madurai: Madras high court has dismissed a plea which sought to forbear the authorities from establishing a Tasmac outlet in Kanyakumari district.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by Devaraj Seetha Padmanabhan who sought not to establish the Tasmac outlet in a village at Killiyoor taluk in the district.A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi observed that the petitioner had raised an objection for establishing a Tasmac outlet on the ground that schools and religious places of worship is situated within the prohibited distance of the proposed outlet. However, the authorities in the counter had contended that there are no educational or religious institutions within the prohibitory distance of the proposed outlet.The judges said that the court, by an earlier order, appointed an advocate commissioner who in his report had stated that the proposed place is situated about 293m from a church building. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-against-opening-tasmac-outlet-dismissed/articleshow/81456916.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Madurai||Plea seeks relief in custodial death case||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday sought a response from the state government on a plea moved by a woman seeking Rs 50 lakh compensation in a case where her 17-year-old son died due to custodial torture by the S S Colony police at Madurai in 2019.Justice R Hemalatha was hearing a petition filed by M Jeya, a resident of Kochadai in Madurai district, who also sought to provide government employment to a member of her family.She stated that she had filed an earlier petition before the HC Madurai bench seeking to transfer the case to CB-CID in 2019 and the court had transferred it to the CB-CID. She stated that the CB-CID officials who had completed the investigation filed the final report against four police personnel inspector of police Alexraj, special sub-inspector of police Ravichandran, head constable Ravichandran and grade I police constable Satheeshkumar in connection with this case.Hemalatha stated that there is a gross violation of human rights and the fundamental rights in her son’s case. The state government has a vicarious liability to pay a reasonable compensation for the misconduct of its servants who had beaten up her son mercilessly. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-seeks-relief-in-custodial-death-case/articleshow/81456914.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Delhi||24x7 vax facility at private hospital||A private hospital in central Delhi has started 24x7 vaccination for Covid-19. Dr Sanjay Mehta, unit head and vice-president, BLK Super Specialty Hospital, said, currently, the number of beneficiaries getting vaccination was low, but with more awareness about the facility, the number is expected to increase. “We started 24x7 vaccination four days ago. On the first day, around 20 people were vaccinated at night. The number has doubled now, and we are expecting it to increase further,” he said. During daytime, Dr Mehta said, they vaccinate over 300 people daily. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan recently said that the government had ended the time constraint to increase the speed of vaccination. “Citizens can now get vaccinated 24x7 at their convenience,” Vardhan wrote in a tweet in Hindi. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/24x7-vax-facility-at-private-hospital/articleshow/81474980.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Jaipur||Brahma Kumaris’ chief dies at age 93||UDAIPUR: DR DADI HRIDAYA MOHINI, GLOBAL CHIEF OF BRAHMA KUMARIS, THE WORLD’S LARGEST SPIRITUAL ORGANISATION RUN BY WOMEN, PASSED AWAY ON THURSDAY AT AGE OF 93 AFTER A PROLONGED ILLNESS. She breathed her last at 10.30 am at Saifee Hospital, Mumbai. Her last rites will be performed on Saturday at Shantivan campus of Brahma Kumaris headquarters at Abu Road near Mount Abu. Dadi Hirdaya Mohini, affectionately known as Dadi Gulzar, had been associated with the Brahma Kumaris right from the inception since the tender age of 8 years in 1937. Having undergone all aspects of training from such early beginnings, she was recognised as a great yogi, much sought after for enlightenment on attaining mental concentration, peace of mind, stability in meditation, emotional control, etc. She had set up more than 8,000 Raja Yoga Centres in 140 countries around the world. She was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Literature by North Odisha University for her contribution towards spreading the message of values, spirituality and social service in her unique role as a messenger of God.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/brahma-kumaris-chief-dies-at-age-93/articleshow/81455972.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Direct schools not to hike fees: Parents to Telangana||HYDERABAD: Still reeling under severe financial stress due to job loss and pay cuts, many parents are urging the state government to direct school management not to hike fees for the 2021-22 academic year. “People are still reeling under financial crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The businesses are yet to bounce back, many are jobless and are under severe debts, and a lot of them are forced to survive pay cuts. At this juncture, if schools are allowed to hike the fee, parents will not be able to cope up,” said N Subramanyam, president, Hyderabad Schools Parents Association. He said that the state should direct schools to give at least 30% fee relief from the coming academic year. “Even when the state released GO No 46 and asked schools to collect only tuition fee, parents ended up paying entire fee. At least for the academic year 2021-22, the state should address fee issue,” he added. Parents said that if schools enhance the fee, they will have to shift their children to a cheaper school. “I could hardly pay 50% of this year’s fee. If the school increases the fee for the academic year, I will not be able to afford it,” said M Raghu, whose children are in class 5 and class 8. As per GO NO 46, schools are not allowed to increase fees during the current academic year i.e. AY 2020-21, they should only charge tuition fees on a monthly basis. Members of the Telangana Recognised School Management Association, however, said that schools will have no option except to shut shop if they are asked not to hike the fee for another academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/direct-schools-not-to-hike-fees-parents-to-t/articleshow/81455970.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||MLC elections: Despite hype, graduates turn a blind eye||HYDERABAD: Despite all the hype surrounding the MLC elections, with CM K Chandrasekhar Rao himself goading his party members to go all out, graduates turned a Nelson’s eye to enrol their names as voters in both the constituencies. For instance, Krishna mandal in Narayanpet district has a population of 45,000. But, it has 289 graduates who have registered their names for the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates MLC constituency. Similarly, Magnoor mandal in the district has just 443 voters as against a population of 20,000. In Mahbubnagar rural mandal, only 900 out of 43,000 population got registered. The trend is no different in urban pockets. Madhapur, which is part of Serilingampally mandal and known as an IT belt, has only 1,162 voters. “It is not that there are no graduates in mandals and villages. They just did not come forward to enrol their names even after we gave publicity for two months,” a GHMC official said. Though no there is no authentic data, official estimates say graduates constitute nearly 30 lakh to 40 lakh of 1.5 crore population in three districts. But, there are only 5.30 lakh graduates from the constituency (nine new districts) who will be voting on Sunday. Of nearly 150 mandals in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar, in 50% mandals graduates registered were less than 1,000. Interestingly, districts such as Nagarkurnool, Mahbubnagar and Narayanpet are close to Hyderabad. Since voters were few, many candidates bypassed visiting mandals and villages to campaign. For instance, of 272 gram panchayats in 15 mandals in Mahbubnagar district, candidates did not venture out to several panchayats. Authorities said though there are least number of voters in some mandals, Election Commission mandates at least one polling station for every 16km in a constituency. As a result, many booths have less than 300 to 400 voters. “In the assembly polls, there should be a booth for every 2km and for every 1km in local body polls,” an official, overseeing arrangements in Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/despite-hype-graduates-turn-a-blind-eye/articleshow/81455969.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 12, 2021||Allahabad||Illegal arms unit busted in Pratapgarh||Prayagraj: Pratapgarh police on Thursday claimed to have unearthed an illegal arms manufacturing unit in village Nachraula under the limits of Aspur Devsara police station and arrested three persons in this connection. The police have also seized one country-made gun of 0.12 bore, one country-made pistol of 0.32 bore, one-country made pistol of 0.315 bore, one half made pistol of 0.315 bore and weapons manufacturing apparatus from their possession. The arrested persons were identified as Sultan Khan alias Numan Khan, Omar Khan and Kalam Khan. Police said a team of Aspur Devsara police raided a house belonging to Taufeeq in Nachraula village and arrested three while manufacturing illegal weapons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/illegal-arms-unit-busted-in-pratapgarh/articleshow/81456917.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Draw of lots for street vendors by ‘month-end’, fee hiked by 5%||Chandigarh: The town vending committee (TVC) of the municipal corporation decided in its meeting on Wednesday to increase annual vending fee by 5%. The committee has also decided to hold a draw of lots for new street vendors registered in the second phase to give them suitable sites.Besides the officers of the vending cell and members of the TVC, officers of the engineering, enforcement and other related departments also attended the meeting. The traffic police were issued instructions regarding managing vendors throughout the city. Though the date of the draw of lots is yet to be decided, sources said it is likely to start in March-end. “Since there are few street vendors under the non-essential services (non-ESP) category, we will complete the draw in a day. As majority of the newly-registered vendors are from essential service provider (ESP) category, they will be settled at their original places,” an official said.Around 1,500 new street vendors have registered. There have various categories, including essential service providers (ESP), non-essential service providers (non-ESP) and mobile vendors. Since many vending sites are lying vacant and majority of them are on the outskirts of the city, those may be considered for these new vendors in the non-ESP category.As per the MC records, there are 46 earmarked vending zones throughout the city. Having a capacity of over 800 vendors, Sector 15 vending zone is the biggest. Out of approximately 6,500 street vendors registered in the first phase, 4,100 belong to the non-essential service providers’ category and the rest are essential service providers and mobile vendors. The monthly vending fee is based on the type of work and varies between Rs 300 to Rs 2,000 per month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/draw-of-lots-for-street-vendors-by-month-end-fee-hiked-by-5/articleshow/81454926.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Kangana vs Akhtar: Actor challenges court warrant in Mumbai||Mumbai: Actor Kangana Ranaut has approached a sessions court, challenging a bailable warrant issued by a magistrate in a defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. Her plea, filed on Wednesday, is slated to be heard on Monday, her lawyer said. The Andheri metropolitan magistrate’s court had on March 1 issued a bailable warrant against the actor as she failed to appear in court. Magistrate R R Khanhad had issued a summons to her in February. As she failed to appear, the court issued a bailable warrant against her and posted the matter for hearing on March 26. Ranaut was at liberty to approach a higher court to challenge the summons but she cannot evade appearance in court, the magistrate said. Earlier, the police had submitted a report on Akhtar’s complaint, saying an offence of defamation was prima facie made out against Ranaut. Akhtar has accused the actor of making false statements about him, and damaging his reputation when she spoke about a ‘coterie’ in Bollywood in the aftermath of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in June. Kangana’s lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee said her plea will be heard on Monday. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kangana-vs-akhtar-actor-challenges-court-warrant-in-mumbai/articleshow/81456929.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Schools withhold results over fee dues||Hyderabad: Several schools in the city have started withholding results or promotions for the fee defaulters forcing parents to lodge complaints. Parents said that despite clearing at least half of the total fee, schools are not issuing report cards to those with fee dues. “We have already paid 50% of the total fee. As per Go 46,schools are supposed to collect only tuition fees. Even after requesting personally that due to Covid-19 my business suffered a lot and we need more time to pay the amount, schools did not listen to our request,” said Amitav Nayak, a parent, who lodged a complaint with police requesting to initiate action against the school management. He said that the total fee of his daughter is Rs 1,10,000 for this annum. He added, “The school management is not sharing my daughter’s final exam result, which is against SC verdict and as per the right to education (RTE) Act, it is a criminal offence to stop the result or promotion of student over non-payment of dues.” Nayak said that the new academic session will begin in another week or so. In the parent-teacher meeting, students and their parents were informed that report cards will be issued only after clearing the fee dues. Parents even brought this issue to the notice of education department officials. Parents associations in the state said they are receiving several complaints against school managements alleging that they are withholding report cards, not allowing students to appear for exams, not issuing transfer certificates (TC) among other issues. “Schools are strong-arming parents to clear all dues. Exams, report cards and TC are being used to put pressure on parents,” said VV Sharma of Indian Parents Association adding that many parents are unaware that they don’t need TC to seek admission in a new school up to class 8. Parents said that at least now the state or school managements should announce a blanket relief to parents so that they can move on to the next academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-withhold-results-over-fee-dues/articleshow/81456002.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
March 12, 2021||Dehradun||Rajbhawan to resume flower expo on March 13 and 14||Dehradun: After a year's gap due to Covid pandemic, Raj Bhawan will resume its tradition of organising the annual flower exhibition ‘Vasantotsav’ to be held on March 13 and 14.  Governor Baby Rani Maurya said at a press meet on Thursday, “During the 'Vasantotsav' many competitions for flower growers will be held and Holi of flowers from Vrindavan will be replicated on the occasion.” The governor also informed that in August-September, litchi festival will be held to encourage local fruit growers. To mark the beginning of the exhibition on the occasion of Maha Shivaratri, the governor flagged off a floral chariot with a Shivling made of flowers. The flower exhibition will be inaugurated by the governor at 9.30am at Raj Bhawan on March 13 while the prize distribution ceremony will take place at 6pm on March 14, a communique from the governor’s office said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rajbhawan-to-resume-flower-expo-on-march-13-and-14/articleshow/81454977.cms||Abhijeet Singh
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||KTR’s VSP talk only to get votes: Revanth||Hyderabad: Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy has written an open letter to TRS working president and minister KT Rama Rao alleging that TRS speaks about issues only before polls and forgets them. Revanth said TRS with an intention to garner votes now was raising the issue of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant privatisation. “TRS never asks on promises made for Telangana in the AP Reorganization Bill 2014, but is pretending to be fighting for steel plant,” he said. He alleged that TRS was not coming forward on issues like increasing prices of gas, petrol and new farm laws. KTR, speaking at a campaign meeting on Wednesday, said people in both states should join to fight against privatisation of Visakhapatnam steel plant. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktrs-vsp-talk-only-to-get-votes-revanth/articleshow/81456018.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Missing: Women MLCs||HYDERABAD: An abysmal three women members are there in the 40-member Telangana legislative council. All the three MLCs — Akula Lalitha, Kalvakuntla Kavitha and minister Satyavathi Rathod — represent the TRS. Surabhi Vani Devi, who was pitchforked into the contest by TRS supremo K Chandrasekhar Rao, could become the fourth woman MLC if she wins the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat. Interestingly, neither when the state was united nor after Telangana came into being, has a woman represented the graduates constituency. Independent candidate professor K Nageshwar agreed there is a clear gender discrimination. “The shocking numbers speak for themselves. When the women’s reservation bill is still hanging fire, major political parties cannot merely increase the numbers by sending them to nominated posts in the legislative councils,” he said. Indira Shobhan, former TPCC spokesperson, who quit after she was denied a chance to contest as an MLC, said, “Despite hard work, women are not considered for nominated posts”. She said YS Sharmila will be different. “I am working with her,” she added. Akula Lalitha said for her part said, “The TRS is supporting reservation for women in legislative houses”. In the March 14 polls, not more than two or three women are contesting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/missing-women-mlcs/articleshow/81455999.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 12, 2021||Delhi||Drive to free up 10 stretches in south Delhi ends||New Delhi: To ease traffic congestion caused due to inappropriately parked vehicles and other temporary encroachment, like wooden carts, rickshaw and street vendors, Delhi Traffic Police conducted a week-long special drive at identified stretches in south Delhi, which concluded on Friday. The drive launched in Delhi Traffic Police’s Southern Range, including South and South East districts and 12 traffic circles, covered 10 busy stretches, like 100 Foota Road (SSN Marg) in Mehrauli Circle, Ravi Das Marg in Sangam Vihar Circle and Kalkaji Circle. The traffic cops have been implementing traffic rules by way of enforcement and educational drives, an official said. A dedicated patrolling motorcycles have also been deployed to ensure congestion-free passage in all the important corridors, the official added. Special patrolling units have been deployed at Ring Road, Outer Ring Road, Mathura Road, Lala Lajpat Rai Marg, Maa Aanandmayee Marg, Captain Gaur Marg, Ravi Dass Marg, JB Tito Marg, Road No. 13A, Aurobindo Marg, MG Road, 100 Foota Road (SSN Marg), MB Road, Mehrauli-Mahipalpur Road, Lodhi Road, BhishmaPitamaha Marg, August Kranti Marg, Press Enclave Road, Nelson Mandela Marg, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drive-to-free-up-10-stretches-in-south-delhi-ends/articleshow/81475004.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Madurai||HC: Ascertain status of transplanted trees||Madurai: The Madras high court has directed the authorities to verify as to whether four old trees in Madurai district, which were uprooted and transplanted are maintained in the proper condition.The court was hearing a petition filed by H Balathandayudapani seeking action against a private person who had uprooted four very old tamarind trees in front of a petrol pump at Usilampatti in the district.A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice R Hemalatha said that it is submitted by the authorities and the private respondent that the trees have been transplanted upon following the appropriate process in accordance with law.Disposing of the petition, the judges directed the concerned revenue divisional officer to inspect where the trees have been transplanted and to satisfy himself that the exact trees uprooted have been transplanted and are nurtured and protected.In the event the concerned official finds that the transplantation has not been proper or any of the trees has withered away or not survived the ordeal, appropriate action should be taken immediately in accordance with law, said the judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-ascertain-status-of-transplanted-trees/articleshow/81456918.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||Region witnesses 4,524 new cases, highest-ever in a day||NAGPUR: The 11 districts of Vidarbha region together reported 4,524 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday. This number is the highest reported in a day, ever since the pandemic started. Even during the September peak, the highest day’s count was 4,400 on September 18. Alarmingly, the number of tests cannot be held responsible for the increased number of cases. On Thursday, 29,892 tests were conducted in Vidarbha region, which is almost equal to the daily average of tests being conducted in the month of March. Still, the number of new cases saw such a sharp increase, which is a matter of concern for the region. The region reported 28 deaths on Thursday. Though this number is high as compared to the deaths being reported in last few days, the death toll was 100 on September 18 when more than 4,400 new cases were reported. This shows that the death toll due to Covid-19 has reduced significantly in the fresh surge. On Thursday, Nagpur reported 10 deaths, six of them from city, 1 from rural and 3 from other states/districts’ patients. Amravati, worst-hit by the surge, reported six deaths once again. Yavatmal reported 6 deaths, which makes it 11 deaths in the last 48 hours in the district. Wardha, Akola and Buldhana reported 2 deaths each. 24 of the 28 deceased are senior citizens above 65 years of age. Now, the Vidarbha region’s Covid-19 caseload has reached 3,57,618. With 3,025 recoveries in a day, in all, 3,16,872 have recovered. The recovery rate came down to 88.6%. Case fatality rate of Vidarbha is 2.14%, which is less than the state average. Overall, 33,142 patients are under treatment. The relief factor is that more than 75% of the present under-treatment patients are recovering in home isolation, as they don’t need the hospitalization. This shows that in the present surge, the virus has become less severe. Chandrapur: The district registered 96 new cases and witnessed the recovery of 22 patients, leaving 773 active cases on Thursday. There was no death recorded during the day. Covid caseload rose to 24,481 and total recoveries now amount to 23,307. Amravati: There were 461 new cases and six deaths on Thursday, taking the district's caseload to 41,283 and toll to 584. Also, 630 patients were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 35,144. This left 5,555 patients under treatment. Yavatmal: Six people lost their lives to coronavirus on Thursday. 1,791 tests were conducted, of which 382 (229 male and 153 female) were positive. There are 2,226 active cases in the district. Out of 20,554 total Covid patients so far, 17,833, including 222 on Thursday, have recovered. The death toll is 498. More than 2 lakh swab samples have been collected so far. Testing would be ramped up to 5,000 per day, informed district collector MD Singh. Wardha: With 255 fresh cases, the caseload reached 14,242. Two deaths on Thursday took the toll to 373. Meanwhile, 213 patients were discharged and recoveries tally reached 12,790, while 1,079 cases are active in the district. Akola: The district conducted 3,450 tests and 345 of them tested positive. The district also reported deaths of 2 senior citizen patients. Akola now has 393 deaths due to Covid-19. The caseload reached 20,236, while 14,994 of them have recovered. Washim: The district reported 125 new cases, 183 recoveries and no death on Thursday. This took the caseload to 10,712 and recoveries to 9,322. Now, 1,226 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: Once again recording a spike in new cases, Buldhana reported 755 cases on Thursday. The district conducted 3,026 tests. Two senior citizen patients died. Now, the death toll is 208. With 23,540 total cases and 19,862 recoveries, the district has 3,440 cases under treatment. Bhandara: The district conducted 1,207 tests and 61 of them were positive. With 26 recoveries, 13,373 patients recovered. No death was reported. Bhandara now has 14,118 patients, 13,373 recoveries and 328 deaths. 417 patients are under treatment. Gondia: Record 2,783 tests were conducted in Gondia on Thursday. Out of them, only 16 tested positive. Ten patients recovered on Thursday. Now, out of total 14,624 cases in Gondia, 14,253 have recovered. With 187 deaths reported till date, the district has 184 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 39 new cases, 9 recoveries and no death on Thursday. Now, there are 9,796 cases, 9,485 recoveries and 108 deaths in Gadchiroli. 203 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/region-witnesses-4524-new-cases-highest-ever-in-a-day/articleshow/81456013.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 12, 2021||Pune||Flout home isolation norms, get booked||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Covid-19 patients violating the home isolation norms in the Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits would be booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant). Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Rajesh Patil on Thursday issued a warning to the rule violators and told the housing societies’ chairmen to monitor such patients. Else, the society concerned would be sealed, he said. Patil also issued an order stating that all gardens located in the civic limits would remain closed till March 31 and restrictions on movement at night from 11pm to 6am would continue till March 31. According to the order issued earlier on March 9, essential service providers were exempted from the restrictions. Patil said, “Ward-level officers have been told to increase the vigil in market areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flout-home-isolation-norms-get-booked/articleshow/81456005.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Devotees throng temples, offer prayers on Maha Shivaratri||Hyderabad: Hundreds of devotees thronged temples to participate in various special pujas and rituals arranged to celebrate Maha Shivaratri in the city on Thursday People queued up outside the Shiva temples in Panjagutta, Moosapet, Secunderabad and other places after observing a day long fast with a common belief of increasing spiritual growth and to attain blessing of the lord. Devotees also thronged the famous Ramalingeshwara temple atop Keesaragutta and offered prayers by offering bael leaves, milk and honey. Rituals at all the temple started as early as 4.30 am with the priests performing a series of special pujas to propitiate Shiva. “It has become an annual ritual in our family to visit the Shiva temple at Keesaragutta to attend the Brahmotsavam during Shivaratri every year. This year, I went two days before the festival and returned to Hyderabad on Shivaratri after an early morning darshan,” said P Radhakrishna, a resident of Alwal. The Shiva temple in front of NIMS Hospital in Panjagutta also saw hundreds of devotees standing in long queues. “Every year we make special arrangements to ensure safety of devotees who flock the temple. We perform rituals like ‘rudrabhisheka’ and ‘panchamrutha’ to pay our respects to lord Shiva,” said Krishna Murthy, who was overlooking the arrangements at a temple in Himayat Nagar. On the other hand, devotees were also seen throwing Covid-19 norms to the winds at several places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/devotees-throng-temples-offer-prayers-on-maha-shivaratri/articleshow/81456015.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Allahabad||Inter-dist gang of robbers busted, 4 held with weapons||Prayagraj: A joint team of crime branch and Mauaima police on Thursday arrested four members of an inter-district robbers’ gang and seized Rs 1.40 lakh cash, two mobiles, one bike, four crude bombs and one country-made pistol of 0.315 bore along with two live cartridges from their possession. The arrested persons were identified as Hashrat Khan, Mohd Mujeeb, Mohd Atiq and Santosh Kumar, all residents of Pratapgarh district. The police have also been looking for their accomplice identified as Sabauddin alias Shaukeen, a resident Lalganj in Pratapgarh. SP (Trans-Ganga) Dhawal Jaiswal said that gang of robbers had executed two consecutive loots of Rs 1.57 lakh and Rs ,5000 in the limits of Mauaima police circle on March 4 and 5, respectively. After the broad daylight incidents, a joint team of crime branch and Mauaima police was entrusted to tighten the noose around gang and the joint team arrested four key members of the gang near Taraul village while planning to execute a crime. The robbers were aged between 19 and 40 years and had criminal background. SP added that Mohd Atiq and Santosh Kumar were assigned to conduct recee of bank visitors and Mujeeb and Shaukeen were involved in looting customers returning after withdrawing the money. Meanwhile, Phulpur police arrested a notorious drug peddler identified as Raj Kumar Yadav alias Lala, a resident of Basna and recovered seven kg ganja from his possession. The arrest was made near Soairai Nahar bridge road when he was planning to dispose of the consignment of drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/inter-dist-gang-of-robbers-busted-4-held-with-weapons/articleshow/81456926.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||Will seal borders, allow no aimless loitering: CP||NAGPUR: Shortly after guardian minister Nitin Raut’s announcement regarding extended restrictions from March 15-21, city police chief (CP) Amitesh Kumar said there would be no room for leniency, except for emergencies, during the period. The CP also clarified that no ‘police passes’ would be issued for any kind of permissions. Kumar, during a press meet, said the city would turn into a fortress with ‘nakabandis’ set up at different points. “We will seal borders and allow no one to enter the city, unless there is a genuine reason behind it (except the essential services). Similarly, we will not allow aimless loitering or presence at public places without any bonafide reasons,” said the top cop. The top cop also warned violators with strict legal action under Epidemic Diseases Act or Sections 269 and 270 of Indian penal code (IPC) for transmitting contagious diseases, and Section 188 for non-compliance of the restrictions. “The police department would appeal to citizens to stay at home and cooperate to break the coronavirus chain. All the Covid-19 norms like masks, social distancing would be enforced,” said the top cop. “All those venturing out must have identity cards or a valid proof for their stepping out, or else there would be action,” he added. Kumar also said the city police was gearing up with an elaborate and strict security blueprint for the extended restrictions next week. The deployment planning and strategizing for the fresh challenges have kick-started, he said. Kumar said hotels and outlets would be allowed ‘home delivery’ services only. “Tiffin services would be allowed too,” he said. The CP also said senior citizens would be allowed to visit vaccination centres with an attendant. “We would check establishments and offices for attendance in excess of the stipulated numbers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/will-seal-borders-allow-no-aimless-loitering-cp/articleshow/81456027.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Four-year-old girl sexually abused by minor boy in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A 4-year-old girl was sexually abused by a minor boy from Conflict With Law (CWL) , in Bhainsa of Nirmal district on Wednesday. Police nabbed the minor boy on Thursday. Bhainsa police said that both the accused and victim are neighbours.  On Wednesday, the boy CWL in the absence of her parents, sexually abused her. Later, on seeing blood stains, the girls grandmother called the victim’s father and alerted him.  The victim was taken straight to police station by her family. Police registered a case under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Based on the details given by the minor girl, the accused was nabbed and later sent to juvenile home. The girl was sent for medical examination. Meanwhile, the office of DGP in a statement said that stern action will be taken against the accused. The investigation is handed over to a lady officer. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-year-old-girl-sexually-abused-by-minor-boy/articleshow/81456020.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Paid seat’ charge in Piravom||Kochi: High drama prevailed in the Piravom constituency on Thursday after Kerala Congress (M) made a ‘surprise announcement’ of CPM-member Sindhumol Jacob as its party candidate. After her candidature was announced by the KC(M), Sindhumol, who is the Uzhavoor block panchayat vice-president, was expelled from CPM by the Uzhavoor local committee citing anti-party action as she allegedly did not inform the party about the candidature. Meanwhile, Sindhumol said that her party membership had expired and she hadn't renewed it. "I contested as an LDF independent candidate in two previous elections. I joined KC (M) after I was selected as the candidate. I got the news of my candidature only on Wednesday night and both district and state leadership were aware of it,” said Sindhumol adding that she would contest under the KC (M) party symbol. CPM Kottayam district secretary V N Vasavan said: "The local committee cannot expel a member and I am not aware of any such action. If her party membership had expired, the question of expulsion is not valid." However, he did not comment on whether the district leadership had prior knowledge about Sindhumol’s candidature. Meanwhile, putting KC (M) under pressure, a local leader and municipal councilor of the party, Gils Periyappuram, whose name was considered in the preliminary candidate list, lashed out at Jose K Mani alleging that the latter made Piravom a paid-seat and denied him the ticket as he was a Catholic. He resigned from KC (M) and said that he will not work for the LDF in the election. “I have worked in the constituency for 25 years and I am the state general secretary of the Youth Front. But not a single leader of the Youth Front was given the seat in this election. My name was considered but I was denied the seat as I am a Catholic. Jose K Mani made a deal with a Congress leader and sold the seat to him. But as I strongly protested, he dropped the plan and gave the seat overnight to Sindhumol. This time LDF will not win the seat,” Periyappuram said. The controversies are expected will pose a big challenge for the LDF against sitting MLA Anoop Jacob, who won by a majority of 6,195 votes in the 2016 polls. Sindhumol’s 'overnight candidature' has created a rift among local CPM leaders. With many KC (M) local leaders also entering the debate in support of Gils, it is likely to affect LDF's campaigning in the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/paid-seat-charge-in-piravom/articleshow/81456021.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Graduate voters to get voting info at polling booths||Hyderabad: Unlike a general election, graduate voters will give a preferential vote to candidates of their choice during the MLC polls on March 14. To educate voters on this aspect, posters on how to cast their votes will be put up at polling booths. The district administration of various districts, where the polls would be held, have completed a training schedule for polling personnel and have also held sessions for voters at some organised programmes. However, every voter would get the required guidance on the procedure to be followed to cast their votes by going through the explanation given in the posters. Mahbubabad collector VP Goutham, while interacting with polling personnel, on Thursday also checked the poster that tells the voter how to cast their vote and also advises against making any mistakes. Meanwhile, Nalgonda DSP Venkateshwar Reddy has warned political parties or candidates against using private school buses to transport voters. The DSP said if the buses were allowed to be used for such purpose, they would be seized. Senior citizens in Mahbubnagar took out a rally to educate, especially the aged, about the MLC polls and urged them to exercise their franchise. The Senior Citizens’ Forum president Jagapathi Rao led the voter awareness rally and explained, particularly to the aged, the importance of their vote. Nagarkurnool additional collector Manu Choudhary said the transportation of ballot boxes and papers to the polling booths would take place on March 13 in RTC buses. Similar arrangements have been made in all districts where the polls would be held for the Khammam-Warangal-Nalgonda and Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates’ constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/graduate-voters-to-get-voting-info-at-polling-booths/articleshow/81456024.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS campaign at peak in Sec’bad||Secunderabad: The campaign for TRS candidate Surabhi Vani Devi for the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahabubnagar graduate constituency seat reached a peak in Secunderabad. Two cabinet ministers Talasani Srinivas Yadav (Animal Husbandry) and Ch Malla Reddy (Labour and Employment) as well as deputy speaker T Padma Rao and Secunderabad Cantonment MLA G Sayanna were campaigning in full-swing in their respective jurisdictions. TRS working president and minister, K T Rama Rao also toured Secunderabad. Multi-purpose function halls in Secunderabad were packed with ‘get-togethers’ with graduate voters. Campaigners also went door-to-door, created awareness on the right way of voting on dummy ballot papers and highlighted the government’s welfare schemes. GHMC corporators including in Sitaphalmandi, Addagutta, Boudha Nagar, and Tarnaka in Secunderabad also did their bit. “I urged voters to support TRS candidate by highlighting various schemes,” said Sayanna. Padma Rao printed a large dummy ballot paper and gave tips to be followed by graduate voters. “Every vote is valuable for TRS party,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-campaign-at-peak-in-secbad/articleshow/81456029.cms||Sunil Mungara
March 12, 2021||Allahabad||2 girls drowned in river Ganga in Pratapgarh, 2 saved||Prayagraj: In a tragic incident, two minor girls were feared drowned and lives of two others were saved by the swimmers at Shahabad Ganga ghat under the limits of Manikpur police station of Pratapgarh district on Thursday morning when a group of four minor girls along with families had gone to take dip in Ganga on the occasion of Mahashivratri. Deputy SP (Kunda) Jitendra Singh Parihar told TOI that two girls, identified as Radha alias Sangeeta (12) and Begum (13), were feared drowned at the ghat when they had entered into deep water while bathing. He said alert swimmers managed to save the lives of two other girls, Anjali (10) and Priyanka (11), residents of Antamau village. DSP further added a group of four girls along with their family members had gone to take bath at the Ganga ghat. All these four girls entered into deep water zone while enjoying bathing and started drowning. An alert swimmer Arjun noticed them drowning and jumped into water to save them. He managed to save Anjali and Priyanka while the lives of Begun and Sangeeta could not be saved. Upon being alerted, a team of Kunda police along with swimmers rushed to the spot . A drive was underway to fish out the bodies of two girls feared drowned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/2-girls-drowned-in-river-ganga-in-pratapgarh-2-saved/articleshow/81456944.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Madurai||DMK to make most of newcomer rival||Madurai: With the prestigious Madurai Central seat, where Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple is situated and where all smart city works are under way, going to an unknown face in the AIADMK alliance, DMK is expected to nominate a strong candidate to make the most of it.Though P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan is the sitting MLA of the constituency, AIADMK has given the seat to N Jothi Muthuramalingam Thevar, a non-resident candidate hailing from Pulichikulam in Virudhunagar district. Founder of Pasumpon Desiya Kazhagam, he is said to be related to Pasumpon Muthuramalingam Thevar and will contest under the AIADMK’s “Irrattai illai’’ symbol.In the AMMK alliance, the constituency has been allocated to Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI). The DMK has won the seat five times from 1967 to 2016 while the Congress and TMC have won twice each during the same period. The AIADMK has contested the seat directly only once in 1977, under the leadership of MGR, when N Lakshminarayanan won. Pazha Nedumaran won the seat in 1980 as an independent candidate and DMDK’s R Sundajan in 2011.A thickly populated constituency, it has a large population of yadavas, mukulathorw, Adidravidars and Muslims. An AIADMK functionary said the party should have fielded a stronger candidate in Madurai Central as it has forsaken its fortress Madurai North to BJP. ``Now it looks like they have handed the constituency on a platter to the DMK,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-to-make-most-of-newcomer-rival/articleshow/81456933.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||Some rail depts back to bldg, one may be shifted||Kolkata: The ticket booking servers at Eastern Railway’s New Koilaghat building became fully operational from Thursday. The servers were restarted on Wednesday after power connection to second and third floors was resumed, but it took some time to transfer all data that were deleted from the system in Monday’s fire. Police and the fire department have allowed railways access till the third floor and may allow offices on the next two floors to reopen on Friday and the other top floors in the next few days. But employees of the chief signalling and telecommunication engineer’s (CSTE) office on the 13th floor have been asked to prepare to be relocated to Howrah DRM’s office. The blaze has affected parts of the 12th floor and the entire 13th floor of the building which is shared by Eastern Railway and South-Eastern Railway. “The final decision on shifting CSTE will be taken once the probe committee set up by ER submits its report,” said an ER official. “The CRIS servers are now fully operational. All facilities through passenger reservation system (PRS) and UTS, including UTS on mobile app, monthly season ticket services, automatic ticket vending machine services are also available,” Eastern Railway CPRO Ekalabya Chakraborty said on Thursday. He added: “Except for the ones on the 13th floor, most offices will reopen in phases over the next few days.” It will take ER time to put 13th floor back in shape. “We have been asked to stay at home for the next week, following which our department may be shifted to Howrah DRM’s office,” an official of CSTE department said. The office functioned as a workshop for all telecom gadgets like routers and walkie talkies. The 3rd floor houses the RPF office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/some-rail-depts-back-to-bldg-one-may-be-shifted/articleshow/81454984.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
March 12, 2021||Pune||Region scores 15k vax beneficiaries, rural sites see dip||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region recorded 15,000 vaccine beneficiaries on Thursday, including senior citizens, people aged 45 and above with underlying conditions and health and frontline workers. In Pune civic limits, around 12,595 beneficiaries were vaccinated and in PCMC areas, the number was at 3,577. The PMC had the biggest chunk of operational sites in the region on Thursday, at 85 — also its highest number of vaccination centres so far. Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner of the PMC, said the number of government and private sites is now at 44 and 41 respectively. Dr Ashish Bharati, head of the PMC’s health department said, “We have adequate stock of vaccines. There was no shortage on Thursday at any centre. We got about 15,000 doses from the PCMC as a precautionary measure.” Dr Bharati said Pune city can expect more vaccine sites to become operational within the next couple of days. “The proposed list is already in the approval process,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/region-scores-15k-vax-beneficiaries-rural-sites-see-dip/articleshow/81456032.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||Early birds face jab queues, crowds thin in afternoons||Kolkata: Vaccination centres at private hospitals are getting crowded between 9am and 1pm, with queues of senior citizens getting long and waiting time stretching to two hours at most places. Several people also alleged they were turned away despite having registered online. The crowd is, however, thinning after 1pm with barely 30-40 shots being given an hour. Hospitals said they would be able to reduce waiting time and vaccinate more people in the second half of the day if the crowd could be spaced out. Since a majority of applicants are not being able to choose time slots on the Co-Win site, they are walking into hospitals in the first half of the day, hoping to register for a shot that day. Those above 60 and those above 45 with co-morbidities are being vaccinated. At R N Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), which has been vaccinating around 300 people a day, registration has been starting at 8am, but queues have been forming since 7am. “Many senior citizens who come for check-ups are clubbing it with vaccination. But they are having to wait as a big crowd is building up between 10am and 1pm. Queues are getting long and waiting time is stretching to over two hours for some,” said Narayana Health zonal head-East R Venkatesh. The number of recipients drops after 1pm. “Only a few people have been visiting in the afternoon. So, whoever is calling the hospital to inquire about the vaccine, we are asking them to come after 1pm. But most have been walking in early, without a registration or checking if they might have to wait.” In the second half, waiting time at most places has been merely 15 minutes, even for those who are being registered on the spot. According to Venkatesh, more people could be inoculated if recipients could be spaced out more evenly. “Our vaccinators are often sitting idle in the latter half, while in the first half, they have a maddening time, helping senior citizens register, uploading data on the portal and vaccinating,” he said. At Peerless, a crowd of a hundred senior citizens is building up by the time registration begins at 8am. The first inoculation is held at 8.30am. “Crowd is building up between 10am and 12.30pm. We are vaccinating 100 people in this period and it’s turning out to be difficult for both the elderly and us. Over the next six hours, we are vaccinating only 100 more people. If recipients could choose slots this could have been spaced out,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. A few elderly people even fell ill after waiting there.  Uday Chanda (78) was refused vaccination at a south Kolkata private hospital on Wednesday despite having registered on Co-Win. “They refused to accept my online appointment as they were running a parallel registration system. The hospital nodal officer said I must follow their procedure,” he said. At another hospital, an elderly woman was refused as the hospital was apparently issuing a token in advance for recipients. “It helps if an applicant comes with a Co-Win registration. If he or she can’t complete the process, we can do the rest. There’s no reason why an applicant with an online registration should be refused,” said Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/early-birds-face-jab-queues-crowds-thin-in-afternoons/articleshow/81456062.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
March 12, 2021||Pune||Experts say extended 12-week gap between jabs improves protection||Pune: Health experts have said that India could consider delaying the second dose of the Covid vaccine to improve immunogenicity. Currently, the follow-up shot is being given 28 days later. Dr Gagandeep Kang, member of Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE), which is advising the WHO, said the decision to delay was not just about supply woes, but improved efficacy too. A recent Lancet report said the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine — or Covishield — showed better efficacy when its second dose was given after a gap of 12 weeks, instead of four. The study was based on results from over 17,000 trial participants.Dr Kang said, “For this vaccine, based on the data we now have, it makes sense to have a gap of at least eight to 12 weeks between doses.” Dr Vijay Natrajan, CEO of Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre, said The Lancet report suggests a three-month interval, which is advisable. “But in the Indian context, the risk of contracting Covid in the 90 days between doses remains high. However, we can claim both immunity and protection if we follow all precautions during the 3-month period and beyond.”Dr Lalit Kant, former head of ICMR’s Epidemiology and Communicable diseases division said, “A closer look at the data in the Lancet study shows the sample size was too small. Studies with adequate sample size are needed before we can think of changing India’s dosage schedule for Covishield.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-say-extended-12-week-gap-between-jabs-improves-protection/articleshow/81456043.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Campaigning ends today, polls to be a battle of prestige for TRS and BJP||HYDERABAD: Campaigning for the two graduates constituencies — Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda — will come to an end on Friday. While polling will be held on March 14, counting of votes will done on March 17. With the elections being a prestige point for both ruling TRS and the opposition parties, analysts say that this kind of high-voltage campaign has been unheard. Since it is a do-and-die situation, TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao and working president KT Rama Rao personally monitored the campaigning on a day-to-day basis. This campaign also saw parties hurling challenges, writing open letters and even exposing some issues. While TRS is trying to retain its Warnagal-Khammam-Nalgonda (WKN) seat and also secure the Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar (HRM) from BJP, the saffron party, which had won Dubbak assembly seat in the bye-polls and over 45 seats in GHMC elections, is hoping to spring a surprise in this polls too. Currently, the HRM seat is represented by BJP’s N Ramchander Rao. Congress, which received a series of setbacks in various elections, is also hoping to bag the two seats. Apart from the major parties, Independent candidates’, such as K Nageshwar from HRM and professor Kodandaram from WKN, are giving the jitters to the major parties. Though TRS, BJP and Congress appointed in-charges to coordinate the party campaign and to reach every voter, due to the vast area and short time, parties avoided major public meetings and preferred group meetings like addressing graduates, advocates, unions of educational institutions, caste-wise voters’ meetings, especially Brahmins, as both TRS and BJP candidates from HRM are Brahmins. As a huge number of candidates are in fray. Hence, the parties are worried about vote polarisation. TRS ministers and MLAs have been meeting employees’ unions and pensioners and all major unions, as they play an important role in the elections. For the first time, government employees’ unions, electricity unions, home guards and other major associations have openly extended their support to TRS. On Thursday, Telangana State Gazetted Headmasters Association leaders met minister T Harish Rao and handed over the letter giving support to TRS. Similarly, Progressive Recognized Teachers Union supported the ruling party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/campaigning-ends-today-polls-to-be-a-battle-of-prestige-for-trs-and-bjp/articleshow/81456039.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Man murdered over financial dispute||Hyderabad: A teacher travelling on a bike was murdered by a person over a financial dispute in Mahabubnagar on Thursday.  Mahabubnagar police said that Naharahi was attacked with a knife. The accused intercepted the victim and killed him. Police said that the victim had an argument with the accused Jagadish, over a financial dispute. The victim was followed by the accused and then he was brutally murdered. Police said that they are on the look out for the accused. A case was registered under section 302 (murder) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-murdered-over-financial-dispute/articleshow/81456041.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||Railway passengers complacent about Covid||NAGPUR: Passengers travelling without masks, no sanitization of train coaches and lack of cleanliness are likely to flare up coronavirus cases in the states. Recalling the lax attitude of the railway administration in enforcing Covid-19 protocol, Basant Shukla, general secretary of Bharatiya Yatri Kendra (BYK), said, “During his return journey from Kanpur-Lucknow-Nagpur on March 9-10, there was no ticket checking in the trains and many passengers were travelling without masks.” “While travelling from Nagpur aboard Secunderabad-Gorakhpur Express, the coaches and toilets were dirty. As a matter of precaution, we carried Covid-19 test report but no railway staff asked about it at Kanpur, Lucknow or even at Nagpur station during return,” said Shukla. “Both people and staff there were complacent and even ticket was also not sought during the entire journey. Passengers were without a mask and there was no sanitization throughout the journey. This may be one of the reasons for increasing coronavirus cases in the city,” Shukla said. Central Railway spokesperson and ACM SG Rao said, “As per the directions, we are scanning passengers of trains arriving from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Goa and Kerala. Passengers of trains arriving from UP are not part of it and hence their thermal scanning must not have been done.” ends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rly-passengers-complacent-about-covid/articleshow/81456055.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Allahabad||AU declares CRET result for PhD admissions||Prayagraj: Allahabad University authorities have declared the results of the Combined Research Entrance Test (CRET), 2020 for admission into PhD course from AU and its constituent colleges. However, results for three subjects including hindi, commerce and law could not be released. According to co-ordinator for the test, Prof IR Siddiqui, the students can check their results on AU website. He said that the results of law and commerce will be released by March 20 as the delay in releasing the results of these two subjects is because of the delay in evaluation work. However, the result of hindi is under consideration in the court. In such a situation, the result will be released only after the decision is taken from there. Candidates successful in the written test will be called for interview in the second phase. After this the process of admission will begin. Interestingly, in the result of the entrance test for admission to PhD in 37 subjects was released but not a single candidate could qualify in six subjects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-declares-cret-result-for-phd-admissions/articleshow/81456977.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||Actor loses ‘Ghum nei’ role after joining BJP; decision splits industry||KOLKATA: The decision to drop theatre artist Koushik Kar from performing in Saurav Palodhi’s adaptation of Utpal Dutt’s ‘Ghum Nei’ after the actor joined BJP has left the cultural world divided. While many have supported this decision, some said the move smacked of intolerance. According to Palodhi, Kar’s current political affiliation is reason enough for dropping him. In 2019, Kar was invited by Palodhi’s group, Ichheymoto, to play a character in ‘Ghum Nei’. “While adapting Dutt’s play, Koushik and I had created his character and named him Akhlaq. The name had a reference to the 2015 Dadri case where a mob had attacked the home of Md Akhlaq, killing him on suspicion of eating beef. Allowing someone to play Akhlaq after joining BJP will be attacking the soul of the play,” said Palodhi. He has no qualms if he is called ‘intolerant’ because of his stand. “‘Ghum Nei’ has no space for someone who has joined Fascist forces. For us, theatre is first about revolution and then art. Koushik is a brilliant actor and I’ll want to work with him in plays that have no ideological connect,” he added. Kar, however, refuses to take any credit for writing the character of Akhlaq.  “Saurav is hiding his folly by making such statements. Few Leftists are trying to control theatre. They have no grassroots connect. Dropping me or barring me from staging a play is only exposing the insecurity of elites who don’t even understand the essence of communism,” Kar said. He added that the entire episode exposes the “myopia of theatre professionals” and “Left-Wing Fascism”. “A professional actor’s ideology has nothing to do with his stage characters. Instead of sharing his concern with me in private, Sourav put up a post, saying ‘chol phot’ and disrespectfully just asked me to get lost. This is Left-Wing Fascism,” Kar added. While director-actor Debesh Chattopadhyay has lent his support to Palodhi on Facebook, director Kamaleswar Mukherjee hasn’t agreed to insist that his “casting never depends on the individual’s political colour”. Supporting Palodhi, actor Riddhi Sen described this as an “individual’s choice”. “Theatre requires a certain philosophy. So, it’s absolutely fine if the person expelling him had felt that his ideology is not going with the group.” On being asked how different is this from a situation where Sen is dropped from a film/play because of his political views, Sen said, “I’ll stick to what I said because he reflected too many contradictory views which openly proves him to be very unreliable. If a group feels that his views are not suiting the group’s philosophy, that group can very well drop him.” Actor-turned BJP leader Kanchana Moitra doesn’t buy this logic. “This is sheer intolerance. When I joined BJP, a director had openly said that I would not be offered certain kind of roles in future. Such actions can’t be defended in a democratic country,” Moitra said. Actor Rudranil Ghosh too condemned this saying it only exposes the “hypocrisy” and “fascism” of Left-leaning theatre workers. “Frustration has robbed them off their sleep. So it’s ‘ghum nei’ for them. What kind of Left politics is it that insists that one can’t do theatre without doing CPIM?” Recently, there was talk about someone in Nandikar joining BJP. Initially, her 86-year-old father, Rudraprasad Sengupta, was taken aback. “Later at a discussion, he said that our members can have political differences but that should not interfere with our art. If some group stages political plays based on a certain belief, I can’t say how they will look at this issue,” said actor Sohini Sengupta, adding that Nandikar will never drop a person because of his political belief. “Irrespective of Koushik Kar’s political affiliation, he is a very strong actor on stage,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/actor-loses-ghum-nei-role-after-joining-bjp-decision-splits-industry/articleshow/81454983.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad to permit additional 2,000 students on campus||HYDERABAD: The University of Hyderabad (UoH) is all set to permit return of additional 2,000 students for in-person classes. Following recommendations of the task force, all terminal semester post-graduate students who will complete their respective programmes and graduate in June will be allowed to return to the campus soon. The decision was taken following recommendations by the task force which held a meeting on March 5 to discuss further roadmap. The return will be entirely voluntary and the university will continue teaching-learning activities online for those who wish to remain at their homes. The task force has mandated all students returning in the latest phase to produce a Covid-19 negative report from an RT-PCR test, sign an undertaking and spend a minimum of three days in isolation at a campus facility. Those returning from six states (Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Punjab, Haryana and Gujarat), where there is a reported surge in cases, are required to spend seven days in isolation. Depending on class size, all academic units have been asked to prepare for physical classes as well as instruction in the blended mode, following all Covid-related protocols. The current policy of waiving the minimum attendance requirement will continue until further orders. Not just that, evaluation guidelines issued earlier, with 50:50 for continuous assessment and end-semester evaluation, will continue to be implemented. Varsity has also constituted sub-committees to finalise and implement awareness campaigns on campus, guidelines for in-class/blended mode of instructions and integration of health protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-to-permit-additional-2000-students-on-campus/articleshow/81456036.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Holidays leave parties worried||Hyderabad: With the MLC polls for graduates constituencies fast approaching, all major political parties and candidates are worried. Reason: Consecutive holidays from March 11 to March 14th. The low voting percentage in the past, especially in Hyderabad, has caused candidates to focus on making sure voters stay put. The holidays began from Thursday with Mahashivratri, followed by Shab-E-Miraj on Friday. Saturday is a holiday with it being a second Saturday and Sunday is polling day. It is estimated in 77 assembly segments covering two MLC constituencies, there are 80,000 government school teachers, another one lakh private teachers and one lakh teaching and other staff from junior and aided colleges. These numbers have got parties hectically lobbying with teachers and unions not only to vote for them but to come for voting. Sources said some are even offering doles for voters to stay back without going for a vacation or to their native places.  “Less or more voting percentage always change the fortunes of the candidates,” a Congress leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/holidays-leave-parties-worried/articleshow/81456045.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 12, 2021||---||BJP candidates: Leaders to go to Delhi today||THRISSUR: The BJP state election committee met here on Thursday to finalize the candidates, but the list will be out only on Saturday after the approval of the central leadership. BJP leader and Union minister Prahlad Joshi, who is in charge of party affairs in Kerala, minister of state V Muraleedharan, the party state president K Surendran and ‘Metro Man’ E Sreedharan were among those who attended the meeting. The party sources said the state leaders are going to New Delhi on Friday and the panel of names prepared by them will be submitted to the central leadership. The central election committee is scheduled to meet at 3pm on Saturday and the final list is likely to be released by around 5pm. Even though the party leaders remained tight-lipped, E Sreedharan’s candidature from Palakkad seemed almost certain. Sreedharan is reportedly going to Palakkad on Friday and was likely to start his campaign unofficially after offering prayers at the Vadakanthara Temple temple there . Surendran said the party is still trying to persuade actor Suresh Gopi to contest, and three constituencies, including Thrissur, are being considered for him. Interestingly, former DGP Jacob Thomas has informally started the election campaign at Irinjalakuda, by visiting various institutions and meeting people there. He told reporters that the BJP had high chances of winning at Irinjalakuda as the area has not developed even though the LDF and UDF nominees have been winning there.  BJP state secretary A Nagesh has reportedly been asked to start the election campaign informally at Pudukad. Leaders meet Thrissur archbishopThe party leaders, including Prahlad Joshi and Muraleedharan, later met the archbishop of Thrissur, Mar Andrews Thazhath. The leaders said their visit was only a courtesy call and wanted to seek the blessings of the archbishop. The archbishop also claimed that only general views were exchanged during the meeting and no politics was discussed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/kerala/bjp-candidates-leaders-to-go-to-delhi-today/articleshow/81456037.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Dehradun||Terai farmers at Ghazipur border to intensify stir against three farm laws||Rudrapur: The members of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) — protesting against the three farm laws at the Ghazipur-Delhi border — have decided to intensify the movement and garner support of more people. The leaders of the SKM held a meeting on Thursday and a schedule of upcoming protests was prepared. Talking to TOI over phone from Ghazipur, SKM spokesperson Sardar Jagtar Singh Bajwa said the farmers have decided to observe March 15 as anti-corporate and anti-government day. “On the day, protests will be organised at tehsils and district headquarters against the rising prices of diesel, petrol, LPG and other essential commodities. The protesting farmers will be submitting memorandums to the DMs and SDMs in their respective areas. Also, protests against privatisation will be organised at the railway stations across the country. On March 17, labour organisations and other public rights' organisations will be approached to ensure the success of the proposed Bharat Bandh on March 26,” he added. In a similar vein, president of the Terai Kisan Mahasabha, Tejender Singh Virk, said, “The farmers’ movement is getting stronger with each passing day. Although the government has not provided any facility to the protesters, the farmers have made full arrangements to deal with rain and other such occurrences. We will not retreat till our demand of revoking the draconian laws is met.” Notably, more than five thousand farmers from the Terai region — which is known as the rice bowl of Uttarakhand — are protesting at the Ghazipur border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/terai-farmers-at-ghazipur-border-to-intensify-stir-against-three-farm-laws/articleshow/81454990.cms||Aakash Ahuja
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ramp up vax coverage in slums, say corporators||Mumbai: Even as residents from housing societies, where maximum number of Covid cases are currently emerging, are trooping to vaccination centres, corporators have pointed that the same enthusiasm is not seen among slum dwellers. Civic representatives have called for more efforts by BMC to reach out to the community. Some of them point out that BMC teams should follow a similar standard operating procedure (SOP) like it did during the mass testing spree in the initial months of the pandemic. Goregaon corporator Srikala Pillai, whose ward consists largely of slums like Bhagat Singh Nagar 1 & 2, Laxmi Nagar and Indira Nagar, says there is a lot of vaccine hesitancy among slum dwellers. “Many fall prey to fake messages on side effects of the vaccine. Therefore, there is an even greater need to ensure they are encouraged to take the vaccine,” she says, adding she was planning to help those in slums register their names via the Co-Win app so that they can get the vaccine at the nearby centre in Nesco. Some activists also pointed out that coverage would improve if the BMC were to start administering the vaccine in municipal dispensaries. “Every locality has a municipal dispensary, and if the BMC rolls out the vaccination drives within these as well residents of slum pockets may be willing to go there rather than travel somewhere far,” said RTI activist Anil Galgali. Every ward has its own team of health staff which can then help streamline this process further. “They should follow the same SOP they did while carrying out aggressive Covid tests,” he said. Swapna Mhatre, BJP corporator from H west ward, also says enrolling local corporators in the vaccination drive may increase outreach in slums and other congested localities. BMC officials said currently there is pressure on every vaccination centre. “But the plan is definitely to cover everyone eventually in a phased manner. Arrangements, including computers to check details, facilities to store the vaccine and space to sit for people after they are administered the vaccine, need to be made before giving any centre a nod,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ramp-up-vax-coverage-in-slums-say-corporators/articleshow/81456049.cms||Richa Pinto
March 12, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad district likely to have Covid containment zones again||Aurangabad: Covid containment zones are likely to make a comeback following a significant spike in coronavirus cases in Aurangabad district.The central team, which assessed the Covid situation in the district, has pressed for such a measure to contain the spread of the viral disease.Dr Neeta Padalkar, the health officer of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), said the civic administration was considering the reintroduction of containment zones. “We will do the mapping of cases in different wards of the city. If a large cluster of cases is found in a particular area, then that area will be considered for declaration as a containment zone,” she said.Padalkar said declaring containment zones and putting stringent curbs — including a ban on public movement — could help break the chain of Covid infections.The civic officials have identified 19 localities that are emerging as Covid hotspots and some of them may become containment zones in the future depending on the pattern of disease spread. AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey also confirmed that there are high chances of some Covid hotspots getting declared as containment zones.Of the four municipal corporations in Marathwada, Latur (39) and Parbhani (21) have already declared containment zones within the municipal limits. No such prohibited zones have been identified in Aurangabad and Nanded cities so far. While no such zones exist in rural areas of Aurangabad district, other seven districts namely Jalna (3), Parbhani(42), Hingoli (13), Nanded (42), Beed (5), Latur (202) and Osmanabad (54) have declared containment zones, show the official data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-district-likely-to-have-covid-containment-zones-again/articleshow/81456046.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||School assn pledges support to TRS||Hyderabad: Members of the Telangana Recognised School Managements Association (TRSMA) have extended support to TRS candidates in the graduates MLC elections. In support of TRS candidates Palla Rajeshwar Reddy and Surabhi Vani Devi, who are contesting from Nalgonda-Khammam-Warangal and Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahabubnagar seats respectively, TRSMA president Y Sekhar Rao, general secretary S Madhusudhan and treasurer IV Ramana Rao handed over a letter of support to B Vinod Kumar, vice-chairman, Telangana State Planning Board. TRSMA office-bearers urged members at district level to take up a campaign for victory of TRS candidates.  They said for development of the education sector, it is important that candidates supported by the ruling party are elected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/school-assn-pledges-support-to-trs/articleshow/81456064.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||Inflammables helped spread fire 130m against breeze: Probe||Kolkata: False ceiling and partition walls helped fuel the fire on the 13th floor of New Koilaghat building on Monday and aided its spread from the elevator lobby to the server room though the breeze was flowing in the opposite direction, forensic experts concluded on Thursday. Police and railway officials were also present as the forensic team tried to reconstruct the events of that fatal evening. “The combustible material helped the fire travel 130m from the point of origin to the server room,” forensic experts said. The fire brigade and forensic experts advised railway officials on safety measures, including the need to shut down elevator operations during a fire. Eight of the nine persons who had died on Monday had used the elevators when the fire was raging. Another suggestion was to install smoke seals in the side guides and headbox of elevators and fire curtains to keep the elevator shaft smoke-free. The police now plan to question rail staffers who were engaged in the electrical wing and building maintenance. “The cops are also keen to identify the men who had used seven extinguishers on the 13th floor to douse the fire that evening and find out how much later they made the call to the fire services,” an officer said. However, the reason behind the firemen not sticking to the SOP and using the elevator and travelling straight to the 13th floor that was on fire is yet to be probed. Former fire services officials said the department should conduct a thorough probe to find out the lapses and address them at the earliest to prevent a similar incident from recurring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/inflammables-helped-spread-fire-130m-against-breeze-probe/articleshow/81454989.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 12, 2021||Pune||6-month high testing pushes daily tally above 2.8k in PMR||Pune: A jump in testing in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) pushed up its daily Covid-19 cases to 2,840 on Thursday, the region’s highest single-day tally since September 30 last year when 3,298 people had tested positive for the infection. As many as 15,791 tests were conducted in the region on Thursday, which the highest single-day testing in PMR since September 23 last year when 16,475 tests were conducted. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar on Thursday stated that 1,303 people recovered in the region in the last 24 hours, taking its total discharges above 4.01 lakh. The Pune Municipal Corporation conducted over 8,500 tests, while the Pimpri Chinchwad and rural areas tested over 3,000 samples each. The region has tested 24.56 lakh samples of Covid-19 so far. The region’s positive caseload has reached 4.28 lakh on Thursday evening, while its recoveries above 4.01 lakh. Besides, 15 patients succumbed to the infection in PMR on Thursday, taking the region’s total deaths to 9,356.The increase in positive cases has pushed the region’s active caseload to 17,209, including 11,191 patients in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/6-month-high-testing-pushes-daily-tally-above-2-8k-in-pmr/articleshow/81456057.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||EC go-ahead to farmers’ rally||KOLKATA: Medha Patkar is likely to address the Kisan Morcha rally on Friday at the Ramlila Maidan in Kolkata when farmer bodies start campaigning against farm laws in the poll-bound state. Over the next two months, Morcha rallies will travel through the districts and create a consensus against BJP. “We are coming to Bengal to ask people to identify the common enemy of farmers,” said Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav. Kisan Morcha leaders like Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal and Hannan Mollah will also be present at the rally. The activists will take out tractors as a mark of protest against the farmers’ bill. “We had approached the election commission who has told us that intimating the police will be enough. We will approach the farmers to defeat the common enemy. We will then spread the message among the constituencies,” said Avik Saha, national general secretary of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. Another Maha-Panchayat is likely to be held in Asansol after that. The same day, the farmer leaders will meet intellectuals in Bhowanipore. They might hold a maha-panchayat at Jadavpur University as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ec-go-ahead-to-farmers-rally/articleshow/81454997.cms||Rohit Khanna
March 12, 2021||Kochi||Kerala’s 1st housing colony fading into oblivion||KOCHI: Eighty-year-old Valsala Gopala Prabhu was beaming with enthusiasm while recollecting good old times. Prabhu is one among the many octogenarian residents of Girinagar housing colony who lament the loneliness they face in their twilight years. The once bustling neighbourhood at Kadavanthara has now fallen silent as many residents had abandoned the houses and moved to other places. “Neighbours were very affectionate during those days. With the formation of the Fine Arts Society, the bond between the residents grew stronger as we used to hold many programmes, including drama. But with the arrival of television, many failed to turn up for the programmes and the bond slowly faded away. Today many forget to share even a smile. Just enquiring about our well-being gives great relief to elderly people like me,” says Prabhu, who lives alone as her son had moved to the city. Her son brings her food daily and stays overnight. Prabhu is the president of the Ladies Club in the housing colony. The oldest housing colony in the state, Girinagar now spots many single-floor unoccupied concrete houses surrounded by bushes. Of the 279 houses situated on 33 acres, around 50 are unoccupied. Neighbours and relatives come to the support of elders who live alone. Except for the loneliness part, residents are happy to live in a place nestled in greenery and away from the chaotic city life. “As we are one among the first residents, we are in good terms with our neighbours, who help us in our hour of need. Considering the aging population here, it will be good if police patrolling is introduced in the colony in the night,” says Sherley Prasad, a retired professor. She lives in the colony with her environmentalist husband M K Prasad. Girinagar residents’ association president Beena Lukose says the growing number of unoccupied houses poses big problems as abandoned compounds slowly turn into waste dumping yards. “Only a very few people live with their children and grandchildren here. Most of the younger generation are settled abroad. When the elders die, the house becomes unoccupied. Sale of unoccupied houses also does not happen as owners demand exorbitant prices. While some residents construct new buildings after demolishing the old ones. They cut tress for the purpose,” says Lukose. The aided LP school set up in the colony in 1968 is a reflection on the changing scenario. “A retired headmistress used to tell about parents struggling to secure admission for their wards in the school due to high demand once upon a time. Parents used to wait in queue the whole night with lighted candles as only 60 students were given admission on first-come first-served basis. Children from Girinagar and neighbouring areas studied in the school. Now, only children from neighbouring areas study here,” says headmistress Bindhu Menon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/states-1st-housing-colony-fading-into-oblivion/articleshow/81455016.cms||T C Sreemol
March 12, 2021||Pune||RT-PCR testing capacity at BJ Medical College increases to 2,000 from 1,200||Pune: The RT-PCR testing capacity at the BJ Medical College has increased from 1,200 tests to 2,000 tests per day, thanks to an additional RNA extractor machine. The demand for the machine was made earlier last month so that the testing capacity could be increased. BJ Medical College dean Muralidhar Tambe said that the lab is operational 24x7 in order to give timely test results.“We have requested the higher authorities to provide additional manpower for the lab so that efficiency could be increased further,” he said. Another official said that currently the tests were being carried out for Pune urban, Pune rural and from the Sassoon General Hospital as well. The sample testing load on the lab is tremendous and it is being operated mostly by postgraduate medical students. — Piyush Bhusari||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rt-pcr-testing-capacity-at-bj-medical-college-increases-to-2000-from-1200/articleshow/81456081.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||Teachers must conduct online classes from home: NMC chief||NAGPUR: While extending the order to keep schools, colleges and coaching institutes closed till at least March 21, Nagpur municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said teachers must conduct online classes from home only. This clarity was needed because online classes are allowed, and in many schools/colleges teachers use the institution’s tech infrastructure for it. Faster and reliable internet, high quality web cameras and better access to digital resources meant some teachers preferred teaching from school. Also, many schools made it mandatory for teachers to be on campus citing ‘academic’ work, even though it could have been done from home. Radhakrishnan said, “School authorities must promote online classes without asking teachers to be present on campus. The work-from-home culture has to be promoted in such a situation.” When asked what should a teacher do if there is no internet access, the civic chief said schools must do due diligence. “The priority is work-from-home. Now if there is such an extreme case where a teacher in Nagpur city does not have internet access, then maybe an exception has to be made. But again, that will defeat the purpose of lockdown, which is to break the chain of transmission,” said Radhakrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teachers-must-conduct-online-classes-from-home-nmc-chief/articleshow/81456066.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||13-year-old heart recipient recovers||Kolkata: The 13-year-old boy, the youngest heart recipient in eastern India, has made a remarkable recovery and is now ready to be discharged from Narayana Superspecialty Hospital, Howrah. The boy from Keonjhar had undergone the transplant on March 2. Badal Paida was diagnosed with Ebsteins anomaly, a congenital heart condition. By the time he came to the Howrah hospital had had developed severe biventricular dysfunction and heart failure. The hospital enlisted him with ROTTO and NOTTO in January this year. So when a 21-year-old youth from Midnapore was declared brain dead at Apollo and the family donated his organs, ROTTO allocated the heart to him. “He will need immunosuppressive medicationsup. A huge team effort has given a new lease of life to this young boy,” said cardiac surgeon Debasis Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/13-year-old-heart-recipient-recovers/articleshow/81455008.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Announce 43% fitment’||Hyderabad: AICC spokesperson D Sravan on Thursday dared TRS regime to announce 43% fitment for government employees. He said that Congress would withdraw from MLC race if TRS announces such a decision. In a press statement, he said employees should not be cheated and Congress deserves one chance in the MLC polls. “Please understand the cheating being done by the TRS regime and don’t be trapped,” he appealed to employees. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/announce-43-fitment/articleshow/81456083.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Boost for self-redevelopment: Societies can now take housing finance loans||MUMBAI: In a major boost to self-redevelopment of cooperative housing societies, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has included them in the list of allowed borrowers for housing finance loan. This is for the first time that cooperative housing societies have been allowed to borrow from housing finance companies (HFCs). Earlier, societies in Mumbai could obtain loan for self-redevelopment only from the Mumbai District Co-operative Bank. TimesViewScarcity of open land means that Mumbai can now develop only through redevelopment. The current template of developer-led redevelopment is a failure, often not delivering the promised homes, and definitely not in the volumes required. Self-redevelopment appears to be the panacea. The authorities must tweak the financial ecosystems to align to this new reality.In a master direction issued last month the RBI said, “Housing finance shall mean financing for purchase/construction/reconstruction/renovati-on/repairs of residential dwelling units which includes loans to individuals or group of individuals including co-operative societies for construction/purchase of new dwelling unit.” Activist Chandrashekhar Prabhu said it is good news as it would encourage more societies to take up self-redevelopment. “There are 150 HFCs registered with the RBI many of whom have loaned to builders who have defaulted and these companies have lost money. It would be safer for them to lend to housing societies. HFCs can take money from National Housing Bank and disburse this to housing societies,” he said. Prabhu said that he would urge the RBI to further allow nationalised and private banks to lend directly to cooperative societies for self-redevelopment. “Today, no rule stops banks from loaning to housing societies, but the problem is that in case of default who will be responsible. The government seems apprehensive about these societies when they are the safest to lend to as they are middle-class people and will not default,” he added. But Salil Rameshchandra, president, Federation of Grantees of Government Land, said the RBI needs to do more. “Many societies are in need of redevelopment, as their plot size is small, no builder is interested. The RBI must prepare guidelines on how non-banking finance companies (NBFC), HFCs and all banks can provide support to such societies.” On the likelihood of societies defaulting on repayment, Rameschandra said it is very unlikely as residents would be the biggest losers if they do not redevelop in time. “The norms for housing societies need to be more relaxed than what they are for builders. The RBI needs to look at the changing housing scenario and make guidelines accordingly,” he suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-boost-for-self-redevpt-societies-can-now-take-hsg-finance-loans/articleshow/81457003.cms||Clara Lewis
March 12, 2021||Lucknow||Rare feat: Command Hospital saves preterm baby at 24 weeks||LUCKNOW: When two-month-old Kritesh will leave the neonatal intensive care unit of Command Hospital on Friday, he would be among the three premature babies who were born and survived during the Covid-19 pandemic. It’s a rare and first feat for the paediatric team of the 162-year-old military hospital in Lucknow. The team achieved the feat last month when it saved Meghna, a preterm girl born at 24 weeks, weighing just 725 grams. Her chances of survival looked slim as the baby’s vital organs had not developed properly due to premature birth. “Meghna, born on November 10 was so weak that during intensive care her weight dropped to 600 grams, but the doctor and nursing assistant gave in everything to save my daughter,” said Sunita Chauhan (25), wife of Sepoy Raj Kumar Chauhan. Meghna was discharged on February 8 — becoming the first baby born at the Command Hospital to survive 24 weeks preterm birth. “Our team created history after we managed to save a 24-week infant along with two other preterm babies—born at 25 and 26 weeks— during the pandemic,” said Lt Col (Dr) Ashutosh Kumar told TOI. The first preterm baby to be discharged from the hospital was the daughter of Richa Singh and Naik Kuldeep Singh, born at 25 weeks on October 31. After intensive care of 65 days, she was discharged in January. “There was a time when I had lost hope, but hospital staff achieved a miracle,” said Preeti Yadav, the mother of Kritesh born on December 31 at 26 weeks. His father is Naik Suryanath Yadav. According to the World Health Organisation, about one million children die each year across the world due to complications of preterm birth. “WHO recommends abortion if the baby is less than 28 weeks. But our neonatal intensive care staff led by Lt Col Ashutosh Kumar went ahead against the odds, including the pandemic, to save the infants. Intensive hygiene was maintained. We are happy that all three preterm babies will lead a healthy life as their organs are now functioning properly,” said surgeon Capt Ashok Bhandari, head of paediatrics department, Command Hospital. “Over the years, military hospitals have developed expertise in handling such cases, but a ‘24-weeker’ is still very rare and delicate to handle,” said Dr Ashutosh. Nursing staff Lt Smriti Jennifer, who took care of the 24-week baby, said, “For not one second can you take away eyes off the preterm baby. A complication can develop in seconds due to reasons which include infection and others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rare-feat-command-hosp-saves-preterm-baby-at-24-weeks/articleshow/81456992.cms||Arvind Chauhan
March 12, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Ajanta-Ellora caves, other monuments shut till April 4||AURANGABAD: The district administration has ordered a complete closure of all monuments, including the world heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora caves, till April 4. The Aurangabad circle of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) banned the entry of tourists at all the six heritage sites in the district, with immediate effect from Thursday, following orders from the district administration. The move, however, has drawn sharp reactions from the local tourism and hospitality industry who pointed out that the heritage sites in the district had only just reopened on December 7, 2020, after being closed for nearly nine months due to the pandemic restrictions. The Tourism Promoters’ Guild, an umbrella body of different stakeholders in the tourism and hospitality industry, has questioned the blanket closure of monuments. It was pointed out that though the rest of the district had strict restrictions in place, the absolute ban imposed on monument visits was unfair. “The ASI and other private players in the tourism sector have strictly been following all Covid-prevention norms. The outright ban on entry of visitors at all the monuments is uncalled for. The local tourism industry is bound to suffer immensely,” guild president Jaswant Singh said. Stating that the local tourism and the associated hospitality industry had suffered losses to the tune of Rs 500 crore during the previous lockdown, he said another such financial disaster is imminent due to the closure till April 4. Justifying the entry-ban, Aurangabad district collector Sunil Chavan said: “Tourist places witness crowding and transportation activities. Chances of Covid protocol violation are likely. We cannot take the risk given the latest spike in the number of Covid cases.” When contacted, Milan Kumar Chauley, the superintending archaeologist of ASI’s Aurangabad circle, said his office would have to abide by the district administration’s order. “We have communicated the district administration’s order to stakeholders who are in touch with us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ajanta-ellora-caves-other-monuments-shut-till-april-4/articleshow/81456079.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||20 ‘voters’ at single address in Kothagudem||Hyderabad: As poll officials started distributing voter slips for two MLC polls three days away, bogus voters have come to light at several places. With polls to be held on March 14, the officials went to the house of one V Yesurathnam in Writer Basthi in Kothagudem town, which falls in the Khammam-Warangal-Nalgonda graduates’ constituency, to give the voter slips and verify the registered graduate voters. On the address, as many as 20 names were registered. The owner of the house himself said he was surprised at the names listed on his address. He told officials there were only four graduates in his house. They had all registered themselves, but only three names were showing as registered in the list. He told officials that he was not aware of the 17 others who registered themselves as voters on his address and asked officials to take action. Officials have a list of all the names which have been registered and have begun an inquiry to find out about the individuals. From last year itself, various political parties and individuals intending to contest the polls took the initiative to get graduates they know to register themselves. Workers of various political parties identified graduates and encouraged them to enrol. An independent contestant had also alleged that some political parties gathered degree certificates of people from whichever part of the state they belonged to and got them enrolled showing them as residing locally. Independent contestant C Naveen Kumar, known as Teenmaar Mallanna, also lodged a complaint with the Palakurthy police in Warangal about several bogus voters. He alleged that on individual house addresses, scores of names had been registered in Palakurthy and asked for an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/20-voters-at-single-address-in-kothagudem/articleshow/81456075.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 12, 2021||Chennai||Maths, physics not must, biz & agri students too can do engg||CHENNAI: In a move that could have far-reaching implications for engineering education in the country, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) — the nodal statutory body for technical education — has made mathematics and physics at Class XII-level optional for admissions to BE and BTech courses from 2021-22. Currently, Class XII-level maths and physics are mandatory for admission to undergraduate programmes in engineering and technology. The approval process handbook for 2021-22 released by the AICTE has changed the eligibility criteria for UG admissions. Now, students have to pass 10+2 with any three of the following subjects: Physics / mathematics / chemistry / computer science / electronics / information technology / biology / informatics practices / biotechnology / technical vocational subject / agriculture / engineering graphics / business studies / entrepreneurship. Candidates have to score 45% marks (for reserved category students it is 40% marks) in the above subjects taken together. “Universities will offer suitable bridge courses such as mathematics, physics, engineering drawing for the students coming from diverse backgrounds to achieve learning outcomes of the programme,” AICTE said in its handbook. The move has come under strong criticism from academicians who said mathematics is a foundation for all engineering degrees. “Bridge course is a remedial course for those who are weak in mathematics. It cannot replace higher secondary-level mathematics which is a foundational course,” said S Vaidhyasubramaniam, vice-chancellor, SASTRA university. The AICTE’s model curriculum for engineering programmes has mathematics running up to fifth semester in almost all programmes. “Mathematics and physics have to be compulsory for all engineering courses,” he added. However, AICTE chairman Anil D Sahasrabudhe told TOI: “It is not the question of optional. The choice of three mandatory courses required as input to engineering education are expanded. Hence, for different disciplines there could be three different mandatory courses.” “If a student without maths is admitted he will be required to do a lot of math courses in first year. Even earlier, direct second year entrants from diploma holders needed extra maths courses. This will bring a lot of flexibility in line with National Education Policy and in the new system of 5+3+3+4, there would be no arts, science and commerce streams. But still for understanding engineering, one will need maths, physics else a lot of bridge courses shall be required to come to the same level as those who have done physics and maths,” Shasrabudhe said. Rita John, head, department of theoretical physics, Madras University, and also a domain expert for physics, said: “Without physics and mathematics, the fundamental understanding of science will be very poor. Without a strong foundation in science, our future engineers will not be able to do proper engineering and it will adversely affect innovation.” Professors say mathematics used to be taught in seven out of eight semesters and those students are generally good in engineering. As of now, mathematics is compulsory in three semesters and optional in fourth semester. “Emerging areas such as data science, artificial intelligence and machine learning are all based on mathematics. Without knowing maths, students cannot shine on new emerging areas. It is not a good move,” said professor D Arivudainambi, department of mathematics, Anna University. Echoing the views of professors, Anna University Vice-Chancellor M K Surappa said mathematics should remain a compulsory subject. “Maths is important for even programmes like biological engineering and biotechnology. Mathematical knowledge also helps students to be more analytical and creative,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/maths-physics-not-must-biz-agri-students-too-can-do-engg/articleshow/81456078.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Chennai||In 5 years, 50% drop in students passing out of Anna University||CHENNAI: Number of engineering students graduating from Anna University has fallen by nearly 50% over the past five years with only 85,247 BE, B,Tech students graduating in 2020 compared to 1,65,417 students in 2016. The number of graduates among ME, MTech, MArch has also steeply fallen over the same period. According to the 2020 convocation report, just 16,720 postgraduate students graduated in 2020, while it was 42,254 in 2016. On an average, around 50% to 60% students completed their courses within four years and received their degrees. “Along with declining engineering admissions, the confusion over arrear exams also contributed to a huge drop in the number of graduates in 2020,” a source in the university said. The unprecedented move by the state government of cancelling arrear exams for all students and subsequent court cases delayed arrear exams by at least five months. The university conducted only the final semester exams and arrear exams in final semester for passed out students in September 2020. While 1,14,767 students got their degrees in 2019, the number has come down by 29,520 in 2020. “The huge difference this year is because of the confusion surrounding the arrear exams. Next year, the number of students passing out will be more,” a senior professor in the university said. The university successfully conducted online arrear and semester exams for 4.5 lakh students in February. However, on a positive note, the number of PhD scholars in the university has increased compared to 2016. While 1,507 students received their PhD degrees in 2016, in 2020, the number has increased to 2051.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-5-years-50-drop-in-students-passing-out-of-au/articleshow/81456096.cms||A Ragu Raman
March 12, 2021||Lucknow||Ganja and gold smugglers seek a turnaround post-lockdown||LUCKNOW: Drug cartels and smugglers appear desperate to revive their Covid-hit business, as is evident from the fact that the post-lockdown period accounts for a whopping 30% of the Rs 1,600 worth contraband seized in the last four years by the directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI). Sample this: Last week, DRI waylaid a truck in Varanasi ferrying six quintal of ganja worth Rs one crore from Odisha. The consignment was destined for Aligarh, which in last few years has turned out to be a vital transit point for delivery of contraband into NCR. Similarly, in January, the Lucknow wing along with Delhi DRI seized 55.61 kg of gold worth Rs 28 crore being smuggled via Myanmar. According to DRI sources, from July 2020 to last month the revenue intelligence Lucknow wing seized Rs 460 crore worth of gold, fake Indian currency notes (FICN) and other items involving custom duty evasion. The wing arrested 83 persons. Exclusive data accessed by TOI reveals that post Covid-19 Lockdown, the DRI confiscated Rs 65.33 crore of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances including 49.42 kg of Amphetamine, 11,195 bottles of cough syrup, 4.4 kg of heroin, Rs 34.12 crore of foreign made cigarettes and 22,700 kg of ganja. The DRI team also seized 128 kg of gold between July-February, which is more than the total five year seizure of customs department team at Lucknow and Varanasi airport. “In last four years we have seized around Rs 1,600 crore worth of prohibited or duty evasion items. However, we saw an increasing trend post Covid-19 Lockdown when cartels involved in narcotics smuggling, gold and FICN expedited their efforts multi-fold. The lockdown period had impacted their earnings too, so desperate efforts are being made by the cartels to revive their business, which directly or indirectly funds extremism in the face of naxalism and terrorism,” said a source. Explaining the smuggling routes, the source said, items like gold which have huge demand in India are smuggled via Myanmar by carriers who exploit the porous Moreh border (Manipur). They move by train or road via Guwahati, Purania, Araria, Muzaffarpur, Gorakhpur, Lucknow and finally Delhi from where the kingpin of the cartel floats the gold into the black market. Similarly, carriers move contraband like ganja via Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand, eastern UP and Delhi, while for heroin carriers use Imphal (Manipur), Jharkhand, UP, and Haryana to enter NCR. Further, the Lucknow wing is currently leading in seizure of 2,000 FICN worth Rs 2 lakh. “High quality of FICN is produced in Pakistan which enters into India via the porous border of Nepal-UP, while low quality FICN is smuggled from Bangladesh via Kaliachak (Malda) and then into Bihar. The DRI has seized contraband worth Rs 267 crore and arrested 68 persons in 2017, while in 2018 it arrested 75 persons were arrested and Rs 148 crore worth of smuggled items were seized. In 2019, 105 persons were arrested along with Rs 752 crore worth of items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ganja-and-gold-smugglers-seek-a-turnaround-post-lockdown/articleshow/81457000.cms||Arvind Chauhan
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||Stricter restrictions in city next week as Covid cases surge||NAGPUR: With Covid-19 cases surging to almost 2,000 per day in the district, guardian minister Nitin Raut announced stricter restrictions in city and adjoining areas from March 15 to 21. With restrictions already in place for weekends, non-essential shops will remain open only on Friday before closing for at least nine days. The district registered 1,979 coronavirus positive cases on Thursday. Cases have been above 1,000 in 12 of last 16 days. In 11 days of March, the district recorded 14,244 cases, which is higher than those registered in entire November 2020 (8,979), December (12,002) and January (10,507). The cases are likely to cross cumulative figure of February (15,514) on Friday. After reviewing the situation in the district on Thursday, Raut told reporters that cases are increasing as people ignored Covid-19 guidelines. “I had urged everyone not to create a situation when lockdown is only option. Restrictions on a few activities were imposed on daily basis from February 23 to March 7. Restrictions were more on weekends. Curbs were extended to March 14. Still, the people did not care. Hence, we decided to impose lockdown from March 15 to 21,” he said. Raut told TOI it will be a full lockdown. “People will not be allowed to step out of their homes except for emergency or essential work. Covid-19 vaccination centres will remain open and eligible people can go and get it,” he said. The district had faced full lockdown from March third week to June 5 last year. Raut added government offices will run at 25% strength while semi-government and private offices will remain shut except for those engaged in audit and March-end works. “Police department and NMC have been asked to ensure implementation of lockdown in an effective manner. Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth, Hanuman Nagar and Mangalwari Zones have become hotspot. Police will take stringent action on people out without valid reason. People working in emergency, medical, media and essential works should carry I-cards,” he said. Raut said restrictions will be stricter in areas under Nagpur police commissinerate. These include the city, Kamptee, Hingna, Koradi, Hudkeshwar and adjoining areas. Nagpur Rural will continue to have restrictions as enforced from February 23. Later on Friday, Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B issued an order for implementation of stricter restrictions from March 15 to 21. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “There will be no restrictions on flights, railways and public transport. People can go to other districts and states and also enter the city from other districts and states,” he said. Collector Ravindra Thakre said home delivery of liquor, food and other products will be allowed. Raut directed the administration to take stringent action on positive patients violating home isolation guidelines. “Administration should ensure sufficient beds in Covid Care Centres (CCCs). MLA Hostel CCC should also be started. Also, start accommodation for healthcare workers (HCW) in Vanamati,” he added. BJP MLA Krishna Khopde said, “Lockdown is not a solution in current scenario for containing spread of the disease. Administration failed to implement restrictions in an effective manner so cases increased. Commercial establishments and people were recovering from loss of earlier lockdown. Again lockdown will cause immense loss.” Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “Congregation of people in marriage ceremonies and violations of guidelines amid high number of active cases resulted in the number of positive cases shooting up.” He said the administration vaccination should be speeded up to avoid similar wave in monsoon. On Thursday, active cases in district increased to 13,188. Cumulative positive cases surged to 1,64,032. The deaths have continued to be low at about 10 per day. Total fatalities in the district were 4,425 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stricter-restrictions-in-city-next-week-as-covid-cases-surge/articleshow/81456098.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 12, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh ready to probe 2015 Scania bus deal if evidence found||HYDERABAD: The Andhra Pradesh government has said it is ready to order a probe if it comes across any evidence linking misconduct of officials of APSRTC in the purchase of 15 Scania company buses in 2015. Swedish bus and truck maker, Scania, has come under scanner following its admission of paying bribes to win bus contracts in seven states of India, including AP, between 2013 and 2016. Transport minister Perni Nani told TOI, “If any evidence is found, prima facie, in the deals that took place in 2015, we will order a probe.” He said the Scania company revealing details of its internal investigation and admitting misconduct of its employees with regard to bus deals before 2017 has come to the government’s notice. “We will verify the allegations first,” he said. The YSRC government had come to power in AP in 2019. The AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) purchased 15 buses from Scania in 2015. A senior official of the engineering department of APSRTC told TOI that the net landing cost of each bus was Rs 1.05 crore. “Fully-built 15 Scania multi-axle buses were purchased in 2015 and commissioned in January 2016,” he said. The Scania buses hit the road on January 2, 2016, under the name ‘Amaravati’. The official said the 15 buses were purchased with APSRTC funds only. “The RTC purchased them by calling for tenders and followed the stipulated procedure,” he said. At the same time, around 30 vehicles of Volvo were also purchased. A total of 45 vehicles were bought at a cost of Rs 44 crore. The RTC official said, “All the 15 Scania buses are positioned in Vijayawada depot. They are operated on Vijayawada-Hyderabad route.” Most of the Scania buses have covered more than 11 lakh kilometres each by now and they are still running, he told TOI. Telangana has also purchased 19 Scania buses in 2016 and 2017. A senior official of TSRTC said four buses were purchased in 2016 and 15 in 2017. “Prices would have increased later. Each vehicle was purchased at Rs 1.23 crore. Volvo buses were also purchased around the same time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-ready-to-probe-2015-scania-bus-deal-if-evidence-found/articleshow/81456091.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 12, 2021||Aurangabad||Shops to lose licence for 2nd violation||Aurangabad: Commercial establishments found repeatedly violating Covid safety norms will lose their licences and will be subjected to criminal action. Local civic body chief Astik Kumar Pandey on Thursday said the commercial establishments would have to play crucial role in containing the spread of the virus. “The shops will have to mandatorily carry pulse oximeter and thermal gun for screening customers. The staff working in shops must undergo Covid-19 test after every15 days. The shops flouting these norms will be penalised for the first time and their licences would be cancelled if violation is reported for a second time, besides invoking criminal action,” he said. Pandey along with Aurangabad district collector Sunil Chavan and police commissioner Nikhil Gupta took to the streets on Thursday with an appeal to the shop owners and public at large to follow Covid prevention norms in letter and spirit. The move comes as Aurangabad district reported 1,080 fresh cases of Covid-19 in the past 48 hours till Wednesday. Aurangabad district collector Sunil Chavan said, “Citizens need to understand that the stricter curbs are planned till April 4 with a sole of aim of containing the spread of novel coronavirus. Such measures will be futile if citizens show scant regard to Covid prevention norm, inviting another lockdown,” he said. The district administration has modified its earlier order, wherein staff of commercial establishments were asked to undergo RT-PCR tests. In the possibility of dearth of RT-PCR kits, the staff can now undergo antigen tests and will have to do RT-PCR during the second round after 15-days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/shops-to-lose-licence-for-2nd-violation/articleshow/81456095.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Jose picking “CPM nominees”?||Kottayam: Though Kerala Congress (M) has struck a good deal with CPM and is all set to contest from a record number of 13 seats, party chairman Jose K Mani is now battling a controversy over fielding “CPM nominees” in three constituencies. Jose had named candidates for 12 out of the 13 constituencies on Thursday but did not pick a candidate for Kuttiyadi in view of the dispute that broke out in the constituency. Now, the party has come under criticism for choosing candidates with links to CPM in Piravom, Chalakkudy and Ranni. in Piravom, the announcement of Sindhumol Jacob’s candidature has come as a shocker to Youth Front (M) state vice president Jils Periyapuram who had already begun campaigning. Sindhumol was considered for Kaduthuruthy based on an understanding with the CPM and once Stephen George stuck to Kaduthuruthy, Jose had to shift her to Piravom. In Ranni, Pathanamthitta district president of the party N M Raju was initially considered but in the last minute the party named former DYFI leader P N Pramod Narayan. Pramod had switched over to Congress before arriving in the Jose camp. In Chalakkudy, the party fielded Dennis Antony, who had joined the Jose faction recently. It is learnt that the church as well as CPM intervened for him. Jose, meanwhile, tried to play down the controversies surrounding Kuttiyadi. “Such issues are natural during elections. There was some difference of opinion in the CPM. We delayed the announcement of our candidate so as not to aggravate the issue, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/jose-picking-cpm-nominees/articleshow/81456094.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
March 12, 2021||Delhi||4 pyres with green tech at Nigambodh||New Delhi: Four funeral pyres equipped with air pollution-control technology were inaugurated in North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Nigambodh Ghat on Friday, along with three newly constructed CNG cremation furnaces. On the occasion, which was attended by Union science and technology minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, mayor Jai Prakash said the equipment would help reduce PM 10, PM 2.5, nitrogen oxide and benzene-related pollutants in the smoke released from the pyre. The equipment and chimney have been developed by Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) and NEERI. The Union minister said Delhi has 56 traditional cremation grounds where wood was being used for the last rites, while the areas surrounding these sites witnessed black clouds of smoke rising from the facility. The impact is felt within 2km radius of the cremation ground, he said, adding that, “This kind of pollution primarily impacts the lungs, and the new technology will prove to be game changer in this aspect.” The system will contain smoke collection, processing, cleaning and utility units, which will help reduce the magnitude of smoke emanating from the sites. “A specially designed canopy has been placed, which collects gases with temperature over 200 degree Celsius. Tar and solid particles are collected separately and disposed of safely,” he said. The minister added that the unit ensured liquid waste was also recycled and treated in an effluent treatment plant before being released in sewer lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4-pyres-with-green-tech-at-nigambodh/articleshow/81475200.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Schools offer online-offline option for pre-boards||KOLKATA: Though schools had initially decided to conduct pre-boards exams on the campus as students of classes IX to XII have been attending physical classes, they have been compelled to tweak their plan. The institutes had to give in to students’ and parents’ pleas to allow them to write the exams online. They agreed to hold the tests on both the online and offline modes simultaneously. But the authorities are also sending out notices to parents, requesting them to send their wards to schools as appearing for physical tests would give them better practice and confidence for the boards. The schools heads felt that students had developed sort of a phobia for physical exams and the inertia of taking online exams might adversely impact their boards results. A circular has gone out from the principal of La Martiniere For Girls, requesting everybody to participate in offline exams. The circular signed by principal Rupkatha Sarkar stated, “Offline examinations would give students meaningful practice for the upcoming board examinations.” Class X pre-boards at Ram Mohan Mission were held in both online and offline modes. Principal Sujoy Biswas said a large number of students chose to write the exams offline, though some did opt for the virtual mode. This problem did not arise with Class XII though. To bridge this online-offline gap efficiently, South City International held a physical practice exam after the pre-boards were conducted completely online. “This practice test offered the children an opportunity to test whether they could physically sit through a three-hour exam or not. However, it is for their own good that we made this practice test optional again,” said John Bagul, principal of the school. A survey was conducted among the parents of students at Don Bosco Park Circus, where the balance tilted in favour of online pre-board examinations and the school had to agree to the majority’s demand, said the principal, Father Bikash Mondal. “I would have preferred an offline pre-boards test but parents and children were not ready,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-offer-online-offline-option-for-pre-boards/articleshow/81456135.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 12, 2021||Agra||Hindu Mahasabha activists held for performing prayers at Taj Mahal||Agra: Three Hindu Mahasabha activists, among them a woman, were arrested while trying to offer prayers on Taj Mahal premises on the occasion of Maha Shivratri on Thursday. They were caught by CISF personnel and handed over to local police, which booked them under IPC section 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on the ground religion, etc) at Tajganj police station.The three activists, Meena Diwakar, provincial president of the organization, district in-charge Jitendra Kushwaha and one Vishal Singh entered the monument’s premises and offered water, which they carried in a bottle, to lord Sun near a central tank. They were caught by CISF personnel when they were going to offer prayers before the main mausoleum.Later, Hindu Mahasabha activists staged a protest outside the police station and demanded their release. Tajganj police station in-charge Umesh Tripathi told TOI that Kushwaha and Vishal have been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. Diwakar was only issued a notice as she fell ill and was taken to SN Medical college and hospital.This was the second such incident in the last three years. On November 17, 2018, a group of women activists performed puja in the mosque, located on the Taj Mahal premises.The organization claims that Taj Mahal was originally a Shiva temple and was called Tejomahalaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hindu-mahasabha-activists-held-for-performing-prayers-at-taj-mahal/articleshow/81455053.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||NIA files more papers in bail plea of Fr Stan in Mumbai||Mumbai: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed additional documents in the bail plea of Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist, Fr Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad case. The defence will now submit its response. Earlier, the NIA had opposed his bail plea and submitted that there was sufficient evidence against the 83-year-old and that the offence was grave. It also said that there was ‘deep rooted conspiracy’. Swamy was arrested on October 8. In his bail plea, Swamy denied the allegations. He had said that the Persecuted Political Prisoners Solidarity Committee, which the NIA had alleged was a frontal organisation of CPI (M), was one of the most prominent human rights organisations in Jharkhand providing legal aid. The case will come up for hearing on Tuesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nia-files-more-papers-in-bail-plea-of-fr-stan-in-mumbai/articleshow/81457010.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||More villages decide to celebrate birth of girl child||HYDERABAD: Haridaspur village in Kondapur mandal where birth of a baby girl is celebrated like a festival has emerged as a trendsetter for other villages of Sangareddy district. Thirteen gram panchayats of Gummadidala mandal have decided to follow in the footsteps of Haridaspur now. A festive atmosphere will prevail in these villages to welcome the newborn girl and also felicitate the parents of the baby. As in Haridaspur, the central government’s Sukanya Samruddhi Yojana (SSY) accounts will be opened in the names of the newborn babies with initial amounts provided by volunteers. “The parents of the baby girl will be made to feel important. They should feel happy that they have been blessed with a girl child. The village panchayats will be decorated, sweets will be distributed and celebrations will be held,” said N Shiva Kumar Goud, who plays an active role in protecting girl child. Goud makes the parents understand that the baby girl is as important and precious as a baby boy. His endeavour has gathered huge support from villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-villages-decide-to-celebrate-birth-of-girl-child/articleshow/81456099.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||MLC polls: Make your vote count||Intro: Voting and counting of votes are different in MLC elections as compared to other polls. While in the other elections, a voter has only one choice of candidate, in the MLC polls, they can give order of preference. Koride Mahesh explains Is polling taken up through EVMs or ballot papers? MLC elections are being held through ballot paper. Since 93 candidates are in the fray from Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar and 71 candidates from Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda, jumbo ballot paper is being used How is the preference marked on the ballot paper? Polling staff will provide a violet sketch pen along with the ballot paper to give one’s preference. The voter is not allowed to use any other pen. If used, the vote will become invalid. Preference must be marked with numbers such as ‘1’ against the name of the candidate. Words such as ‘one’ or ‘two’ are not allowed. Roman figures like I, II and III or numberical figures in Indian language are allowed. Voters are encouraged to use only digits Is tick mark considered valid? If there are tick marks, initials, any other mark or signature on the ballot papers, the vote will be invalid. If there are five candidates in the fray, voters have to mark ‘1’ to ‘5’ in digits against the candidates’ names. Giving multiple preferences to more than one candidate is not accepted How is counting done in MLC elections? Counting is done through process of ‘elimination of candidates’. For declaring a candidate elected straight away, candidates have to get at least 50% of valid votes and one extra vote. For example: If valid votes in a constituency are 53,765 votes, a candidate should get a minimum 26,882 votes (50% of votes) +1=26,883 for them to be elected straight away. What happens if no candidate secures over 50% of votes? If none of the candidates secure at least 50% of votes, the returning officer will take up counting of second preference votes. The candidate who got the least number of first preference votes will be eliminated from counting, and second preference votes in his ballot paper will be distributed to respective candidates. The process of second preference will continue in several rounds by eliminating candidates who get least votes, till a candidate gets more than 50% votes. Even after completion of all rounds, if none of the candidates get required the number, the person with the highest number of votes will be declared elected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlc-polls-make-your-vote-count/articleshow/81456109.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||‘AP yet to respond on Disha bill queries’||Hyderabad: Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday informed Lok Sabha that Andhra Pradesh is yet to respond to the Centre’s queries on the Andhra Pradesh Disha bill of 2019. Responding to a question by YSRC Eluru MP Kotagiri Sridhar, the Union minister said: “The Disha bill was circulated among central ministries and departments for their comments, which were shared with the state government on February 19, 2021. As on date, the bill is pending with the government of Andhra Pradesh for want of requisite clarifications.” Disha legislation special officer Deepika Patil said: “We have replied to queries of the Centre. They may have sent it back for more information. We will check on it.” The Disha bill provides for disposal of cases of atrocities against women within 21 days and death penalty for offences of rape. The Centre began examining its conformity with the central laws in February 2020 after Jagan Mohan Reddy took up the matter of the passage of the legislation during a meeting with home minister Amit Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-yet-to-respond-on-disha-bill-queries/articleshow/81456108.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 12, 2021||Delhi||Online path labs: More time to reply||New Delhi: Delhi High Court on Friday granted more time to the AAP government to file a detailed affidavit in a contempt petition seeking action against it and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for not regulating online health service aggregators. Justice Najmi Waziri gave the government time till April 7 after it sought time to place a fresh affidavit in the matter. The court had earlier asked the government to examine if there can be some measure of regulation of aggregators. Advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, who appeared for petitioner Dr Rohit Jain, alleged that no action had been taken by the government, and in fact, there was grave violation of the Supreme Court order. He alleged that the top officials were equally liable and must act to restrain the illegal practices of online aggregators, which were freely being carried out under their eyes in utter violations of the rules and regulations issued by the authorities. “Several illegal online aggregators are advertising freely by offering attractive packages for the body check-up, including Covid-19 test through SMSs or various online modes. The applicant/petitioner has received an advertisement of the online aggregator through e-mail for getting tested,” the plea stated. It also termed it a serious issue that the online aggregators were operating without any authorisation and approval, but not being penalised. The plea alleged that the aggregators were not accredited by any agency and their very existence as online diagnostic aggregators was posing a serious health challenge, as a large number of people were falling prey to the attractive health packages being offered by these illegal aggregators. “The acts of respondents clearly constitute contempt of the court and appropriate contempt proceedings should be initiated against them for acting against the order dated August 6, last year of this court. The respondent’s officials have been playing with precious lives of the innocent people by promoting unqualified, unregistered medical practitioners to sign the pathological report and exposing the common people to the mercy of untrained and highly incompetent medical/pathological professional,” the plea said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/online-path-labs-more-time-to-reply/articleshow/81475215.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Dehradun||‘12.6L metric ton urea provided to farmers, no shortage’||Dehradun: In reply to a question shot by Qazi Nizamuddin, Congress MLA from Manglaur, minister of state Dhan Singh Rawat told the House that there was no shortage of urea in the state for agricultural purposes. Nizamuddin had earlier said that rationing of urea reflects the shortage in the state. In response, Rawat said that the farmers had requested for 12.76 lakh metric tonnes of urea and it was provided to them for the year 2020-21. Rawat further said that urea is being provided from all the centres after biometric authentication and the subsidy on urea is being transferred in the accounts of farmers via Direct Benefit Transfer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/12-6l-metric-ton-urea-provided-to-farmers-no-shortage/articleshow/81336602.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 12, 2021||Aurangabad||CCC cleaned after plaint of liquor bottles, trash||Aurangabad: Upset with the alleged lack of cleanliness at the Covid care centre in Kila-e-Arak, patients have prepared a video showing empty liquor bottles, food wrappers and cigarette packets strewn around the rooms meant for Covid-positive patients. A 20-year-old youth, who was admitted to the CCC, told TOI: “Liquor bottles, empty cigarette packets, empty snack wrappers are lying around in the rooms. There is no cleanliness here.” He said he has shared the video and photographs with municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey as well as health officer Dr Neeta Padalkar with a request to take cognizance of the unhygienic conditions and initiate action. Another patient said the sanitation personnel appointed to sweep the place do not perform their duties. This is not the first time such a video has emerged from inside the CCCs in Aurangabad or other places in Maharashtra. When contacted, Dr Padalkar said: “Items, including the bottles, shown in the video appear to be old and dirt-covered.” She called it a “mischief” by some youths who are suspected of bringing all these items with them at the time of getting admitted at the CCCs. She said that home food is usually not allowed at the CCCs and even if it is allowed, precautions are taken to ensure that no alcohol, tobacco or other such items are brought in. However, the civic and health officials failed to explain why the “old” liquor bottles were there in the CCC. CCC in-charge Dr Mohammed Kamran said the video was recorded before the sanitation staff had cleaned the area, and added: “The premises has been cleaned and every step is being taken to ensure hygienic conditions.” Later in the evening, some of the patients admitted to the CCC said that after lodging a complaint with the authorities, the premise was cleaned up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ccc-cleaned-after-plaint-of-liquor-bottles-trash/articleshow/81456110.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 12, 2021||Kochi||Church protests police ‘inaction’ over fake messages||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church has lodged a strong protest over the inaction of police against those who have been sending fake messages on social media impersonating as church authorities. The letter, written in the fake letter pad of the Church PRO with forged signature, has been circulated with an aim to create confusion on the Church’s stand during the elections. According to the PRO of the Church Fr Johns Abraham Konat , a complaint was filed at Kottayam police station last Saturday. "Whenever the Church has given a cyber complaint, the police have only ignored it. They do not get back to us, and we don’t have any idea whether they are doing anything on the complaint,” he said. The PRO also said that such an attitude from the police will only encourage those who resort to such acts. Konat also said that he will not be issuing any press releases from now onwards till the culprits are nabbed to avoid further confusion. The Church had complained that fake press release in the name of the Church were doing the rounds on the social media seeking support for BJP candidates in Chengannur and Piravom constituencies. In the letter, praises are showered on a BJP leader who is likely to contest from Chengannur for “saving” the St George Orthodox Church at Cheppad which was facing demolition for the widening of a national highway, with his “timely intervention”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/church-protests-police-inaction-over-fake-messages/articleshow/81456118.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Cops arrest man in loan app case||Hyderabad: During the investigation of the loan app harassment case, sleuths of Hyderabad police on Thursday arrested a person who is an alleged director in 9 companies linked to loan apps. Joint commissioner of police (CCS) Avinash Mohanty said C Rajasekhar, a resident of Bangalore, was arrested by the police since he is allegedly linked to 9 different companies behind several loan apps which indulged in humiliating and defaming the defaulters by accessing their call details. Police said that till now, 21 persons have been arrested, including a Chinese national Zhu Wei alias Lambo. Police have seized Rs 300 crore in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-arrest-man-in-loan-app-case/articleshow/81457012.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Agra||‘Missing’ AMU student found in Delhi; suffering from depression, say police||Agra: Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) student Ashraf Ali, 26, who went missing two weeks ago, was traced in Delhi’s Jama Masjid area on Wednesday. He has been suffering from depression and had left the campus on his own will, police said. Circle officer (Civil Lines) Anil Samaniya told TOI that a police team brought him back to Aligarh from Delhi on Thursday. He said that Ali told police that he was in a state of depression and was not feeling comfortable with the surroundings, hence, left without informing anyone. “I was completely lost and was roaming from one place to another,” he reportedly told the police. He also revealed that he was shocked to see the pamphlets about him missing from Aligarh in Delhi’s Jama Masjid area while roaming around. He said that he, subsequently, called up his cousin Irshad who lives in Delhi. After talking to him, Irshad informed AMU authorities, who contacted the Aligarh police about his whereabouts. Samaniya told TOI that pamphlets with his photograph were put up after police got an update that he withdrew Rs 1,000 from an ATM in Ghaziabad. He said his condition is fine now. Ali is a resident of Bihar’s Araria district and is pursuing BA [Spanish] from the university. After his disappearance from the campus on February 23, students staged a protest and urged the authorities to take immediate action to locate him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/missing-amu-student-found-in-delhi-suffering-from-depression-say-police/articleshow/81455065.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||Fort Aguada museum by April: Lobo||Calangute: The museum at the former central jail at Fort Aguada is going to be opened in mid-April, minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo said. The work at the museum, which had started in February last year and was to be completed in December, was delayed due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. The museum will showcase the lives of Goan freedom fighters, many of whom were jailed there during the Portuguese colonial rule. Apart from statues of freedom fighters, there will also be murals, sound and light shows, in addition to a cafeteria and an open-air exhibition and performance area for art shows and music events. The redevelopment and restoration of the former central jail and also the fort is being done by the Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) at a cost of Rs 25 crore through the Swadesh Darshan scheme of the Central government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fort-aguada-museum-by-april-lobo/articleshow/81456111.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Lucknow||Aliganj loot case: Cops’ hunt on for key suspect||Lucknow: A day after a group of masked miscreants stormed the house of a city’s prominent businessman and looted Rs 9 lakh from his house while holding his private security guard hostage at gunpoint in Aliganj, police dispatched teams to Barabanki, Sitapur. DCP, north, Raees Akhtar said that a domestic aide at the house Aman is suspected to be involved in the incident. “We have sent teams to round up his relatives and kin, but they are on the run. Police teams are also dispatched to Barabanki and Sitapur,” he said. The officer also said that the CCTVs footage of the suspects were being cleared and enlarged while patrolling in the area would be intensified. Businessman Dinesh Agrawal of Sector-A, Aliganj along with his wife Pramila and their daughter Vartika had gone to the house of their another daughter Ekta who lives with her family in the same colony, but at some distance. Agrawal’s security guard Rakesh was all alone at the house. In the meantime, two persons scaled the boundary wall of the house and trained pistols at Rakesh. They took Rakesh to a bathroom where they locked him inside and fled after collecting the booty from the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aliganj-loot-case-cops-hunt-on-for-key-suspect/articleshow/81457011.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Vax daily count hits 2L, advisor says state needs more leeway||Mumbai: “Why is the Centre sitting on vaccines like a snake on a pot of gold? Let it enable Maharashtra to vaccinate on a war footing and cover a population of 2.5 crore to 3 crore in the next one month. Allow every private hospital to vaccinate,” Dr Subhash Salunkhe, an advisor to the state government said on Thursday, taking a critical stand on what he termed as the “Centre-controlled” drive. The Union health ministry called Maharashtra’s situation worrisome and said it must hasten vaccination. The state on Thursday vaccinated over 2 lakh people, setting a new milestone for a day. Its previous highest vaccination number was 1,48,777 on March 9. Dr Salunkhe told TOI that if Maharashtra was contributing to 60% of daily detections in the country, the Centre must adopt a special approach for the state. “They should simply insist on registration and leave the rest for the state to strategize. We have to be enabled to vaccinate in every primary health centre, rural and district hospital, and big or small private hospitals,” he said, adding the Centre must also consider selling the vaccine to those who can buy it rather than releasing staggered doses to be distributed under the national programme. “This is a major public health situation, and everything must be done to contain the surge in Maharashtra, else every state will see it coming,” he said. Dr Salunkhe said he would meet deputy CM Ajit Pawar on Friday to take matters of acceleration with the Centre. Of the estimated 3 crore people in the prioritized group, the state has completed giving at least one dose to 23.54 lakh and both doses to 3.31 lakh. Immunization officials said they were trying to speed up the drive. “The number of sessions has increased nearly nine times since the first day on January 16. Today, we vaccinated 2.28 lakh through 2,425 sessions,” said Dr Dilip Patil, immunisation in-charge for Maharashtra. He added that every day, more centres are added. “But we have to be mindful of doses available and human resource factors,” he said. The state will receive 12 lakh doses of Covishield on Friday and has got 6.89 lakh doses of Covaxin earlier in the week. Of 2 lakh doses administered on Thursday, 1.42 lakh were senior citizens and 25,715 were people above 45 with comorbidities. In Mumbai, civic officials said many hospitals are willing to vaccinate for extended hours, but no centre has shown willingness to work 24/7. Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC’s executive health officer, said they have already started chalking out plans to run double shifts at jumbo centres. “We may start extended hours first and gauge the response. We may start early in the day and vaccinate till late in the evening, say till 8pm-10pm,” she said, adding the issue of additional manpower is being looked into first. On Friday, the number of vaccination centres stood at 72, including 42 private, 24 civic and 6 state/Central facilities. BMC chief I S Chahal told TOI they plan to push the number of private hospitals to 88. The private centres vaccinated 14,220 on Thursday, while civic centres vaccinated 21,179. Gomare said 5 more hospitals will join the drive from Friday. Turnout in the city dipped marginally. 36,933 people took the vaccine, of which 25,260 were senior citizens and 4,004 were above 45. Gomare said the post-vaccination death of a 69-year-old man from Goregaon was still under investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-vax-daily-count-hits-2l-advisor-says-state-needs-more-leeway/articleshow/81456122.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 12, 2021||Bareilly||Illicit liquor worth Rs 21L seized in Hapur as UP cracks whip against smuggling||Meerut/Pilibhit: Uttar Pradesh’s Hapur police seized a shipment of illicit liquor worth Rs 21 lakh from a truck heading from Punjab to Kolkata in poll-bound West Bengal on Thursday.The seizure was made at a time when the UP government has stepped up measures to curb distillation and sale of illicit liquor and smuggling of English wine in areas adjoining Delhi and Haryana in view of the forthcoming festival of Holi and the panchayat elections in the state. According to Hapur police, three suspects following the truck in a car with Punjab registration number plates were arrested. The truck driver fled leaving the vehicle behind. The liquor was hidden under a consignment of spare parts of 300 new bicycles. During initial interrogation, the suspects revealed that the truck was loaded with bicycle spare parts in Ludhiana in Punjab and later, the illicit liquor was hidden underneath it to avoid suspicion. The demand for liquor has shot up, said additional chief secretary of excise Sanjay R Bhoosreddy. In fact, the state excise department has already earned Rs 218 crore in excess by February-end this year in comparison to the previous financial year. He said during the present cane crushing season, by February, the state had produced 374.97 lakh quintals of molasses of which 290 lakh quintals was consumed by different distilleries. Moreover, 12 lakh quintals of molasses was supplied by UP to other states. Though a major quantity of molasses was being utilized in the state to produce ethanol, vigil has been increased to effectively curb any diversion of this by-product for the distillation of illicit liquor, Bhoosreddy said. In this context, excise commissioner of UP P Guruprasad said all the 120 sugar mills in UP had been directed to compulsorily set up the float meters before the beginning of the crushing season. This is aimed at curbing the pilferage of molasses. Those mills which are found to be flouting the order, would not be allowed to roll their wheels during the next crushing season, Guruprasad warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/illicit-liquor-worth-rs-21l-seized-in-hapur-as-up-cracks-whip-against-smuggling/articleshow/81454158.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Kochi||After 3 months of absence, Anvar is back in Nilambur||KOZHIKODE: Nilambur MLA and the LDF (independent) candidate from Nilambur, P V Anvar arrived at Karipur Airport from Sierra Leone on Thursday. He returned to the country amid much fanfare as hundreds of his supporters thronged the airport, even ignoring the Covid protocol, to welcome him. Anvar would have to stay in quarantine at least for seven days before he can start his campaign trail due to the prevailing Covid protocol. Responding to the allegations over his mysterious disappearance from his constituency for nearly three months, Anvar told reporters that the allegations were ridiculous and the people would give the right reply to his critics in the elections. “Thankfully, they didn’t say that I was hanged in Africa instead of saying that I went missing there. All this is not much of an issue for me. The people who love me are praying for me. If there is goodness left in the mind of the people, the Left Front led by the chief minister would be elected again and I would be a part of that victory,” said Anvar, adding that the reports against him were part of an agenda by people with vested interests to defame him. Earlier, Anvar had claimed through Facebook that he was engaged in the work of setting up a proposed Rs 20,000-crore gold and diamond mining business in the African country. After allegations surfaced relating to his absence from the constituency, Anvar had taken to FB earlier to say that his political rivals were after him ever since he became an MLA and that most of his businesses in the state had to be closed down. Anvar’s PVR Naturo Resort at Kakkadampoyil was shut down in 2018 by the district administration after landslips were reported in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/after-3-months-of-absence-anvar-is-back-in-nilambur/articleshow/81456125.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Unhappy with SGPC role in farm stir, BJP forgets Jan Sangh’s Emergency aid||JALANDHAR: BJP now may have reservations about Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee providing financial and infrastructural assistance to the protesting farmers, but during the agitation against Emergency in 1975, of which BJP’s earlier avatar Jan Sangh was also a part, Darbar Sahib had provided shelter and food to the agitators. The anti-Emergency agitation, which included the Jan Sangh and Akali Dal activists, continued for around 19 months from Darbar Sahib, which was the headquarter of agitation in Punjab. Senior BJP leader Harjit Singh Grewal on Wednesday condemned the SGPC role in farmers’ agitation, arguing that being a purely religious body it should stay away as farmers come from all religions and castes and that it was going completely against the mandate given to it under The Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925. Reacting to his statement SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said that they did not need any advice from Grewal and SGPC knew very well what it should be doing. “After Emergency was imposed in 1975, there were no arrests in Punjab and no Akali leader was raided or arrested. The arrests started only after the Akali Dal announced to launch the morcha against Emergency and started courting arrests. The morcha not only started from Darbar Sahib but continued from there for 19 months, throughout the Emergency period,” said former Rajya Sabha member Tarlochan Singh, who also remained chairman of National Commission for Minorities. “The Akali jatha volunteers would stay in the inns of the Darbar Sahib complex, have langar and perform ardas at the Akal Takht before moving out to court arrest,” said Tarlochan, who was then joint secretary in Markfed and watched everything from close quarters. Former Panjab University history professor and prominent Sikh author Gurdarshan Singh Dhillon, who mentioned the details of the anti-Emergency morcha in his book ‘India Commits Suicide’, said that in Punjab it was the most sustained agitation and Darbar Sahib remained its centre. His book mentions that roughly 45,000 Sikhs courted arrest. “Jan Sangh never objected at that time, of Darbar Sahib providing strength to the anti-Emergency agitation and they were rather be happy with that,” he said. “There is nothing unusual in gurdwaras standing up for a socio-political cause and providing resources to those fighting for a righteous cause. This happened during anti-Emergency agitation and it is happening now,” he added. A senior BJP leader said that during their joint protests or functions with the Akali Dal, they would often have langar at gurdwaras and none from their party objected to the support from gurdwara resources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/unhappy-with-sgpc-role-in-farm-stir-bjp-forgets-jan-sanghs-emergency-aid/articleshow/81456120.cms||IP Singh
March 12, 2021||Kolhapur||Solapur city registers most cases between March 1 and 10||Kolhapur: Wth 340 confirmed cases, Solapur city has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the four districts of western Maharashtra in the first ten days of March followed by Kolhapur and the area falling under the jurisdiction of the Sangli Miraj Kupwad Municipal Corporation. Eight fatalities too were reported. In Kolhapur city, the number of Covid cases increased by 162 — from 15,674 on March 1 to 15,836 on March 10. Only two deaths were reported during this period. There was a rise of 105 Covid cases and two deaths in the limits of Sangli Miraj Kupwad Municipal Corporation. With an addition of 1,172 cases, Satara district reported maximum cases in western Maharashtra and as many as 26 deaths in the first 10 days of the month. The rural parts of Solapur district — considered to be the worst affected till around three months ago — reported 757 cases and 11 deaths between March 1 and March 10. The situation in the rural parts of Kolhapur district is slightly better as only 102 cases and three deaths were reported in the first 10 days of March. In Sangli district, including the area falling under the jurisdiction of the municipal corporation, 285 cases were identified in ten days. The active case tally went up by 132 between March 1 and March 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-city-registers-most-cases-between-march-1-and-10/articleshow/81456123.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Cases rise, experts sound caution||Hyderabad: With a slow increase in Covid-19 cases being recorded in the state, particularly in and around Hyderabad, experts say citizens need to be extra careful and start wearing masks. While many had started venturing out without taking the necessary Covid precautions, it is time to step up the guard, say experts. On Thursday, 194 new cases were recorded across the state, of which 60 were in and around Hyderabad alone. This is an increase of roughly 50 cases from a fortnight back. Also, three Covid deaths were reported in the state on Thursday, which is more than the average of 1-2 deaths being seen daily for the past two months. The total cases so far in the state stand at 3,00,536 while the death toll so far is 1,649. The number of active cases rose from 1,780 on Wednesday to 1,855 on Thursday, while the number of patients who have recovered from the novel coronavirus infection now stands at 2,96,916. “People had lowered their guard against Covid-19 few months back. In certain areas, we hardly find anyone wearing masks and to top it, crowding is happening everywhere. Like we have been saying, this attitude is a ticking time bomb and can trigger a second wave any time. It looks like we are beginning to see a rise now. We need to keep our guard up as the virus is all around us and even though a feeling has started to set in that the pandemic is over, in reality it is far from over,” said a senior official from the state health department. The case fatality rate is stable at 0.54% in the state while the recovery rate is 98.85%. On Thursday, 39,000 samples were tested for the infection. Telangana has completed testing 90.55 lakh samples and has reached 2.43 lakh sample testing per million population. On Thursday, GHMC recorded 34 new cases, while Rangareddy recorded 15 cases and Medchal-Malkajgiri recorded 12 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cases-rise-experts-sound-caution/articleshow/81457019.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Agra||6 Bihar students on way to Sirsa to work & pay for school die in crash||AGRA: Six students who had just given their Class X boards with the Bihar State Education Board died on their way to Sirsa, where they were going to work and put together money to be able to pay for their next session in school. Three more died with them and three others were injured in the early morning accident on the Agra-Kanpur highway near Mandi Samiti in Agra on Thursday. Nagendra Kumar, 15, Guddu Kumar, Pawan and Vipin, all 16, and Vikas and Surendra Kumar, both 17, were crushed to death when the car they were in lost control, swerved to the wrong side and rammed into a container truck coming from Agra around 5am. The driver, Upendra Paswan, 28, Babloo Prajapati, 25 — both from Jharkhand — and Rajesh Kumar, 17, from Bihar, were also killed. Three others — Suraj, 35, Sujeet, 20, and Chhotu, 17 — sustained serious injuries in the collision and have been hospitalised in a critical state. “The students were all from the Baraha and Deoria villages (in Gaya). Their exams had just ended earlier this month. There are two months to go before the next session. It is common practice there to send children out to work so they can pay their way to Class XI,” their tutor Parveen Kumar, who runs the Jai Maa Sharda Coaching Centre, told TOI from Gaya. “The closest higher secondary school from their villages is 30 km away. Most families in these villages are Dalit and very poor. They make a living by selling firewood from the jungle. They can’t afford to pay for their children’s education. And there are no jobs here. They have to send their children outside the state.” Prajapati was their "employment contact". He works with a catering company in Sirsa and was going to get them jobs there on a daily-wage basis. They would work in the two-month gap between sessions, get enough money for tuition and make their way back in time for the new academic session. “Pawan and Vipin were very sharp, especially at maths,” Parveen said. The results for the Class X boards are expected in April. “The car, which was registered in Jharkhand, was completely crushed in the accident,” said Agra SSP Babloo Kumar, adding, “We have informed all families, of the deceased and the injured.” SHO of Itmad-ud-Daulah, Sanjay Tyagi, under whose jurisdiction the accident took place, told TOI, “The bodies have been sent for autopsy. After that, some relatives of theirs from Sirsa will take them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/6-bihar-students-on-way-to-sirsa-to-work-pay-for-school-die-in-crash/articleshow/81455076.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||KMSC lifts dharna from rail track at Jandiala||JANDIALA: The Kisan Mazdur Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) has decided to suspend its 169-day-old Rail Roko programme. On Thursday, the farmers’ body lifted their dharna from Jandiala rail track near Amritsar. Organisation leaders maintained that the decision was taken in view of the wheat harvesting and paddy sowing season, which required farmers’ attention. “Farmers require more tractors in various farm operations, including harvesting or ensuing paddy transplantation season. So we have decided to temporarily lift the dharna from Jandiala rail track,” said KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher while talking to TOI on Thursday. Claiming to have received immense support from people of diverse fields, the farmer leader said their agitation for repeal of the three farm laws and MSP for all crops would continue in Delhi till their demands were met. However, sources within farmers organisations said there was growing resentment over the Centre not conceding to a single demand of farmers, let alone repealing the three laws. “We are losing on all fronts, including economically. We are forced to postpone our personal family functions, medical issues and other commitments. Some of our leaders have made their names and earned political recognition, which will benefit them in the time to come, we are really upset over it as we were told that the government would concede to our demands soon there is nothing in sight so far,” one of the protesters said. Denying such disillusionment, farmer leader G S Chaba said they were a responsible farmer organisation who successfully extended the rail roko campaign to 169 days and said that the presence of large number of farmers on the day of suspension of the dharna vindicated their claims. Pandher claimed that the decision to lift the dharna would strengthen the Delhi agitation since many farmers wanted to travel to Delhi by train. Meanwhile, many farmers are modifying their trolleys to beat the sweltering Delhi summer by fitting coolers, mosquito nets and water coolers to the vehicles. “This shows the resolve of farmers to stay in Delhi until their demands are met,” said Pandher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kmsc-lifts-dharna-from-rail-track-at-jandiala/articleshow/81456126.cms||Yudhvir Rana
March 12, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Water in 12 localities unfit to drink||LUCKNOW: Drinking water supplied in as many as 12 localities of the city was found to be lacking in ‘adequate purification’ required for drinking purpose, a survey has found. Samples from even posh areas like Raj Bhawan Colony and Hazratganj were found to be unfit in the joint survey conducted by Jal Sansthan and district health authorities. Teams from Jal Sansthan and the chief medical officer’s office tested 80 water samples from different parts of the city between March 7 and 9 for chlorination levels. Of these, 12 samples showed that chlorination level was below the required limit in these areas. While three samples each from Rana Pratap Marg and Husainabad were not found up to the mark, two samples from Hazratganj could not qualify the test. Similarly, chlorine levels were found to be lower than the mandate in a sample each from Raj Bhavan Colony, Lakshmanpuri Colony on Faizabad Road, Indiranagar sector 14 and Daulatganj. Confirming the survey report, Jal Sansthan general manager SK Verma said, “We have given directions to engineers concerned to properly check the chlorination level in water before releasing it for supply to households. We will conduct another round of tests in a few days.” Water conservationist Ajay Agnihotri, who has worked with Pune Municipal Corporation and is settled in Lucknow, said, “Chlorine is a highly efficient disinfectant. About 0.2 to 0.4mg is added in every litre of water to kill disease- causing viruses and bacteria. Drinking water in which chlorine level is not up to the required capacity can lead to diseases like cholera, dysentery, diarrhoea, lead poisoning and malaria, among others.” Low chlorine level means proper treatment was not done before supply. He also added that chlorination levels drop in piped supply when much of the power of the disinfectant goes in fighting contaminants that seep into the pipelines because of leakages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/water-in-12-localities-unfit-to-drink/articleshow/81457018.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
March 12, 2021||Kochi||List reflects Pinarayi's preferences, not party programme||Thiruvananthapuram: The CPM candidates' list for the assembly elections announced on Wednesday has a good mix in terms of age, education and gender. But what lies hidden behind these 'apolitical' parameters, that party acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan kept highlighting while announcing the list, is that the CPM's politics and programme have been sacrificed at the altar of electoral expediency. The list, so goes the Left narrative, reflects CPM’s deep understanding on the need to rejuvenate the party by infusing young blood. The party is trying to draw a parallel between Kerala and West Bengal to justify the denial of seats to seasoned leaders. ``Party MLAs and MPs in West Bengal used to occupy assembly and Lok Sabha seats for long, metamorphosing themselves into icons, denying youngsters their due. The decision to bench all those who contested and won two consecutive terms to the assembly is thus part of a larger political move to save the party’’, claimed a CPM leader, as the party tries hard to convince its cadres about the denial of tickets to leaders like G Sudhakaran and Thomas Isaac. Vijayaraghavan gave the breakup of candidates in terms of their age, gender and educational assets very similar to how apolitical collectives like Twenty20 or V4 Kochi project their candidates. ``The CPM which always sensitises its cadres about the dangers posed by apolitical groups is bound to choose and project its candidates in terms of their affiliations with the class and trade organisations they represent. It shows the ideological degradation of the party’’, said a former CPMleader who discerns personal preferences of Pinarayi Vijayan over CPM ideology in the candidate list. The list has 13 leaders from SFI and DYFI and a good number of trade union leaders, especially those working in fisheries sector. Political observers find the influx of trade union leaders with considerable sway over fishermen community as another move by Pinarayi to build an army of defenders in case the deep-sea fishing controversy snowballs. Even though CPM claims that it has followed two-term norm to eliminate 33 sitting MLAs, the party has no specific norms to quote when it comes to denial of seat to leaders like P Jayarajan and P Sathidevi. Generally, the CPM state committee decides on the candidate list, and it is done by keeping in mind possible candidates who can handle important portfolios. The discussions on who would replace Thomas Issac if the LDF comes back to power has assumed the level of a puzzle. But, at least a few in the party sense the vacuum is a deliberate creation to ensure a good placement for Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K Mani. They also find the abortive attempt to give a seat to A K Balan’s wife Dr Jameela as part of a larger plan to keep health minister K K Shailaja in check. Unlike in the past, the party may not expel anybody from the party for taking out rallies against the party decision. The leadership has also dismissed pleas for changes in the candidate list. Maybe, Pinarayi Vijayan wants to get into the shoes of V S Achuthanandan by leading from the front and with no leaders big enough to cross even his shadow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/list-reflects-pinarayis-preferences-not-party-programme/articleshow/81450659.cms||B S Anilkumar
March 12, 2021||Goa||Two deputy collectors to check sand mining in Goa||Panaji: The director of mines and geology on Wednesday submitted the names of deputy collector for Bicholim, Deepak Vaingankar and deputy collector for Dharbandora, Kedar Naik who will be personally responsible for the complaints on sand mining for north and south Goa talukas respectively. The high court last week asked the government to give the court names of two deputy collectors who would be personally responsible for implementation of the court’s orders on sand mining. In a report presented to the division bench on Wednesday, the director stated that there was ‘no sand mining/stacking’ found by its flying squads at several places submitted by the Goa Foundation to the high court. The court last week had directed the flying squad to visit sites submitted by the Goa Foundation and file a report on the status and steps taken to put sand back into the nearest rivers. The court directed the flying squads to visit Aravalem, Vidi and Amona villages in Bicholim, Camurlim in Bardez, Savoi-Verem, Volvoi and Tamsuli in Ponda besides Pernem. The director Vivek HP submitted that there was “no sand mining/stacking found” in Aravelm and Virdi in Bicholim and Volvoi and Tamsuli in Ponda. In Camurlim, the flying squad found sand along the river banks, which they put it back into the river. In Savoi-Verem, latest inspection didn’t reveal any illegal activity or stacking while earlier inspections in December and January sand was seized and put back into the river. In Amona, sand was found stacked under the Amona bridge. Huge stacks (225) 1,000 cu mt opposite Shree Sateri Shantadurga temple, Amona was also seized. The non-governmental organisation in January provided the high court and authorities with photographs and locations .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-deputy-collectors-to-check-sand-mining-in-goa/articleshow/81456138.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Kolhapur||212 villages in Satara managed to remain Covid-free since outbreak of viral disease||Kolhapur: Since the onset of the Covid-19 outbreak in March last year, around 87% of the villages have been affected by the viral infection. However, as many as 212 of the 1,719 villages in the district have not reported a single Covid-19 case till date. Officials said of the 11 talukas in the district, the 212 villages not affected by the viral infection are spread across Khandala, Phaltan, Koregaon, Maan, Satara, Karad and Patan talukas. Patan taluka, which has the highest number of villages (338) in the district, has 66 villages which have remained free of Covid. According to rough estimates, around 85,000 people from Patan taluka came back to their native villages following the imposition of the lockdown last year. Patan sub-development officer Shrirang Tambe said a number of villages in the taluka remained Covid-free because of its geographical features. “Patan is a taluka which is hilly, where transport, communication or mobility of people is not easy. Several villages in the taluka are isolated,” he said.As per information released by the zilla parishad, Mahabaleshwar stands second with as many as 53 of the 110 villages remaining free from Covid. Of the 153 villages in Jawli taluka, from where a large number of people migrate to Pune and Mumbai in search of jobs, 24 villages are Covid-free. Three villages each in Phaltan and Wai talukas have succeeded in keeping the viral infection at bay. No cases have been reported from two villages each in Maan and Khandala talukas. However, officials have not let their guards down as the remaining 1,507 villages in the district have reported Covid-19 cases. Moreover, in the last three weeks,there has been a surge in Covid-19 cases in Satara district. The number of active patients has increased by 438 in the first eight days of March. The administration has collected more than 3.5 lakh samples.Officials have observed that a higher number of cases have been reported from Khandala, Wai, Satara and Karad talukas which fall along the national highways.District chief surgeon Subhash Chavan said the effective implementation of Covid protocol and involvement of people helped the 212 villages to remain Covid-free. “Travelling is the major source of transmission. All these villages effectively prevented people from coming in or going out,” he said. Officials said in many villages, residents put up temporary sheds or huts for people coming from outside due to which the transmission of the virus was prevented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/212-villages-in-satara-managed-to-remain-covid-free-since-outbreak-of-viral-disease/articleshow/81456139.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Follow Covid norms, get inoculated, says CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Appealing to eligible citizens to get inoculated against the virus as soon as possible, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the state has decided to speed up the vaccination programme. Thackeray along with wife Rashmi, mother-in-law Meena Patankar and Shiv Sena secretary Milind Narvekar took the first dose of the vaccine at J J Hospital on Thursday afternoon. In the evening, while addressing citizens via social media, Thackeray said that Covid cases are on rise across the state, including in rural parts. “Though we have not reached the peak level of September 2020, but we should pray and try that we do not. So, everyone must follow self-restrictions and follow three principles: wear a mask, wash hands and adhere to physical distance norms to avoid implementation of a strict lockdown,” the chief minister said. “The overall situation still is under control, but everyone should follow Covid norms if we do not want the situation to spin out of control…” said Thackeray. “Nearly 80% of the Covid positive patients are asymptomatic, but they are moving around instead of staying in home quarantine, putting their own families and others at risk.” Urging people to get themselves tested to avoid delayed treatment, the CM said: “In other countries, the second wave has weakened their healthcare system. We will not let it happen in our state…the second wave has proved to be bigger than the first one...People in western countries are facing complete lockdown for up to three months, while Brazil is facing the worst situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-follow-covid-norms-get-inoculated-says-uddhav/articleshow/81456170.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||SKM ready with leaflets to distribute in all 294 assembly constituencies of Bengal||Bathinda: The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders may not be able to physically go to every corner of West Bengal to campaign against the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) in the upcoming assembly elections, but leaflets urging people to reject saffron party will reach all 294 assembly constituencies. The vehicles will be flagged off by SKM leaders from Kolkata on Friday. The kisan morcha has also formed four different groups of leaders to campaign in the state continuously for three days from March 12. Post that too, different groups of farm leaders will keep visiting West Bengal till the elections are over on April 29, revealed senior farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal on Thursday before flying to Kolkata from Chandigarh with farm leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Harmeet Singh Kadian and Prof Manjit Singh. The West Bengal kisan coordination committee have arranged the vehicles whereas the SKM has sent the leaflets to be distributed among the people. The polling in West Bengal are to be held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29. Rajewal said the aim of the kisan morcha is not to help out any particular political party or support any candidate, but to ensure the defeat of BJP to show to the saffron party the power of the people and also the power of the farmers. The farm leaders will conduct kisan mahapanchayats at Kolkata, Nandigram, Singur and Asansol. They will also undertake vehicle march in Kolkata and hold talks with intellectuals, social activists, youths and students. Two teams of farmers have already visited Kolkata to campaign against BJP. The kisan morcha leaders will not be limited to West Bengal, but are reaching out in poll bound Assam and Kerala as well to raise voice against the BJP, said Rajewal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/skm-ready-with-leaflets-to-distribute-in-all-294-assembly-constituencies-of-bengal/articleshow/81456137.cms||Neel Kamal
March 12, 2021||Kochi||HC seeks report from corp on flood-prevention work||Kochi: Citing the probability of an intense monsoon this year, the high court has asked Kochi corporation to inform about the steps taken to maintain the canals and the drainage system so as to prevent flooding of the city during the rainy season.Justice Devan Ramachandran issued the order as part of the series of directives being issued by the court towards flood mitigation.In the order issued on Tuesday, the court said, “The series of orders that this court had issued in the last years with respect to the cleaning of the ‘Perandoor Canal’ and steps for prevention of flooding in the city of Kochi during monsoons, would apply for this year also; particularly because there are indicative reports – though not conclusive – that we will have to brace ourselves for a very intense monsoon this year.”The court then ordered, “I, therefore, direct the corporation to immediately inform this court the steps taken by them to ensure that the ‘Perandoor Canal’ and other related canals are continuously maintained, as also the city drainage system, so that any apprehension of the citizens of Kochi of flooding this monsoon can be allayed.” A report should be filed by the corporation within two weeks, the court directed.In the order, the court also said it does not have to reiterate now and again that the work on restoration of Mullassery Canal, the 12 link canals between Atlantis Junction and Vaduthala, and Punchakakyal has to be completed on a war-footing as the monsoon is fast approaching.Government pleader S Kannan submitted that Operation Breakthrough team, which is doing the work, is facing unsubstantiated allegations. Some enquiries are going on and the team is now apprehensive of commencing the work, the court was told.However, the court said the work cannot be stalled for whatever reason and it should be commenced, continued, and completed within the time frame earlier fixed by the court.As the team has voiced an apprehension, the court will keep an eye on the work being done, the order said. The superintending engineer of the minor irrigation project, who is heading the team, should file periodical reports to enable the court to monitor the progress of the work, the court ordered.This would also ensure that unnecessary allegations are not levelled when a work of grave and imminent public interest is being carried on by all the stakeholders, the court said. The court will hear the case again on March 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-seeks-report-from-corp-on-flood-prevention-work/articleshow/81455116.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Two teens on bike die while overtaking bus||Hyderabad: An 18-year-old private employee and his 13-year-old cousin died in a road accident at Chaderghat on Wednesday night. According to Chaderghat inspector P Satish, the accident occurred at the People’s Mart near Sohail hotel on Nalgonda X Roads-Chanchalguda road on Wednesday night. “At 11 pm, a bike hit an APSRTC bus while trying to overtake it. Two persons travelling on the bike fell on the road and died of severe head injuries,” the inspector said. During the preliminary investigation, police identified the victims as bike rider Sohail (18), a private employee and his cousin Mohammed Elaf Ahmed (13), a student from the HRC Road in Chaderghat. The RTC bus belongs to Vinukonda depot in Andhra Pradesh and it was travelling from BHEL to Vinukonda when the accident occurred. “Sohail tried overtaking the bus from the left side and he had to apply the sudden brake as someone suddenly came onto the road. The bike skidded and hit the bus. Sohail and his cousin who was pillion riding fell on the road and died,” the inspector said. The victims did not wear helmets and police said that Sohail did not have a driving license. A case was registered under section 304-a of the IPC. No arrests have been made yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-teens-on-bike-die-while-overtaking-bus/articleshow/81457023.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: No HC interim relief for 2 BPP trustees over election date||Mumbai: The Bombay high court on Thursday granted no interim relief to two trustees of Bombay Parsi Punchayet who had challenged a majority decision for postponement of elections scheduled for March 14. The polls are for two vacant posts of trustees. An appeal bench, in a separate matter filed by a Parsi woman seeking to contest the polls, is likely to pass orders on her appeal on Friday. Her poll nomination was rejected on grounds that her proposer allegedly no longer professed Zoarastrian faith. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-no-hc-interim-relief-for-2-bpp-trustees-over-election-date/articleshow/81457054.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Cylinder blast triggers fire at Banjara Hills, no casualties||Hyderabad: A cylinder blast caused a minor fire accident at Udyog Nagar in Banjara Hills, Road Number 11. However, no casualties were reported. The room in which the cylinder was located was gutted. The room was built on the terrace with tin sheds and had a wooden door. The fire had spread to the other parts of the building as well. Though there was no one inside the temporary shed when the mishap occurred there were some persons on the ground floor. “Soon after we received the call, we rushed to the spot and a fire tender was pressed into service. Within 30 minutes, firefighters doused the fire,” said K Uday, sub-inspector, Banjara Hills police station. A person residing in the same locality said that he had heard a loud sound when the blast occurred. “There was a loud sound and people on the ground floor rushed out of the house. Fortunately, no one was on the terrace when the incident took place,” a resident said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cylinder-blast-triggers-fire-at-banjara-hills-no-casualties/articleshow/81457025.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow University revives Super 30 free coaching||LUCKNOW: The commerce department of Lucknow University will revive its “Super 30” free coaching classes to prepare postgraduate commerce students for National Eligibility Test (NET) and Junior Research Fellowship (JRF). Super 30 was started in 2019 but discontinued in 2020 due to Covid-19 pandemic. Out of 30 candidates in the first batch, 22 students cleared NET and JRF. A qualifying written test will be conducted in April to select 30 students. The one-hour test will be based on multiple-choice questions. “Postgraduate students who want to be the part of Super 30 can fill the application form which will be available in their department’s office from April 5,” said coordinator Prof Ram Milan. Besides teachers, a team of 25 junior and senior research scholars from Lucknow University and associated colleges will be taking Super 30 classes for two hours daily from 2pm to 4pm in the commerce department auditorium. University Grants Commission conducts NET, which is mandatory for teaching in higher education institutes. Similarly, candidates need to qualify JRF for research projects in universities and colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-revives-super-30-free-coaching/articleshow/81457060.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Delhi||Man held for duping women||New Delhi: A 28-year-old man was arrested in Uttam Nagar for allegedly befriending women and duping them by extorting money on the pretext of some serious illness affecting his family members, police said on Friday. The accused, Mohit Goyal, demanded money from women by emotionally blackmailing them and changed his mobile number soon after receiving the amount from them. Based on a woman’s complaint, who was cheated out of Rs 75,000, a case has been registered said Santosh Kumar Meena, DCP (Dwarka). On a tip-off, a police team traced Goyal and arrested him on Wednesday from Uttam Nagar, the DCP added.PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-held-for-duping-women/articleshow/81475296.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||New startup policy to bring tech cos with Rs 100 cr turnover under its ambit||Panaji: The draft Goa Startup Policy 2021 proposes to revise the definition of a startup from the existing cut off of Rs 25 crore annual turnover to Rs 100 crore annual turnover. The move is part of the department of information and technology to bring in more tech firms under the ambit of the new policy, which will replace the Goa Start-Up Policy 2017. The IT department is expected to share the draft startup policy with stakeholders, including Goa Technology Association, Goa IT Professionals and the various incubators operating in the state. A second round of deliberations was scheduled on Friday between the government and stakeholders, but it was cancelled due to chief minister Pramod Sawant’s other engagements. While the existing startup policy defines a startup as an entity that has been operational for not more than seven years and which has not exceeded Rs 25 crore in turnover, the Goa Startup Policy 2021 seeks to redefine startups as an entity that has been functioning for up to 10 years and with an annual turnover not exceeding Rs 100 crore in any of the preceding financial years. Tech bodies have been pushing the government to roll out the new policy since the existing policy lapsed in 2020 and has been granted a six-month extension till March end. The draft policy aims to create at least 500 innovative, technology-enabled startups over the next three years, which should potentially create employment for at least 6,000 Goans. Officials from the department said that if the new policy is not rolled out by March end, then the existing startup policy will be extended for the second time. In order to incentivise promising startups to be incorporated, registered in Goa or operating from Goa, the state government is also expected to grant exemptions to startups on a case-to-case basis. These exemptions would be granted to startups involved with smart cities, urban management, mining, tourism, gaming, waste management, renewable energy, education, health care, communication, and entertainment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-startup-policy-to-bring-tech-cos-with-rs-100-cr-turnover-under-its-ambit/articleshow/81456164.cms||Newton Sequeira
March 12, 2021||Goa||Freedom fighter from Mapusa dies||Saligao: Well-known freedom fighter and social worker from Mapusa, Shyamsunder Ramakant Naik, passed away Thursday morning. He was 88. Naik’s final rites were conducted later that day. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. Sources close to Naik said that he had initiated a satyagraha movement against the Portuguese at Mapusa and shouted slogans. He was arrested by Portuguese police and sentenced to 12 years of imprisonment in Aguada jail. He was released after state attained liberation in 1961. Naik was awarded by the president of India for his contribution to the state’s freedom struggle of Goa. Later, Naik took up social work. He also played a key role in the development of the Mapusa-based educational institution, Saraswat Vidyalaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/freedom-fighter-from-mapusa-dies/articleshow/81456161.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers build 2-storey house at Singhu border||BATHINDA: Anticipating a long haul and to save the protesting farmers from the scorching summer heat, farmers are firming up concrete plans that include air-conditioned trolleys and a brick-and-mortar house. The brainchild of farm organisation BKU Doaba’s Hoshiarpur circle unit, the construction of the two-storey house started on Wednesday on a piece of government land near the protest site at Singhu border. Big enough to accommodate over 100 protesters, there are plans to install ACs in the building, too. The house is being constructed on a plot measuring 60 feet x 20 feet and will comprise three rooms on the ground floor and a hall on the first floor, all equipped with ACs. Instead of having a lintel roof, iron girders and wooden logs will be used. The farmers say they will apply for a temporary electricity connection, but if their request is denied, they will use generators to power their electricity needs. Before this, many protesters had modified their trolleys to make them liveable in summer and even equipped these with air-conditioners. "We somehow tolerated the cold nights in winter, sleeping on the road or in trolleys at the Delhi borders, but the fast approaching summer poses more problems, especially the threat of getting vector-borne diseases due to mosquitoes. That is why we began construction of a house for protesting farmers. It was started on Wednesday and we will move in, once it is ready," the farm organisation president Manjit Singh Rai told TOI. The farmers have decided not to go back until the government repeals the contentious farm laws and when we have to stay put for an indefinite period, the house will provide some relief from the summer heat, said farm organisation general secretary Satnam Singh Sahni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/at-home-on-singhu-border-farmers-building-2-storey-house/articleshow/81456141.cms||Neel Kamal
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||AP top, Telangana 4th in suicide bid cases; Hyderabad 2nd among metros||HYDERABAD: Telugu states record high number of cases against people making a bid to take their own lives. In fact, Andhra Pradesh tops the dubious list in the country with maximum number of attempt to suicide cases, while Telangana is at fourth place in registration of FIRs against people who attempted suicides, according to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) — 2019 data. Among metro cities, Hyderabad stands at the second spot, only after Chennai, in booking people under Section 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of the IPC for attempting to kill themselves, the NCRB report added. While a debate has been going on about charging the people who attempt to end their lives due to distress under section 309, which attracts a punishment of simple imprisonment for a term which might extend to a year or fine or both, police units across the country continue to book cases under the section. Shabad police had booked a goldsmith under Section 309 of the IPC after he threatened to kill himself by climbing a high-tension electric tower after police seized his bike in a drunk driving case, while Panjagutta police had booked attempt to suicide cases against a 20-year-old private employee, G Naveen, who tried to immolate himself while appealing to the government to not conduct all job exams at a same time. Former additional public prosecutor Pratap Reddy said, “In cases where a person attempts suicide due to health problems or trauma, investigators often drop the charges and inform the court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-top-t-4th-in-suicide-bid-cases-hyd-2nd-among-metros/articleshow/81457062.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Kochi||Corp prepares DPR to address issues at Brahmapuram plant||Kochi: The proposed detailed project report (DPR) for implementing temporary measures to address the issues at Brahmapuram waste management plant comprises composting unit, plastic shredding unit and biogas plant, said Kochi corporation health standing committee chairperson T K Ashraf.“The health committee has been asked to prepare a DPR. The temporary arrangements are to address the waste issues until the waste-to-energy plant is set up. Swachh Bharat fund and plan fund will be used for biomining the legacy waste. Central fund will be utilized for rest of the proposed measures at the plant. Our aim is to make the premises of the plant clean,” said Ashraf.Meanwhile, health standing committee members, mayor, deputy mayor, officials and corporation secretary visited the plant on Wednesday.Mayor M Anilkumar said the tendering process for biomining the legacy waste at Brahmapuram has been undertaken by the Kerala State Industries Development Corporation (KSIDC). “It is expected that the KSIDC will provide all the details regarding the biomining, with the corporation. Once they submit the details, health standing committee and corporation will take a decision in this regard. Government officials said KSIDC approved tender of Rs 54 crore for biomining the waste. The local body does not have financial stability to bear the cost and hence government aid is definitely needed,” the mayor said.He said the existing plant is in poor condition and a part of it has already bitten the dust. “The waste treatment is taking place in the remaining facility at the plant. Many petroleum companies have approached the corporation with suggestion to generate biogas from the degradable waste being transported to the plant every day. The council will discuss about it after receiving details about setting up the biogas plant. The local body will take a decision on the issues at the plant after the assembly elections,” the mayor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-prepares-dpr-to-address-issues-at-brahmapuram-plant/articleshow/81455127.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||Road to Shiva linga in Pissurlem submerged||Keri: Devotees visiting the Shiva linga in the natural cave at Sattari’s Pissurlem on Mahashivratri, on Thursday, were inconvenienced as the road leading towards the cave was submerged in water that overflowed from the mining pits. Chandrakant Virdikar, a local told TOI, “This time, as pumping of water has not been done by the mining companies concerned, the water level inside the pit has increased and submerged the road. The water resources department has also not taken steps for pumping the water.” Before the onset of mining, the cave was made accessible by the villagers by installing crude steps leading to a platform in front of the cave. Every year during the month of Shravan, and on Mahashivratri, devotees visit this Shiva linga. The linga in the natural cave was installed over a thousand years ago. Gritli von Mitterwallner, an historian who had visited the cave, said the linga dated to the first quarter of the fifth century AD. The cave was also explored by historian and archaeologist A S Sali in 1964.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/road-to-shiva-linga-in-pissurlem-submerged/articleshow/81456149.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
March 12, 2021||---||Winning Aroor a prestige issue for LDF||KOCHI: The fight in Aroor constituency will be a matter of pride for CPM as the party has to reclaim the constituency, which was an LDF stronghold for decades until the UDF won it in the 2019 assembly byelection by 2,000-odd votes. A M Ariff has won from Aroor for a third consecutive time with a vast majority of 38,519 votes in 2016 assembly polls. But in the byelection, held after Ariff was elected to the Lok Sabha from Alappuzha defeating Congress’s Shanimol Usman in 2019, the UDF fielded Usman again and won the seat with a majority of 2,075 votes defeating Manu C Pulickal of the CPM. The byelection was full of controversies and heated exchanges, including the ‘poothana’ remark by public works minister G Sudhakaran, allegedly aimed at Usman. Despite being a LDF stronghold, the front could not regain the ground it had lost in the LS election. However, LDF believes that Jojo, the present district panchayat vice-president and playback singer, will be an ideal competitor for Usman, whose candidature has been almost confirmed by UDF. Moreover, LDF believes that the upper hand they had in the LSG poll results of 2020 in district, block and grama panchayats levels will be beneficial in the election. “Jojo has already started first round of electioneering and LDF is banking on the good governance record and development projects of the government. The political stand of Ezhava community, a dominant force in Aroor, will be a decisive factor especially when Aniyappan, the candidate of BDJS which is an ally of NDA, is contesting from the constituency. Muslims and Christians too have a significant vote share and LDF highlights its secular stand against the alleged fundamentalism promoted by NDA. We are confident of winning back the constituency,” said a district committee member of CPM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/kerala/winning-aroor-a-prestige-issue-for-ldf/articleshow/81456165.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers burn effigies of MLAs who supported Khattar govt||Jind: A day after chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar-led Haryana government survived the no-confidence motion moved against it by Congress, farmers from several villages blocked Jind-Hisar state highway near Gulkani village, and later burnt effigy at Khatkar toll plaza against the 55 MLAs who voted to save the government. However, farmers lifted the blockade after district officials placated them. Jind khaps and farmers announced a social boycott of all 55 MLAs, who voted in favour of Haryana ally government. They announced that they would not allow any of the MLAs to enter their villages. Farmers held protest march at Khatkar toll plaza and burnt the effigy of CM Khattar, MLAs, Hisar BJP MP Briejdnra Singh and especially opened front against deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, who is MLA from Uchana segment of Jind district. BKU district president, Azad Singh Palwa said, “Now, it is clear who is with us and who is against us. Farmers came to know the reality about the deputy chief minister as well, who chose the chair over the plight of farmers. We will be announcing our plans soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-burn-effigies-of-mlas-who-supported-khattar-govt/articleshow/81456144.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nashik||5th batch of vax to reach Nashik today||Nashik: The supply of Covisheild and Covaxin has increased in Nashik division with more beneficiaries coming forward to take the Covid-19 vaccine. The fifth batch of vaccines will arrive in Nashik on Friday According to deputy director of health, Nashik region, P B Gandal,“The district will be receiving a fresh batch of vaccines on Friday as the registration for the vaccination is increasing on the CoWIN portal.” The citizens registering themselves on the portal is being monitored centrally. “They (central team) take note of the demand for vaccines and of the vaccinations carried out so far. They intimate us in prior about the day when the vaccines are going to be dispatched to us,” said Gandal. The Nashik division, which includes Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar districts, had received 1.32 lakh doses in the beginning. Since then, a total of 4.18 lakh vaccines have been supplied to the division in three more batches. So far, 2.37 lakh people — health care workers (HCW), frontline workers (FLW), persons above 45-years-old with comorbidities and those above 60 years — have been vaccinated in Nashik division. Gandal said while 77% of the HCW have been vaccinated, 53% of the FLW have recived the jab so far. Gandal also appealed to the citizens to get themselves registered first so that they can easily get appointment at the concerned vaccination centre. “The on-site registration is also being carried out and it causes crowding at the centre. Those with the facility of getting online registration done should use the same,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/5th-batch-of-vax-to-reach-nashik-today/articleshow/81456146.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Naik widow for inquiry against Fadnavis govt in Mumbai||Mumbai: Akshata, widow of architect Anvay Naik, has demanded an inquiry in her husband’s three-year-old suicide case and against the erstwhile government. She said the Devendra Fadnavis government had suppressed the case and put pressure on the police not to investigate it. She said that the family had faith in the Uddhav Thackeray government and the state police. “We have full faith in the Thackeray government and hope to get justice. However, the government should initiate an inquiry,” she said. Referring to the Mansukh Hiran death case raised by the BJP, Akshata said: “In one case the police officer gets transferred within a few days only on the basis of being the suspect, whereas in our case a suicide note has been found and email exchanges are there. Does it mean that only rich people will get justice. What about the common people?” She and her daughter, Adnya, speaking to the media on Thursday, said that they were still receiving life threats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/naik-widow-for-inquiry-against-fadnavis-govt-in-mumbai/articleshow/81457080.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Forced conversion of minor girl mars Shivratri celebrations in Pakistan||AMRITSAR: Alleged forced conversion of a 13-year-old Hindu girl, Kavita in Pakistan, marred Mahashivratri celebrations as a number of Hindu organisations across the border cut short their religious functions in protest against crimes against Pakistan’s minority Hindu community. According to All Pakistan Hindu Panchayat, the girl belonged to Bahalkani tribe from Tangwani area of Kandhkot in Kashmore district of Sindh province. She was allegedly converted by Mian Mithu, head of Dargah Barchundi Sharif and married to a Muslim man. Recently, Pakistani Hindu youth Mahesh Kumar, a resident of Jacobabad, was shot dead, bodies of Hindu tailor Ramchand, his wife and three children were found in suspicious circumstances from his house in Rahim Yar Khan and another Hindu girl, Aarti was converted to Islam. All Indian Hindu Panchayat general secretary Ravi Dawani posted on his Facebook page that he had raised the issue of alleged forced conversion with Pakistan’s Sindh province minister, Syeda Shehla Raza and Nuzhat Sherain, chairperson of Sindh women commission, who assured of cooperation. While sources said a number of Mahashivratri celebrations were cut short, the celebration organised by Evacuee Property Trust Board, a Pak government department, was held at Katasraj cluster of temples in Chakwal district of Pakistan. A Pakistani Hindu leader who didn’t wish to be named alleged that the girl had been kidnapped by an area resident. “The girl’s family had informed the police but by the time police raided the house of the alleged accused, all of them had left. Later, it was revealed that the girl had embraced Islam at Bharchundi Sharif Dargah,” he said. In a video of Kavita, believed to be shot at Dargah Bharchundi Sharif, she is seen sitting on the ground with a a large gathering of men surrounding her and reciting Islamic verses while Mian Mithu is seen sitting on a cot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/forced-conversion-of-minor-girl-mars-shivratri-celebrations-in-pak/articleshow/81456157.cms||Yudhvir Rana
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||AIPEF, 24 federations supports bank unions’ call against privatisation||Patiala: The All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) along with 24 federations of unions and associations of workers of different sectors, and people’s organisations have supported the bank unions call for two’-day strike on March 15 and 16 against the government’s plan to privatise public sector banks. They said privatisation of public sector banks is an anti-worker, anti-people, and anti-social step. They claimed the privatisation of a public sector undertaking has led to hundreds of workers getting thrown out of their jobs and it has also led to higher use of contract workers who are employed at one-third to one-fourth the wages of regular workers. “The banks will also be run purely in pursuit of private profit. After private banks entered the field, banking services have become much more expensive. Many people will soon find services unaffordable,” said V K Gupta, spokesperson of AIPEF. Padamjit Singh, chief patron of AIPEF condemned the central government policy, which, he alleged is designed to favour the corporate sector or selected corporate houses. “In the case of Chandigarh and Dadra/Nagar Haveli electricity system, these were working at a profit and with distribution loss as low as 4% (Dadra) and 8-9% ( Chandigarh), as against the norm of 15%, but even they are being privatised,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aipef-24-federations-supports-bank-unions-call-against-privatisation/articleshow/81456173.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Walk held to mark World Kidney Day||Hyderabad: An awareness walk was held in the city to mark ‘World Kidney Day’ on Thursday. The walk was flagged off by city police commissioner Anjani Kumar. The walk was held from Gleneagles Global Hospital to Khairatabad crossroad and back. “Being diagnosed with kidney disease can be a huge challenge, both for the patient and those around them. Hence, kidney disease management and treatment aims to prolong longevity by preserving, restoring or substituting kidney functions,” said Dr. Mervin Leo, Cluster COO, Gleneagles Global Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/walk-held-to-mark-world-kidney-day/articleshow/81457067.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Kochi||Cial wins award for safety practices||Kochi: The Cochin International Airport Ltd (Cial) has won the World’s Voice of the Customer Initiative Award, instituted by Airport Council International (ACI) World, for the health safety practices implemented by the airport during the pandemic period.Through the award, ACI, which is a global trade representative of the airport authorities across the globe, recognizes those airports that continued to prioritize their customers and remained committed to ensuring that their voice was heard during the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020.“The Voice of the Customer recognition celebrates the commitment of airports that continued listening to passengers and adapting processes and procedures to meet the changing expectations of the customer experience in response to Covid-19. As our industry works towards recovery, airports that listen to and prioritize the needs and expectations of customers will be better-placed to respond,” said ACI World’s director general Luis Felipe de Oliveira in a statement announcing the recognition. Cial had won ACI passenger satisfaction awards in the 5-15 million-passenger category consecutively in 2018 and 2019. During the pandemic the airport installed devices and successfully experimented with technologies to ensure hassle-free passenger movement. The airport deployed systems like disinfection corridor, automatic sanitizer dispensers, and fumigation machines at the terminal. Ultraviolet baggage baths developed by DRDO were also installed in conveyor belt systems.The airport handled 33.38 lakh passengers and 30,737 aircraft movements during 2020. Its cargo division facilitated 48,424 metric tonnes of cargo during the year of the pandemic.Cial managing director V J Kurian said that the ACI’s service quality programmes have been helping the airport officials ensure international standards in airport operations management. “The ACI’s World Voice of Customer recognition is a great initiative to assess individual organization’s competence in crisis response,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cial-wins-award-for-safety-practices/articleshow/81455137.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||Disqualification plea: Speaker summons state Congress chief||Panaji: Goa legislative assembly speaker Rajesh Patnekar has summoned state Congress president Girish Chodankar on Friday for a hearing on the disqualification petition filed against 10 former Congress MLAs who merged with the BJP. Officials said that Patnekar has fixed a hearing to clarify certain queries before passing judgement. However, sources pointed out that the Congress’ disqualification petition may also come up before the Supreme Court on Friday. Patnekar held a day-long hearing on February 26 into the two disqualification petitions filed by MGP and Congress against the 12 MLAs who claimed to have merged their parent political party with the BJP. Patnekar is expected to pass the order anytime. Legislature secretary Namrata Ulman issued a notice to Chodankar on Thursday informing him that a hearing has been fixed at 11am in the speaker’s chamber at the assembly complex and that if he failed to be be present, the petition would be “heard and determined” in Chodankar’s absence. The Congress does not expect a favourable order. “We all know what the speaker’s order will be since he is a BJP MLA. If the speaker gives a decision in their favour, then he will get exposed because forged documents have been used to show that the Congress has merged with the BJP,” said Chodankar. Meanwhile, Chodankar said that the Congress would pursue the disqualification petition against Vishwajit Rane, which is pending before the Supreme Court. “He violated the party whip by remaining absent, and this attracts disqualification under the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. We will pursue the petition,” said Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/disqualification-plea-speaker-summons-state-congress-chief/articleshow/81456174.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Lockdown again not the solution, focus on health protocols, say experts||PUNE/NASHIK: District administrations in parts of the state — faced with a fresh surge in Covid cases — recently enforced new curbs and warned citizens of a complete lockdown. But health experts said a lockdown — often described as the ‘nuclear’ option in disease containment — is not the solution to stopping Covid-19. State surveillance officer Pradeep Awate said the lockdown was the “pause button” governments hit at the start of the pandemic to shore up health infrastructure. “Now, with that infrastructure ready, a lockdown is not the answer. After a year of the pandemic, focus is on stopping the spread in clusters,” he said. Dr Subhash Salunke, state technical expert on Covid containment, said the lockdown is at best, a temporary solution. “People have to keep up precautions and administrations have to implement protocols. Temporary closures have no effect,” he said. Salunke added that the spread can be controlled if home-isolated patients and hotspots are properly monitored, schools stay shut for a bit longer and there is a stop on all large gatherings. In fact, many public health experts have said the recent surge in some parts of the state was caused by large crowds that had gathered for the gram panchayat elections and weddings. The experts added that widespread curbs, when rules are being ignored, are of no use at all. An example of a plane and a hair salonScientists have said that people dropping masks and distancing rules remain the biggest hurdle to containment. Evidence is growing that facial covers can stop the spread of droplets from the mouth. An experiment using high-speed video found that hundreds of droplets ranging from 20 to 500 micrometers were generated when saying a simple phrase, but that nearly all these droplets were blocked when the mouth was covered by a damp washcloth. Real-world research too has found that masks come with immense benefits. In one investigation, a man flew from China to Toronto and subsequently tested positive for Covid-19. Researchers said the passenger had a dry cough and wore a mask on the flight. All 25 people closest to him on the flight tested negative for the infection. In another case, last May, two hair stylists in the US state of Missouri had close contact with 140 clients while sick with Covid. Everyone wore a mask and none of the clients tested positive. Another study looked at coronavirus deaths across 198 countries and found that those with cultural norms or government policies favoring mask-wearing had lower death rates. Back home in Maharashtra, authorities said a complete stop on all activity — which a lockdown will cause — will take the economy to the brink, once again. In Nashik city, municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav said, “The working class follows the norms. But these rules are often ignored at weddings, social events and at crowded places like markets. We need to wear masks and maintain physical distancing,” he said. Heads of industry are also concerned. Owners of several businesses and industry groups said curbs will take the economy to the brink once again. “Many sectors have finally started to recover from the lockdown last year. The middle-class have suffered enough; the industry should be spared another lockdown,” said Santosh Mandlecha, president of Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry & Agriculture (MACCIA). Gaurav Chandak, president of the Nashik Hotels' Association, agreed. “A lockdown can trigger rise in unemployment and crime. People should instead continue to keep up precautions and authorities should boost the pace of vaccination,” he said. Sanjay Shete, president of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said last year's lockdown had failed to cut Covid cases. “It is not a solution. No one wants another lockdown, and we plan to resist such a move.” In Aurangabad, the local administration has announced weekend curbs, but the decision has drawn much flak. Industrialist Ram Bhogale said the move was unnecessary, especially when most patients coming in now are reporting mild Covid. He said, “Communities can deal with the rise in cases. Covid treatment protocols have improved; the cost has reduced too. We don’t need another lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-again-not-the-solution-focus-on-health-protocols-experts/articleshow/81456172.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 12, 2021||Lucknow||Mission Shakti: UP gets 82 all-women police outposts||LUCKNOW: The UP police has set up 82 all-women police outposts in the state as part of the state government’s ‘Mission Shakti’. IG range Lucknow, Laxmi Singh is the nodal officer assigned the job of overseeing the setting up of these outposts across the state. These outposts will reduce pressure on the lone mahila thana present in every district. Later, these outposts will be turned into mahila thanas. Singh told TOI that a review on January 31 found about 5,000 cases across the state pending, following which a high-powered committee was constituted which decided that all-women police outposts must be established at the earliest. Thereafter, each district was directed to form two women police posts. “Women coming to file cases of triple talaq, divorce, domestic violence and dowry harassment have the only option to visit a mahila thana, which is usually located in the central part of the city/district making it inconvenient for many women. But things will be easier with the presence of two more exclusive women outposts,” said Singh. Singh said that counsellors would also be attached at these police outposts for cases requiring immediate mediation. The IG said that cases of domestic violence and dowry harassment pending in the district mahila thanas will be transferred to the outposts. “The new team monitoring these cases might not only uncover hidden facts but also look at the case from a new perspective,” she added. As per police officials in the DGP headquarters, these police outposts will be monitored by the mahila thana and the supervisory officer will be of the rank of additional superintendent of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mission-shakti-up-gets-82-all-women-police-outposts/articleshow/81457069.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||SISF takes over security of high court||Thiruvananthapuram: The state industrial security force (SISF) has taken over the security of the Kerala high court. The security of the high court has been handed over to the SISF on the basis of a security audit conducted in the court complex, that till now did not have any notable security system in place. The government has sanctioned 60 new posts in SISF for deployment in the high court complex. An officer of the rank of assistant commandant will be in charge of the unit there. The high court is the third government institution in the state that is secured by SISF, the other two being Kochi Metro and the government Secretariat. “A security audit was conducted in the court complex and the security there was found to be inadequate, considering the sensitive files and documents being kept in court custody. On the basis of the audit, vulnerable points in the court complex have been identified, and a security plan has been put in place,” a senior police officer said. Instances of crucial case documents going missing have been reported multiple times from the court, thus exposing the security vulnerability. In the latest incident, in 2018, the case files relating to the controversial Malabar Cements graft case had gone missing after the matter was listed for consideration by the court. The high court had then observed that the security of the high court was at stake and alarming. SISF was constituted on the lines of CISF, constituted by Centre in 1983 to protect and safeguard industrial units under the central and state governments. As per section 10 of the CISF Act, the CISF need not wait for the arrival of police or magistrate for taking steps to ensure the safety and security of the unit which it protects, including against mob violence, if there is delay in the arrival of the police. But unlike the central agency, SISF was constituted in 2012 through an executive order without any statutory backing, “for providing sufficient security coverage to vital institutions under both public and private sectors, like dams, power plants, banks, etc, on payment basis”. However, in the absence of a statutory backing, for any action,the SISF will have to depend on the local police in charge of law and order. Presently, SISF has a strength of 3,119 members, including the 60 newly-sanctioned posts, where personnel will be drawn from the battalions. As institutions that avail the services pay for the salary of the SISF personnel, the government will pay the security fee in the case of deployment at the Secretariat and high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sisf-takes-over-security-of-high-court/articleshow/81455154.cms||KP Saikiran
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Six sent to jail for drunk driving in city||Hyderabad: A total of 152 persons were caught by the Cyberabad traffic police for drunk driving, out of which six persons were sentenced to imprisonment by a local court here on Wednesday. They were sentenced for durations ranging from two to four days. Officials said all those caught were produced before the court, which imposed fines of Rs 6,97,500 on them. The Cyberabad traffic police urged citizens to exhibit self-discipline and responsibility while driving and said that a new rule is going to be implemented where a case will be registered against the passengers travelling in the same vehicle driven by a drunk driver. Until now, the traffic police have been registering cases only against those who drive under the influence of alcohol. The Cyberabad traffic police tweeted saying, “Is your driver under the influence of alcohol while driving the vehicle? In that case, you will also have to face imprisonment with the driver.” Cyberabad traffic DCP, Vijay Kumar clarified that section 188 of the Motor Vehicles Act will be implemented in this regard. According to the law, a driver who drives under the influence of alcohol and those who travel in it must be imprisoned. Also, 73 others who were found driving without licence were fined. A total of Rs 2,18,800 was collected from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-sent-to-jail-for-drunk-driving-in-city/articleshow/81457071.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Goa||IMD: Cloudy weather to prevail till Fri||Panaji: The skies were partially grey on Thursday owing to cloud formation over parts of the state. The weather conditions will prevail on Friday as well according to the India meteorological department (IMD) forecast. “There are small scale systems — interactions between winds from the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal — resulting in moisture incursion and cloud formation. However, we are not expecting this to result in widespread rainfall activity over Goa,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. There were nowcast warnings issued by IMD for light thundertorm activity around Sanguem taluka. There are indications of light rainfall over Goa starting from the third week of this month, by around March 15. “However, we will have to wait for one or two more days to get a clear picture of the spatial distribution of these light rainfall events to come,” Rahul said. There are indications of light rainfall over Goa starting from the third week of March, the IMD forecast stated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/imd-cloudy-weather-to-prevail-till-fri/articleshow/81456189.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||Festivities inside Mhadei sanctuary go unchecked||Keri: The festival of Mahashivratri held at Zadani inside the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary was a grand celebration as people thronged from various parts of Sattari and vicinity. Though Zaranim (Zadani) was included in the sanctuary under the Wildlife Protection Act (1972), Section 26 A, by a notification in 1999, on Wednesday night, various activities were organised till the wee hours. Besides the construction of the main temple dedicated to Basweshwar, another shed has been constructed, while a pandal also was erected to accommodate people. A drama was later performed using loudspeakers. When TOI contacted the chief wildlife warden and additional principal chief conservator of forest of Goa, Santosh Kumar, he said, “I have given specific instructions to the wildlife division not to allow activities that are causing noise pollution and hampering norms of the Wildlife Act.” The deputy conservator of forests, Wildlife Jabestin Arulraj said, “I will conduct a meeting with the organisers of the celebration and discuss a strategy for restraining activities that are threatening the wildlife habitat.” As there does not exist any checkpost for controlling unauthorised entry into Zadani, a village situated in the sanctuary, people were found entering Zadani and visiting the temple of Basweshwar during the past two-three days. Neither the forest guards nor trackers of the forest department were posted, thus allowing various temporary shops and tea stalls to be set up in Zadani area. Madhu Gaonkar, a villager from Khandola, who visited Zadani, said, “Various shops, tea stalls were allowed in the sanctuary area, and it has been seen that activities posing threat to the ecology and wildlife of the areas were also conducted "||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/festivities-inside-mhadei-sanctuary-go-unchecked/articleshow/81456202.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
March 12, 2021||Nashik||Grape export from Nashik to European nations drops by 33%||Nashik: The grape export from Nashik district to European countries during the current grape season 2020-21(Dec-April) till March 10 has declined by 33% when compared to the export during the corresponding period last year.The district has exported 56,921 tonne of grapes till March 10 in the current grape season, against 85,128 tonne exported during the corresponding period last year.According to Manik Patil, director of Grape Exporters’ Association of India (GEAI), the harvest was delayed by 15-21 days this season as the pruning of the vineyards got delayed. “Usually, the grape harvest gains momentum from January every year. The grape growers delayed pruning the vineyards by 15-20 days as they expected there may be unseasonal rain in January, like the previous year,” said Patil. Hence, the grape export was slow in January. This is the reason why there has been a shortfall in the export of grapes. However, Patil said, the grape export was gaining momentum. “In the last one week, around 12,500 tonnes of grape have been exported to European countries, which is the highest weekly export in this month in the last 10 years. We will continue exporting grapes at the same speed for the next two weeks and make up for the shortfall,” he said. Of the 56,921 tonne of grapes exported so far this season, 40,000 tonne has been exported to The Netherlands, 9,500 tonne to UK, and 5,000 tonne to Germany. The remaining 2,421 tonne of grapes have been exported to other European countries.The district had exported 1.26 lakh tonnes of grapes during the 2019-20 grape season (Dec-April), against 1.44 lakh tonne exported the year before. There has been a rise in the registration of vineyards with the state agriculture department. As per government norms, farmers wanting to export grapes have to register their vineyards with the state agriculture department.Around 37,090 grape farmers have registered their vineyards — admeasuring 22,780 hectare — with the state agriculture department for the export of grapes this grape season (2020-21). During the previous grape season (2019-20), 28,382 grape farmers had registered their vineyards — admeasuring 18,164 hectares— with the state agriculture department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/grape-export-from-nashik-to-european-nations-drops-by-33/articleshow/81456194.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 12, 2021||---||EC observers to visit Nandigram, probe incident||KOLKATA: The Election Commission’s special observer for Bengal Ajay Nayek and special police observer Vivek Dubey will visit Nandigram on Friday for an independent probe into the circumstances leading to chief minister Mamata Banerjee being injured during campaigning on Wednesday. The preliminary report sent to DGP P Nirajnayan by the district administration on Thursday mentions “crowd-control lapses”. The report seeks time to establish whether “any person is responsible” for the attack. Several local residents have been questioned and an FIR lodged against “unknown persons” for causing “grievous injuries’’ to the CM. A trader from whose shop ice packs were supplied to the CM has given his statement to the police. The poll panel has sought reports from the special observers and chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay by Friday evening. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, too, has asked for a report. According to sources, the first part of the report focuses on the allegations that the East Midnapore police failed to provide Banerjee — a Zplus protectee — adequate peripheral security. It cites CCTV footage prior to the CM’s injury to underline the presence of a “huge crowd very close to her”. This has raised questions on inadequate crowd control measures. It is also not clear whether the CM’s vehicle was being led by a pilot car. The report indicates that a probe is on to verify eyewitness accounts that the vehicle door, which slammed on the CM when she was standing on the SUV’s footboard, could have also hit a four-foot iron pole on the 12-foot road in Nandigram’s Birulia. TMC leaders Firhad Hakim and Saugata Roy, however, said the CM’s SUV, now parked in Kalighat, does not bear any mark of an impact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/ec-observers-to-visit-nandigram-probe-incident/articleshow/81458603.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu raises issue of cops’ ration money with DGP||Chandigarh: Congress’s Navjot Singh Sidhu met with DGP Punjab “to voice the concerns of Punjab Police personnel’s over meagre ration money allowance”. The personnel from Punjab Armed Police and Indian Reserve Police Battalions of Punjab Police are paid Rs 3 per day as ration allowance, it was pointed out. The former cabinet minister said he wrote a letter to police chief DGP Dinkar Gupta in this regard and also met him to raise the issue with him after having learnt of this genuine grievance shared to him by police personnel on duty at Punjab assembly for the budget session on March 4. Sidhu said in his letter to the DGP that there was a staggering difference in ration money allowance being paid by other police forces and asked him to increase the important allowance given to jawans for fulfilling their daily nutrition requirements. The Punjab Police was one of the oldest police forces of the country, and should be granted ration money allowance along with other reasonable allowances at par with the other forces of the country, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sidhu-raises-issue-of-cops-ration-money-with-dgp/articleshow/81456205.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Bar on certain kinds of sewa belies SGPC’s stance on women’||Amritsar: The women’s empowerment message delivered by SGPC on Women’s Day was questioned by Mejinderpal Kaur, legal director of United Sikhs. While the SGPC claims there is no gender-based discrimination in performing ‘sewa’ (voluntary service) in the Golden Temple, in certain areas, women are not welcomed for sewa. Questioning why women are still not allowed to perform ‘sewa’ in Golden Temple, Mejinderpal Kaur told TOI on Tuesday that women were not allowed to do kirtan in the sanctum sanctorum of Golden Temple nor were they allowed to do ‘parchar’ at Gurdwara Manji Sahib or do akhand path sewa. “Women are also not allowed to do palki sahib sewa or the ‘wet’ sewa of cleaning the sanctum sanctorum,” she said. The allegations came a day after SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, in a video message delivered on the occasion of International Women’s Day, claimed that Sikh’s first master, Guru Nanak Dev had given equal rights to women about five and a half centuries ago. However, the SGPC president did not talk about alleged discrimination meted out to women by preventing them from performing various kinds of ‘sewa’ in Golden Temple by SGPC itself. When questioned about this, Jagir Kaur denied restrictions on women in performing any kind of sewa as par Sikh Rehat Maryada (Sikh code of religious conduct). “But there are certain areas which require unified sentiments of the community and it takes some time for that, everything will be resolved once community sentiments are consolidated,” Kaur said. Mejinder suggested that SGPC be given a deadline and a task force be set up by the Sikh clergy to implement the rehat maryada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bar-on-certain-kinds-of-sewa-belies-sgpcs-stance-on-women/articleshow/81456195.cms||Yudhvir Rana
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Man burnt alive as lorry rams into truck’s fuel tank in Telangana's Shamirpet||HYDERABAD: A road accident between a container lorry and a brick-laden lorry in Shamirpet led to a person being burnt alive on Wednesday. Shamirpet police said Mukesh Kumar Singh, 38, was reduced to ashes in the mishap, after the container lorry caught fire. According to police, three container lorries coming from Bhopal and travelling to NTPC thermal plant in Salem, Tamil Nadu were plying by tailing each other. While these three containers were travelling at Shamirpet, a brick-laden lorry attempted to overtake a container and accidentally hit its fuel tank. Immediately, fire broke out in the container. The drivers in both these vehicles, along with another person, Jitender, jumped out. However, Mukesh Kumar, a supervisor, who was travelling in the container, could not jump as he was caught inside the cabin and was burnt alive. “There were three persons, including the driver, who were travelling in the container vehicle. Jitender tried to rescue Mukesh and the former suffered burn injuries. But Mukesh got trapped and died,” Shamirpet police said. Police said that a case was registered against the brink-laden lorry driver under section 304-A (negligence causing death) of IPC and 304 (II) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of IPC against the container driver and container owner, for allegedly directing the victim to stand on the container and clear traffic for the vehicle’s movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-burnt-alive-as-lorry-rams-into-trucks-fuel-tank-in-shamirpet/articleshow/81457078.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: PGI doctors perform their first scarless parathyroid surgery||LUCKNOW: Doctors at Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) have successfully performed the institute’s first scarless parathyroid surgery. The patient was a 26-year-old female cop from Rae Bareli, who was suffering from hyperparathyroidism due to a tumour in a parathyroid gland in the neck. Doctors operated upon her on March 8, by making a small incision in the back of her lower lip. The tumour was removed without leaving any scar on the neck. The patient is doing fine and was discharged on Wednesday. She had come with the problem of recurrence of stones in the kidney and had been operated twice earlier for removal of stones. When it happened for the third time, a thorough medical examination found excessive calcium levels in the blood and a tumour. “Since the patient was young and didn’t want a scar on her neck, we decided go for the scarless technique — transoral endoscopic parathyroidectomy — in which a small incision is made in the inferior side of the lower lip to reach parathyroid glands to remove overactive gland or tumour grown on it,” said Gyan Chand, associate professor of SGPGI’s endocrine surgery department, who performed the surgery. “This technique was used for the first time in any government medical educational institution in Lucknow. We receive about 50-60 such cases every year, which will now be treated through scarless method, he added Traditionally, an open surgery is performed to remove the inflamed gland or tumour. In this, an incision is made on the neck where glands are situated to remove the tumour. It leaves a permanent scar on the neck. At the same time, patients have to stay in the hospital for 3-5 days, while in scarless surgery hospital-stay is about 24-36 hours, he explained. Dr Chand said the lady cop was suffering from a rare disease which occurs in one in 10,000 people. Patients suffering from this disease often complain of excessive urination, abdominal pain, depression and forgetfulness, weakness, bone and joint pain besides recurrent kidney stones. “The major challenge in scarless surgery is that the tumour in the glands is soft and could burst during removal. Also, if any trace of tumour is left behind, it can over activate the gland again and the problem remains unresolved. As a result, we removed the tumour very slowly and delicately ensuring that neither it broke nor any harm was done to the vocal cords,” he said. Dr Divya Srivastava led the anesthesiologists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pgi-docs-perform-their-first-scarless-parathyroid-surgery/articleshow/81457075.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
March 12, 2021||Pune||Covid-19: Pune civic body intensifies vigil amid case surge||PUNE: The rise in Covid-19 cases in the city has prompted the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to intensify vigil at market places and other vulnerable spots to check if people are following social distancing and mask norms. “Citizens will have to take all necessary precautions, especially while visiting public places. People cann’t afford to be negligent when it comes to wearing masks. We have told the civic ward heads to identify the locations, housing societies and buildings that have more cases and mark them as micro-containment zones as per the requirement. They will initiate steps to restrict overcrowding in the markets,” a civic official said. TimesViewIt has been a year since the city reported the first case of SARS-CoV-2. The yearlong experience proves that wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing play a key role in curbing the spread of the virus. Hence, the Pune Municipal Corporation must realize that the intensity of its actions against the violators of these norms should not depend on rise and fall in the number of positive cases. There should be a consistency in the administration's drive to penalize citizens and establishments who let down the guard.The PMC so far has declared over 60 micro-containment zones after a spike in cases. Sanoth Warule, head of Warje-Karvenagar civic ward, said, “We have started conducting meetings of vendors and shopkeepers to ensure stricter implementation of social distancing norms. The shopkeepers, hotel and restaurant owners have been sending messages within their groups about strictly following anti-Covid measures.” The Dhankawadi-Sahakanarnagar civic ward has already intensified action against violators. The squads have lodged over 450 cases against rule violators since February. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The administration will keep a close watch on marriage functions, gardens and cultural events. The organizers should follow the norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-intensifies-vigil-amid-case-surge/articleshow/81456204.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 12, 2021||Pune||HSC/SSC exams: Maharashtra government to work with parents, teachers||PUNE: School education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Thursday said the state government would work together with the representatives of parents and teachers to ensure a safe avenue to conduct the board (HSC/SSC) exams in the offline mode. After a meeting with the representatives of parents and teachers in the presence of officials of the state education department for secondary and higher secondary board examinations, Gaikwad said, “We welcome the insightful suggestions made by all the participants. The safety and security of our students is of prime importance, but so is their future. We’ll leave no stone unturned to conduct safe and stress-free exams.” The group of parents’ and teachers’ representatives suggested the authorities should be considerate about students failing to turn up for oral or practical tests on the scheduled date of the exam for reasons like contracting the coronavirus infection or staying in containment zones. The representatives also batted for conducting the board exams in the same school where students study. Gaikwad said such students would get a chance to attempt the oral and practical exam after the theory examinations. YouTube educator Dinesh Kumar Gupta, said, “We have requested the department officials and the minister to keep a considerable gap between physics, chemistry and mathematics papers.” After the deliberations, Gaikwad said, “The parents may still send suggestions regarding the board exams to the board.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-to-work-with-parents-teachers/articleshow/81456198.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
March 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Send notice to Harsimrat to vacate ministerial bungalow: Warring to Puri||Bathinda: Keeping up the attack on SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and former Union minister Harsimrat Badal over support to the party’s former alliance partner, BJP, at the Centre despite it bringing in three contentious farm bills, Congress MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring has demanded that the ex-minister be made to vacate the ministerial bungalow as she no longer in the Union cabinet. While making a tweet and in a letter Union housing minister Hardeep Puri, he said that Harsimrat should be asked to shift to a place which she is entitled as an MP. “Earlier, the housing ministry had served notice to AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi to vacate official accommodation despite a serious threat to her security. A notice was also served to ex-Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia to vacate accommodation. Then why has no notice been served to Harsimrat Badal to vacate her ministerial bungalow? If no notice is served, it will be assumed that BJP is still soft towards SAD and wants reconciliation,” Warring told TOI. The Gidderbaha MLA has been in direct confrontation with the Badal couple for some time now and, in the run up to municipal elections, Sukhbir had staged a dharna against him at Gidderbaha, accusing him of misusing official machinery during polls. Three days back, a BJP leader had written a letter to the Punjab DGP, demanding action against Harsimrat following allegations of trying to create rift between members of different religions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/send-notice-to-harsimrat-to-vacate-ministerial-bungalow-warring-to-puri/articleshow/81456211.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Surat||Educational institutes in Surat with more than five cases to be shut down||SURAT: As Covid-19 cases continued to surface among school students, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Thursday warned that it would shut all those educational institutes including schools, colleges and coaching classes where more than five positive patients are detected. Also, a particular classroom will also be shut if one positive case is found. On Thursday, 12 more students were among the 171 new Covid-19 cases detected in the city with some of them having a travel history to Maharashtra. "As many as 1,663 school students, teachers and other staff members were tested in 25 schools and colleges. Out of these, 12 students tested positive. These include two students from the central zone, four from Athwa and six students from Limbayat zone,'' an SMC official said. The posh Athwa zone continued to report the highest Covid-19 cases with 61 on Thursday followed by 33 in Rander and 17 in Katargam zone. "On Thursday, some of the people who tested positive had a travel history to Maharashtra, Tarapur, Dhulia, and Jalgaon among other places. We have requested all those who arrive in Surat city from outside must go for Covid-19 test and help the civic body in controlling the spread of infection,'' SMC said in a statement.  SMC's enforcement teams also fined 205 people for not wearing face masks and collected Rs 2.05 lakh as penalty from them. The drive would be stepped if the people continue to flout the Covid rules. Admissions into hospitals have also witnessed an increase over the past few days. On Thursday, 147 Covid-19 patients were admitted into different hospitals out of which 22 were in New Civil Hospital and 12 in SMC-run SMIMER hospital. Three textile markets closedSurat: Besides educational institutes, the crowded textile markets have also become hotbeds of infections. On Thursday, as many as 18 cases were reported from textile markets in Udhna, Limbayat and central zones. SMC closed three textile markets namely Ganga Fashion, Sai Khatik and Adarsh Market in these zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/edu-institues-with-more-than-five-cases-to-be-shut-down/articleshow/81454246.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Pune||Pune traders appeal to state government to keep wheels of businesses turning||PUNE: The Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) has urged the state government not to impose another lockdown, saying it would be “disastrous” for them. The association on Thursday wrote to Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, requesting them not to clamp lockdown as it would “shut them down forever”.  The association members requested that they be consulted before any decision is taken regarding lockdown. FTAP secretary Mahendra Pitaliya said nearly a tenth of shops affiliated to the FTAP shut down permanently due to losses suffered during last year’s lockdown. “We have issued an advisory to members to enforce social distancing, and deny entry to anyone without mask,” Pitaliya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-traders-appeal-to-state-government-to-keep-wheels-of-businesses-turning/articleshow/81456222.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 12, 2021||Goa||Torda case: Mapusa court rejects Shetty’s bail plea||Panaji: A Mapusa court has rejected the bail application of 46-year-old Shailesh Shetty, arrested in connection with the murder of Vilas Methar, who was burnt alive at Torda, Salvador do Mundo in October last year. “There is every possibility that the applicant Shailesh Shetty may tamper with the evidence and the witnesses, and there is an apprehension of threat to the complainant and the witnesses, in case if he is released on bail,” the court stated. It was submitted to the court that the criminal conspiracy was hatched by the accused at a hotel in Porvorim, where CCTV footage reveals Shailesh Shetty alias Shailu is seen present in the meeting held by the builder Altaf and other accused persons and was handed over papers by one of the accused. After the crime, two of the accused, Pawan Badigar and Prashant Alias Vishwajit alias Bhaiya Dhabolkar had absconded from Goa in a four wheeler which belongs to Shetty. The car was attached at Kankavli. The investigation also revealed the accused was in constant touch with the other accused before and after the commission of the crime, the court was told. The court was also told that Shetty is a highly influential person who organised a party and was arrested after a narcotics raid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/torda-case-mapusa-court-rejects-shettys-bail-plea/articleshow/81456208.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Trichy||IIM-T keen on setting up permanent campus in Chennai||Trichy: The Chennai campus of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Trichy is expected to take shape in the coming months with the institute keenly pursuing the option of establishing it.Speaking to reporters here on Thursday to share his vision for the institute in the coming years, Pawan Kumar Singh, the newly joined director of the institute said that they will seek land from the state government. “We have not fixed any timeline to realise the city campus, but it is very important to have a satellite campus as executive education needs support of metropolitan cites,” he said. Giving examples of other states where governments have come forward to give land for the city campus of IIM in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and even in Kerala, he said they will pursue the state government for land in Chennai for the permanent campus. IIM Trichy is offering a two-year Post Graduate Programme in Business Management (PGPBM) for working executives at Chennai campus, which operates out of a rented facility. He said IIM Trichy is financially self-sufficient as it has created its own revenue through certificate programmes and it is keenly focusing on taking up consultant projects from public sector undertaking (PSUs) companies and corporates. However, he said the it is expecting the last phase of seed funding from the ministry of education for critical infrastructure of the institute after which it will be on its own. He also said that 150 out of 490 students are in the campus, and the institute will maintain 1/3rd strength to ensure safety of all from Covid-19. Saying that no academic activity was affected as classes were going online, he said students who had difficulty in attending classes at home have been allowed to come to the campus. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/iim-t-keen-on-setting-up-permanent-campus-in-chennai/articleshow/81456227.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Trichy||Alangudi: AIADMK men protest ticket for ex-Congress man||Trichy: AIADMK functionaries from Alangudi assembly segment in Pudukottai district hit the road on Thursday against the allocation of party ticket to former Congress leader Dharma Thangavel, who joined the party only six weeks ago. While DMK’s Siva Ve Meyyanathan is the incumbent MLA, AIADMK functionaries were working hard to wrest the seat this time. Over 30 AIADMK members including senior party workers had sought ticket from Alangudi. Party functionaries say it was unfortunate that a newcomer who doesn’t hold any party position was given a ticket. A close confidante of former Union finance minister P Chidambaram, Thangavel had quit the party in January over differences with Karti Chidambaram and joined AIADMK. Refusing to work for a newcomer, AIADMK functionaries urged the high command to allocate the seat to a candidate who has worked hard for the party than someone who has just joined.Over 500 functionaries took out a procession holding the party flag to Alangudi bus stand. Dharma Thangavel was south district president of Congress in Pudukottai district before he quit the party. It was very unusual for someone to get a ticket to contest assembly election within 50 days of joining a party, the protesters said. Dharma Thangavel managed to do so only because of his affinity to health minister C Vijayabaskar, they alleged. Thangavel was instrumental in AIADMK winning the district chairman’s post after two councillors of Congress voted in favour of AIADMK. This had brought him closer to Vijayabaskar who accompanied Thangavel to meet chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to join AIADMK in January.“We were expecting V Pandian, the son of former Alangudi MLA A Venkatachalam, to get the ticket but Thangavel’s name came as a surprise,” said another functionary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/alangudi-aiadmk-men-protest-ticket-for-ex-congress-man/articleshow/81456210.cms||Sampath Kumar
March 12, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Fresh shutdown will spell doom, say leaders in hospitality sector||PUNE: Captains of industry in the hospitality, travel and tourism sectors on Thursday said another lockdown in the state could imperil business and jobs. Industry surveys, such as the monthly one by Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry, and Agriculture (MCCIA), have often noted that these sectors have been struggling. Observers have noted that tourism recovered slightly during Diwali and Christmas, but there was a long way to go. Hotels and exhibition venues have continued to suffer as there have not been many bulk bookings, which support several related jobs, such as event managers and transporters. “No sector lost as much as ours because of the pandemic,” said Sanee Awsarammel, chairman of Asian Countries Chamber of Hospitality Industry. “We have started recovering over the past few months, but our sector still suffers with many jobs lost and bookings hard to come by. Another lockdown will make things very difficult,” Awsarammel added. He also cited the shortage of MICE (meetings, incentive, conference, exhibitions) events. “There are smaller events, but due to the restrictions, the 200-300-strong bookings are not happening. The industry is now operating at 30% of its capacity. Mid-range hotels and restaurants have only recovered 10-20%,” Awsarammel said. “Over the past two weeks, the hospitality sector saw a further negative impact on the utilization front. Lockdown simply isn’t the solution. Wider and faster vaccination is key. Of course, the industry must follow all extant protocols,” MCCI director-general Prashant Girbane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fresh-shutdown-will-spell-doom-say-leaders-in-hospitality-sector/articleshow/81456209.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Covid spread even in Mumbai, most areas see 7-day rise of below 500||Mumbai: Covid-19 cases in Mumbai have ballooned almost five times since February 1 when 328 cases were detected, but the BMC isn’t too alarmed. Cases are evenly spread out across the city unlike in the April-May or the September-October periods when the densest slums were high-incidence clusters. Some municipal wards like T (Mulund) and K West (Andheri west) have witnessed a weekly rise of 816 and 740 cases respectively since March 3, but most have been seen less than 500 in a week; some have even recorded a mere double-digit rise.“We are witnessing a scattered spread across the city,” said BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. While other cities are toying with lockdown-like clamping, the BMC has stepped up micro-planning. “We will zoom down to areas where cases are rising and carry out massive testing and tracing,” said a public health department doctor. On the medical front as well, Covid-19 cases in this third surge seem low on criticality than the peaks in April-May and September-October periods. “Cases seem to be less virulent now,” said BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. Her statement is backed by statistics. The proportion of critical patients is, for instance, lower now as compared to September. Only 373 patients are critical in various hospitals of the city. “Most patients seem to be asymptomatic or have a mild infection that can be managed at home,” she said. However, it is these asymptomatic patients who are proving to be difficult to manage. They don’t obey the 14-day quarantine rules and could potentially spread the disease. “We have asked housing colonies to complain to us about such residents so that we can transfer them to institutional quarantine facility,” she said. The BMC Covid admission count too appears to support the `non-virulent’ theory. About 54% of the ICU beds are occupied now as against the near 100% occupancy during the previous surges. “Beds in private sector Covid hospitals are full, but BMC has more than adequate unoccupied beds,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a senior endocrinologist with Lilavati Hospital, who is a member of the state task force on Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-spread-even-in-mumbai-most-areas-see-7-day-rise-of-below-500/articleshow/81456472.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Drunk pillion falls off, dies in rash bike ride in Mumbai||Mumbai: A 24-year-old, Ankur Ojha, was arrested by the police on Wednesday for rash, negligent and drunk driving. Two friends, Ankur Ojha and Yash Vania lived in the western suburbs. They set out on the bike for an outing on Tuesday night and got drunk, police said. Around 12.15am, they took the MTNL flyover to go from Dindoshi in Malad East to Malad West. “Ojha was riding in a zig-zag manner which caused Vania to lose his balance and fall on the bridge. He hit his head and started bleeding. Ojha did not suffer serious injuries as he was wearing a helmet,” the officer said. Vania succumbed to his injuries before reaching the hospital. Police summoned both families. Ojha was later arrested. A police constable pressed charges against him under IPC and Motor Vehicles Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/drunk-pillion-falls-off-dies-in-rash-bike-ride-in-mumbai/articleshow/81457101.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||Survey of fishermen living near high tide line on cards||Panaji: The fishery planning committee (FPC) constituted by the state government has been tasked to undertake a detailed survey of the CRZ belt within 100m to 200m from the high tide line to identify housing needs and land ownership of traditional fishing community. Individual proposals from the traditional fishermen for construction of dwelling units in the CRZ belt will be permitted on priority, based on the survey, according to director of environment and climate change, Dashrath Redkar. The state government shall notify fishing villages wherein foreshore facilities, he said in a notification issued on Thursday. The committee has to complete the exercise in 60 days. The FPC is also mandated to study the genuine needs of the major fishing villages in terms of the facilities needed and prepare indicative plan for the same, duly superimposed on the respective cadastral scale village CRZ maps. The survey will help in identification of fishermen houses in fishing wards, existing fishing infrastructure, need for additional infrastructure, location of net mending sheds, canoes, etc, with the assistance of taluka level committees constituted by the department. The FPC consists of representatives of GCZMA, directorate of fisheries and “three knowledgeable representative of the fishermen community,” the notification stated. The committee headed by the director of environment, has the following as members: Henrique D’Mello (Goenche Ramponkaracho Ekvott), Ashok Dhuri (Akhil Goa Kashtraiya Pagui Samaj), C Chodankar (Fishermen Cooperative Association) and representative of directorate of fisheries. FPC was constituted based on the recommendation of the state-level committee set up earlier for preparing a draft plan titled –Comprehensive plan for fishermen community living in CRZ In the draft plan, the committee has recommended that the dwelling units of fishermen community can be considered for regularization as per Clause 6(d) of the CRZ Notification, 2011. It also recommedned to regularise dwelling units located within 200 to 500m and to permit maximum possible extension of their units in accordance to the TCP regulations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/survey-of-fishermen-living-near-high-tide-line-on-cards/articleshow/81456214.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Lucknow||Sahni stars in Central Cricket Club’s win over Lucknow Colts||Fazal Khan Lucknow: Central Cricket Club defeated Lucknow Colts CC by 81 runs to enter the finals of the 2nd Gaurav Mehta Memorial Cricket Tournament at Aryavart College Ground on Thursday. Batting first, Central Cricket Club scored 176 runs at the loss of 9 wickets in stipulated 35 overs. Yash Sahni scored 55 in 56 balls (7 boundaries) while Priyanshu Pandey contributed 29 runs in 25 balls (1 sixer and 3 boundaries). Kshitiz Tripathi claimed 3 wickets giving away 40 runs. In reply, Lucknow Colts were all out for 95 runs in 19.3 overs. Subhash Kumar scored 29 runs off 28 balls. Yash claimed three scalps giving away 24 runs and was named man of the match for his all-round performance. Brief Score: Central Cricket Club: 176/9 (Yash Sahni 55, Kshitiz 3-40); Lucknow Colts: 95 all out (Subhash 29, Yash 3-24) ACC beat Global Stars by 9 wkts Annapurna Cricket Club defeated Global Stars by 9 wickets in a league match of the Mumtaz Begum Khan Memorial Cricket Tournament at KD Singh Babu Stadium. Abhinesh Yati of Annapurna Club was adjudged the man of the match for his seven-wicket haul. Brief score: Global Stars: 27/9 (Amar Chandra 11, Siddharth 6; Abhinesh 7-3) Annapurna: 28/1 (Chandan 14, Arunesh 14; Satyam 1-10) Dhruv Sports decimate Lucknow White with 327-run win Dhruv Sports Promotion registered a spectacular 327-run victory over Lucknow White Cricket Club in the Leela Ghosh Memorial Cricket tournament at GP Ground on Thursday. Dhruv's Sidhhant scored a century (106) in just 49 balls while Amit and Pranav scored 84 and 80 runs respectively to help their team pile up 401 runs at the loss of wickets. Aman was declared the man of the match for his unbeaten 68-run knock and claiming four wickets. In reply, Lucknow White were all out for meagre 74 runs. Brief Score: Dhruv Promotion: 401/7 Siddhant 106, Amit 84, Pranav 80; Abhishek 2-81) Lucknow white: 74 all out (Shivam 22; Aman 4-12, Harshit 3-8).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sahni-stars-in-central-cricket-clubs-win-over-lucknow-colts/articleshow/81457088.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: In 3 cases of Pocso, accused get ten years’ rigorous imprisonment each||Mumbai: In separate cases of sexual assault on teenage girls, three special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act courts on Thursday convicted and sentenced the perpetrators to 10 years’ rigorousimprisonment each. A 15-year-old was sexually assaulted by her stepfather and a 13-year-old was raped by a man from the neighbourhood. In both cases the conviction came despite the girls turning hostile in court and not supporting the prosecution’s cases. In the third case, special judge Bharti V Kale found a 24-year-old driver guilty of sexually assaulting a 15-year-old relative when he stayed with her family for a week in 2018. He was also fined Rs25,000, of which Rs20,000 will be given to the survivor as compensation after the end of the appeal period. Special public prosecutor Geeta Sharma conducted the trial in the three cases. In the case of the teenager being assaulted by a man in her neighbourhood, the prosecution said on June 27, 2018, the child had gone to meet friends, when he offered her Rs50. He took her behind a tempo and allegedly sexually assaulted her. When the child cried in pain, the accused allegedly fled. Another man known to the family found the child crying and took her home. The child informed her family. Finding the 23-year-old AC mechanic guilty, special judge M A Baraliya also fined him Rs30,000, which if recovered, will be paid to the child as compensation. Special judge Jayshri R Pulate found the 30-year-old stepfather, a scrap-picker, guilty for sexually assaulting his minor stepdaughter and fined him Rs2,000. He has been out on bail and the court directed that he be taken into custody. An FIR was lodged after a social worker complained in 2016 about the sexual assault. The social worker interceded through a neighbour, and the child told her about the abuse and begged for protection from heinous acts. The child allegedly told them he threatened to kill her if she disclosed the incident to anyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-in-3-cases-of-pocso-accused-get-ten-years-rigorous-imprisonment-each/articleshow/81456274.cms||Rebecca Samervel
March 12, 2021||Pune||MPSC exam postponed 4th time, students protest||Pune: The Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) examination scheduled on Sunday March 14 has once again been postponed until further notice, upsetting several candidates across the state. This is the fourth time the exam, which was scheduled last year, has been postponed. After a day-long agitation staged by aspirants in Pune and other places in the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that the exam should be conducted within the next eight days and the new date should be announced on Friday. The CM’s decision, however, did not go down well with the aspirants as they demanded that the exam be conducted on the scheduled day itself. Those participating in the agitation said many candidates had reached their allotted centres in the city 3-4 days ago. They said the decision to postpone the exam was unfair and that their careers were at stake. A massive crowd of around 3,000 candidates gathered on Shastri Road, the hub of coaching classes for competitive exams in Pune, on Thursday afternoon soon after the postponement was announced. The crowd blocked the area from Nath Pai chowk on the road to Bharat petrol pump. The police had to divert traffic as the road was blocked for nearly three hours. Students shouted slogans against the commission. Police authorities most of the protesters were from outside Pune, who were preparing for the exam in the city. Pune has nearly 2.5 lakh candidates who prepare annually for the competitive exams. The candidates largely come from the Vidarbha and Marathwada regions as well as from western Maharashtra and rural parts of Pune district. Minister of state for education Bachhu Kadu said, “The exam has been postponed considering the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra. Aspirants are protesting on the streets and their demand is legitimate. I have had a word with higher education minister Uday Samant and we will soon meet the chief minister in this regard.” BJP leader Gopichand Padalkar was at the protest site since afternoon and stayed there till late evening, demanding that the exam be conducted on the scheduled date. “I will not move from this place till justice is done to the candidates and their careers. The candidates are preparing since long and they must get their due,” he said. Candidates said that all their preparation for the examination, which was barely two days away, would go waste. The MPSC stated that the rise in Covid-19 cases and restrictions imposed by district authorities forced them to postpone the exam. The MPSC issued a notification on Thursday stating, “The MPSC prelim was scheduled on March 14, however, the disaster management department in a letter on March 10, has informed that the Covid spread is increasing in Maharashtra. Many district administrations have imposed several restrictions as per their local situation. Hence, it was not possible to conduct the MPSC exam.” The candidates were backed by student unions of various political parties. The unions supported the candidates’ demand to conduct the exam as scheduled. Youth Congress member Hanumant Pawar, who was part of the agitation, said, “Lakhs of students overcome several hurdles to prepare for the examination. The exam is only two days away and the notification about postponement was issued. This is like playing with the careers of many aspirants. The exam must take place on the scheduled day and time with all necessary precautions for Covid-19 safety.” Kalpesh Yadav of Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena said, “The decision shows the commission’s negligence. They are ill-prepared, and they have no idea how students would suffer due to this irresponsible decision.” QUOTES If this exam is postponed, the following exams will also be pushed ahead. We really do not want this. The decision was taken in haste. The careers and lives of students is at stake — Avinash Jadhav | mpsc aspirant from ahmednagar The last exam was conducted in 2018. After that, the exam has been postponed so many times, it’s frustrating and extremely exhausting to keep preparing for the exams. As the exams near, the postponement decision is taken — Rajesh Dudhe, mpsc aspirant from aurangabad Recently, the online JEE exam was conducted but students had to go to the centres to give the exam. It was done successfully, and Covid-19 safety should not be the reason for postponement. The government must explore better ways to conduct the exam — Surabhi Bade | mpsc aspirant from pune The biggest issue with frequent postponement of exam is increasing age of candidates attempting the exam. There is an age limit and these candidates who are on the brink have given multiple attempts and have the last one left and this exam is getting postponed. This will be a last chance for many candidates and may lead to massive depression and may lead to mental breakdown if their chance is snatched by the government — Vivek Shelar | mpsc aspirant from pune||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mpsc-exam-postponed-4th-time-students-protest/articleshow/81456242.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
March 12, 2021||Bareilly||Sambhal woman records video saying she wants to end life over dowry harassment, 7 booked||BAREILLY: A woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Sambhal district on Wednesday recorded a video message and made it public on social media, alleging that she was being mentally tortured by her husband and in-laws for dowry and not giving birth to a boy.  In the video, the woman — in her late 20s and the mother of a five-year-old daughter — purportedly says that she is “unable to bear the mental stress” and wants to end her life. “My husband, a businessman, and in-laws will be held responsible for it,” she added. The woman also urged UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to take cognizance of the matter. As the video went viral, Sambhal police swung into action and promptly reached out to the victim through Twitter and then registered an FIR against the woman’s husband and six others. “My husband and his family have been demanding Rs 10 lakh cash and a car. They also keep torturing me for not giving birth to a boy. My mother, a widow, had somehow arranged Rs 2 lakh and handed it over to them, but the harassment continued. On March 8, they pushed me and my daughter out of the house, saying we would be allowed to enter the house only when we get the remaining amount of Rs 8 lakh and a car,” alleged the woman in her complaint to police. Accusing her husband of forcing her to abort twice, the woman alleged, “He often beats me up and threatens with triple talaq. His sister and mother even tried to kill me by giving food laced with poison.” Confirming the incident, Sambhal superintendent of police Chakresh Mishra said, “Acting promptly, Sambhal police got in touch with the distressed woman and then registered an FIR against seven people. A probe has been ordered. Meanwhile, the women’s medical examination is being conducted and she is being counselled.” An FIR was registered against seven accused — including the woman’s husband, parents-in-law, and brother in law — under sections 498A (husband or a relative of husband subjecting her to cruelty), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 377 (unnatural offences) and 323 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 3 (penalty for giving or taking dowry) and 4 (penalty for demanding dowry) of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 at Chandausi police station, said police. The Sambhal incident came almost a fortnight after Ahmedabad resident Ayesha Banu had recorded a video message, accusing her husband of harassment and then ended her life by jumping into the Sabarmati river on February 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/now-sambhal-woman-records-video-saying-she-wants-to-end-life-over-dowry-harassment-7-booked/articleshow/81453556.cms||Maria Khan
March 12, 2021||Trichy||Valarmathi’s poor rapport with cadre cost her seat||Trichy: The AIADMK’s decision not to renominate S Valarmathi, minister for backward classes and minorities welfare, from Srirangam in the assembly election was not surprising as she had kept a low profile even as minister and was not accessible for cadres. She had however sought ticket from Kulithalai as well, but the party chose not to field her. Valarmathi belongs to the Muthuraja community which is in majority in the constituency. Though this was a reason why she was offered a party ticket in the 2015 assembly bypoll, she didn’t show interest in garnering the support of AIADMK cadre. Starting her career as a Trichy corporation councillor from Srirangam, she was given ticket from there after incumbent MLA and former chief minister J Jayalalithaa was imprisoned in the disproportionate assets case. She was offered the seat again next year in the assembly election and was also made minister by Jayalalithaa. “Despite being MLA for six years, she doesn’t enjoy the support of her party cadres in the constituency and local functionaries were not sure of her chances if given the seat,” said a senior party member. Former agriculture minister and party veteran Ku Pa Krishnan could manage to get the seat this time as anticipated.es.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/valarmathis-poor-rapport-with-cadre-cost-her-seat/articleshow/81456245.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Delhi||‘Submit report on seizure of mobile’||New Delhi: Delhi government has sought a report from the director general of Delhi prisons regarding seizure of a mobile phone from Tihar Jail, after police approached prison authorities in connection with the Mukesh Ambani bomb scare probe.  Tihar Jail authorities have seized a mobile phone, which is suspected to have been used for operating a Telegram channel used to claim responsibility for terror acts/ threats, Delhi Police said on Friday. Home minister Satyendar Jain told reporters that a probe had been ordered into the matter and action would be taken against anyone found guilty. He has also written to the DG (Prisons) and sought a report about seizure of a mobile phone from the jail. On Thursday, a senior Mumbai Police official said a Telegram channel through which an organisation named Jaish-ul-Hind had claimed responsibility for placing an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Ambani's residence in Mumbai last month was “created in the Tihar” area of Delhi. Delhi Police’s Special Cell had approached the Tihar Jail administration on Thursday after the new angle emerged. pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/submit-report-on-seizure-of-mobile/articleshow/81475410.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Vadodara||56 new cases, equal number discharged||Vadodara: As many as 56 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the city and district on Thursday even as an equal number of patients were discharged. The number of persons who have tested positive in the city and district since the pandemic began now stands at 25,252.The new cases were detected from 2,448 tests conducted in the city and district. Since Monday, the number of new cases has remained above 50 cases a day. This had been in the 40s for almost a month before the cases started rising again.According to data shared by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), the number of active cases in the city and district now stands at 602. These include 479 persons in a stable condition and 85 on oxygen support. As many as 38 Covid-19 patients were either on ventilators or BIPAP machines. With no fresh deaths being reported in the city, the toll due to the pandemic remained at 242.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/56-new-cases-equal-number-discharged/articleshow/81454260.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Trichy||Two held for raping pregnant woman||Pudukottai: Two people were arrested on Thursday for raping of a 24-year-old pregnant woman with learning disabilities in Pudukottai. Search is on for a senior citizen in this regard. According to police, the woman who got married five months ago, and was three months pregnant, was living with her parents and husband. The incident took place on March 3, when the woman’s husband was away for work, while her parents had gone to the PDS shop. The senior citizen, who was the woman’s relative came to her house and took her to the accused’s place, who were also her relatives and living near her house. The accused then raped her one after the other. The woman did not reveal this to her parents or husband until she developed health complications on Wednesday. Based on the complaint from her father, a case was registered. According to the investigation officer, though the accused claimed that they did not commit the crime, it was established during investigation that the senior citizen took her to their house on that day, which was confirmed by locals. The woman has been sent for medical examination. The woman is getting monthly maintenance allowance from the differently abled welfare department, while her husband is also intellectually challenged. A case has been booked under section 376 (L) (commits rape on a woman suffering from mental or physical disability) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of IPC against the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-held-for-raping-pregnant-woman/articleshow/81456241.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Postcards feature 10 science institutes||Hyderabad: Now, images of the city’s 10 premier scientific research institutions can be found on postcards. Telangana Postal Department has released innovative post cards titled ‘picture postcards’ based on the city’s ten premier scientific research institutions. The Postal Department has taken up the initiative citing these institutions’ contributions towards research and innovations, helping the development of the nation on an international stage. The ten institutions include National Institute of Nutrition (NIN), Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI), Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD), National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC), National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM), National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education And Research (NIPER) and International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT). Telangana Circle chief postmaster general, S Rajendra Kumar released the picture postcards at a programme held at Dak Sadan, Abids, in the presence of heads of all the institutions concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/postcards-feature-10-science-institutes/articleshow/81457092.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Ranchi||Air quality monitoring in real time to debut in 3 cities||Ranchi: The state urban development department is all set to start real-time monitoring of ambient air quality in three cities — Dhanbad, Ranchi and Jamshedpur. The project would be rolled out in the municipal areas of Ranchi and Dhanbad, and in areas under the Mango Municipal Corporation, Jugsalai Nagar Parishad and Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee in the Steel City. Talking to TOI, the director of State Urban Development Authority (SUDA), Amit Kumar, said: “We have sent a proposal to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for real-time monitoring of ambient air quality. The plan includes installation of ambient air quality monitors at different locations and also steps to improve the air quality.” Kumar further said that they have already received the nod for Dhanbad and their proposal for Ranchi and Jamshedpur is also expected to be approved within the next few days. According to the proposal that has been submitted to the CPCB through the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB), a total of eight monitoring systems will be installed — including five automatic and three manual machines — in each city. Asked about the steps that are being considered by SUDA to improve air quality, Kumar said: “We have held discussions with experts, who are assisting us on the project. The Center for Study of Science, Technology and Policy (CSTEP) has also been roped in. Initially, we will focus on real-time monitoring of ambient air quality.” Kumar added that they also have plans to control the sources of air pollution, increase green patches across municipal limits, strengthen urban infrastructure and promote use of clean fuel. “We will procure road sweeping machines and install water sprinklers to suppress the dust in stretches affected by mining activities. The construction of pucca roads and improvement of arterial roads will also ease congestion, and thereby reduce pollution,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/air-quality-monitoring-in-real-time-to-debut-in-3-cities/articleshow/81454919.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 12, 2021||Ranchi||Kisan mahapanchayats across J’khand in run up to Bharat bandh||Ranchi: The Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvaya Samiti (JRKSSS) is planning to hold kisan mahapanchayats across the state ahead of the Bharat bandh called by Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) later this month to ensure the strike’s success. “Our organization will gear up for the nationwide protest by holding kisan mahapanchyats across the state. The Bharat bandh will be historic day in Jharkhand,” JRKSSS convenor Sufal Mahto said on Thursday. JRKSSS has already held meetings to discuss ways to make the strike a success. Besides the Bharat bandh on March 26, SKM has planned an array of activities this month to register their protest against the central farm laws. On March 19, SKM and its affiliated units will hold demonstrations at local markets “to save agriculture”. Farmers from across the country will gather at the Delhi borders to mark the martyrdom day of Shahid Bhagat Singh on March 23. On March 28, the farmers would burn copies of the new farm laws. Mahto said that JRKSSS will conduct a meeting to decide whether to send farmers from Jharkhand to Delhi for the March 23 programme. He added, “In either case the farmers will hold marches across the state to mark the martyrdom of Bhagat Singh.” Trade unions affiliated to the Left parties will also support the Bharat bandh. Prakash Viplav, who is the state general secretary of Centre of Indian Trade Unions, said, “The unions will hold a massive demonstration near the Governor’s house in support of the bandh.” Meanwhile, farm bodies and trade unions are also preparing for the joint protest called by SKM and the trade unions against the privatization of PSUs, corporatization, labour law amendments and rising unemployment on March 15. The general secretary of All India Trade Union Congress P K Ganguly said that farmers and traders will hold a joint protest across 100 railway stations in Jharkhand. The trade unions have also extended support to the two-day bank strike which would be followed by a countrywide insurance strike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/kisan-mahapanchayats-across-jkhand-in-run-up-to-bharat-bandh/articleshow/81455206.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Ranchi||US Congressman raises Fr Stan issue||RANCHI: US representative Juan Vargas has urged US secretary of state Antony J Blinken to take up the matter of octogenarian Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy, who is in Tajola jail in Maharashtra on charges of terrorism, with the Indian government as part of US foreign policy. Blinken has assured the Congressman to look into the matter. Rep. Vargas, a Democrat who represents the San Diego region in the US Congress, raised the issue before the foreign affairs committee that held a hearing on President Joe Biden administration’s priorities for the US foreign policy on Wednesday. Raising the issue, Vargas said Swamy was arrested from Bagaicha (in Jharkhand), a Jesuit action centre in India on October 8, 2020, by the National Investigation Agency for “instigating violence at Bhima Koregaon near Pune in 2017”. Vargas said, “He has been imprisoned for more than 130 days on a completely unfounded charge. It’s absolutely ridiculous that he is a Maoist. He is a Jesuit, he is 83 years old and very sick. I did talk to the India ambassador who was working into this and I hope you are looking into it. It’s incredible injustice.” A video clip of the committee hearing was tweeted by the US representative and was shared by the Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, which has been mobilizing support for the ailing Jesuit. The Mahasabha members said they have been running campaigns for the release of Swamy and also appealed to people to participate in a postcard campaign to write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his release. “Father Stan is one among the several people arrested on charges of being involved in the Elgar Parishad case and the matter has already hogged international headlines,” a member of the Mahasabha said. Auxiliary Arch Bishop of Ranchi Theodore Mascarenhas said that three cardinals had met Modi in January this year and appealed to him to look into the matter. “We have been appealing for Stan’s release because nothing could be found against him by the NIA till date and we believe that he was falsely implicated,” he said, adding that he was glad that the was matter being raised by a US representative. Vargas’ raising of the issue coincides with the hearing of bail petition of Swamy filed before the special NIA court in Maharashtra on Thursday but was deferred for March 16 after the lawyers sought time to respond to the fresh documents filed by the NIA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/us-congressman-raises-fr-stan-issue/articleshow/81455148.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
March 12, 2021||Ranchi||Oraon becomes 1st J’khand min to take Cov jab||Ranchi: Finance minister Rameshwar Oraon became the first cabinet member of the Hemant Soren government to take the Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday. Seventy-four-year-old Oraon, who is also the state Congress president, took his first dose of Covishield vaccine at a city-based private nursing home at Bariatu in the morning. After taking the shot in the second phase which started on March 1 and meant for 60-year-old people and above along with those who are 45 and above with co-morbidities, the minister appealed to others in the age-groups to take the vaccine without any hesitancy. He said, “The vaccine is completely safe. I didn’t feel any problem and I appeal to all who are registered as beneficiaries to take the vaccine in the interest of their health and overall well-being of the country.” Oraon was among half-a-dozen ministers in the 11-member Soren cabinet who had tested positive for Covid-19 since its outbreak in the state in March last year. Others who were infected by the virus included Banna Gupta (health), Mithilesh Thakur (water resources), Badal Patralekh (agriculture), Jagarnnath Mahto (education) and Haji Hussain Ansari (minority welfare). While Mahto recovered from the disease after a double-lung transplant, Hussain had died of post-Covid complications last year. Earlier this year, his son, Hafizul Hassan was inducted into the state cabinet in place of his father. So far, only a handful of lawmakers have taken the vaccine. Those who have taken the vaccine since March 1 included BJP MP from Ranchi, Sanjay Seth; the party Ranchi MLA CP Singh and NCP MLA from Hussainabad Kamlesh Singh. Governor Droupadi Murmu, too, took the vaccine at the sadar hospital on Tuesday while Jharkhand high court Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan did so on Wednesday. Oraon’s cabinet colleague and Congress’s MLA from Pakur, Alamgir Alam, said he will take the vaccine next week. “I have come to my home district (Pakur) on Thursday and plan to take vaccine after I return next week before heading to Bengal for the election campaign,” he told TOI over the phone. Congress is also appealing to all party workers and supporters in the age groups to take the vaccine. Party spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “We have already issued appeals to all within the party to take the vaccine and encourage others to do so to improve coverage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/oraon-becomes-1st-jkhand-min-to-take-cov-jab/articleshow/81454938.cms||ASRP Mukesh
March 12, 2021||Ranchi||Babadham, Basukinath chock-a-block with lakhs of Mahashivratri devotees||Dumka: Nearly two lakh devotees thronged the Baidyanath Dham temple in Deoghar on the occasion of Mahashivratri on Thursday. The district officials, including deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri, kept a strict vigil throughout the day to make sure that the Covid-control measures were not violated. Asked about the huge turnout, Bhajantri said, “This time we allowed the devotees to offer sparsh puja which was prohibited during last year’s Shravani Mela due to Covid. But we made sure that elaborate security arrangements were made to tackle the rush without any difficulties.” He added, “The devotees were barred from giving offerings at the temple and we made sure only those wearing masks were allowed inside. Each and every visitor was made to go through sanitisation and thermal scanning before entry.” The ceremonial Shiv Barat was cancelled for the first time since it was introduced 27 years ago owing to the pandemic, Bhajantri said. One Jairam Kumar, who came all the way from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, said, “I couldn’t come here last year during Shravani Mela due to Covid but I am happy that I could offer puja on Shivratri.” Similar scenes prevailed in Basukinath Dham, another famous Shiva temple in Dumka district, as the temple was chock-a-block with visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/babadham-basukinath-chock-a-block-with-lakhs-of-mahashivratri-devotees/articleshow/81454980.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Goa||Agri dept to encourage farmers in state to grow turmeric, cabbage and strawberry crops||Panaji: In a step towards becoming self-sufficient, the state agriculture department has decided to boost the cultivation of three unlikely crops — turmeric, strawberry and cabbage. A senior agriculture official said these crops have tremendous potential that would translate into several advantages for farmers in the state. “Turmeric is the future crop of Goa. Once processed, it is non-perishable and can be stored in powder form for many months. Farmers can even package and sell it,” the official said. Incidentally, the Pratibha variety of turmeric grows without much effort in Goa, is not attacked by wild animals and is even unpalatable for cattle. According to the agriculture department, Goa brings about 300 tonne of cabbage from outside the state. Department officials said this quantity could be reduced considering that the crop grows well in Goa. “This could have some impact on the local level,” an official said. “Strawberry, too, has a good market in Goa. Current production is good and we will able to meet the local demand for this fruit. It requires a cool climate so it can be grown in Saljini,” the official added. TOI had earlier reported that the fruit is being successfully grown in parts of Goa In a bid to encourage farmers to take up cultivation of these crops, awareness meets are being carried out by zonal agricultural officers. They are also guiding farmers on where to source the seeds from for sowing. “However, climate-based crops such as these are easily affected by sudden rain showers or fluctuations in winter temperatures. As we cannot predict the climate, farmers must be very attentive while growing these crops.” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/agri-dept-to-encourage-farmers-in-state-to-grow-turmeric-cabbage-and-strawberry-crops/articleshow/81456299.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Ranchi||Garhwa examination centres for matric, intermediate increased||Garhwa: The Garhwa district will have more matriculation and intermediate examination centres this year to provide proper social distancing and other Covid safety norms, the administration said on Thursday. According to the administration officials, the district will have 46 centres for matriculation examination and 15 centres for intermediate examination. Last year, there were 34 centres for matriculation and 13 for intermediate examination. A total of 19,022 examinees will sit for matriculation and 7,979 candidates for the intermediate examination in the district. Deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Pathak said, "Adhering to the Covid protocols we have added 12 more centres for matriculation and two for intermediate this year.” Pathak said he has instructed the district education department to ensure proper facilities of toilets, electricity and drinking water at all examination centres so that the examinees don’t face any difficulty. The Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) will hold this year’s matriculation and intermediate examinations in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/garhwa-examination-centres-for-matric-intermediate-increased/articleshow/81456605.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Ranchi||Civic body notice for 13 Chas banquet halls||BOKARO: As many as 13 banquet halls were served notices by the Chas Municipal Corporation (CMC) on Thursday for operating without proper registration. The owners have been asked to acquire the necessary documents within a week, otherwise they necessary action will be taken against them under relevant sections of the Jharkhand Municipal Act, 2011,” CMC’s executive officer Vivek Suman said. The 13 halls include Sai Mandap Taranagar, All Heaven Banquet, Shugam Mandap, Jalsa Banquet, Kohinoor Place, Nargis Village, Sabir Marriage Hall, Gujarati Dharamshala, Begum Badshah Marriage Hall, Marwari Panchayat, Shehnai Marriage Hall, R K Garden and Deepjali Palace. Suman said that no marriage hall will be allowed to operate inside a residential complex. “If anyone caught doing so will be penalised,” he added. Meanwhile, Suman held a meeting to discuss the cleanliness survey 2021 where he asked all zonal officials to keep their respective zones clean. In order to improve Chas’s ranking, CMC has roped in a private agency named Chas Invero Private Limited to work in a planned manner. Suman also directed all the apartments to keep dustbins so that the garbage collector vans can pick them easily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/civic-body-notice-for-13-chas-banquet-halls/articleshow/81456577.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Ranchi||Hemant demands probe into assault on Mamata||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday sought a high-level probe into the alleged attack on his West Bengal counterpart, Mamata Banerjee, in Nandigram on Wednesday even as her detractors have dubbed the incident as “stage-managed” to gain sympathy ahead of the first phase of assembly elections in the neighbouring state on March 27. Expressing concern over the attack, Soren tweeted, “Concerned & disturbed to know about the foot injury & hospitalisation of @MamataOfficial Didi during her election campaign in Nandigram. A high-level investigation should be conducted to identify those behind this incident & punished. I wish her a speedy and healthy recovery.” Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party president Arvind Kejriwal had also joined the chorus in condemning the attack on Banerjee. In a tweet, Kejriwal wrote, “I strongly condemn the attack on Mamata Didi. Those responsible should be immediately arrested and punished. I pray for her speedy recovery.” Soren’s party JMM had made a U-turn from its earlier stand of putting up candidates in Bengal in the upcoming election after persuasion by NCP president Sharad Pawar and RJD working president Tejashwi Yadav. Even though JMM is yet to make a formal announcement on its support to Banerjee and her party Trinamool Congress, sources in the tribal party said Soren will now campaign for Banerjee in the first two phases of the eigh-phased election. “The dates for Soren’s campaign in Bengal are being worked out,” a JMM functionary said. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said the party will issue a formal announcement soon. “JMM will soon clear its stand on Bengal polls,” he said. Meanwhile, Banerjee is currently in hospital after sustaining multiple leg injuries following Wednesday’s attack soon after her filing nomination papers in Nandigram, which is among the 30 seats to go for polls in the second phase on April 1. She had alleged that a group of people had slammed the door of her SUV while trying to get into the vehicle causing injuries to her left leg, chest, shoulder and hip. The incident also triggered a political storm. Her detractors and opponents called it a “stage-managed accident”. BJP, the main challenger in the high-octane poll battle, termed it as foul play by the ruling dispensation and demanded a thorough probe by the Election Commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-demands-probe-into-assault-on-mamata/articleshow/81456590.cms||ASRP Mukesh
March 12, 2021||Ranchi||More vax centres, transport facilities for elderly on anvil||Ranchi: In order to speed up the vaccination drive in Jharkhand, the state health department is planning to increase vaccination centres in rural areas and extend transportation facilities to beneficiaries facing difficulties in reaching the centres. Talking to TOI, the MD of the state unit of National Health Mission (NHM), Ravi Shankar Shukla, said: “Earlier, we took the help of mass media to improve the rate of vaccination. Now, we will also conduct plays and rope in self-help groups to spread the word on the vaccination drive.” Meanwhile, sources in the health department also confirmed that the turnout in rural areas was less in comparison to urban areas. “We have decided to extend vaccination facilities to the primary healthcare centres. In order to ensure adequate manpower at these centres, we will increase our pool of vaccinators as well,” Shukla said. The step to increase vaccination sites comes after the Union health ministry asked states, including Jharkhand, to increase their vaccination coverage. The nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination programme in Jharkhand, Dr Ajit Prasad, said: “We have to increase the vaccination coverage in rural areas if we have to improve the rate of immunisation. At present, we have a little over 400 session sites and this figure has to go up.” The state health department is also planning to provide transport facilities to elderly beneficiaries in rural areas. “We have directed the local authorities to provide transportation to elderly beneficiaries if they aren’t able to make it on their own to to vaccination centres. However, the arrangement is completely based on requirement as well as on local conditions,” a senior official of the health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/more-vax-centres-transport-facilities-for-elderly-on-anvil/articleshow/81456599.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 12, 2021||Ranchi||31 new Covid cases, 40 recoveries, zero deaths in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand reported 31 new cases of Covid-19 and 40 recoveries while no casualties were recorded on Thursday. The number of active cases dipped slightly from 520 on Wednesday to 511. As many as 9,896 people took their first dose of the vaccine. Of them, 5,996 were senior citizens, 2,251 between 45 and 59 years of age with comorbidities and 1,649 were health and frontline workers. As many as 6,443 health and frontline workers took their second dose. As per government data, 1,13,001 health and frontline workers have taken their second dose so far, making up 70% of the target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/31-new-cov-cases-40-recoveries-zero-deaths-in-jharkhand/articleshow/81456586.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||Passenger falls into platform gap at Vasco, rescued by RPF cop||Vasco: A railway police force head constable became a hero overnight after he saved the life of a passenger who got caught between the platform and a running train. The incident took place at 7.15pm on Thursday. The passenger, who was boarding the Vasco Da Gama-Patna Superfast Express Special at Vasco railway station’s platform 1 one, slipped into the gap between the platform and the train. Head constable K M Patil, who was on duty at the platform witnessed the incident and rushed to help him, quickly pulling the passenger to safety. The incident was captured on CCTV. Divisional manger, Hubballi, Arvind Malkhede appreciated Patil’s presence of mind which helped save the passenger’s life. The passenger ,who was boarding the Vasco Da Gama-Patna Superfast Express Special at Vasco railway station’s platform 1, slipped into the gap between the platform and the train||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/passenger-falls-into-platform-gap-at-vasco-rescued-by-rpf-cop/articleshow/81456483.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Goa||Passenger falls into platform gap at Vasco, rescued by RPF cop||Vasco: A railway police force head constable became a hero overnight after he saved the life of a passenger who got caught between the platform and a running train. The incident took place at 7.15pm on Thursday. The passenger, who was boarding the Vasco Da Gama-Patna Superfast Express Special at Vasco railway station’s platform 1 one, slipped into the gap between the platform and the train. Head constable K M Patil, who was on duty at the platform witnessed the incident and rushed to help him, quickly pulling the passenger to safety. The incident was captured on CCTV. Divisional manger, Hubballi, Arvind Malkhede appreciated Patil’s presence of mind which helped save the passenger’s life. The passenger ,who was boarding the Vasco Da Gama-Patna Superfast Express Special at Vasco railway station’s platform 1, slipped into the gap between the platform and the train||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/passenger-falls-into-platform-gap-at-vasco-rescued-by-rpf-cop/articleshow/81456539.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||---||West Bengal assembly elections: EC gives stinging reply to TMC ‘allegations’||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission, in a strongly-worded response to TMC’s attempt to link Wednesday’s alleged attack on chief minister Mamata Banerjee with EC’s “taking over law and order machinery in the name of conducting elections” and “summarily” removing the state DGP, called the “insinuations and averments” unfortunate. The EC said the TMC allegations questioned “the very basis of creation and functioning of the EC”. In a letter written to the party hours after the West Bengal CEO forwarded a TMC memorandum to it, the EC stated while injuries sustained by Banerjee in Nandigram were indeed “an unfortunate incident and deserves to be inquired into with promptitude and dispatch”, it was completely incorrect to state that the EC had taken over the law and order machinery and appropriated the governance structure. Stating that the EC does not appropriate or take over day-to-day governance of any state, including West Bengal, “which keep on functioning as per the extant rules of business and distribution of work normally approved by the chief minister”, the commission said it “looks undignified even to respond to the allegations of all this being done at the behest of a particular political party”. Citing Article 324 of the Constitution that vests in the EC powers of “superintendence, direction and control of elections”, the EC said the TMC allegations against it virtually tantamount to undermining the “very foundation and fabric of the Constitution of India”. Regarding TMC’s allegations about removal of the DGP, the commission said the transfer was not done without application of mind and it was the outcome of a recommendation from its special observers Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dubey. Even the ADG (law and order) was removed earlier after a similar application of mind, it added. On the state government not being consulted before the replacement of the DGP, the EC said it was not legally necessary or mandatory to consult the state government because these were normally temporary measures for the period of elections. The EC underlined that it had sought a report on the incident involving the CM from the chief secretary and its special observers “immediately” after learning about it from the media. The report is to be submitted by 5pm on Friday. “Till such time the reports are available to the commission it will not be possible to draw any empirical conclusion, let alone start linking it to the removal of earlier DGP Shri Virender,” the EC said. It also noted that an FIR has already been lodged by the relevant authorities in West Bengal to investigate the matter. The EC said the contents of the chief secretary and special observers’ reports on the incident would be shared with all stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/ec-gives-stinging-reply-to-tmc-allegations/articleshow/81458621.cms||Bharti Jain
March 12, 2021||Goa||Passenger falls into platform gap at Vasco, rescued by RPF cop||VASCO: A railway police force head constable became a hero overnight after he saved the life of a passenger who got caught between the platform and a running train. The incident took place at 7.15pm on Thursday. The passenger, who was boarding the Vasco Da Gama-Patna Superfast Express Special at Vasco railway station’s platform 1 one, slipped into the gap between the platform and the train. Head constable K M Patil, who was on duty at the platform witnessed the incident and rushed to help him, quickly pulling the passenger to safety. The incident was captured on CCTV. Divisional manger, Hubballi, Arvind Malkhede appreciated Patil’s presence of mind which helped save the passenger’s life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/passenger-falls-into-platform-gap-at-vasco-rescued-by-rpf-cop/articleshow/81456551.cms||---
March 12, 2021||India||‘We told you so’: Opposition reacts to SC move on NCBC bill||NEW DELHI: In the wake of the Supreme Court’s decision to examine if the bill according Constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) deprives the states of their powers to identify the OBCs and craft policies about them, parliamentarians believe that fears about the 102nd Constitution amendment may be coming true. During the prolonged deadlock over the bill and the debates in Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha on August 2 and 8, 2018, the opposition repeatedly raised red flag over Articles 342A and 338B which lay down that the President will identify the OBCs in states in consultation with the governor, and that states have to consult the NCBC about policies on backward castes. But social justice minister Thaawarchand Gehlot insisted that the rights of states and state backward classes commissions will remain unaffected. After the apex court order this week, senior BJD member in LS Bhartruhari Mahtab told TOI, “We repeatedly alerted the government that the bill will take away the powers of states to identify and legislate on OBCs. Our apprehensions have come true. Now, we expect the government to fight the case with full force to safeguard the rights of states.” The controversial bill was stuck in the Upper House for many months, was even amended by the opposition there in 2017, and later on referred to the select committee headed by BJP leader Bhupender Yadav. In LS debate, Mahtab repeatedly underlined to the minister, “please see the Clause 3 (9)” of 338B — “The Union and every state government shall consult the NCBC on all major policy matters affecting the SEBCs.” He asked why should states come to the Centre/NCBC for policies. He also argued that “consultation” may or may not be binding, raising suspicion about subjective interpretation in future. N K Premachandran of RSP (LS) and DMK’s T K S Elangovan (RS) referred to Article 342A that lays down that “The President... after consultation with the governor... may specify SEBCs”. They demanded that “governor” be replaced with “state government”. However, Union social justice ministry dismissed them as “misplaced apprehensions”, arguing that the bill was only about the Central list of OBCs and that as per the Constitution, “consultation with governor means state government”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/we-told-you-so-opposition-reacts-to-sc-move-on-ncbc-bill/articleshow/81458672.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
March 12, 2021||Goa||Don’t take Covid pandemic lightly, warn doctors||PANAJI: Doctors warn people not to take Covid-19 lightly in view of cases rising quickly in neighbouring states and showing a sudden rise in Goa too. “We have to treat Covid-19 as a dangerous disease. We have got to win over the virus by continuing to follow Covid-19 protocol,” Dr Rajesh Patil, nodal officer of South Goa district hospital, said. “The elderly and those with comorbidities must be more careful. Even a mild attack can be quite bad for someone with a pre-existing condition of asthma or diabetes. It varies from individual to individual,” he says. During a pandemic one must have a “high degree of suspicion”, another doctor said. “It could start off as a bodyache, headache, fever, cough, loss of smell or taste, but one must not pass this off. Any symptoms must not be ignored. It’s better to get tested. If you’re negative what do you lose?” he said. If tested positive, treatment can be begin at the right time, the doctor said, while adding that “during a pandemic such as this, one must have a high degree of suspicion and consult a doctor and get tested”. Everyone must take the pandemic seriously, including the young, a physician said. “We cannot say for sure who will suffer a serious outcome of the disease and who will not. There’s no guarantee that Covid-19 won’t prove fatal for someone who’s young irrespective of whether they have comorbidities or not. Everyone has to be careful.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-take-covid-pandemic-lightly-warn-doctors/articleshow/81456578.cms||---
March 12, 2021||India||Govt plans major change in law to make tree felling easier||NEW DELHI: The environment and forest ministry (MoEFCC) has proposed major changes in the Forest Conservation Act to encourage plantation on private land and exempt the owners - both private and government entities - to seek prior permission from the Centre to reap benefits from such plantations. The amendments proposed by the ministry say that no such prior permission would also be needed from the Centre for strategic and security projects and states can grant such permissions to avoid any delay. The proposal for the Cabinet circulated by the MoEFCC has also said rail and road owning agencies should not require fresh clearance for stretches which had been acquired before 1980 (the year the FC Act came in to force) for the projects. The ministry has circulated the proposed FC Amendment Act, 2021 for inter-ministerial consultation highlighting how a Supreme Court judgement of December 12, 1996 has necessitated these changes. It has said till this order was passed, which made it mandatory to seek prior central approval for non-forest use of all “forest” land irrespective of their classification and ownership, the state, UT and central governments used to apply the Act only to the forests notified under the Indian Forest Act, 1927 or any other local law and to forests that were under the management and control of forest departments. It has said there has been “declining tendency” of undertaking plantations in non-forest land by both government and private entities on non-forest land owing to apprehensions that they may face “hindrance in reaping benefits from such plantations due to applicability of the Act” since the SC order. The ministry has proposed that clarity is needed to prescribe the extent of applicability of the FC Act on such lands that are not notified as forest but whose land use was changed prior to the 1996 SC order. The ministry has said that to increase the forest area or tree cover to one-third the land area of the country by 2030 as per the target under national forest policy, it is necessary to undertake massive plantation outside areas recorded as “forest” without creating any encumbrance on the land holders. It has also highlighted how India imports approximately Rs 45,000 crore worth woods. The ministry has suggested it’s necessary to assure all plantations, agro-forestry, afforestation done on lands other than forest after December 31, 2020 would not be covered under the Act and the recording in revenue record of plantation, afforestation on any non-forest land after December 12, 1996 should be outside out of the the purview of the Act to encourage forestry activities including agro-forestry and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-plans-major-change-in-law-to-make-tree-felling-easier/articleshow/81458674.cms||Dipak K Dash
March 12, 2021||India||SI booked for killing rape survivor’s dad||KANPUR: A day after the Kanpur gang-rape survivor’s father was crushed to death by a speeding truck, metres away from the Ghatampur community health centre where his 13-year-old daughter was undergoing medical examination for sexual assault, the policeman whose two sons are accused in the case was booked for murder and suspended on Thursday. Times ViewThe brazen murder of a rape survivor’s father is extremely disturbing. Considering that the accused happens to be a cop, the case must be pursued without any prejudice or slackness. Like Caesar’s wife, the police should be above suspicion.Three other policemen with Sajeti police station were also suspended. Sub-inspector Devendra Yadav, currently posted in neighbouring Kannauj, was charged with murder as he had “engineered the fatal hitand-run on the highway”. Police are trying to zero in on the killer truck and its driver before arresting Devendra. While Devendra’s younger son Deepu, accused of abduction and gang-rape, was arrested in the morning, his elder son Saurabh, who had threatened the survivor’s kin with rape and murder if they go to the police, is still on the run. UP Police have set up five teams and dispatched a SWAT (special weapons and tactics) team to track down Saurabh, said Kanpur SSP Preetinder Singh, adding that prime accused Golu Yadav was nabbed on Wednesday. Family members had alleged in the FIR that Devendra plotted to kill the survivor’s father and make it look like an accident, the SSP said. “A preliminary probe by Ghatampur circle officer Girish Kumar showed that suspended beat in-charge Ram Shiromani of Sajeti police station was guilty of mishandling the rape case. His colleagues SI Abdul Kalam and constable Adesh Kumar were suspended for failing to avert the hit-and-run on the highway. A departmental inquiry has also been launched,” the SSP added. Late on Monday, the girl was returning home from the fields when accused Deepu and Golu abducted her, took her to a desolate spot and raped her, while threatening to kill her if she raised an alarm. The girl somehow managed to return home at night and narrated her ordeal to her family members, who filed a polic ecomplaint on Tuesday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/si-booked-for-killing-rape-survivors-dad/articleshow/81458693.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
March 12, 2021||India||In 1st 3 months of lockdown, urban joblessness hit 20.9%||NEW DELHI: The urban unemployment rate in the country shot up to 20.9% in April-June 2020, the period of the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, latest official data showed. The quarterly periodic labour survey (PLFS) showed the unemployment rate rose in the three months to June last year from 9.1% in the previous quarter (January-March quarter) and 8.9% recorded in the April-June period of 2019. The government had imposed one of the strictest lockdowns to stop the spread of the infection which hurt economic activity and led to job losses in key sectors such as hospitality, airlines, tourism and other segments of the services sector. The PLFS was launched by the National Statistical Office in April, 2017, to estimate the employment and unemployment indicators (worker population ratio, labour force participation rate, unemployment rate) in the short time interval of three months for urban areas only in the current weekly status. Under CWS, a person is considered as unemployed in a week if he/she did not work even for one hour on any day during the reference week but was available for work at least for one hour on any day during the reference week, according to the PLFS. The survey showed that the unemployment rate among males at the all India level for all ages was at 20.8% in the April-June 2020 period, higher than the previous quarter’s 8.7% and above the 8.3% rate in April-June 2019. Among females, it was at 21.2%, higher than the January-March quarter’s 10.5% and above the 11.3% recorded in April-June 2019. The unemployment rate among those in the 15-29 years of age at the all India level was 34.7%, higher than the previous quarter’s 21.1% and above the 21.6% in April-June 2019. The survey showed the labour force participation rate slowed to 35.9% in the April-June quarter of 2020, lower than the previous quarter’s 37.5% and below the 36.2% recorded in April-June 2019. Among males, the rate slowed to 55.5%, lower than the 56.7% in the January-March quarter and below the 56.3% in the April-June quarter of 2019. Among females, it slowed to 15.5% in the three months to June 2020, below the 17.3% in the January-March quarter of 2019. The rate was at 15% in April-June 2019. Labour Force Participation Rate (LFPR) is defined as the percentage of population in the labour force. Maharashtra had the highest urban unemployment rate at 35.6%, followed by Jharkhand 32% and MP at 28.9%. All states recorded double digit urban unemployment rate in the April-June quarter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-1st-3-months-of-lockdown-urban-joblessness-hit-20-9/articleshow/81458695.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||Major parties pull out all stops for high-stake Margao municipal polls||Margao:  for the Margao Municipal Council (MMC) is likely to witness a fierce battle as bigwigs of all major political parties have descended on the battleground and are canvassing for the candidates backed by their respective parties in the high-stake polls. Leader of opposition and Margao MLA Digambar Kamat, BJP general secretary and former Fatorda MLA Damodar Naik, deputy chief minister Manohar Ajgaonkar, and GFP president and Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai are actively involved in drumming up support for their candidates. In the 2015 elections, six candidates were elected from Kamat’s panel, ‘Model Margao’, for the 25-member council, while 11 candidates owing allegiance to Sardesai had emerged victorious. Both Kamat and Sardesai had forged a pre-poll alliance in the 2015 polls, even as a formal announcement about GFP-Congress is likely to be announced soon. The power sharing formula between GFP and Congress had resulted in Sardesai-backed Babita Angle Prabhudesai getting elected as chairperson, and Kamat-backed Dorris Texiera as her deputy. However, following a change in political equations after GFP joined the BJP-led government in 2017, GFP’s Tito Cardozo replaced Texiera as the vice-chairperson, allowing Sardesai to have complete dominion over the Margao municipality. Sardesai managed to assert his supremacy over the council throughout the term despite his ouster from the BJP-led government in July 2019. BJP, which was confined to the opposition benches in the MMC during the last three terms, is also pulling out all stops to gain control over the Margao civic body this time. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, during his recent visit to Margao, had exhorted party workers to work unitedly to bring the council under its belt. “Once we win the municipality elections in Margao, all other issues of the city will get resolved,” he had told the party workers. Naik is leading from the front in Fatorda, posing a challenge to Sardesai, as seen from the recent war of words that erupted on social media between the two arch rivals over development matters, with one accusing the other of having failed to deliver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/major-parties-pull-out-all-stops-for-high-stake-margao-municipal-polls/articleshow/81456793.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
March 12, 2021||India||In new worry, China to build dam near Arunachal border||In what could lead to another flashpoint with India, the Chinese parliament on Thursday adopted the 14th five-year plan that envisages, among projects worth billions of dollars, a controversial hydropower dam on the Brahmaputra river in Tibet, close to the Arunachal Pradesh border. Both India and Bangladesh, lower riparian states, have been concerned about any dam in the lower reaches of the river locally known as Yarlung Zangbo. While it still has to be ascertained if the project will lead to any diversion of water, sources in New Delhi said the government remains engaged with China under the 2006 expert level mechanism, and also through diplomatic channels, on developments related to the Brahmaputra. The proposal for the dam was first reported late last year after which China had said that there was no reason for any anxiety over the project and that Beijing was going to have “good communication” with the lower riparian states. While stating that hydropower development in the lower reaches was China’s legitimate right, China had then also said all such projects went through “science-based planning and assessment” giving full consideration to impact downstream. India had said in December that it was closely following all developments on the Brahmaputra and that the government had consistently conveyed its concerns to Chinese authorities. Reports from Beijing said the National People’s Congress, China’s legislature with over 2,000 members, adopted the plan in the presence of President Xi Jinping, Premier Li Keqiand and other senior leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-new-worry-china-to-build-dam-near-arunachal-border/articleshow/81458706.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||Now, activists spot tree felling at Ajni Van||Nagpur: Activists have alleged that trees are being felled at Ajni Van. The lush green area is the proposed site for inter-modal station (IMS), even though the detailed project report (DPR) is yet to be finalized. Activists, who have been fighting to save these trees, have demanded police action against the perpetrators. A day back, TOI reported open burning of waste on the same land, which is also prohibited by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and Nagpur bench of Bombay high court. On Thursday morning, environmental activist Kunal Mourya went to the spot to take an update on the burning. He was shocked to find evidence of felling of multiple trees. “I saw stumps, felled timber and half-cut trees and branches,” he told TOI. On enquiring with workers, Mourya was informed that an office of IMS is being constructed. “The workers seemed to be from Nagarjun Construction Company, the agency which has been allotted the contract to construct IMS at Ajni by National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Workers of this agency were burning trash since last few days,” added Mourya. While TOI could not contact the agency, environment experts filed a complaint with officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) garden department, who have assured to look into the matter. “After carrying out a joint survey, we submitted a report to NHAI. We have not granted permission to cut trees,” an NMC official said. Activists said NHAI can’t damage property till the project is finalized and all permissions are in place. “The DPR is not ready, environment clearance is missing and Central Railway is yet to hand over the Ajni land. How can the agency start construction work and damage green cover?” said environment activist Anasuya Kale Chhabrani. Activists have demanded urgent filing of First Information Report (FIR) in the case. “What kind of example is being put across? All norms can be flouted just to please politicians? What is the point of having rules and laws? The agency should immediately vacate the place. This is absolute Hitlergiri,” added Kale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-activists-spot-tree-felling-at-ajni-van/articleshow/81454759.cms||Manka Behl
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||‘Fourth wife’ set up sex trap to kill 65-yr-old ‘husband’ for harassing her||Nagpur: Swati Malik alias Swati Sharma, in her 30s, finally broke down and admitted murdering her ‘second husband’, 65-year-old Laxman Malik, after luring him with a sex trap using porn clips, at his rented apartment at Rajat Sankul complex in Ganeshpeth on March 8. It’s learnt Swati was the ‘fourth’ among five women in Malik’s life, and has an eight-year-old son from him.City police cracked the murder of Malik, who has seven children, within 48 hours by arresting Swati on Thursday after she confessed to the murder. Malik had allegedly tried to befriend a minor working at Swati’s boutique, which had led to their separation in 2018. However, he still demanded sex from her as she was enjoying his pension, even though she had married for the third time, and also had a three-month-old boy.Malik, who had taken voluntary retirement from ESIC hospital in 2011, was found dead with deep wounds in the neck, with his hands tied behind him with a handkerchief. He was found seated on a chair.Swati is learnt to have made Malik sit on a chair and tied his hands behind, telling him that she wanted have intercourse in such a position after showing porn clips in her cellphone showing such postures. Police said she had many other sex clips on her cellphone.Cops also said Malik had given her some sweets and grapes for their eight-year-old son’s birthday, after she had reached there with the murder plot in mind.When Malik agreed to for the kinky sex and allowed Swati to tie his hands, she stabbed him repeatedly with a kitchen knife. She waited for him to die before returning home.City police chief Amitesh Kumar said at a press meet Swati was miffed with Malik as he was demanding his pension account’s ATM card back, along with their eight-year-old son since she had now married for the third time. “She (Swati) booked a cab to travel from Gokulpeth to Ganeshpeth, which was confirmed by the driver. Subsequently, we outsmarted her through tactical interrogation,” said the CP.In 2016, Swati had filed an offence at Ambazari police station against Malik’s second wife and one of her male acquaintance, for tying her up in the chair, said police.Swati, after meeting Malik around a decade ago at tehsil office, had married him while working at his estate agency office. It was Swati’s second marriage. After separating from Malik, she had married the third time. Swati used to lie to Malik that her baby was adopted, as the deceased used to pick up fights with her demanding back his ATM card.“Around 180 suspects were interrogated by cops over two nights at a stretch,” said the CP. The team that cracked the case included Senior PI Sandipan Pawar, Assistant PI Pawan More, naik constable Shyam Kadu, Dasrath Mishra, Pravin Gorte and others.HOW MURDER WAS CRACKED Cops baffled as wives blamed each other and their sons.Swati Sharma’s lie exposed her as she first claimed not to have visited the apartment where the murder took place, and later said her son was with her on the visit Police were doubtful as Swati’s mobile phone was switched off between 2pm and 8pmPolice got confirmation she booked cab services and travelled to Rajat Sankul Apartment alone, which was confirmed by driver tooSwati broke down after her lies were nailed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fourth-wife-set-up-sex-trap-to-kill-65-yr-old-husband-for-harassing-her/articleshow/81454801.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 12, 2021||Visakhapatnam||One year since first Covid-19 case in AP||Visakhapatnam: March 12 last year was the fateful day when the first Covid-19 positive case was found in Andhra Pradesh. The event ushered in an era of mask-wearing, hand hygiene and physical distancing across the state. The state’s first Covid-19 case was a student from Nellore. The student landed at Chennai airport from Italy on March 7 and reached Nellore by road. The student tested positive for the novel coronavirus and subsequently recovered. Andhra Pradesh reported 174 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday taking the overall caseload to 8,91,178. The death toll 7,179 as two more patients succumbed to the virus in Chittoor district on Thursday. 78 patients across the state have recovered in the last 24 hours. The state conducted 47,803 tests on Thursday. The highest number of infections, 60, were reported in Chittoor district, followed by 26 in Krishna, Visakhapatnam (23), Guntur (12), East Godavari (11). Seven districts reported single-digit cases. Vizianagaram district did not report any new infections. Covid-19 has claimed 7,179 lives in Andhra Pradesh so far. Chittoor district has reported the highest number of deaths — 856 — followed by Krishna (681), Guntur (672), East Godavari (636), Anantapur (600). East Godavari district has reported the highest number of cases so far, 1,24,542. East Godavari is followed by its twin West Godavari with 94,372 cases reported. September of 2020 saw Andhra Pradesh go through the peak of Covid-19 spread as the state reported over 10,000 new cases and was testing more than 72,000 samples a day. During the period, daily fatalities ranged between 50 and 70. One year after the first case was reported, Dr PV Sudhakar, special officer of Covid-19 in Vizag region and principal of Andhra Medical College, said that social distancing and hand hygiene remain the key tools to contain the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/one-year-since-first-covid-19-case-in-ap/articleshow/81454784.cms||Nalla.Babu
March 12, 2021||Goa||Will fight for rights till end: Sattari locals||Valpoi: Villagers of Sattari have decided to fight their land ownership rights till their last breath. They have formed a group of select representatives drawn from different villages to fight for their cause. Corner meetings are being held regularly to decide the future course of action.  Shubham Shivolkar from Melauli told TOI that the villagers have decided to continue their campaign till they get absolute ownership rights. "We have already submitted a memorandum to the chief minister Pramod Sawant and we are awaiting his response,” he said. “Our group is preparing the documentations pertaining to the land issues. It will be submitted to the concerned officials,” Shivolkar said.  The villagers want the government to exclude arable land from Mhadei wildlife sanctuary, de-notify boundaries and transfer land rights to cultivators. They also demand transfer of all lands mentioned as 'Alvara', 'Class II’ and under other categories to cultivators and dwellers.  In case of dwellings, the villagers demanded to remove government as 'owner' from I & XIV form and transfer land rights to the house owners. They also strongly demanded to abolish mokasdari system.  On January 26, the villagers held a massive rally at Valpoi. Thousands from Sattari participated in the agitation against the government for not solving the land rights issues.  It may be recalled that the villagers recently submitted a memorandum to Sawant seeking his support in resolving the land issues of Sattari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-fight-for-rights-till-end-sattari-locals/articleshow/81456787.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Vijayawada||Temple rush across state on occasion of Shivaratri||Vijayawada: Crowds gathered in large numbers at Lord Shiva temples across Vijayawada on the occasion of Maha Shivaratri on Thursday. Considered the most auspicious day to worship Lord Shiva, devotees thronged temples in celebration. The Old Sivalayam saw queues growing bigger since morning going up to Canal Road. Temple priests performed the holy rituals and Vedic scholars performed kalyanam of Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvati on a grand note at Kanaka Durga temple. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy took part in Shivaratri celebrations organised at NTR Municipal Stadium by civil supplies minister Kodali Venkateswara Rao (Kodali Nani). The chief minister offered abhishekam to the Maha Shivalingam and offered purna ahuti in Home Gundam (holy fire). Meanwhile in Guntur, scores of pilgrims visited the hill shrine of Lord Shiva at Kotappakonda near Narsaraopet. Devotees were seen arriving since Wednesday night. The state government declared the Kotappakonda festivities a ‘state festival’. Endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas, representing the government, presented silk robes to the deity. Massive wooden chariots, 70–80 feet long, were built by devotees and brought to Kotappakonda. The Central Power Distribution Company Limited (CPDCL) opened a special room to handle emergencies in the area. Power supply was stopped for nearly two hours to facilitate movement of wooden chariots. Electricity officials deployed special teams at HT lines to prevent mishaps while chariots pass. The Andhra Pradesh state road transport corporation (APSRTC) ran 450 special bus services from all mandal headquarters to Kotappakonda. Celebrations were grand in northern Andhra Pradesh as well. The region houses several ancient temples such as the Srimukhalinham in Srikakulam, which dates back to the eighth century. The Balighattam Brahmalingeswara temple at Narsipatnam in Visakhapatnam, which is famous for its crystal lingam, saw a rush of devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/temple-rush-across-state-on-occasion-of-shivaratri/articleshow/81454824.cms||Venu Lanka
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||Fadnavis, Patil meet RSS chief, discuss state political scene||Nagpur: A day after Budget session of Maharashtra legislature ended, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis met with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat. The meeting took place at about 11.30 am on Thursday. He was accompanied by BJP state president Chandrakant Patil. Though Fadnavis, who later visited his native place Mul in Chandrapur district along with former minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, refused to comment, sources in the BJP said the meeting was regarding party affairs and was scheduled. The leaders are believed to have discussed a variety of issues including Maratha reservation and current political scenario in Maharashtra. Later, the two leaders also met with RSS general secretary Bhaiyyaji Joshi. Both were at the RSS headquarters for about an hour. Earlier, Fadnavis told TOI the BJP was planning statewide agitations to protest the MVA government’s failure to reconstitute statutory development boards of Vidarbha, Marathwada and Rest of Maharashtra (ROM). Citing the Covid-19 pandemic, the government failed to reconstitute the boards by not appointing new members since last April, when their five-year term ended. “The MVA has systematically deprived two regions of their legitimate dues. First, they didn’t reconstitute the boards, which were acting as shields for both regions. They then meted out injustice by allocating meagre amounts to both regions. They even cheated the citizens across the state by earlier announcing concessions in inflated power bills and then retracting their stand and even disconnecting power supply,” Fadnavis said. Speaking on BJP’s success in forcing the resignation of forest minister Sanjay Rathod and getting Mumbai police inspector Sachin Vaze shifted to the crime branch, Fadnavis added the victims in both cases must get justice and BJP would closely follow them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fadnavis-patil-meet-rss-chief-discuss-state-political-scene/articleshow/81454818.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||Fill up 42k+ vacant posts in GST dept: Assn urges centre||Nagpur: The All India Federation of Customs, Central Excise and GST Employees Welfare Association has written a letter to the Government of India to urgently fill up over 42,000 vacant posts in the Central Goods and Service Tax Department.Organization president Sanjay Thul, also an RTI activist, said the central government had introduced GST in 2017.“At that time sanctioned work force in the department was 91,755, but only 54,791 were working and 36,964 posts were vacant. Three years down the line, the working strength has further reduced to 49,454 while vacancy has increased to 42,246 posts,” he said.In his letter addressed to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman, the organization’s president said despite introduction of GST, there was no control on tax evasion because of massive shortage of workforce. “These (evasion) cases are rising day by day. Additionally, a lot of cases of fake invoices are being detected by officers. However, current strength of workforce is insufficient to conduct speedy investigation of cases and control the evasion. A big amount of arrears is pending against tax evaders, but the department is unable to recover those due to the same reason,” he pointed out.Stressing that the vacancies were adversely affecting the department’s overall functioning and leading to a sharp fall in GST revenue, the organization said even existing staffers were under tremendous stress due to insufficient manpower.“Due to tax evasion, the rich are becoming richer and the poor are becoming poorer. It’s also increasing economic inequality as the money of tax evasion is going from the pocket of crores of taxpayers’ to the few thousand evaders.“According to the latest report on inequity, 40% of wealth in our country lies with only one per cent citizens. Evasion of indirect tax is playing a major role behind this economical inequity,” Thul said, adding that all 42,246 seats need to be urgently filled up to ensure proper monitoring of revenue in the interest of the nation.# Sanctioned & working strength of field formations at CBIC on July 1, 2020:Group--------------Stream------------------Sanctioned ----------------------Working ----------------VacancyA----------------------Main Stream------------6,185----------------------------3,416--------------------2,769------------------------Others--------------------196-------------------------------90------------------------106------------------------Total-----------------------6,381----------------------------3,506--------------------2,875B-Gazetted----------Main Stream------------21,882--------------------------17,430-------------------4,452------------------------Others---------------------335------------------------------210-----------------------125------------------------Total------------------------22,217-------------------------17,640-------------------4,577B-Non-Gazetted----Main Stream-------------32,362-------------------------15,610-------------------16,752-------------------------Others---------------------NA-------------------------------NA------------------------NA-------------------------Total-----------------------32,362-------------------------15,610-------------------16,752C *------------------Main Stream--------------26,342-------------------------10,700--------------------15,642-------------------------Others---------------------4,398---------------------------1,998---------------------2,400-------------------------Total------------------------30,740-------------------------12,698-------------------18,042Grand total----------Main Stream--------------86,771-------------------------47,156-------------------39,615-------------------------Others----------------------4,929--------------------------2,298---------------------2,631-------------------------Total-------------------------91,700------------------------49,454-------------------42,246(* Includes erstwhile Group D posts)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fill-up-42k-vacant-posts-in-gst-dept-assn-urges-centre/articleshow/81454827.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||Students relieved as NU online exams to be held as scheduled during curbs||Nagpur: In a relief to lakhs of students, who were worried about the fate of examinations after guardian minister Nitin Raut announced a strict lockdown in the city from March 15 to 21, Nagpur University (NU) has clarified that it wouldn’t affect their scheduled papers as they would be conducted online. Already, the exams are inordinately delayed because of Covid-induced lockdowns earlier.Even in the lockdown notification issued by municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, it was clearly mentioned that scheduled exams to be conducted at the national, state and university levels would be allowed. However, paper conducting bodies would need to strictly follow all protocols like maintaining Covid distancing, mandatory wearing of masks by the examinees and following standard operating procedures earlier declared by the government.NMC’s notification however, completely barred all physical activities in educational institutions like schools, colleges, coaching classes and training academies.NU’s practical exams for the regular batch have already commenced from March 8 and theory papers will begin from March 25. As directed by higher education minister Uday Samant, NU had already declared that all theory papers would be conducted online on examinees mobile handsets just like summer exams last year in October-November.“The exams wouldn’t be affected as those are already scheduled. The students shouldn’t worry about it. We had conducted papers in October-November. Even the practical exams can be held online in the lockdown as colleges were given an option in this regard,” Board of Examination and Evaluation (BoEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI.On a query received by TOI from a law student, he said colleges should insist on online exams. “Students can submit their written material later in the colleges,” he said.As per NU’s notification on exams, the theory exams of third and fifth semesters of regular postgraduate courses and ex-students would be held from March 25 to April 10, but those would be conducted at the college/departmental level. In the same period, the papers for regular and ex-students of UG courses have been scheduled. However, those too would be conducted partly at the college/department level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/students-relieved-as-nu-online-exams-to-be-held-as-scheduled-during-curbs/articleshow/81454833.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 12, 2021||Goa||Cannot please all people over reservation: Sawant||Vasco: A day ahead of the likely verdict by the Supreme Court on the municipal ward quota issue, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that there will always be dissatisfaction over reservation of wards as it is “sometimes not as per people’s choices”. “Reservation is the job of the administration. It is the DMA and other officers who formulate them. So some people obviously will not like it,” Sawant said. The CM, who was in Vasco to inaugurate offices of councillors backed by BJP MLAs for the Mormugao Municipal Council polls, said that there are certain anti-social elements in Vasco and that action would be taken against them by the home department. He said that there are about 68-69 persons with criminal records and the collector and home department are preparing to crack down on them. “Goa is a peaceful state and if people want to live here happily then these elements need to be brought to book,” Sawant said. Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida, while announcing his panel for upcoming municipal elections, reiterated his demand for dropping urban development minister and Mormugao MLA Milind Naik from the cabinet for the irregularities in the reservation and delimitation of wards for the municipal polls. He, however, but extended support to Naik’s panel for the Mormugao constituency. Almeida declared 10 of 12 candidates of his Vasco constituency panel. The remaining two candidates will be declared soon, Almeida said. Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho declared four candidates. Nine candidates from Mormugao constituency will be backed by Naik. BJP indirectly has filed 25 candidates in all wards of MMC. Almeida said, “We want to give Mormugao a stable council. Even last tenure the council was stable but in between after Kritesh Gaonkar joined BJP he started to divide the council.” Almeida’s panel has three outgoing councillors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cannot-please-all-people-over-reservation-sawant/articleshow/81456798.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||MPSC aspirants protest postponement of exam||Nagpur: After the state government postponed Maharashtra Public Service Commission’s (MPSC) preliminary examination citing a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, hundreds of aspirants took to the streets on Thursday at Sakkardara square. They joined their counterparts in Mumbai and Pune, where protests were held against the government for cancelling the exams for the fourth time. The exam was scheduled on March 14 but the state relief and rehabilitation department issued a circular cancelling it a couple of days back. The aggrieved aspirants said the paper was originally scheduled in April last year but was deferred after outbreak of Covid-19. The aspirants blamed chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s government for deliberately postponing the exams for allegedly benefiting one particular community. “This is nothing but vote bank politics by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. The Supreme Court would be hearing a case on granting reservations to that community and therefore, the government postponed the exam to accommodate those students,” the protestors told the media. This latest move from the government has given another ammunition for opposition BJP to target it. Even those from MVA constituents like Congress state president Nana Patole and former CM Prithviraj Chauhan questioned the government’s sudden move. Patole later tweeted that he had called Thackeray and latter assured him to find out a solution on the subject at the earliest. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis, who was in the city, blamed the Thackeray-led administration for mishandling the issue. “These aspirants prepare for competitive exams for years and the government pushed it for multiple times without thinking about them. The paper is scheduled on March 14 and candidates received SMSes just a couple of days back. If minister Vijay Wadettiwar says he doesn’t know when the circular of rescheduling the exams was issued, he should ideally resign in protest.” The former CM questioned that when political and tractor rallies could be allowed amid pandemic, why the MPSC exam can’t be held. “It shows lack of coordination and communication between various constituents of MVA government. They should know any offline exam is conducted while maintaining Covid distancing and therefore, the government’s move is a blunder. I strongly believe that any exam must be conducted on time,” he said. The aggrieved female candidates said their families were pressuring them to leave studies and get married. “Our age is going past but the government is insensitive towards it. Our economic conditions are already down due to the Covid-induced lockdown. This is big injustice to us and we condemn the government’s decision,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mpsc-aspirants-protest-postponement-of-exam/articleshow/81454883.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 12, 2021||Goa||After threat, GFP seeks protection for its candidates||MARGAO: GFP has sought police protection for its candidates contesting the elections for Margao Municipal Council (MMC) after one of its supporters was allegedly threatened by a known criminal at a corner meeting at Borda on Wednesday. GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat, speaking to reporters on Thursday, alleged that Anwar Shaikh who was badly assaulted in a gang war that occurred at Arlem recently, threatened one of GFP’s supporters, Simon Furtado, with dire consequences, just after GFP president Vijai Sardesai had left after addressing the corner meeting. He said that a police complaint has been lodged in the regard. Kamat alleged that Shaikh enjoyed political patronage of the BJP. “When BJP is unable to win elections, it resorts to acts of cheating and hooliganism, threatening people and intimidating rival candidates. If such incidents recur, chief minister Pramod Sawant will be held entirely responsible for it as the state’s home minister. Such things were unheard of in Goa. It looks like we are heading towards becoming Bihar and UP and Bengal,” Kamat said. He called upon the government and the DGP to provide protection to GFP’s candidates in view of the incident. Meanwhile, in an indication of an alliance between GFP and Congress, the regional outfit has fielded candidates in 13 of the 14 wards of Fatorda and Curtorim, while Congress has avoided fielding candidates in Fatorda wards. The alliance is likely to be formally announced after the Supreme Court delivers its verdict on the matter pertaining to delimitation and reservation of wards for the municipal elections. Meanwhile, fissures seem to have developed within GFP following indications of a revolt by one of its outgoing councillors, Angelis Pereira. Pereira is learnt to be upset over GFP choosing to support the candidature of the kin of another outgoing councillor, Agalli-resident Raju (Hadley) Shirodkar in ward 24 (Pajifond) that has been reserved for women, instead of supporting a local candidate. Following failed reconciliation attempts by the party, Pereira has decided to go ahead and contest against the official party candidate Ravindra Naik from ward 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-threat-gfp-seeks-protection-for-its-candidates/articleshow/81456835.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Nagpur||Traders launch e-comm site to fight e-tailers||Nagpur: Members of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), the organization that has been fighting against e-commerce giants like Amazon and Flipkart in courts, have launched their own portal, Bharat e-Market (BEM) on Monday. They hope to take on the giants with their own model of e-commerce. Twelve trade leaders from CAIT headed by BC Bhartia, a chartered accountant from Nagpur, have formed a company Lalamart Technologies Private Limited to run the e-commerce business. “On the first day 2,500 persons downloaded the app. We aim to bring 7 lakh traders onboard by December 2021, taking it to a crore by December 2023,” said Bhartia. He said BEM will be distinct from its rivals on a number of counts. “This would merely be a platform for traders across the country to sell their goods. There will be no predatory pricing by BEM, though traders can offer competitive discounts on their own. BEM will also not maintain any inventory or charge any commission on sales to the traders,” said Bhartia. Talks are underway with delivery agencies also. Traders can engage their own delivery boys as the focus would be on hyper local business. A search will first bring out vendors in the vicinity of the buyer, he said. Starting an e-commerce portal was a suggestion by traders affiliated to CAIT. Since CAIT itself cannot start a commercial venture, a company — Lalamart Technologies — was launched, said Bhartia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/traders-launch-e-comm-site-to-fight-e-tailers/articleshow/81454903.cms||Shishir Arya
March 12, 2021||Goa||Make FASTag optional as no toll booth in state: Congress||PANAJI: Congress on Thursday questioned the need to make fitment of FASTag mandatory for vehicles in Goa since the state does not have any toll booth. State party president Girish Chodankar said that the Centre should have made FASTag optional since not every vehicle owner in Goa is likely to drive to other states. The state Congress unit has now called on the state government to convey Goa’s concerns to the Centre so that necessary amendments can be made to exempt Goa from implementation of FASTag. “We condemn and oppose this new notification as it is mischievously done to loot the common man,” said Chodankar. “We want the state government to impress upon the Centre that Goa does not have toll booths and so necessary amendments are to be brought to see that this notification does not affect Goa. The government should withdraw this immediately.” Congress has threatened to approach the court if the Centre does not agree to exempt Goa from FASTag. “If there is not toll booth in Goa, then why is it compulsory to have FastTag in Goa? The government has brought in more trouble for Goans by making FastTag mandatory,” said Chodankar. “Suppose the government does not withdraw this, then we will be forced to approach the high court to challenge this. Hardly any Goan vehicles go out of the state. It should be optional and not compulsory. People should be given options,” he said. Speaking about the coming municipal elections and Goa’s unemployment rate, Chodankar asked chief minister Pramod Sawant why the 10,000 government vacancies were not filled. “Congress humbly asks the chief minister to tell us in the last four months how many jobs have been created and given to Goan youth. The chief minister should make an immediate statement on this,” said Chodankar while insisting that the promise of jobs was a ruse to garner votes for BJP. The party said that BJP is desperately trying to manipulate the municipality elections by luring people and threatening the opposition. “The way things are going, Goa will become worse than Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The goons and anti-social elements have become leaders in BJP. What we used to see in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh will happen here,” said Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/make-fastag-optional-as-no-toll-booth-in-state-cong/articleshow/81456893.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 7 years' rigorous imprisonment for karate coach for sexually assaulting 10-year-old||MUMBAI: Observing that a karate teacher sexually assaulting his 10-year-old students was an example of the “fence itself grazing the crops”, a special Pocso court has convicted and sentenced the coach to 7 years' rigorous imprisonment. The court said while his duty was to train the twin girls to defend themselves, he had become their assailant. “Here, the accused has left such a scar on the psyche of the victims that they will never be able to join such classes, much less, for defending themselves. The accused does not deserve leniency for such an act,” special judge Rekha N Pandhare said, and ordered him to pay Rs 25,000 to each child too. Parents went to cops as coach planned to start classes afreshThe court observed that when parents leave children with a school or an institute like the one the accused was running, they are confident that their children will be safe with a teacher. “The victim children insisted their parents admit them in the classes run by the accused. Even parents conceded that karate skills are necessary for anyone to defend themselves from danger...” the court said. It relied on the statements of the children and their mother to nail the accused. The defence brought witnesses like other students and their parents who deposed. The mother of the twins told the court that the girls had joined the classes after they saw a pamphlet in their school in June 2015. She said on August 15, 2015, she told her daughters to go for classes, but they refused. When she questioned them, they said after classes on August 8, 2015, the accused told all the students to close their eyes and sit quiet. The girls said he called them in turns to the dressing room and sexually abused them. The mother said she informed her husband and both met the premises owner. They complained to him and when the accused was confronted, he admitted to the incident and apologised. The owner told him to shut down the classes. The mother said after four to five days, when they heard he was planning to start his classes at another place, they complained to police as they did not want other children to become victims. An FIR was lodged on August 21, 2015, and he was arrested. He has been out on bail. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fence-grazing-crops-seven-years-ri-for-karate-coach/articleshow/81458729.cms||Rebecca Samervel
March 12, 2021||Business||PwC India to pay bonus to all employees||BENGALURU: PwC India has announced a special one-time bonus for its 15,000 employees as a token of appreciation of their work during the pandemic. PwC India will be providing a bonus equivalent to 2 weeks’ pay that will be included in the March salary. This payout will be independent of the firm’s usual appraisal and increment cycle, which is set to follow previous timelines. “The past year called for an organisational and workplace overhaul that none of us anticipated. Responding to the crisis with extreme agility and ensuring business continuity for all was paramount and we are very proud of and humbled by the way all our people got together and ensured that we and our clients not only navigate the crisis well, but also emerge stronger from it. It is because of their efforts that even in such an extremely difficult year, we are on course to meet our goals and are optimistic about the year ahead,” said Sanjeev Krishan, chairman of PwC India. PwC India was one of the first firms to officially announce remote working for its entire workforce, even before the government mandated it after a rise in Covid cases last year. The firm had also announced a specialised Covid insurance cover for employees and their parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pwc-india-to-pay-bonus-to-all-employees/articleshow/81458752.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||New convener for Congress Adivasi panel||Congress on Thursday appointed Suryakant Gaude, the vice-president of the Gomantak Gaud Maratha Samaj and secretary of United Tribal Alliance as the convener of the State Congress Adivasi committee. Gaude has been asked to constitute the state adivasi unit within a month. The move, said state Congress president Girish Chodankar, is part of the ongoing reorganisation of the party in the state ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. “There are so many issues and problems that the ST community faces and this government has done nothing to solve these issues. We expect these issues to be resolved by this ST committee,” said Chodankar. Addressing reporters, Gaude said that the ST community has been used and misused by political parties while no gains have been accrued by the tribal community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-convener-for-cong-adivasi-panel/articleshow/81456931.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Business||Japanese cos can target global mkt from India: Jetro DG||Kolkata: Japanese companies in India are mostly catering to the domestic market here unlike in south east Asia and even Bangladesh, where the facilities are being used for exports. The companies from the Land of Rising Sun can gradually target the global market from India making it a hub, feels Jetro director general T Suzuki. He was speaking at a webinar organised by Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCC&I) here in the city on Thursday. According to Suzuki, India is a key market for Japanese companies and would be a major focus in the coming years. He pointed out that there are 1,454 Japanese companies operating in India. “Japanese companies in India are mostly doing domestic sales unlike many other countries,” he added. The Jetro DG added that in India only 14.8% of the Japanese companies business is export oriented where in Vietnam it is 53%. “In Vietnam and some other countries the domestic consumption and exports are properly balanced. Here in India Japanese companies like Honda are now focusing on export from here,” he added. According to Suzuki, the presence of Japanese MSMEs in India is also less compared to some other countries. “Japanese MSMEs constitute 15%-20% of Japanese companies in India while in China the figure is 40-60%,” he added. Suzuki also feels that there is a huge opportunity for Japanese companies in eastern region, including West Bengal. “The number of Japanese companies in the east is still low,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/japanese-cos-can-target-global-mkt-from-india-jetro-dg/articleshow/81456978.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Couple in their 80s get 10-year RI for sexually abusing child||MUMBAI: An 81-year-old woman and her 87-year-old husband have been convicted and sentenced to 10 years RI for the 2013 sexual assault of their 4-year-old neighbour. It is probably the first case in the city where a woman has been found guilty for such a crime under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The special Pocso court relied on the testimonies of the child and her mother, and medical evidence, to convict the couple. Special judge Rekha N Pandhare ordered the accused to pay Rs 50,000 each to the child as compensation within a month. Child was returning home when targetedThe court observed that the victim being a child and the accused being of the age of her grandparents, they were supposed to take care of her. Instead, they sexually assaulted her, it said. The couple, out on bail, was sentenced under section 6 of Pocso Act, which prescribes punishment for offence of “aggravated penetrative sexual assault”. In the trial by special public prosecutors Veena Shelar and Geeta Nayyar, seven witnesses deposed. The child was 8 at the time of deposition. In a statement to police, the child said she returned from school at 10am on September 4, 2013. She ate food, watched cartoons on TV and at noon went to the fourth floor of her building to play with a friend. She said as her friend was sleeping, she decided to return home when the accused, whom she referred to as ‘dada’ and ‘dadi’, called her. The child said when she went to the man, he carried her and took her into the house. He made her sit on a swing, but slapped her when she tried to leave. The child alleged that while the woman held her, the man undressed her before sexually assaulting her. The woman repeated the act. She said once again, when she tried to run, the man spat on her face. The child said she got afraid and after the accused let her go, she dressed up and ran home. The child’s mother had told police that after she returned from work and finished household chores, at 10pm she tried to put the child to bed. That is when the girl told her mother that she wanted to tell her something and pleaded with her not to scold her. After the mother assured the child, she confided in her about the incident. The mother said she checked the child’s private parts and found inflammation. The woman informed her husband and complained to police. The accused were arrested the next day. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-couple-in-their-80s-get-10-year-ri-for-sexually-abusing-child/articleshow/81458758.cms||Rebecca Samervel
March 12, 2021||Business||UK pips India in growth mkts: CEO survey||NEW DELHI: The UK has overtaken India to claim the fourth spot among top growth destinations, while the US extended its lead over China as the top market where CEOs are looking for growth, a survey showed. The PwC’s annual CEO survey said that post-Brexit, 11% of the 5,000 surveyed saw the UK as a better growth market, compared to 8% in India. Germany was at number three. Nearly 76% of CEOs believed that global economic growth will improve in 2021, the survey showed. “While fears over another pandemic is the top most threat for business leaders across the globe, majority of India CEOs feel that the global economic growth over the next 12 months will improve, reiterating the optimism we’ve heard from our clients in recent times. As companies expand their use of external partnerships to enable digital solutions and layer them onto legacy IT structures, the complexity created tends to generate ever-greater cyber risk which is an area that Indian business leaders need to tackle in the months to come,” said PwC India chairman Sanjeev Krishan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uk-pips-india-in-growth-mkts-ceo-survey/articleshow/81458761.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka lands 3rd place with Rs 61,000 crore FDI in 2020||BENGALURU: Karnataka, which saw the highest Foreign Direct Investment in the country during lockdown months, ended 2020 with Rs 61,174 crore, of which over Rs 37,000 crore came in the last six months. According to data accessed from the ministry of commerce and industry’s Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Karnataka saw a 25% dip in the second quarter (April-June) compared to the first (Jan-March) quarter, but investments jumped significantly thereafter. Gujarat and Maharashtra got more FDI than Karnataka during the year, while Delhi and Tamil Nadu are in fourth and fifth place. These five states together received 88% of the Rs 4.78 lakh crore FDI. While Karnataka accounted for 13% of total FDI inflow in the country, Gujarat saw nearly 36% of total investments, while another 27% went to Maharashtra. Delhi and Tamil Nadu together garnered 12% together. ‘State attracted more FDI than was predicted’ Despite the lockdown and other restrictions in the April-June period, we managed to attract Rs 10,254 crore, the most in the country, and from there, numbers increased even more in line with our assessments,” said a Karnataka industries department official. Karnataka attracted nearly 68% more FDI in the third (July-September) quarter compared to the second quarter, and the last quarter collections further went up. At Rs 19,955 crore, the state attracted 16% more FDI between October and December compared to the previous quarter. Comparatively, FDI inflow to the country dipped 48% in the second quarter, to jump significantly by 250% in the third quarter. It, however, fell by more than 9% in the last three months. Karnataka industries minister Jagadish Shettar said: “The FDI we attracted is more than what we estimated internally given the pandemic. We anticipate it to grow further this quarter and in the coming months given the reforms we introduced, they’ll start getting implemented.” Shettar added: “Whether it is creating a land bank or enabling ease of doing business and creating an investorfriendly ecosystem, we compete with ourselves. We want each quarter to look better than the earlier one.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-lands-3rd-place-with-61k-cr-fdi-in-20/articleshow/81458726.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Business||India, China voice same agri concerns at WTO||NEW DELHI: India and China have called upon World Trade Organization (WTO) members to address long-pending concerns over public stockholding and special safeguard measures, to check against surge in farm imports, on priority, as member countries sought to bridge differences ahead of a meeting of ministers later this year. During a special meeting on Wednesday, India highlighted the need to find a permanent solution to public stockholding of foodgrains, an issue which it fears could impact food security in developing countries, including its own ability to procure grains for public distribution programme, given the cap imposed in the agreement signed 25 years ago. While the WTO membership has agreed to a “peace clause”, which restricts any country from raising a dispute in case of a breach in the limit, India wants a final settlement, an issue that China also highlighted. Despite their tussle, India and China have similar positions on farm trade issues at WTO, which also find an echo in the larger developing country audience. At Wednesday’s meeting, Indonesia, which is one of the key reasons for the issue still hanging fire, too seemed to be backing India’s case on food stockpiling, as it also demanded that the issue of special safeguard measures be taken up. But despite a show of seeking to engage on pushing forward the farm trade agenda, none of the countries seemed to have changed their position. While the US did not take a firm view, according to sources in Geneva, the European Union linked the issue of public stockholding to reforms in the domestic farm support architecture, something that the government has objected to in the past, arguing that the developed countries have extracted their pound of flesh by getting countries such as India to sign the trade facilitation agreement. For the developed countries, the old Doha round issues of fixing trade-distorting farm subsidies, opening their doors to overseas professionals through more ambitious reforms of services sector and reworking some of the elements of the agreements that are detrimental to the interests of the poor and developing countries have now gone off the radar, as they push for global rules on 21st Century issues such as investment facilitation, e-commerce and women in trade. The challenge before the new WTO director general Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala is to bridge the differences. In an interview to TOI, she had acknowledged that there was a huge trust deficit between the members. Read Also'I have extreme respect for India and what it does,' says new WTO chiefNEW DELHI: Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, the new director-general of the World Trade Organization (WTO), describes herself as a pragmatic person. She sets out her agenda in her first interview after becoming the first woman and the first African to bag the top job at the multilateral body. While she backsMembers fail to agree on TRIPS waiverWTO members have once again failed to reach consensus on the proposal by South Africa and India for a temporary waiver of certain TRIPS obligations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Developed countries such as the US, EU, Japan and Switzerland have opposed a relaxation, with Brazil being one of the few developing countries against the move. (TNN)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-china-voice-same-agri-concerns-at-wto/articleshow/81458764.cms||Sidhartha
March 12, 2021||Business||Kalyan Jewellers IPO price fixed in Rs86-87 range||MUMBAI: Warburg Pincus-backed Kalyan Jewellers has fixed a price band of Rs 86 to Rs 87 per equity share for its initial public offer (IPO), which will open for subscription on March 16. The IPO, which constitutes 13% of Kalyan’s fully diluted equity, values the retail jeweller at Rs 8,961 crore at the higher end of the price band. The offer, a combination of fresh issue of shares and a partial sale of shares by founder T S Kalyanaraman and investor Warburg, will close on March 18. Kalyan, the latest to join the primary market rush that has continued into this calendar year, plans to raise Rs 1,175 crore from the IPO. It had initially planned to pool Rs 1,750 crore from public investors, but reduced its IPO size due to unfavourable market conditions. Kalyan’s will be the biggest IPO from the consumer retail segment after D-Mart’s Rs 1,870-crore issue in 2017. The jeweller, which started its operations in Thrissur, Kerala, in 1993, plans to use the proceeds from the IPO for working capital requirements, debt reduction and other corporate purposes. Kalyan had a debt of Rs 3,667 crore as on December 30, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kalyan-jewellers-ipo-price-fixed-in-rs86-87-range/articleshow/81458765.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Business||SaaS firm Icertis raises $80mn, valued at $2.8bn||BENGALURU: Contract management solutions company Icertis has raised $80 million in a funding round that has nearly tripled its valuation to $2.8 billion, the company said. The series-F round was led by existing investor B Capital Group, with participation from Greycroft, Meritech Capital Partners, Premji Invest and PSP Growth. Till now, the software-as-a-service (SaaS) company has raised $280 million. The last round two years ago had valued it close to $1 billion. Icertis, which counts clients such as Apple, Daimler, Microsoft and chemical company BASF, is in Gartner’s Leader Quadrant, based on its completeness of vision and ability to execute. Started by Samir Bodas and Manish Darda, Icertis provides cloud-based software that allows companies to manage all their contracts. “It is immensely satisfying to have led the transformation of CLM (contract lifecycle management) from a ‘nice-to-have’ to a ‘critical-to-have’ software category. We’re imminently well-positioned to continue our undisputed leadership,” said Bodas. The company manages 7.5 million contracts in more than 40 languages across 90 countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/saas-firm-icertis-raises-80mn-valued-at-2-8bn/articleshow/81458772.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Ghaziabad||Cluster containment back in Ghaziabad: 21 at CPWD facility test +ve||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: A large-scale cluster containment exercise, similar to the ones in the early months of the pandemic last year, has begun in and around the Central Public Works Department training facility on Hapur Road, where 21 engineers have tested positive for Covid-19. The health department has sealed a portion of the premises for the next 14 days. This is the first sealing operation in the city after a gap of six months. The patients have mild symptoms, officials said. They were staying in the CPWD hostel and have been isolated there. Their colleagues and other CPWD staff are in quarantine in a nearby building on the premises and have been advised to take permission for work-from-home from their respective departments. So far, 365 samples have been collected from the campus, officials said, adding nearby shopkeepers and food vendors are also being tested. The antigen test results of most people have returned negative and their samples have been sent to a lab for RT-PCR testing. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey has sounded an alert and asked the health department to intensify contact tracing and surveillance in areas where two or more Covid cases are found. “We have covered the shops and malls they had visited for shopping,” Pandey said. Officials said engineers and other officials, mostly between the ages of 21 and 30 years, had come from many states to participate in the programme. About 65 trainees were staying in the internal portion that has been sealed. The Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation also carried out a sanitisation drive outside the campus. Meanwhile, officials in Noida are also keeping a close tab on the cases and checking if there had been any interaction between CPWD officials in the two cities. “We have not had any cluster or containment zone in a long time as the cases have been very few. However, the situation in Ghaziabad is a cause for concern. I have spoken to the CMO and alerted him. We cannot let our guard down. People should get the vaccine as soon as their turn comes,” said GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY. He added that random testing has been done on government officials, healthcare workers, restaurant employees, market staff and vendors. However, no cluster has emerged yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/cluster-containment-back-21-at-cpwd-facility-test-ve/articleshow/81456130.cms||Aditya Dev
March 12, 2021||Business||‘Ensure 5G doesn’t disrupt satellite TV viewing in India’||NEW DELHI: As the government looks at kickstarting 5G services in India, the broadcasting industry has said that care should be taken to have a buffer zone between the frequencies of telecom services and the broadcasters to ensure that TV and radio services continue without any disturbance. In India, spectrum in the range of 3.0-3.6GHz has been identified and earmarked for 5G use. This is aimed primarily at telecom operators who want to roll out 5G services. On the other hand, most TV channels operate between 3.7GHz and 4.9GHz. Broadcasters have said that the gap of 100MHz between the end of 5G band at 3.6GHz and the start of the satellite television band at 3.7GHz is “crucial and critical” to the continued functioning and viability of the Indian satellite television industry. “While rollout of 5G services is a welcome move that all of us are eagerly waiting for, it’s important for the government to ensure that new spectrum demands of telecom operators do not impact broadcast services, both satellite TV and radio,” M K Anand, MD & CEO of Times Network, said. Anand said that telecom and satellite TV bands should be considered with “adequate separation” as any kind of interference from telecom operations can negatively impact satellite television operations in India. “5G is expected to usher in unprecedented improvements which will positively change the daily lives of citizens and give a huge boost to the economy. Satellite TV similarly has a huge multiplier impact on our society and economy. It is important that both sectors are nurtured with equal care,” he said. Broadcasters say that “preservation of the guard frequency of 100MHz” will ensure that 5G services and satellite television can co-exist and enhance the value delivered by both services to the Indian consumer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ensure-5g-doesnt-disrupt-sat-tv-viewing-in-india/articleshow/81458780.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Goa||‘Govt must impose 15-20% luxury tax on cigarette sale’||PANAJI: The National Organisation for Tobacco Eradication (NOTE), India, on Thursday urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to impose 15-20% luxury tax above existing duty or taxes, on sale of cigarettes. It has also made other propositions to discourage youth from getting hooked onto smoking or consuming tobacco in other forms. “Studies the world over have shown that whenever governments have raised taxation on tobacco products, there has been a corresponding drop in sale,” said NOTE secretary Dr Shekhar Salkar. The government should also stop the sale of loose cigarettes at small shops and gaddas as such sales boost smoking among new users, who may not be of legal age. There are also no checks on such sales, NOTE said. The organisation has suggested vendor licensing for sale of cigarette and other tobacco products. This, it said, would regularise the sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products and bring revenue to local self-bodies. This activity, it said, has been in concurrence to the ministry of housing and urban affairs as well as the Union of ministry of health and family welfare’s programme on development of a mechanism for authorisation for sale of tobacco products. It’s third proposition is a tobacco-free educational institute (TOFEI) programme for about 1,550 educational institutes comprising primary and secondary schools, colleges and other educational institutes. A budgetary provision of Rs 15 lakh for implementation and monitoring of the same should be made, it suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-must-impose-15-20-luxury-tax-on-cigarette-sale/articleshow/81456178.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Delhi||Big Aravali tracts may open for non-forest work||NEW DELHI: Large stretches of Aravalis may be opened up for non-forest activities, including residential purposes, if the government approves the proposed changes in the Forest Conservation Act as circulated by the forest and environment ministry (MoEFCC). The amendments proposed by the ministry say the mandatory provision of obtaining prior approval from the Centre under the FC Act won’t be applicable for land parcels that have not been notified as “forest” under the central or local laws and have been identified by expert committees set up by the state governments. Haryana has not yet finalised the list of such land parcels. Most parts of the Aravalis in Haryana have been privatised. Hence, the land records don’t show them as “forest” land. The proposed amendments say a new section would be added to the existing law on the applicability of the Act. It has been proposed that the new law would be applicable to land that has been declared or notified as forest under the Indian Forest Act of 1927 or under any state or local law. Second, it will be applicable on all land parcels that have been recorded as forest as on October 25, 1980 when the FC Act came to force, except those cases where the land-use has been changed from forest to non-forest purpose before December 12, 1996. Third, land identified by expert committees set up by states would come under the purview of the new Act. It has been proposed that states which have not yet set up expert panels or not finalised the list of forests would need to do that within one year of the proposed Act coming into force. “If these changes are approved, most parts of the entire Aravalis will become non-forest land. Even areas under the Aravali plantation which were declared as forest as per the Supreme Court judgement of 2004 in the MC Mehta case will become non-forest. The implications of the proposed amendment will have disastrous impact on the Aravalis in Haryana where the entire hill has been privatised,” said a former official from Haryana’s forest department. He added that Haryana has been dragging its feet for years since early 2000 to identify and delineate the “forests” in the state. Sources said what is more worrying is the ministry’s proposal which says that the FC Act won’t apply to tree plantations or afforestations on land that have not been specified as forest in the three categories till December 31, 2020. The changes in the law have been proposed to address issues that have cropped up after a Supreme Court order of December 12, 1996, which made it mandatory for seeking prior approval from the Centre for non-forest use of “any” forest land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/big-aravali-tracts-may-open-for-non-forest-work/articleshow/81458795.cms||Dipak K Dash
March 12, 2021||India||UN’s new framework to include nature’s ‘contributions’ in measuring prosperity||NEW DELHI: In an important step towards making environmental protection and conservation an essential part of economic development, the United Nations has adopted a new framework that includes the “contributions of nature” when measuring economic prosperity and human well-being. The framework, adopted by the UN Statistical Commission on Wednesday, would ensure that “natural capital” — forests, wetlands and other ecosystems — are counted in reporting wealth of countries. A school of economists has for some time argued that environmental capital be considered a factor of production just like labour and capital. They have said if environmental degradation is measured, the “real growth” of a country would be apparent. Though India, China, UK, France, Germany and many other European countries have already made some progress in implementing the System of Environmental Economic Accounting (SEEA), the adoption of new framework will push the others, including the US, towards figuring out worth of their natural ecosystems and including it in accounting processes. “This is a historic step forward towards transforming how we view and value nature,” said UN secretary-general António Guterres. The new framework — the System of Environmental Economic Accounting-Ecosystem Accounting (SEEA-EA) — goes beyond the commonly used statistic of GDP in economic reporting. It means the countries’ wealth will reflect dependency of the economy on nature or its impact on it, such as the deterioration of water quality or the loss of a forest. Similarly, restoration or conservation may be a “credit” that lessens the loss to GDP. Times ViewThe question of sustainable growth confronts us like never before. Creating a new methodology to calculate prosperity and human well-being by including environment-related aspects is timely. In times of global warming, it will push countries towards paying more attention to protect the natural world.India had taken a step towards measuring values of nature when it figured out economic valuation of 16 tiger reserves as part of a conservation plan in two phases during 2013-19. The study indicates that the monetary value of flow benefits from the selected 10 tiger reserves range from Rs 5,094-16,202 crore annually. Incidentally, the Supreme Court too recently sought to look at valuation of trees that get felled for infrastructure project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uns-new-framework-to-include-natures-contributions-in-measuring-prosperity/articleshow/81458800.cms||Vishwa Mohan
March 12, 2021||Goa||Agri dept to boost turmeric, cabbage & strawberry cultivation||Edited. 280 words. Times News Network Panaji: In a step towards being self-sufficient, the state agriculture department has decided to boost the cultivation of three unlikely crops — turmeric, strawberry and cabbage. A senior agriculture official said these crops have tremendous potential that would translate into several advantages for farmers in the state. “Turmeric is the future crop of Goa. Once processed, it is non-perishable and can be stored in powder form for many months. Farmers can even package and sell it,” the official said. Incidentally, the Pratibha variety of turmeric grows without much effort in Goa, is not attacked by wild animals and is even unpalatable for cattle. According to the agriculture department, Goa brings about 300 tonne of cabbage from outside the state. Department officials said this quantity could be reduced considering that the crop grows well in Goa. “This could have some impact on the local level,” an official said. “Strawberry, too, has a good market in Goa. Current production is good and we will able to meet the local demand for this fruit. It requires a cool climate so it can be grown in Saljini,” the official added. TOI had earlier reported that the fruit is being successfully grown in parts of the state. In a bid to encourage farmers to take up cultivation of these crops, awareness meets are being carried out by zonal agricultural officers. They are also guiding farmers on where to source the seeds from for sowing. “However, climate-based crops such as these are easily affected by sudden rain showers or fluctuations in winter temperatures. As we cannot predict the climate, farmers must be very attentive while growing these crops.” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/agri-dept-to-boost-turmeric-cabbage-strawberry-cultivation/articleshow/81456249.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal assembly elections: Amit Shah may hold rally, Mithun Chakraborty a roadshow in Nandigram||KOLKATA/NANDIGRAM: Bengal BJP leaders have requested Union home minister Amit Shah to hold a public meeting in Nandigram when he visits the state on March 15 and 19 before the constituency goes to polls on April 1. Actor Mithun Chakraborty may hold a roadshow in support of BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari. The Bengal BJP is keen on putting this hot seat back in its poll narrative, leaving behind the Nandigram incident that has diverted public attention from the party to what happened to chief minister Mamata Banerjee over the past 24 hours. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to address a meeting in Kanthi in March second week. A host of party seniors such as defence minister Rajnath Singh and Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath will address public meetings scheduled from this week, said BJP Tamluk president Nabarun Nayek. Suvendu made use of the occasion of Shivaratri on Thursday and visited a number of temples in Reyapara — where Trinamool chief Banerjee had planned to stay for the night on Wednesday — and also Sonachura, Parulbari and the Shiva temple at Amgechhia, situated on the border of Nandigram I and II. Read AlsoMamata Banerjee has bone injury, may now campaign in wheelchairA day after suffering a foot injury after being allegedly “pushed against her car by four-five people” during campaigning in Nandigram on Wednesday, Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, her left foot in a cast, put out a video message from a Kolkata hospital in which she assured her “party workers, brothersSuvendu didn’t utter a word on Banerjee’s injury, making it clear he was not getting waylaid into the controversy. Instead, he spent the day in Nandigram walking into Reyapara households to talk to residents. Suvendu did not conceal that he was banking on 2.1 lakh voters (Hindu) while others were eyeing 62,000 voters (Muslims). The 2011 Census data shows that Nandigram I has 34% Muslim population while Hindus are present in overwhelming numbers in Nandigram II and Nandigram town. For the last two years, Suvendu has been inaugurating temples and patronizing existing ones. He has often been seen participating in kirtans with an eye on Vaishnavs in Purba Midnapore, part of the erstwhile Tamralipta. On Thursday, Suvendu accepted prasad from temples and walked stretches, talking to people, while BJP supporters in Purba Midnapore launched protests against the ruling Trinamool’s attempt to cast aspersions on Nandigram locals for hatching a “conspiracy” against the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shah-may-hold-rally-mithun-a-roadshow-in-nandigram/articleshow/81462272.cms||Rohit Khanna
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||Left Front sends draft manifesto to Cong, ISF||Kolkata: The Left Front came out with its draft manifesto on Thursday while its allies, the Congress and the ISF, are yet to come up with the candidate list for seats they will contest as Sanyukta Morcha partners. In its draft manifesto, the Left has emphasised on restoration of democracy, upholding the secular fabric, filling up of all vacant posts in government and government-aided institutions based on merit, raising of wage rates of daily labourers, prioritising public health and stopping efforts to conduct the NRC-NPR exercise in the state and prevent the “divisive” CAA from being implemented in the state. The Left Front has sent a copy of the draft to both Congress and ISF seeking their opinion so that they can be accommodate in a general appeal to voters on behalf of Sanyukta Morcha. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/left-front-sends-draft-manifesto-to-cong-isf/articleshow/81456764.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||Shankar to receive Sahitya Akademi for ‘Eka Eka Ekashi’||Kolkata: Eminent author Mani Shankar Mukhopadhyay, better known as Shankar, will be conferred the Sahitya Akademi Award 2020 for his memoir titled ‘Eka Eka Ekashi’. Author Subodh Sarkar, who is the convener of the Akademi’s advisory board for Bengali, told TOI that this award for the 87-year-old writer had been “long overdue”. Shankar, who was propelled into employment at the age of 14, had done odd jobs as a typewriter cleaner and seller of cane baskets at Esplanade. His life changed after being spotted by the last British barrister at the Calcutta High Court, who appointed him as a clerk. His first novel ‘Koto Ajanare’ was published in 1954. That was also the year the Sahitya Akademi Award was instituted for recognizing the most outstanding books of literary merit published in any major Indian language recognized by the Akademi. “I remember, authors Khushwant Singh and Vikram Seth had emphasized on the need for my works getting translated for global readership. At the London Bookfair, Vikram had sat near my feet and said this is his space. But I bear no grudge against anyone for not having got the award earlier. Many stalwarts, including Saradindu Bandopadhyay and Bimal Mitra, never got the Akademi award. So I have been in good company. I am yet to receive an official communication about the award,” Shankar said. According to Sarkar, the news will be officially announced on Friday. “We have signed the papers. The function will be held in June-July this year,” Sarkar said. “When I joined the advisory board, I tried to ensure that eminent authors are given the awards. In Shankar’s case, we are late by at least 60 years. The absence of his name from the list of recipients was a curse hanging on our head. He should have got the award for ‘Koto Ajanare’, ‘Chowringhee’ and ‘Jana Aranya’. Another such delay was in the case of author Sanjib Chattopadhyay,” he added. Chattopadhyay was given the award in 2018 for his story titled ‘Srikrishner Sesh Kata Din’. The popularity of his books, Sarkar said, could have been a reason for this late recognition. “For strange reasons, it’s often believed that popular writing is bad. I don’t agree with that. In my eyes, Shankar comes next to Saratchandra Chattopadhyay,” said Sarkar, who had received the award in 2013 for his book of poetry titled ‘Dwaipayan Hrader Dhare’. Asked if he too felt the award was long overdue, Shankar said, “The answer is a yes and a no. At the London Bookfair, I was asked why it had taken so long for the English translation of ‘Chowringhee’ to reach globally. I had narrated a story from my childhood. Back then, Horlicks was not available all the time but the company would often advertise in newspapers saying: ‘Horlicks is not available now but it is worth waiting for’. I had said Horlicks was my inspiration. I know, it’s always worth the wait.” Awards and criticisms, he said, are part and parcel of an author’s life. “Writing is the only profession where the valuation begins only after death. The top ten bestsellers in College Street have been written by authors who are all dead,” he said. Asked about his personal favourite among his works that range from novels, travelogues, books on Sri Ramakrishna-Swami Vivekananda and even culinary delicacies, he said, “When a mother is asked to choose her favourite child, she will refer to the kid on her lap. I am happy if I can give joy to my readers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shankar-to-receive-sahitya-akademi-for-eka-eka-ekashi/articleshow/81456894.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||2 kids among 7 dead in twin Murshidabad accidents||Behrampore: Seven persons, including two children, were killed and 12 others were injured in two road accidents in Murshidabad district on Thursday. A lorry flipped near Mirjapur Haji Soleman Chowdhury High School in Beldanga, killing Irak Sheikh (7) and Saddam Sheikh (5), police said. Two children were injured in the accident and have been hospitalised. “The kids were playing by the roadside when the accident took place,” the grandmother of the deceased children said. In the other accident at Dholomore in Suti, an auto-rickshaw collided with an SUV, leaving five dead and 10 injured. According to witnesses, the auto was overloaded and lost control. The victims have been identified as Ajraful Sheikh (25), Firaj Sheikh (28), Nikhil Mondal (50), Nibaran Mondal (36) and Subodh Mondal (32).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-kids-among-7-dead-in-twin-murshidabad-accidents/articleshow/81456795.cms||Sukumar Mahato
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||CM has bone injury, wants to campaign in wheelchair||Kolkata: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee — recuperating from injuries sustained during campaigning in Nandigram on Wednesday — put out a video message from her SSKM Hospital bed on Thursday, informing her “party workers, brothers and sisters” that she would hit the campaign trail in a wheelchair, if needed. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh trashed the incident as “political drama”, seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the incident, and the Trinamool sought to link Wednesday’s “major security lapse” to the removal of “competent police officers” by the Election Commission as both camps slugged it out over the political fallout of the Nandigram incident. The Bengal CM was hurt in her left foot during campaigning in Birulia, Nandigram, on Wednesday. She was rushed to Kolkata’s SSKM Hospital, where doctors said on Thursday that she had “a bone injury” and low sodium count but ruled out a fracture. Banerjee spent the day with her left foot in a plaster cast and doctors said there was a possibility that she might be able to go home in “two-three days”. “I will be back in the next two or three days. There will be a problem with my leg and so I may have to use a wheelchair but I will manage,” Banerjee’s message to her supporters — video-recorded from her hospital bed — said. “I was hurt badly. There is leg injury, there is a ligament injury. I felt head and chest pain. I was standing on the footboard, greeting people. There was a push. The door slammed on my leg. It hit me,” she said, appealing “to all to remain calm and restrained and not to do anything that may inconvenience people”. Both TMC and the BJP moved the EC on Thursday, demanding a thorough probe, but each party presented its own version of events to state chief electoral officer Aariz Aftab. Trinamool leaders saw a “deep-rooted conspiracy” but the BJP picked holes in that version, wondering how “four-five people” could break the CM’s “impregnable” security cover. Trinamool leaders Partha Chatterjee and Derek O’Brien pointed out in a letter to the state CEO that the incident happened within 24 hours of the EC removing Virendra from the post of the state director-general of police. “The Bengal BJP put out a post showing an injured Banerjee on March 8. The EC removed the state DGP on the same day,” party Rajya Sabha leader O’Brien said, building a case for “conspiracy” and the EC’s failure to ensure security for the “country’s only woman CM”. Trinamool senior and MP Saugata Roy said the party wanted the EC “to institute an impartial inquiry”. Trinamool minister Firhad Hakim wondered why the EC was “dragging its feet” in this case when the Union home ministry was so proactive in acting against three IPS officers when BJP president J P Nadda’s convoy was attacked last December. Bengal BJP leaders,though, rubbished the “conspiracy” angle, wondering how four-five people could break a CM’s security cover. “A Z-category security cover has three rings. How could four-five people break them?” Bengal BJP leader Sisir Bajoria asked. He also wondered why the police had not been able to identify the culprits after 24 hours. Trinamool and BJP leaders also crossed swords over the EC’s jurisdiction during election time. The Trinamool highlighted the EC’s “deliberate transfer of senior police officers at the BJP’s behest” and said it was having a “destabilising impact on the state administration”. But BJP leader Jayprakash Majumdar said: “The security provided to the CM or the governor is predetermined. There is a standard operation procedure, which does not change even after the EC steps in. Law and order is the state government’s lookout. The EC’s job is to only oversee and conduct free and fair polls.” Bengal BJP leaders Tathagata Roy and Shamik Bhattacharya paid a visit to SSKM Hospital on Thursday and wished the CM a “speedy recovery”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cm-has-bone-injury-wants-to-campaign-in-wheelchair/articleshow/81457171.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Revenge tourism brings happy tidings for airlines, hotel biz||KOLKATA: After pandemic-induced hibernation for nearly a year, desperate Kolkatans have taken to revenge travel that has transformed January and February into an unprecedented busy one for the airline and hospitality industries. “Planes flying in and out of the city this year recorded higher loads in January and February than in these months last year. This is despite the near-absence of corporate travel that comprises nearly 60% of traffic in these months. This year, families are driving occupancy,” said an airline official. Though absolute numbers are still less than last year as fewer flights are operating, all airlines are clocking good loads. February is a particularly lean month for the travel and hospitality industry as school examinations are scheduled around this time of the year. But with both classes and examinations going online, many families are taking a vacation as the school can virtually travel with them. “All that families now need is to ensure that internet connectivity is good in the hotel they are checking into. That is the first thing families are now inquiring. Even hygiene issues are second on the agenda,” said Darjeeling Hotel Owners’ Association president Sangay Tshering Bhutia. The average passenger load on flights in January has increased to 132 this year from 130 in 2020. This February, the average flight load was 137, way above last February’s 131. This despite the absence this year of wide-body aircraft used in international sectors,” an airport official said. IndiGo that is operating around 82-84 flights from Kolkata three days a week against the earlier 105, has been registering higher than expected loads. “With many companies still deferring travel, we had feared a dip in loads after the winter holidays. But that hasn’t happened as families continue to travel,” an airline official said.  Kolkata-Bagdogra is doing well with plane loads of families heading to Hills and Dooars. In Darjeeling, occupancy of hotels that hovers around 15%-20% in other years is 35%-40% on weekdays and over 80% on weekends. “Many hotels are sold out, something unthinkable at this time of the year,” said tourism ministry deputy director general and regional director (east) Sagnik Chowdhury. Many families are taking road trips to north and south Bengal. After a year of hardly any visitors, hotels in Digha, Mandarmoni, Tajpur and Santiniketan are doing brisk business. Hoteliers and travel agents in Darjeeling and Kalimpong said the hotels, resorts and home stays are packed. “February is usually the leanest period. But surprisingly most hotels were fully occupied even on weekdays this February. Most hotels in Darjeeling and Kalimpong have also upgraded their internet connectivity helped tourists work or students attend classes,” said Pradip Lama, secretary of Darjeeling association of travel agents. Hoteliers in Digha and Mandarmani also said they have never witnessed such rush. “Digha and Mandarmani has seen tourist surge since the unlock and it continued in February,” said Bipradas Chakraborty, secretary of Digha Shankarpur Hotel Owners’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/revenge-tourism-brings-happy-tidings-for-airlines-hotel-biz/articleshow/81457204.cms||Subhro Niyogi
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||HC reverses EC decision to reject Trinamool candidate from Joypur||Kolkata: Calcutta High Court on Thursday reversed an Election Commission decision to reject the nomination paper of Trinamool Congress candidate from Purulia’s Joypur Ujjwal Kumar. The returning officer had on Wednesday rejected Kumar’s nomination because he left the third dependant column vacant and did not mention whether he had dues pending over a government accommodation. Kumar moved court, saying the EC did not hear him out. He said he had no dependants or government accommodation and argued that there was no reason to reject his nomination. In his order, Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya said: “The defects pointed out by the concerned returning officer were not defects in the true sense of the term... as the columns which were not filled up by the petitioner were not applicable to the petitioner.” The court directed the EC to “permit” Kumar “to participate in the elections by treating the application of nomination for candidature and connected affidavit filed by the petitioner as valid and in accordance with law”. Arguing for Kumar, senior advocate Kapil Sibal told the court that his client had disclosed “in his application that he has got no dependant at all, the question of naming the third dependant did not arise at all”. Sibal quoted from the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951: “The returning officer shall not reject a nomination paper on the ground of any defect which is not of a substantial character.” Let alone substantial, Sibal argued, not mentioning the third dependant is redundant in this case. He told the court that Kumar didn’t have a government accommodation and hence, not paying dues “is hyper-technical in nature and cannot be treated as a substantial defect”. The EC said it had, after scrutiny, cancelled the candidature of 13 out of 222 hopefuls for the first phase. CEO Ariz Aftab and ADG (law and order) Jag Mohan, meanwhile, held a meeting with the DMs and SPs of five districts that go to polls on March 27. For the second phase of polling on April 1, 77 candidates have filed their nominations till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-reverses-ec-decision-to-reject-trinamool-candidate-from-joypur/articleshow/81456677.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
March 12, 2021||---||West Bengal assembly elections: Amit Shah may hold rally, Mithun Chakraborty a roadshow in Nandigram||KOLKATA/NANDIGRAM: Bengal BJP leaders have requested Union home minister Amit Shah to hold a public meeting in Nandigram when he visits the state on March 15 and 19 before the constituency goes to polls on April 1. Actor Mithun Chakraborty may hold a roadshow in support of BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari. The Bengal BJP is keen on putting this hot seat back in its poll narrative, leaving behind the Nandigram incident that has diverted public attention from the party to what happened to chief minister Mamata Banerjee over the past 24 hours. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to address a meeting in Kanthi in March second week. A host of party seniors such as defence minister Rajnath Singh and Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath will address public meetings scheduled from this week, said BJP Tamluk president Nabarun Nayek. Suvendu made use of the occasion of Shivaratri on Thursday and visited a number of temples in Reyapara — where Trinamool chief Banerjee had planned to stay for the night on Wednesday — and also Sonachura, Parulbari and the Shiva temple at Amgechhia, situated on the border of Nandigram I and II. Read AlsoMamata Banerjee has bone injury, may now campaign in wheelchairA day after suffering a foot injury after being allegedly “pushed against her car by four-five people” during campaigning in Nandigram on Wednesday, Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, her left foot in a cast, put out a video message from a Kolkata hospital in which she assured her “party workers, brothersSuvendu didn’t utter a word on Banerjee’s injury, making it clear he was not getting waylaid into the controversy. Instead, he spent the day in Nandigram walking into Reyapara households to talk to residents. Suvendu did not conceal that he was banking on 2.1 lakh voters (Hindu) while others were eyeing 62,000 voters (Muslims). The 2011 Census data shows that Nandigram I has 34% Muslim population while Hindus are present in overwhelming numbers in Nandigram II and Nandigram town. For the last two years, Suvendu has been inaugurating temples and patronizing existing ones. He has often been seen participating in kirtans with an eye on Vaishnavs in Purba Midnapore, part of the erstwhile Tamralipta. On Thursday, Suvendu accepted prasad from temples and walked stretches, talking to people, while BJP supporters in Purba Midnapore launched protests against the ruling Trinamool’s attempt to cast aspersions on Nandigram locals for hatching a “conspiracy” against the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/shah-may-hold-rally-mithun-a-roadshow-in-nandigram/articleshow/81456665.cms||Rohit Khanna
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||CBI quizzes cop related to coal accused||Kolkata: The CBI on Thursday questioned a police officer, who was earlier posted in Bankura, in connection with the illegal coal mining case. The cop is related to one of the key accused, Vinay Mishra, and was quizzed at the agency’s Nizam Palace office. The same officer had been questioned in January too. Investigators are trying to figure out if he was aware of illegal mining in areas adjoining Bankura. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cbi-quizzes-cop-related-to-coal-accused/articleshow/81456922.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||TMC worker shot at inGazole||Malda: A Trinamool Congress worker was allegedly shot at in his leg at Gazole on Wednesday evening. The injured, Bifal Mandal, was admitted to a Malda Medical College and Hospital and and cops have started a probe into the incident. Mandal was returning to his home at Raniganj village from Gazole when some miscreants allegedly attacked him at Alal. He was chased and shot at by the miscreants whose faces were covered with masks. According to the police, Mandal would collect rental charges from local traders for their shops on behalf of the TMC leader, Dilip Saha. Another trader, Anil Saha, a BJP supporter, was allegedly insisting that Mandal work for their party. Mandal suspected that the miscreants, who had attacked him, belonged to the Saha’s group. On hearing the sound of firing, locals rushed to the spot and the miscreants fled the spot. TMC leader, Subhomoy Basu, said, “It is a ploy of the BJP to unleash violence in this area as they are losing ground.”BJP leader Ajoy Ganguly denied the allegation and said, “The incident is outcome of a local dispute in the dispute.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-worker-shot-at-ingazole/articleshow/81456784.cms||Subhro Maitra
March 12, 2021||Kolkata||EC special observers to visit Nandi, send report by today||Kolkata: The Election Commission’s special observer Ajay Nayek and special police observer Vivek Dubey will head to Nandigram on Friday for an on-the-spot probe on events leading to CM Mamata Banerjee’s injuries. The EC move comes after emerging indications of “crowd control lapses” in the preliminary report sent to DGP P Nirajnayan by the district administration on Thursday. The report seeks time to establish whether “any person is responsible”. Several locals have been questioned and an FIR has been lodged against “unknown persons” for causing “grievous injuries”. A local shopowner, from whose shop ice packs were supplied to the CM, has given his statement to police. East Midnapore DM Vibhu Goyal and SP Praween Prakash, who visited Birulia to investigate the incident, are expected to brief the two EC observers on Friday. The EC has sought reports from the special observers and chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay by Friday evening. Sources said the first part of the report focuses on the allegations that the East Midnapore police failed to provide Banerjee — a Z-plus protectee — adequate peripheral security. It cites CCTV footage prior to the CM’s injury to underline the presence of a “huge crowd very close to her”. This has raised questions on inadequate crowd control measures and the absence of rope cordons. It is also not clear whether the CM’s vehicle was being led by a pilot car. The initial report has prompted the DGP to seek a more comprehensive probe to pinpoint lapses and fix responsibility. The report indicates that further probe is on to ascertain eyewitness accounts that the vehicle door, which slammed on the CM when she was standing on the SUV’s footboard and greeting people, could have also hit a four-foot iron pole on the 12-foot road in Nandigram’s Birulia. Senior Trinamool leaders Firhad Hakim and Saugata Roy, however, said the CM’s SUV, now parked in Kalighat, does not bear any mark of an impact. The CM’s driver has told the police that he didn’t spot any pole since it was dark and there was a huge crowd. DM Goyal said, “There was a huge crowd. Nothing can be said conclusively.” The usual drill after any physical injury to a Z-plus protectee, including any attack on his/her vehicle or the convoy, calls for rigorous multi-agency probes. In the immediate aftermath of the attack on BJP chief J P Nadda’s convoy in Diamond Harbour on December 10, not only had Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla sought a detailed report, the MHA had ordered central deputation for the three officers who were in charge of peripheral security. While the state didn’t consent to the central deputation it transferred all three. On Wednesday, East Midnapore SP Praween Prakash had personally supervised security arrangements at Haldia SDO office but left before the CM arrived to file her nomination. The Model Code of Conduct (MCC) bars poll officials , including SPs and DMs, to be with poll candidates, but senior officers were not clear if the MCC would take a precedence over personal security of a chief minister. “In that case, was any officer deputed to trail the protectee?” an officer asked. In Bengal, the CM’s security is supervised by Director (Security), which reports to the state DGP. This unit with three senior officers provides proximate security to the CM and liaisons with the district police on peripheral security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ec-special-observers-to-visit-nandi-send-report-by-today/articleshow/81457131.cms||---
March 12, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Single-day tally at 409, active cases go past 2,000 for first time this year||NEW DELHI: While the surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra has caught the attention, cases have been rising in Delhi too. The weekly figures have doubled in the capital in the last four weeks. From February 8 to 14, there were 911 new Covid cases in Delhi. In the following weeks, the tally went up to 954 (February 15 to 21), 1,389 (February 22 to 28) and 1,812 (March 1 to 7). In the four days from March 8 to 11, 1,338 new cases were confirmed. This includes Thursday’s 409 fresh infections, the highest single-day tally in 58 days, the last being on January 8 with 444 fresh Covid patients. “If social distancing and mask rules aren’t adhered to, the cases may rise further,” warned Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS. Covid cases have also been rising significantly in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana. “The pandemic isn’t over yet, but people are already crowding restaurants and organising parties with little or no regard for preventive measures such as physical distancing and masks,” observed Dr Guleria. The AIIMS director, who is also a member of the national task force on Covid-19 management, added, “The state health authorities must continue aggressive testing, tracing of contacts of positive cases and isolation to prevent spread. If needed, containment zones should be created in areas with clusters of Covid cases.” Thursday’s 409 cases were detected in the 69,810 tests conducted in the past 24 hours. They pushed the city’s tally to 6,42,439. With three fatalities, the death toll went up to10,934. Active cases crossed the 2,000-mark for the first time this year to reach 2,020 on Thursday. The increase in active cases was also reflected in the occupancy of beds reserved for persons infected with the coronavirus: 579 beds, or nearly 10% of the total provision. “In January, there were many days when there were no new admissions for Covid in our hospital. But in the last few weeks, we have had five to six admissions every day,” revealed a doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital. The state-run Lok Nayak Hospital has 300 Covid beds, of which 35 were occupied on Thursday. Of the 265 Covid beds at AIIMS Trauma Centre, 40 were occupied. “We need to speed up vaccinations to cover the vulnerable population and save lives,” said a public health expert. “At the same time, there is an urgent need to enforce preventive measures to save the city from running into another crisis.” Delhi suffered three peaks in cases last year — in June, September and November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-single-day-tally-at-409-active-cases-go-past-2000-for-first-time-this-year/articleshow/81458837.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
March 12, 2021||World||Pak court orders ban on TikTok||ISLAMABAD: A Pakistani high court on Thursday ordered the country’s telecom regulator to ban TikTok — the popular social media app for entertainment videos — over proliferation of “immoral and indecent” content. The decision was taken by the Peshawar High Court (HC) Chief Justice Qaiser Rasheed Khan on a petition against the video-sharing platform that it was spreading obscenity in society. Announcing the verdict, Justice Khan remarked that indecent videos being uploaded are negatively impacting our youth. “Videos being uploaded on TikTok were unacceptable for Pakistani society. It’s our duty to protect the young generation from immoral activities,” the judge said. He questioned whether the closure would hurt the platform, to which Kamran Gandapur, the chief of Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA), responded in the affirmative. Gandapur informed the court that PTA had sent a request to TikTok officials but had not yet received a “positive response”. “TikTok should be closed down unless their officials comply with your request and cooperate with you to prevent immoral content,” the chief justice said, adding that the video-sharing app will remain closed until the telecom regulator’s request is processed. While enquiring about the TikTok offices, the judge was told that the platform had no office in Pakistan, its head office was in Singapore and it was controlled from Dubai. TikTok, which is owned by a Chinese tech giant ByteDance, was banned last year in October after repeated warnings by PTA over alleged unethical content. However, the same month, the PTA had overturned its own decision after it was told by TikTok that the company would “block all accounts repeatedly involved in spreading obscenity and immorality”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pak-court-orders-ban-on-tiktok/articleshow/81458840.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
March 12, 2021||India||Two JeM terrorists killed in J&K encounter||SRINAGAR: Two militants were killed in an encounter at Kandipora in Bijbehara area of South Anantnag district, Kashmir Zone Police said on Thursday. The duo has been identified as Adil Ahmad Bhatt and Zahir Ameen Rather, both affiliated with terrorist outfit Jaish-e-Muhammad. An AK47 rifle and a pistol was recovered from the spot. SSP Anantnag Sandeep Chaudhary said that police acted on specific inputs about the presence of militants in Kandipora. A joint team comprising personnel from the Kashmir Zone Police, Army and CRPF cordoned off a large area on Wednesday evening. As soon as the joint team rushed towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants opened fire, triggering an encounter. The exchange of fire was suspended on Wednesday night due to darkness. The gun-fight resumed on Thursday morning and ended with the death of the two terrorists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-jem-terrorists-killed-in-jk-encounter/articleshow/81458848.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 12, 2021||India||J&K ex-special secy arrested for manipulating date of birth||Jammu: A daily wager’s rise from being a Class IV government employee to retiring as special secretary to a state government is undoubtedly inspirational, but the conclusion of Ghulam Mohi-ud-Din Ganai’s dream run has certainly not been pleasant. The crime branch of J&K Police on Wednesday arrested him for forging and manipulating his date of birth in his service records. The accused, a resident of Hanjura in Budgam district, was special secretary (legal), J&K home department, and was superannuated by the government on March 3, 2021, with retrospective effect from March 31, 2019 after the fraud came to light. “A written communication was made with the crime branch by the J&K government, including a written complaint lodged by one Ghulam Mohd Bhat Hanjura Chadoora, alleging that Ghulam Mohi-ud-Din Ganai, who was till March 5, 2021 posted as special secretary (legal), had used his official position to grab money and enjoy power as a senior legal officer. It was also alleged that the accused had forged and manipulated his date of birth in official records. As per his actual DoB, he was supposed to have retired two years ago in March 2019,” said Jammu crime branch SSP Shailender Singh. With access to corridors of power, Ganai arose from a daily wager in the office of executive engineer, electric division, Budgam to special secretary (legal) by managing out-of-turn promotions, which appear to be in violation of rules and regulations, and would be probed, a police officer said. Ganai had also unsuccessfully pursued his case for induction into Jammu & Kashmir Administrative Service in the technical quota. The accused had passed the equivalent of matriculation examination in 1980 as a private candidate and joined as a daily wager in the office of executive engineer, electric division, in Budgam. In 1985 he was regularized as a field executive (Class-IV employee). In 1989 the accused was appointed as public law officer in the same office and climbing the ladder reached the rank of special secretary (legal). “Interestingly, the officer got all education equivalent of higher secondary and graduation without attending any regular school or college,” the official said. The crime branch on Thursday also conducted simultaneous searches at the houses of the accused in Jammu and Budgam. “Multiple teams headed by senior officers conducted searches in presence of executive magistrates. During searches, documents, electronic gadgets and incriminating material were seized. After due scrutiny of the seized articles, the expert opinion would be sought wherever required to substantiate the charges against the accused with scientific evidence,” a crime branch spokesperson said. Police also disclosed that after his arrest, unverified complaints have started pouring in regarding more such cases of violation of rules, which will also be verified.     ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-ex-special-secy-arrested-for-manipulating-date-of-birth/articleshow/81458855.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
March 12, 2021||Chennai||‘No objection to joint probe with India into deaths of fishermen’||As the Tamil Nadu police began investigation into the January 18 killing of four Indian fishermen in Sri Lankan waters, the probe instituted by the island nation in early February remains at a standstill. Minister of fisheries and aquatic resources Douglas Devananda, the only Sri Lankan Tamil minister of cabinet rank in the Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Mahinda Rajapaksa government, had launched an aggressive initiative to stop transgressions of the India-Sri Lanka maritime boundary. In an interview with Jaya Menon and M K Ananth, the minister said it was imperative to rein in bottom trawling by Tamil Nadu fishermen as it would destroy marine wealth of not just Sri Lanka, but India too.Q: What led to the death of the four fishermen?The Indian fishermen have given contradictory views from what the Sri Lankan Navy has stated. The autopsy report revealed there were no bullet injuries or signs of torture on the bodies of the deceased as was claimed by the Indian side. I wanted the postmortem examinations to be performed in India. But since the incident took place in Sri Lankan waters the postmortems were performed in Sri Lanka as stated by the attorney general (Sattama Athibar). High official representatives from the Indian embassy had supervised it. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has constituted a team to investigate the incident. I believe the report will reveal the truth.Q: Will the inquiry be a fair one?Certainly, it will be a fair one. As a responsible government we are obliged to find the truth and reveal it.Q: Fishermen witness to the January 18 incident say the boats used by them are too small to damage SL naval vessels, as stated in the official statement.Yes. But at the same time, SL Navy patrol boats are made of fibre. Indian fishing vessels are made of wood and iron frame, and it is reported that they can cause damage to Sri Lankan Navy boats.Q: Is it possible to include authorities from India (especially from Tamil Nadu) to make it a joint probe to ensure fair play?If the Indian government desires a joint probe, we won’t have any objections to it. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa would like a transparent probe to settle the matter.I was made fisheries minister to ensure betterment of fishing community in the North Eastern Province, to strengthen the relationship between north and south and to strengthen ties with India – especially with Tamil Nadu. So, it is everyone’s expectation to smoothly resolve the incident.Q: Pelting stones, hurling bottles, cutting off nets and opening fire are some of methods of the Lankan Navy to dissuade Indian fishermen from transgressing the boundary. Videos of the same have also been circulated in India. Are they not against the permitted modes of tackling intrusion into international waters?These incidents have taken place in Sri Lankan waters close to the Lankan coast. No such incident took place in international waters. So, these incidents don’t go with the agreements pertaining to international waters. There is also a strict order that the Navy should not use guns against Indian fishermen even for self-defence.I saw a video on Tamil news channels showing efforts taken to expel Indian fishermen from Sri Lankan waters. But, it did not show any nets being cut nor use of guns. The period when the video you said was released, incidents of Indian fishermen crossing the border were on the rise. We contacted the Navy and were informed that because of Covid-19 no arrests were being made. Using this opportunity, Indian fishermen were crossing over. The government asked the Navy to take a firm stand to prevent these intrusions. In recent times, the arrests of Indian fishermen have been carried out in accordance with the legal framework of Sri Lanka.Q: TN fishermen feel there is nothing wrong in fishing beyond the IMBL — a traditional practice carried out for decades based on mutual goodwill. Your government calls it poaching.Roller boats with trawling nets were introduced less than 30 years ago in south India, especially in Tamil Nadu. Some investors into these boats believed to be having a political backing, wanted their trade to flourish and paid huge salaries to traditional fishermen and engaged them in roller boats. Due to the use of roller boats the fish wealth in the Indian waters depleted and they began to turn their attention across the border. As there were restrictions for Sri Lankan fishermen to fish in the Northern sea due to the civil war and as the focus of our navy was on the war, nobody was concerned about Indian roller boats fishing in Sri Lankan waters.Q: TN fishermen say they have no option but to venture into Lankan waters as the sea bed in Indian territorial waters is shallow and rocky.I cannot accept that the Indian sea is not conducive for fish to live. You should understand that the bottom trawling nets used by roller boats are destroying marine wealth including coral reef conducive for fish breeding and fishlings that are not ready to be caught. That is why many countries including Sri Lanka have banned this fishing practice. Without foresight, adapting the wrong fishing method has destroyed India’s marine wealth and they are engaged in destroying Sri Lanka’s marine wealth. As a solution and alternative, the Government of India is encouraging deep sea fishing and is providing assistance for it. But Indian roller boat owners are not showing interest in it.Q: In October 2020, you were reported as being "pleased to hear about the happy news" when describing the Sri Lankan navy attacks on Tamil Nadu fishermen. Is that correct?I wish to clarify that I had only mentioned that I expressed my happiness that the Sri Lankan navy had started taking action, it was not over attacks on Tamil fishermen.Q: In 2012, you threatened to come to Rameswaram with 5,000 fishermen and hold a mid-sea protest against ‘poaching’ by TN fishermen. Why did you back off?Yes. I had said that. But it could not be executed due to the change in political scenario at that time.Q: So, what is the permanent solution to end these frequent skirmishes?As I have been insisting, Indian boats should stop crossing the border and engaging in illegal fishing practices. The two countries should then comply with a common mechanism to find a smooth solution for this issue. We cannot permit trawling method of fishing as it will destroy the future of Sri Lankan as well as Indian fishermen. Roller boat owners should immediately ditch this method of fishing.Q: Do you see an end to this problem?Yes, I definitely do.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-objection-to-joint-probe-with-india-into-deaths-of-fishermen/articleshow/81458856.cms||---
March 12, 2021||---||HC reverses EC move to reject nomination of TMC candidate||KOLKATA: The Calcutta high court on Thursday reversed the Election Commission's decision to reject the nomination of Trinamool Congress candidate for the Joypur assembly seat in Bengal’s Purulia district on grounds of incomplete information. In his petition to the high court, candidate Ujjwal Kumar said the poll panel did not give him a proper hearing. The returning officer had rejected Kumar’s nomination on Wednesday, citing the blank “third dependant” column in the form and his failure to mention if he had dues pending for availing any government accommodation. Kumar argued that he had no dependants and had not stayed in a government accommodation. He said that going by the facts, there there was no reason to reject his nomination on the premise that he had withheld information. The HC asked the EC to “permit” Kumar “to participate in the polls by treating the application of nomination for candidature and connected affidavit filed by the petitioner as valid and in accordance with law”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/hc-reverses-ec-move-to-reject-nomination-of-tmc-candidate/articleshow/81458858.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
