March 13, 2021||Kolkata||Woman calls out iconic restobar on Park Street for ‘mansplaining’||Owner apologises, says his ‘well-meaning’ staff was ‘looking out’ for herOn Thursday, an iconic Park Street restobar’s pub allegedly denied a third round of cocktails to two women in their 30s because they were not accompanied by a man. While Sayani Manna, one of the women who has shared a long post on her social media account to document her ordeal, is aghast at women being “mansplained” even in 2021, the restobar has come to the defence of their 60-something steward, saying he was “well-meaning” and his refusal to serve them more drinks was a result of “generational gap and an old patriarchal mindset”. CT reached out to both the parties to get their respective versions of the incident. Here’s how each of them reacted on Friday: Took us 2 mins to process steward’s reply: AccuserMy cousin and I recently caught up at a pub by an iconic restopub on Park Street. We were among the first few customers there on Thursday evening. We were seated beside a group of seven men and women who were most probably bankers. Both of us had two Long Island iced teas each with food. Around nine, we decided to order another LIIT to share. The steward attending to us just listened without looking at our faces. He was obliquely looking at the group sitting beside our table when he very politely told us that he can’t serve us any more drinks because we don’t have a ‘man’ with us. It took us two minutes to process his reply. This is plain sad. We told him off and asked him if he wanted us to go outside the pub and hire a man first? He didn’t speak at all after that. We didn’t want to create a scene, so we cleared the bill and left the place saying we will never come back again. An influencer I know got in touch with us and eventually the restobar’s owner, Anand Puri, called me to apologise and explain the situation. I had posted about the incident on social media and it’s really sad that something like this is happening even in 2021. — Sayani Manna, a copywriter with an advertising agency I’ll brief my staff on gender sensitivity: Restobar ownerI really don’t think this incident needs to be blown out of proportion. I called Sayani and apologised. She didn’t seem that angry on the phone. The steward is an old man in his 60s. He was well-meaning when he gave that reply to them. It took a lot of time to figure out what must have happened. I called the steward and told him about the reaction to what he said. It took me several attempts to make him understand that this was viewed in a different light. There’s a generational gap and also an old patriarchal mindset that was at play. I will definitely brief my staff again on gender sensitivity. Besides, the steward speaks native Bangla and he was trying to converse in English with the ladies. That’s why I think his reply got lost in translation – from ‘you don’t have anyone else with you’, it became ‘you don’t have a man with you’. Also, it is our lookout to ensure there are no issues after people leave our establishment because the onus is on us. There’s no policy but we do try to ask people not to drink too much – all with a good intention. These incidents should not damage anyone’s reputation or put someone’s job at risk. — Anand Puri, owner of the restobar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-calls-out-iconic-restobar-on-park-street-for-mansplaining/articleshow/81471830.cms||Debolina Sen
March 13, 2021||Business||Microsoft and Google openly feuding amid hacks, competition inquiries||WASHINGTON: Google and Microsoft are at knives drawn. Driven in part by pressure from lawmakers and regulators over the extraordinary power the two technology companies wield over American life, the California-based search engine giant and Washington-based software firm are wrestling to throw each other under the bus. Tensions between Microsoft Corp and Alphabet-owned Google have been simmering for a while but the rivalry has become unusually public in recent days as executives from both firms have been put on the defensive over competing crises. Google faces bipartisan complaints - and journalistic ire - over its role in gutting the media industry's advertisement revenue, the subject of a Congressional antitrust hearing on Friday. Microsoft, meanwhile, faces scrutiny for its role in back-to-back cybersecurity breaches. In the first, the same allegedly Russian hackers who compromised the Texas software firm SolarWinds Corp also took advantage of Microsoft's cloud software to break into some of the company's clients. The second, disclosed on March 2, saw allegedly Chinese hackers abuse previously unknown vulnerabilities to vacuum up emails from Microsoft customers around the world. Addressing lawmakers on Friday at a House Judiciary antitrust subcommittee on news, Microsoft President Brad Smith was due to fire a shot at Google, telling representatives that media organizations are being forced to "use Google's tools, operate on Google's ad exchanges, contribute data to Google's operations, and pay Google money," according to excerpts of his testimony published by Axios. Google fired back, saying that Microsoft's "newfound interest in attacking us comes on the heels of the SolarWinds attack and at a moment when they've allowed tens of thousands of their customers — including government agencies in the US, NATO allies, banks, nonprofits, telecommunications providers, public utilities, police, fire and rescue units, hospitals and, presumably, news organizations — to be actively hacked via major Microsoft vulnerabilities."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/microsoft-and-google-openly-feuding-amid-hacks-competition-inquiries/articleshow/81473615.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Goa||ISL: Mumbai’s style up against ATKMB’s pragmatism in final||Margao: Fittingly, the final of the Indian Super League will be contested by two of the best teams in the league. There’s little doubt that Mumbai City FC and ATK Mohun Bagan have been in a league of their own. They had little to separate them; both won 12 games in the league stage, both lost four and finished with 40 points each at the end of the league stage. It was only a better head-to-head record, including a win in the concluding league clash, that gave Sergio Lobera’s side the League Winners Shield and a place in next year’s high-profile AFC Champions League. The result showed Mumbai had the necessary nerves for a winner-takes-all clash, and having already defeated ATK Mohun Bagan in both games this season, they should be confident of winning a rare double at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Saturday. “I don’t think there is any (psychological) advantage,” said Lobera. “Those wins were in the past and the final is a different game, compared to the regular league clashes. This will be a 50-50 game. Both teams have the ability to win. The better team will triumph.” Playing a final for the first time, Mumbai have been the most attractive teams. Lobera’s possession-based football has found more admirers and in the title clash, the Spanish coach promised to stay true to the style that won him two league titles with two different teams. “We are strong playing this way. The profile of players, our philosophy from the beginning has remained the same. We are strong playing this way and we need to be loyal to our style,” said Lobera who will miss Mandar Rao Desai for the final after the left-back – and his captain at FC Goa – picked up two bookings in the playoffs. Habas is the polar opposite of Lobera who believes in results rather than style. Until the last week of the league stage, his pragmatism seemed to work as ATK Mohun Bagan enjoyed a five-point lead at the top, only to drop points against 10-man Hyderabad FC and then lose it all against Mumbai on the concluding day. For all their mental toughness, and Habas’ ability to get it right for such games, that last-week choke now defines their season. “My feeling going into this final is exactly like the last one. We have to compete and we have to win the final. My players are prepared to win this one,” said Habas, who won both his previous final games in ISL. The Spanish coach has an impeccable record in knockouts, having already tasted success twice with ATK. He can count on the experience of his players too; six of Habas’ regular starting 11 would be from last year’s champion side that accounted for Chennaiyin FC 3-1 at the same venue “We have to trust our coach, he is experienced in this league. As players, we follow his rules. It’s one more game and hopefully we can do the job,” said star striker Roy Krishna. Alongside Goa’s Igor Angulo, Krishna is the joint highest scorer in the league with 14 goals. He needs another one to win the Golden Boot. Having failed to score twice against Mumbai this season, the Fiji striker, and his team, will have to work overtime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isl-mumbais-style-up-against-atkmbs-pragmatism-in-final/articleshow/81474105.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 13, 2021||Goa||Had ‘small pain’ before penalties, now almost ready to play: Amrinder||Margao:Mumbai City FC goalkeeper Amrinder Singh said he had ‘small pain’ before penalties against FC Goa in the playoffs and his team didn’t want to leave anything to chance. After finishing 2-2 in the first leg, Mumbai and Goa were locked goalless at the end of 120 minutes in the second leg with Amrinder clearly the standout performer. The India goalkeeper made several saves throughout the game and looked upset when he was substituted with Phurba Lachenpa for the decisive tiebreaker. The decision to replace Amrinder after the end of 120 minutes has been much talked about and the goalkeeper has now thrown light on the incident. “When I was substituted, I had a small pain,” Amrinder said on Friday. “When I told the coach that I have small pain, I felt coach did not want to take a risk. There were matches to play ahead too. The goalkeepers coach knew that the other keeper was also good and he took the decision (to substitute). I am happy with that.” The decision proved to be a masterstroke as Phurba saved the first spot-kick from Goa captain Edu Bedia. Brandon Fernandes missed the next one, and even though each team had to take nine penalties before the winner was decided, the Mumbai keeper was the hero as James Donachie and Glan Martins also failed to convert. Amrinder said he has now recovered from the injury and is ready to guard Mumbai’s goal for the final game against ATK Mohun Bagan at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Saturday. “Because of the injury, I was worried. Now I am almost okay, almost ready to play,” said Amrinder. According to Law 10 of IFAB Laws of the Game 2020-21, “a goalkeeper who is unable to continue before or during the kicks may be replaced by a player excluded to equalise the number of players or, if their team has not used its maximum permitted number of substitutes, a named substitute, but the replaced goalkeeper takes no further part and may not take a kick.” Goa had substituted goalkeeper Dheeraj Singh with Naveen Kumar in the 119th minute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/had-small-pain-before-penalties-now-almost-ready-to-play-amrinder/articleshow/81473886.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 13, 2021||World||Minneapolis to pay $27 million to settle George Floyd family lawsuit||MINNEAPOLIS: The city of Minneapolis on Friday agreed to pay $27 million to settle a civil lawsuit from George Floyd's family over the Black man's death in police custody, even as jury selection continued in a former officer's murder trial. The Minneapolis City Council emerged from closed session to announce the record settlement, which includes $500,000 for the neighborhood where Floyd was arrested. Floyd family attorney Ben Crump called a news conference for 1 p.m. that was to include family members. Crump, in a prepared statement, said it was the largest pretrial civil rights settlement ever, and ``sends a powerful message that Black lives do matter and police brutality against people of color must end.'' Floyd was declared dead on May 25 after Derek Chauvin, a former officer who is white, pressed his knee against his neck for about nine minutes. Floyd's death sparked sometimes violent protests in Minneapolis and beyond and led to a national reckoning on racial justice. ``I hope that today will center the voices of the family and anything that they would like to share,`` Council President Lisa Bender said. ``But I do want to, on behalf of the entire City Council, offer my deepest condolences to the family of George Floyd, his friends and all of our community who are mourning his loss.'' Floyd's family filed the federal civil rights lawsuit in July against the city, Chauvin and three other fired officers charged in his death. It alleged the officers violated Floyd's rights when they restrained him, and that the city allowed a culture of excessive force, racism and impunity to flourish in its police force. In 2019, Minneapolis agreed to pay $20 million to the family of Justine Ruszczyk Damond, an unarmed woman who was shot by an officer after she called 911 to report hearing a possible crime happening behind her home. The federal lawsuit sought unspecified compensatory and special damages in an amount to be determined by a jury. It also sought a receiver to be appointed to ensure that the city properly trains and supervises officers in the future. Meanwhile, another potential juror was dismissed Friday after she acknowledged having a negative view of the defendant. The woman, a recent college graduate, said she had seen bystander video of Floyd's arrest and closely read news coverage of the case. In response to a jury pool questionnaire, she said she had a ``somewhat negative'' view of Chauvin and that she thought he held his knee to Floyd's neck for too long. ``I could only watch part of the video, and from what I saw as a human, I, that did not give me a good impression,'' she said. She said she did not watch the bystander video in its entirety because ``I just couldn't watch it anymore.'' The woman repeatedly said she could put aside her opinions and decide the case on the facts, but Chauvin attorney Eric Nelson nonetheless used one of his 15 challenges to dismiss her. With jury selection in its fourth day, six people have been seated _ five men and one woman. Three of those seated are white, one is multiracial, one is Hispanic and one is Black, according to Hennepin County Judge Peter Cahill. Cahill has set aside three weeks for jury selection, with opening statements no sooner than March 29. Friday's quick dismissal echoed others earlier in the case for similar reasons. On Thursday, one woman was dismissed after she said she ``can't unsee the video'' of Chauvin pinning Floyd. Nelson pressed the woman hard on whether she could be fair despite her strong opinions. ``Looking in your heart and looking in your mind can you assure us you can set all of that aside, all of that, and focus only on the evidence that is presented in this courtroom?'' Nelson asked. ``I can assure you, but like you mentioned earlier, the video is going to be a big part of the evidence and there's no changing my mind about that,'' she replied. Potential jurors' identities are being protected and they are not shown on livestreamed video of the proceedings. Chauvin and three other officers were fired. The others face an August trial on aiding and abetting charges. The defense hasn't said whether Chauvin will testify in his own defense.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/minneapolis-to-pay-27-million-to-settle-george-floyd-family-lawsuit/articleshow/81474192.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Goa||Purvaja shines in Goa’s victory over Chandigarh||Opener Purvaja Verlekar scored a fine 43 in Goa’s 78-run victory over Chandigarh in the opening match of the Women’s Senior One Day Trophy in Jaipur on Friday. Batting first, Goa scored 173-9. In reply, Chandigarh were bowled out for 95 in 42.2 overs. Goa were in a trouble when opener Vinavi Gurav was bowled for a duck by Kashvee Gautam. Sunanda Yetrekar (4), captain Shikha Pandey (0) and Sanjula Naik’s (0) quick return to the pavilion also put pressure on Purvaja. Goa were tottering at 17-4 in the sixth over. Purvaja struck a 60-run partnership with Tejashwini Duragad (21) before both got out in quick succession. It was the lower order batters who came to Goa’s rescue. Useful contributions from Nikita Malik (16), Diksha Gawde (34*) and Sonali Gaunder (30) ensured they had some runs on the board to defend. Kashvee Gautam (3-36) and captain Amanjot Kaur (3-42) were the most successful bowlers for Chandigarh. Shikha and Sanjula made amends with the ball for their batting failures. Shikha ran through Chandigarh batters with 3-10, while Sanjula took three wickets for eight. Chandigarh were never in contention as they lost wickets regularly. Goa play Rajasthan next on Sunday. Brief scores: Goa 173-9 (Purvaja Verlekar 43, Diksha Gawde 34*, Sonali Gaunder 30; Kashvee Gautam 3-36, Amanjot Kaur 3-42) bt Chandigarh 95 in 42.2 overs (Manisha Badhan 38; Shikha Pandey 3-10, Sanjula Naik 3-8).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/purvaja-shines-in-goas-victory-over-chandigarh/articleshow/81474211.cms||Paresh Mokani
March 13, 2021||India||FCI to ascertain age of milled rice before procurement||NEW DELLHI: The millers will find it difficult to supply old milled rice or recycled PDS rice to the Food Corporation of India (FCI) from April next year. The food ministry said on Friday that the government-owned FCI will deploy a testing regime to ascertain the age of milled rice, which has been successfully implemented in Andhra Pradesh. Union food and public distribution secretary Sudhanshu Pandey told reporters that FCI is also carrying out this test and the aim is to start this from April next year across the country “to check recycling of rice”. According to officials from food and civil supplies of the Andhra Pradesh government, they use a mix of chemical solutions and a sample of only 5 gram of milled rice is put in a test tube filled with the chemical mix. After one minute, the colours of the milled rice and the solution changes. If it becomes green, then the rice is considered to be freshly milled. In case, the colour changes to orange, it indicates the rice was milled 5-6 months back. “In such cases, we do more due diligence to ensure the quality is not compromised,” said an official. The food and civil supplies secretary of Andhra Pradesh Kona Sasidhar said, “AP Civil Supplies Corporation evolved this innovative technique on its own and has been using it for two seasons. It has proved to be very effective in curbing recycling of rice.” Sources in FCI also said deployment of technology is the best way out to detect old milled rice and will ensure that only recently milled rice comes to the corporation for distribution to the public under different schemes. “After procuring paddy, we give them to millers and get the milled rice for storage to meet the requirement. Since this is a loose food item, there is no option other than going for some technology solution. You can’t add any colour or put a coating on rice to prevent diversion as it is done in the case of kerosene supplied through PDS or subsidised urea by adding colour or doing neem coating,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fci-to-ascertain-age-of-milled-rice-before-procurement/articleshow/81474312.cms||Dipak K Dash
March 13, 2021||Delhi||It’s been a year, we still can’t believe she is no more: Friends remember Thenny Mejia||Last year on March 11, the news of the sudden and unexpected demise of Thenny Mejia, a popular name in Delhi’s social circle, left many shocked. Thenny, who made Delhi her home when she came to the city in 2000, had many friends here who were planning a prayer meet for her, but due to the pandemic, they had to cancel it. Nalin Gupta and Blanca Dixit PeraltaEmely TurnerSo, on March 11 this year they decided to host a small party in her honour and “remember Thenny in the way she would have wanted.” The party was hosted by her close friend Nalin Gupta, who also invited her other friends to the gathering. Katja Larsen Sushma Puri and AD Singh“We were around 50 people, all were close to Thenny and we wanted to remember her in a way she would have liked and celebrate like she always celebrated. This is the real wealth acquired during one’s lifetime when the family and friends celebrate and remember you after you are gone and Thenny was someone who was a part of our lives and will always be in our memories,” said Nalin, adding, “I still can’t believe that Thenny is not with us anymore. The last year has been very tough for me, and I am sure even her other close friends would say that. She was like family to me and I miss her each day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/its-been-a-year-we-still-cant-believe-she-is-no-more-friends-remember-thenny-mejia/articleshow/81471486.cms||Divya Kaushik
March 13, 2021||India||Centre's app to help beneficiaries under Food Security Act, track migration||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Friday launched a mobile App “Mera Ration”, which can be used by 82 crore beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act to get live details of their entitlement of subsidised foodgrains, location of nearest ration shop, past transactions and also to raise any issue. The App will also help the government to assess the migration of a large section of the workforce in the unorganised sector by analysing the trend from where they are lifting their subsidised foodgrain. The App was launched by food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey to help the beneficiaries under the “One Nation One Ration Card” (ONORC) scheme, which already covers 69 crore people who are entitled to get highly subsidised foodgrains. The App can also be used by migrant beneficiaries to register their migration details. The App is currently available in Hindi and English, but the ministry plans to make it available in other regional languages as well. Officials said they have estimated a maximum of 7-8% of the identified beneficiaries will eventually use the portability of ration cards at any given time. The App will be integrated with other initiatives of the government to track the migration of the workforce. The ONORC scheme is now in implementation across all states and UT, except Delhi, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Assam. Pandey said these states will also implement the scheme in the next few months, which will enable the beneficiaries to get their entitlement from any ration shop across the country irrespective of their place of permanent residence. The food ministry said currently an average of about 1.5 to 1.6 crore such portability transactions are being recorded every month under the ONORC scheme. It said during Covid, 15.4 crore such transactions were carried out across states. Sources said most of these transactions are taking place within the same districts or states. But once all states are on board, the number of inter-state transactions will show up. Pandey said while only four states had joined the scheme in August 2019, now 32 states/UTs are on board. He added there has been significant reforms in the targeted Public Distribution System in the past seven years— whether it’s achieving 100% digitisation of ration cards or 91% Aadhaar seeding of ration cards or 92% progress in installation of e-PoS in fair price shops. Responding to a query, the food secretary also said the government has no plan to tweak the number of beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centres-app-to-help-beneficiaries-under-food-security-act-track-migration/articleshow/81474420.cms||Dipak K Dash
March 13, 2021||India||Centre proposes no renewal of registration for 15 year plus govt & PSU vehicles from April 2022||NEW DELHI: The road transport ministry on Friday issued a draft notification proposing to stop the renewal of all government vehicles which would attain 15 years April next year. This will pave the way for mandatory scrapping of such vehicles, which TOI had reported on January 26. According to the draft notification, the proposed change will be applicable to all such old vehicles owned by Central and state government departments, local governments including municipalities and panchayats, State Transport Undertakings, PSUs and other autonomous bodies under the Central and state governments. TOI on Friday had reported how all such vehicles will be the first slot to be compulsorily scrapped and how the motor vehicle law empowers the road transport ministry to decide the life of a vehicle and specify the age beyond which the registration cannot be renewed. While chairing a review meeting on the progress of the proposed vehicle scrapping policy on January 14 Prime Minister Narendra Modi had directed the road transport ministry to come out with the norm for mandatorily scrapping of government vehicles which are more than 15 years, which was first reported by the TOI. Sources said though the number of such vehicles owned by the government won’t be huge, the decision will send a message about how the Centre would give a big push for voluntary phasing out of old and polluting vehicles. They added the ministry will soon come out with more notifications to operationalise the scrapping policy, which was announced in the Budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-proposes-no-renewal-of-registration-for-15-year-plus-govt-psu-vehicles-from-april-2022/articleshow/81474676.cms||Dipak K Dash
March 13, 2021||India||Message to China: Quad vows to keep region ‘free & secure’||NEW DELHI: Sending a strong message to China, the Quad in its first summit signalled its arrival on the geopolitical scene with PM Modi describing the grouping as a “force for global good” and an “important pillar of stability” in the Indo-Pacific. In his opening remarks, he underlined the evolution of the group and a shedding of inhibitions India may have harboured in the past. “We will work together, closer than ever before, for advancing our shared values and promoting a secure, stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific,” he said. Modi’s comments came after US President Joe Biden invited him to speak, observing, “PM Modi, good to see you”. The discussions sent a potent message to China that its actions have brought together a committed group of democracies supporting values of pluralism and free access in a region which Beijing likes to see as its backyard. Read AlsoBiden renews 'Quad' with allies despite China pressureThe Quad nations- US, India, Japan and Australia- held four-way naval exercises in the Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea in November 2020. Australia participated in the exercise for the first time in more than a decade.“The summit, by itself, is the most significant outcome,” foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, who is also the sherpa for the Quad from the Indian side, said. “The Quad leaders emphasised the commitment to a free and open, prosperous and secure Indo-Pacific,” he added. Read AlsoIndia seeks funds from Quad alliance to match China's vaccine push: SourceIndia has urged the United States, Japan and Australia to invest in its vaccine production capacity, an Indian government source told Reuters, as the so-called Quad alliance tries to counter China's growing vaccine diplomacy. Beijing has committed to providing at least 463 million doses of itsChina seems to have been angered by the developments with Global Times, the Chinese mouthpiece, saying India was becoming a “negative asset” for BRICS and SCO. “India has become a negative asset of these groupings. China in February said it is backing India to host the 2021 BRICS summit. It seems India has failed to understand China's goodwill. India takes all support from China for granted. It is, in fact, carrying out a kind of strategic blackmail against China,” the paper said. The Quad's faith in market-based economies and readiness to put forward a “positive agenda” in the region was emphasised in an ambitious target of producing a billion doses of the anti-Covid vaccine. There would be no talk of a ‘Cold War’ with China but the Quad would project power in a way distinct from the communist giant, seemed to be the summit's political upshot, with Biden making it evident that he does not differ from the Trump administration on the Indo-Pacific and Quad. Underlining the convergence, the summit was followed by a joint statement. “The summit, by itself, is the most significant outcome,” foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, who is also the sherpa for the Quad from the Indian side, said. “The Quad leaders emphasised the commitment to a free and open, prosperous and secure Indo-Pacific,” he added. Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga tweeted that he had opposed China’s unilateral efforts to change the status quo, as well as the situation in Myanmar. He is the first Quad leader to directly say China’s actions came under criticism at the summit. Hosted by the US, the summit threw up several outcomes — first, a massive vaccine initiative that will use the strengths of all four countries to produce a billion doses of Covid vaccines that would be used for the good of Indo-Pacific countries for a start. Briefing journalists after the summit, Shringla said, “It is an ambitious target but we believe we can do it.” The initiative will expand India’s own vaccine manufacturing capabilities, so that India’s domestic demands are not affected. The initiative will use vaccines developed in the US — the Johnson & Johnson one to begin with — and those manufactured in India, financed by US and Japan. Australia will use its logistics to build last mile connectivity to countries in southeast Asia, Pacific islands and Indian Ocean countries. For the first time, a joint statement was issued, signalling a greater alignment. The Quad set up three expert level working groups on vaccines, critical and emerging technologies and climate change. Australian PM Scott Morrison tweeted, “For us, this meeting is about how we keep Australia and the Indo-Pacific region we live in safe, stable and secure.” Myanmar came up for discussion, where Modi stressed the close relations India had with the neighbour and said would be working “constructively” to bring it back on the path to democracy. “We advocate a constructive approach, take into account the needs of the people of Myanmar,” Shringla said. The Quad also explored the possibility of cooperating with some countries in Europe like France, Germany and Netherlands which had declared Indo-Pacific policies of their own. “But there is no talk about expanding the Quad,” Shringla said. Watch Quad to be key pillar of stability in Indo-Pacific, says PM Modi at first summit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/message-to-china-quad-vows-to-keep-region-free-secure/articleshow/81475511.cms||Indrani Bagchi
March 13, 2021||India||CBI, ED summon TMC netas over Ponzi scams||KOLKATA: Days after it summoned Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha MP Manas Bhuniya over the iCore Ponzi muddle, the CBI on Friday asked Bengal minister Partha Chatterjee to appear before the central agency in connection with the probe. In another development, TMC’s Madan Mitra was summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the Saradha Ponzi case. The Trinamool retorted sharply, alleging a concerted effort by the BJP to use the CBI and the ED to malign the image of party leaders. The CBI sent a notice to Chatterjee asking him to appear at its CGO Complex office next week. Chatterjee had allegedly attended a programme organised by the iCore Group in August 2011 and shared the dais with Bhuniya. Chatterjee, the then industry minister, had allegedly reposed faith in the group in making a mark in the country. Read AlsoKolkata: 8 accused in Ponzi scheme get life termA special court in Tamluk on Thursday sentenced eight accused in the Pincon Ponzi scheme case for life. This is the first conviction under the West Bengal Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act, 2013. The Directorate of Economic Offences was set up to probe Ponzi casesBhuniya, the then irrigation minister, had also allegedly lauded the effort of the group in generating employment. Read AlsoHelp panel on Ponzi cases to resume work: HC to Bengal governmentThe Calcutta High Court on Friday directed the West Bengal government to provide all support to the HC-appointed and Justice S P Talukdar-led committee on Ponzi cases to make it fully functional at the earliest and asked the home secretary to submit a report on October 9.Investigators, looking into the money-laundering aspect of the Ponzi firms, are trying to know the reason behind the presence of the two ministers at the iCore sponsored programme. Bhuniya had later claimed that as people’s representatives, politicians have to attend many programmes and that mere presence at an event did not prove any criminality. “I’ve been an honest person all along. I can’t comment on anything as long as I see the notice, ” Chatterjee said. TMC MP Saugata Roy said: “The two allies of BJP (CBI and ED) are being used at the whims of Centre. It is a ploy before the assembly polls. They are trying to malign the image of the party.” iCore Group’s role came to the fore after Sebi barred it from raising money from the market. The then corporate affairs minister, Sachin Pilot, had also mentioned about the company in Parliament. After CBI began probe, the agency arrested both iCore boss Anukul Maiti and his wife Kanika. Anukul died at Jharpada jail in Odisha last year while Kanika is out on bail. The ED sent a notice to Mitra asking him to appear before the agency on March 19. “I have appeared before the agency earlier too with necessary documents. Surprisingly, they start sending notices before polls. It happened in 2016 and in 2019. I will attend the questioning,” he said. CBI, which is also probing the illegal coal mining case, has asked Ankush Arora, husband of Menaka Gambhir (sister-in-law of Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee), and his father Pankaj Arora to appear before it next week. Menaka was recently questioned by the agency||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-ed-summon-tmc-netas-over-ponzi-scams/articleshow/81475595.cms||---
March 13, 2021||India||Centre moots single-use plastic ban next year||NEW DELHI: Seeking to make India single-use plastic-free by next year, the Centre has proposed a ban on use of such items in two phases beginning January 1, 2022 and issued a draft notification giving timelines of the staggered plan so that it doesn’t affect small businesses and traders. In order to deal with the menace of huge uncollected plastic waste across the country, the Centre has also decided to increase thickness of polythene bags from 50 microns to 120 microns from September 30 this year. Currently, polythene bags of less than 50 microns are banned in the country. Manufacture, import, stocking, distribution, sale and use of all single-use plastic commodities will be prohibited under amended rules ahead of the celebration of 75 years of India’s independence on August 15 next year. Increase in thickness of carry-bags, made of virgin or recycled plastic, will substantially improve collection and recycling of used carry-bags. The move assumes significance as currently 40% of total plastic waste remains uncollected in the country every day. The uncollected plastic waste causes choking of drainage and river systems, soil and water contamination, littering of marine ecosystem, ingestion by stray animals, and its open air burning leads to adverse impact on human health and environment. The draft notification, issued in the gazette the by environment ministry on Thursday, also for the first time defined ‘single-use’ plastic and identified such items which are to be banned in a staggered manner in two phases. “Notification is issued for stakeholders’ comments. It will be taken into consideration by the central government after expiry of sixty days from the date of notification (March 11). Though the draft has been prepared after adequate inter-ministerial deliberations, views of stakeholders and domain experts will be considered before issuing the amended rules to manage plastic waste,” said an official. While use of certain items, including plastic flags, earbuds with plastic sticks, plastic sticks for balloons, candy sticks, icecream sticks and decoration material, will be prohibited from January 1, 2022, use of remaining ones such as plates, cups, glasses, cutlery such as forks, spoons, knives, straw, trays, wrapping/packing films around sweet boxes; invitation cards; cigarette packets and stirrers will be banned from July 1, 2022. It will be the responsibility of urban local bodies and ‘gram panchayats’ to coordinate waste management system and for performing the associated functions such as ensuring segregation, collection, storage, transportation, processing and disposal of plastic waste. “The items which are to be phased out first (January 1, 2022) are those whose alternatives are easily available. The manufacturers and brand owners of remaining items will be given additional six months to work out their plan using compostable plastic or other alternatives,” said the official. The provision of thickness will not be applicable to carry-bags made up of compostable plastic. The manufacturers or seller or brand owners of compostable plastic carry-bags will have to obtain a certificate from the Central Pollution Control Board before marketing/ selling such items including plastic packaging materials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-moots-single-use-plastic-ban-next-year/articleshow/81475753.cms||Vishwa Mohan
March 13, 2021||India||MHA: Don’t tag Myanmarese entering India as refugees||GUWAHATI: The ministry of home affairs (NE Division) has written to the chief secretaries of Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur, which share borders with Myanmar, saying that an “illegal influx from Myanmar has started” and that the three states should not to grant refugee status to any foreigner. The letter also instructed the three states and the Assam Rifles, the India-Myanmar border guarding force, “to stay alert and take appropriate action to prevent a possible influx from the neighbouring country into Indian territory”. MHA deputy secretary (NE III) Krishna Mohan Uppu said in his letter that there was “a probability of large-scale illegal influx into Indian territory through IMB (India-Myanmar border) due to the internal situation in Myanmar” and that it had now “started”. The ministry said in 2017 instructions were issued to the chief secretaries of all state governments to sensitise all law enforcement and intelligence agencies to take prompt steps to identify illegal migrants and initiate the deportation processes without delay. MHA’s foreigners division had also issued similar instructions to the chief secretaries advising them to restrict illegal migrants to specific locations, capture their biographic and biometric particulars, and cancel fake Indian documents. “Further, it is reiterated that state governments and UTs have no power to grant ‘refugee’ status to any foreigner and India is not a signatory to the UN Refugee Convention of 1951 and its 1967 Protocol,” the MHA said. The MHA’s instructions have come amid reports of authorities in Mizoram’s border district of Champhai issuing a notification that says that those in danger of persecution from the Myanmar military junta would be regarded as refugees and should be provided shelter and protection in the district. Mizoram CM Zoramthanga had earlier said the state government and people of Mizoram would welcome any ethnic Mizo or anyone being persecuted for participating in the pro-democratic movement in neighbouring Myanmar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mha-dont-tag-myanmarese-entering-india-as-refugees/articleshow/81475815.cms||Prabin Kalita
March 13, 2021||India||Breakthrough eludes 7th round of China talks||NEW DELHI: India and China held their 7th round of diplomatic talks for disengagement along the LAC in eastern Ladakh with the government pushing Beijing, after the process was completed the Pangong area, to resolve the pending issues in remaining areas. There was no indication of any early breakthrough though. According to India, the 2 sides sides reviewed the situation along the LAC in the western sector and had in-depth discussions on the remaining issues while agreeing that the completion of the disengagement at Pangong lake provided a "good basis" for the two sides to work towards early resolution of these remaining issues. China though was not as forthcoming as it merely said in its readout that India and China had a "candid" exchange of views on promoting the resolution of other issues in the China-India border areas. Read AlsoHow India changed playbook and took China by surpriseThe process of disengagement between Indian and Chinese armies that began on Wednesday on both sides of Pangong Tso is only the first step. What began with initial talks in June 2020 took over eight months, violence, deaths, missteps to get this far. ​​Mistrust between the two sides is so deep that"Both sides agreed to implement the five-point consensus reached by the foreign ministers at the Moscow meeting and the spirit of the phone conversation between them on February 25, to stabilize and control the border situation and avoid relapse. The two sides agreed to continue dialogue and communication via diplomatic and military channels, hold the next round of Senior Commanders Meeting at an early time to further de-escalate the situation on the ground, and jointly maintain the hard-earned peace and tranquility in the border areas," said Beijing in its readout. Read AlsoSatellite images show China emptying military camps at border flashpoint with IndiaNEW DELHI: China has dismantled dozens of structures and moved vehicles to empty out entire camps along a disputed Himalayan border, where Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off since last summer, satellite images released on Wednesday show. The nuclear-armed neighbours last weekUnlike China, which says that the border issue should not be allowed to come in the way of overall development of ties, India has maintained that early disengagement in the remaining areas will allow the 2 countries to work for de-escalation in eastern Ladakh and pave the way for progress in bilateral ties. According to Indian authorities, the two sides agreed to maintain close communication and dialogue through both diplomatic and military channels. In this regard, said the MEA in a statement, they agreed to convene the 11th round of the Senior Commanders meeting at an early date so that two sides can work towards complete disengagement from the remaining friction areas. The foreign ministry said that India and China agreed that the agreement reached between the two Foreign Ministers in Moscow in September last year as also their recent phone conversation last month, should continue to guide the work of two sides. "The two sides should continue their dialogue to reach a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points at the earliest. This would enable two sides to look at broader de-escalation of troops in the area and work towards restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas," said the MEA, adding that they also agreed that in the interim the two sides should continue to maintain stability at ground level and prevent any untoward incident. Six meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC) and nine meetings of the Senior Commanders had been held for disengagement and de-escalation before the meeting on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/breakthrough-eludes-7th-round-of-china-talks/articleshow/81475949.cms||Sachin Parashar
March 13, 2021||---||G-23’s Azad, Sharma, Tewari not on star campaigners list||NEW DELHI: Leading dissidents Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Manish Tewari do not figure in the list of “star campaigners” finalised by Congress for the initial phases of West Bengal and Assam polls, a decision that may intensify the ongoing organisational churn and heartburn in the opposition party. As per the lists submitted to the Election Commission on Friday, all the senior Congress functionaries starting with the Gandhi family members, former PM Manmohan Singh and young spokesman Jaiveer Shergill were named as campaigners for the two states. But conspicuous was the absence of veterans Azad and Sharma, who is deputy leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha, as well as Congress MP and spokesman Tewari. Read AlsoCongress getting weaker by the day: ‘G-23’ leadersThe Congress ‘G-23’ bloc of dissenting leaders said at a public rally in Jammu on Saturday the party was weakening by the day and it was their endeavour to strengthen it in national interest. This marked their first collective bid to raise grievances outside the party and position themselves for the While the party claimed that the lists were prepared according to the demand of state units and that it is also a formality done more for poll expenditure purposes, it did not wash because it also contains names who are hardly recognisable in Congress. When asked, AICC spokesman Pawan Khera said the lists are submitted afresh as per polling phases and there are many rounds to come in the five poll-bound states, suggesting that many leaders may figure in future lists. Read Also‘G-23’ leader slams Congress tie-up with ISFAnand Sharma tweeted, “Congress’s alliance with parties like ISF and other such forces militates against the core ideology of the party and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism, which forms the soul of the party. These issues need to be approved by the CWC.”Read AlsoCongress G-23 denies writing another letter after debacle in BiharThe Bihar setback has triggered speculation of another letter from Congress dissidents to the leadership seeking introspection, the buzz being so strong that the ‘G23’ officially denied sending another missive to Sonia Gandhi. “There has been no meeting of the group in the recent past and no letter The omission of G-23 names in the initial bloc, especially when Azad and Parliament leaders have been “star campaigners” over decades, is bound to be seen as the party’s cold shoulder to the dissidents. Interestingly, last week, Azad announced that he has been a “star campaigner” in every election over four decades and will campaign for the party in the five states to ensure its victory. However, the lists also contain some names who sought organisational polls as part of the Group of 23 letter-writers — like Akhilesh Prasad Singh, Rajya Sabha MP from Bihar, and Jitin Prasada who is now the AICC in-charge of West Bengal.  It also has Deepender Hooda, RS MP, who is son of leading dissident and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Besides, Prithviraj Chavan was recently appointed the chairman of the screening committee for Assam polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/g-23s-azad-sharma-tewari-not-on-star-campaigners-list/articleshow/81476243.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
March 13, 2021||---||G-23’s Azad, Sharma, Tewari not on star campaigners list||NEW DELHI: Leading dissidents Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Manish Tewari do not figure in the list of “star campaigners” finalised by Congress for the initial phases of West Bengal and Assam polls, a decision that may intensify the ongoing organisational churn and heartburn in the opposition party. As per the lists submitted to the Election Commission on Friday, all the senior Congress functionaries starting with the Gandhi family members, former PM Manmohan Singh and young spokesman Jaiveer Shergill were named as campaigners for the two states. But conspicuous was the absence of veterans Azad and Sharma, who is deputy leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha, as well as Congress MP and spokesman Tewari. Read AlsoCongress getting weaker by the day: ‘G-23’ leadersThe Congress ‘G-23’ bloc of dissenting leaders said at a public rally in Jammu on Saturday the party was weakening by the day and it was their endeavour to strengthen it in national interest. This marked their first collective bid to raise grievances outside the party and position themselves for the While the party claimed that the lists were prepared according to the demand of state units and that it is also a formality done more for poll expenditure purposes, it did not wash because it also contains names who are hardly recognisable in Congress. When asked, AICC spokesman Pawan Khera said the lists are submitted afresh as per polling phases and there are many rounds to come in the five poll-bound states, suggesting that many leaders may figure in future lists. Read Also‘G-23’ leader slams Congress tie-up with ISFAnand Sharma tweeted, “Congress’s alliance with parties like ISF and other such forces militates against the core ideology of the party and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism, which forms the soul of the party. These issues need to be approved by the CWC.”Read AlsoCongress G-23 denies writing another letter after debacle in BiharThe Bihar setback has triggered speculation of another letter from Congress dissidents to the leadership seeking introspection, the buzz being so strong that the ‘G23’ officially denied sending another missive to Sonia Gandhi. “There has been no meeting of the group in the recent past and no letter The omission of G-23 names in the initial bloc, especially when Azad and Parliament leaders have been “star campaigners” over decades, is bound to be seen as the party’s cold shoulder to the dissidents. Interestingly, last week, Azad announced that he has been a “star campaigner” in every election over four decades and will campaign for the party in the five states to ensure its victory. However, the lists also contain some names who sought organisational polls as part of the Group of 23 letter-writers — like Akhilesh Prasad Singh, Rajya Sabha MP from Bihar, and Jitin Prasada who is now the AICC in-charge of West Bengal.  It also has Deepender Hooda, RS MP, who is son of leading dissident and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Besides, Prithviraj Chavan was recently appointed the chairman of the screening committee for Assam polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/assam/g-23s-azad-sharma-tewari-not-on-star-campaigners-list/articleshow/81476242.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
March 13, 2021||India||G-23’s Azad, Sharma, Tewari not on star campaigners list||NEW DELHI: Leading dissidents Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Manish Tewari do not figure in the list of “star campaigners” finalised by Congress for the initial phases of West Bengal and Assam polls, a decision that may intensify the ongoing organisational churn and heartburn in the opposition party. As per the lists submitted to the Election Commission on Friday, all the senior Congress functionaries starting with the Gandhi family members, former PM Manmohan Singh and young spokesman Jaiveer Shergill were named as campaigners for the two states. But conspicuous was the absence of veterans Azad and Sharma, who is deputy leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha, as well as Congress MP and spokesman Tewari. Read AlsoCongress getting weaker by the day: ‘G-23’ leadersThe Congress ‘G-23’ bloc of dissenting leaders said at a public rally in Jammu on Saturday the party was weakening by the day and it was their endeavour to strengthen it in national interest. This marked their first collective bid to raise grievances outside the party and position themselves for the While the party claimed that the lists were prepared according to the demand of state units and that it is also a formality done more for poll expenditure purposes, it did not wash because it also contains names who are hardly recognisable in Congress. When asked, AICC spokesman Pawan Khera said the lists are submitted afresh as per polling phases and there are many rounds to come in the five poll-bound states, suggesting that many leaders may figure in future lists. Read Also‘G-23’ leader slams Congress tie-up with ISFAnand Sharma tweeted, “Congress’s alliance with parties like ISF and other such forces militates against the core ideology of the party and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism, which forms the soul of the party. These issues need to be approved by the CWC.”Read AlsoCongress G-23 denies writing another letter after debacle in BiharThe Bihar setback has triggered speculation of another letter from Congress dissidents to the leadership seeking introspection, the buzz being so strong that the ‘G23’ officially denied sending another missive to Sonia Gandhi. “There has been no meeting of the group in the recent past and no letter The omission of G-23 names in the initial bloc, especially when Azad and Parliament leaders have been “star campaigners” over decades, is bound to be seen as the party’s cold shoulder to the dissidents. Interestingly, last week, Azad announced that he has been a “star campaigner” in every election over four decades and will campaign for the party in the five states to ensure its victory. However, the lists also contain some names who sought organisational polls as part of the Group of 23 letter-writers — like Akhilesh Prasad Singh, Rajya Sabha MP from Bihar, and Jitin Prasada who is now the AICC in-charge of West Bengal.  It also has Deepender Hooda, RS MP, who is son of leading dissident and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Besides, Prithviraj Chavan was recently appointed the chairman of the screening committee for Assam polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/g-23s-azad-sharma-tewari-not-on-star-campaigners-list/articleshow/81476035.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
March 13, 2021||Allahabad||5,143 adults, 125 children went missing at Magh Mela campus, reunited||Prayagraj: Digital technology proved to be of great help in reuniting family members who got separated from their loved ones due to the crowds in the vast mela campus this year. CCTV cameras and social media also assisted volunteers of the Bhoole Bhatke Shivir (lost& found camp) in reuniting 5,143 adults and 125 children throughout the 57 days of the Magh Mela and brought a major relief to the families and mela police authorities. This year, more women went missing and were later ‘reunited’ with their family members than men. As per the numbers available, a total of 1,880 male and 3,263 female devotees who visited the mela campus were temporarily separated from their families before they were reunited. On the last day of Magh Mela snan on Thursday, volunteers reunited 40 adults including 25 male and 15 female and three children who lost their way and got temporarily separated from their families during the snan. The organiser of Bhoole Bhatke Shivir, Umesh Tiwari told TOI that, “ A database of all lost and found people was prepared both manually and digitally”. He added that a team of 25 active volunteers worked tirelessly day and night in five sectors of Magh Mela to compile and circulate details of missing persons on social media and popular messaging apps to help and find separated people and reunite them with their families. Tiwari also added that the availability of digital and social media has undoubtedly proved to be a boon for volunteers this year as it makes it easier to share details of missing persons in different parts of the country for reuniting the lost with their family members. This time, volunteers shared missing persons’ details on the WhatsApp group named - Bharat Sewa Dal- and social networking sites connecting the volunteers of Bhoole Bhatke Shivir across the country to get leads. Volunteers of the shivir, meanwhile, said that reuniting the lost members with their families was akin to earning 'Punya' (good deeds) for them and they would be offering their services in coming mela as well. The majority of people who got separated and were later 'found' or reunited with their families hailed from a rural background and didn’t have mobile phones. The chunk of missing people involved senior citizens and women. Volunteers who hailed from different states and knew the different dialects associated with Hindi and other languages managed to connect the missing persons who could not speak Hindi. IG (Prayagraj zone) KP Singh appreciated the efforts of the lost and found the camp and said that volunteers did a novel job of reuniting the separated people at Magh Mela. The 57-day annual religious gathering started on the banks of the Ganga on Makar Sankranti ( January 14) and got culminated on Thursday after the Mahashivratri snan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/5143-adults-125-children-went-missing-at-magh-mela-campus-reunited/articleshow/81472004.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Patna||Bhagalpur’s daughter is RJD candidate from Tinsukia||PATNA: Hira Devi, the RJD candidate from the Tinsukia assembly seat in Assam, is a native of Bihar’s Bhagalpur district. Born to Savitri Devi and freedom fighter Vishnu Dev Chaudhary, she spent her childhood at her native village Amarpur under the Bihpur police station of Bhagalpur. She went to Assam in 1984 after her marriage to a Tinsukia-based businessman. Even after shifting to Assam, she completed her graduation with History honours from a Bhagalpur-based college in 1990. She entered into active politics in Assam in 2000 after she formed the Akhil Assam Hindi Bhasi Mahila Manch and openly protested against the wrongdoings of ULFA. She still heads the Manch as its founder president. Besides being a successful businesswoman and becoming the first woman executive member of the Tinsukia Chamber of Commerce in 2008-09, Hira Devi, (now 52) is active members of more than a dozen social, political and business organisations in Assam, especially in Tinsukia township. She is also the trustee and office-bearers in the management committee of several Hindu temples in Tinsukia. Interestingly, Hira was the treasurer of the Tinsukia District Congress Committee till March 9 (Tuesday), the day she filed her nomination as the RJD candidate from the Tinsukia assembly constituency. Her clout in the Congress can be gauged from the fact that she had been holding the post of treasurer in the district Congress committee since 2016. She was an active member of Congress since 2003. Sources in RJD said, despite being an active member of Congress, Hira Devi got a ticket from RJD as the Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra prevailed upon her party leaders to leave Tinsukia assembly seat for Bihar’s leading opposition party RJD to make an all-inclusive alliance of opposition in Assam. As Tinsukia seat went into the kitty of RJD, Hira, who had already applied for a Congress ticket, was asked to file her nomination as an RJD candidate who will have support from the Congress-led eight parties’ alliance. “It is true that I had applied for a Congress ticket from Tinsukia seat. But as the seat went to RJD, the Congress leadership advised me to file the nomination as an RJD nominee. I am the candidate of the Congress-led alliance, contesting on an RJD ticket. I have the support of all parties in the alliance. All prominent leaders of the Congress-led alliance and the RJD extended their support when I filed my nomination on Tuesday,” Hira Devi told TOI over the phone from Tinsukia. “My main aim is to make Tinsukia a greener, cleaner and better town and transform it into a hub for education, business and tourism,” she said over the phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpurs-daughter-is-rjd-candidate-from-tinsukia/articleshow/81472389.cms||Madan Kumar
March 13, 2021||Patna||People should avail schemes for fish farming: Deputy CM||KATIHAR: Bihar may supply fish to other states in coming years provided more people avail the government schemes and the beneficiaries of CM Matsya Vikas Yojana and PM Matsya Sampada Yojana make it a reality, deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad said at a function held on the collectorate premises here on Friday. “The beneficiaries of the PM and CM fisheries scheme should tell others about the government-backed projects, so that more people come forward to avail the schemes,” he said. Prasad also told the fisheries department officials that the vehicles provided to the beneficiaries should clearly mention its purpose and shoyuld not be used for any other work. “The list of beneficiaries should be made available to the MLAs of the respective areas and it should be ensured that they (beneficiaries) pay taxes due to the government,” he added.  District fisheries officer Shambhu Prasad Nayak said the CM Matsya Vikas Yojana was implemented in the state in 2016-17 while the PM Matsya Sampada Yojana was implemented for the first time in Katihar district. In the CM scheme, the subsidy is given in the ratio of 60:40 while in PM fisheries project, it is 90:10, he said. “At least 31 different types of vehicles, including motorcycles, mopeds, autorickshaws and pickup vans, were handed over to the beneficiaries by the deputy CM,” Nayak said. Talking about the nutrition value of black (kali) fish, former Union minister Nikhil Kumar Choudhary said, “Mongri, Singhi and Kawai come under the black fish category and are found in muddy waters. But, these fish varieties are on the verge of extinction. These are easily digestible, but sold at a whopping price of Rs800-900/kg.” The former Katihar MP urged the deputy CM to take initiative to protect such fish varieties in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-should-avail-schemes-for-fish-farming-deputy-cm/articleshow/81472514.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Business||Franklin MF confirms redemptions by insiders before shutting schemes, responds to Sebi notices||Mumbai: Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund (FTMF) on Friday confirmed receipt of more than one show cause notice from markets regulator Sebi, all related to the fund house’s decision to close down six of its debt schemes last April. The fund house also confirmed that some of its employees and directors had redeemed their investments in those six schemes in the days before the winding up decision was taken, and those transactions are also being reviewed by the fund house. Those redemptions, however, confirm to all the rules and regulations, the fund house said. In a mail to the investors in these six debt schemes, Sanjay Sapre, the president of the fund house said that it had submitted detailed responses to notices issued by Sebi. “We cannot go into detail of our responses, but we believe that we acted in compliance with applicable regulations and rules and that we have strong defences to the allegations.” There were reports that some of the directors of the fund house, their close relatives and fund managers had withdrawn substantial chunks of investments from the schemes, which were closed for redemptions as well as fresh investments starting April 24, 2020. At that time the six funds together had investments worth about Rs 25,900 crore. There have also been allegations that the top officials at FTMF didn’t act in the best interest of the investors but some acted to protect their private interests. In his letter, Sapre said that FTMF had robust policies “in place related to personal transactions of employees and directors, and for managing any real or perceived conflicts of interest”. He assured investors that all necessary disclosures were made by its employees and directors, in a timely manner as required under regulations. He also said that the schemes under winding up still have “significant investment from employees and management” of the fund house and other group companies. “Personal redemptions by certain individuals before the winding-up decision are under review and those individuals have cooperated fully with that process and submitted detailed responses to Sebi, which are under consideration,” Sapre said in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/franklin-mf-confirms-redemptions-by-insiders-before-shutting-schemes-responds-to-sebi-notices/articleshow/81474824.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Patna||Prohibition: Oppn firm on House debate||PATNA: State assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha might find his hands tied at the meeting he will hold with legislature party leaders of ruling and opposition parties on Monday to break the deadlock that has arisen from the opposition’s unrelenting demand for a House debate on the government’s prohibition policy and CM Nitish Kumar’s reply to it. “At the Monday’s meeting, we will stick to our demand,” RJD MLA Bhai Birendra said. Birendra and RJD’s Lalit Kumar Yadav and Sarvajeet Kumar had raised the matter in the House on Wednesday. The Congress is also adamant on House debate on prohibition and CM’s reply to it. “If the Speaker and the treasury benches do not accept our demand, we will continue to agitate both in the House and outside it,” Congress legislature party leader Ajeet Sharma said. Asked if Tejashwi or some other RJD member will participate in the Monday meeting with the Speaker, Birendra said it would indeed be Tejashwi. On Wednesday, the Speaker had found it difficult to put the House in order as the members of the opposition parties created noisy scenes and also entered the well. Bhai Birendra and Sharma maintained that the prohibition policy of the government had not only proved to be a failure, but also led to glaringly serious aberrations as the “liquor mafia” indulged in clandestine trade making it available even at private homes on demand. “The liquor mafia has created parallel economy worth several thousands of crores that had resulted in the loss of taxes to the revenue-starved Bihar, besides compromising the integrity of the state police,” they added. “People of the state are in favour of the government reducing consumption of liquor and maximising revenue returns. It should increase the tax on sale of liquor three times and use the revenue on industries. Despite prohibition, liquor is being sold unabated in the state,” Sharma told this newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/prohibition-oppn-firm-on-house-debate/articleshow/81473611.cms||Abhay Singh
March 13, 2021||Vadodara||Two astrologers arrested from Rajasthan||Vadodara: The Sama police on Friday arrested two astrologers from Rajasthan who had allegedly duped the Soni family that committed mass suicide in the city last week. The accused were brought to the city and will be presented before the court to seek remand for further questioning in the case. Meanwhile, a local court rejected the anticipatory bail of the five other accused astrologers on Friday. According to the police, its team had got the location of the duo on the basis of a tip-off from local sources in Rajasthan. “We tracked them down to Mangrol town in Rajasthan. The other seven accused are in hiding, but we will arrest them soon,” said P D Parmar, Sama police inspector. The duo that was arrested has been identified as Sahil Vohra alias Sitaram Bhargav (33) and Gajendra Bhargav (31). Parmar said that the duo admitted to having visited the house of Narendra Soni in Sama. “But they denied taking any money from Narendra,” Parmar told TOI. Six members of the Soni family attempted to commit suicide at their home in Sama area on March 3. While three died on the spot, two lost their lives during the treatment. According to Narendra’s son Bhavin, his father had contacted nine astrologers over a period of two years and sought help from them as he was facing a financial crisis. The astrologers charged lakhs of rupees from Narendra for performing the rituals to help him sell off his house for paying off his debts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-astrologers-arrested-from-rajasthan/articleshow/81473799.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Patna||3 held with liquor worth Rs15 lakh||BIHARSHARIF: The Nalanda police arrested three persons and seized 1450 litres of India made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth over Rs15 lakh near Bhikni Bigha under Sare police station area in the district Thursday night. Biharsharif Sadar SDPO Shibli Nomani said on Friday the seizure was made on a tip-off . “Police swung into action and recovered the IMFL of different brands packed in 146 cartons from a mini truck. The liquor was to be sold in the district ahead of Holi festival and panchayat elections,” Nomani said. “The smuggled liquor was manufactured in Haryana. It was brought via Jharkhand. Three liquor smugglers — Raj Kumar alias Patel of village Beldaria Bigha under Chhabilapur police station area, Bhubaneswar Kumar of village Dariapur under Manpur police station area and Vikki Kumar alias Sonu of Bikhni Bigha under Sare police station area — were arrested. The mini bus used in the liquor smuggling was also seized,” he said. Earlier on March 5, eight liquor smugglers were arrested with 1025 litres of IMFL packed in 113 cartons worth over Rs10 lakh from village Sasor under Sarmera police station area. One of the three vehicles used for transporting the smuggled liquor was stolen from village Katrisarai under the same police station area on March 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-held-with-liquor-worth-rs15-lakh/articleshow/81472473.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cops nab two for selling T-20 cricket tickets in black||Ahmedabad: Chandkheda police on Thursday caught two men for allegedly selling tickets of Friday’s 20-20 cricket match between India and England at Narendra Modi Stadium in Motera.According to police, the two accused have been identified as Kamlesh Patel, a 42-year-old resident of Unique City Homes in Ghatlodia, and Dakshesh Patel, 28, resident of Ghanshyamnagar in Zundal in Gandhinagar.The FIR filed with Chandkheda police mentioned that the cops got an input that two men were allegedly selling tickets of the 20-20 match in black near Gate No-1 of Narendra Modi Cricket Stadium.A team of Chandkheda police reached there at around 4.15pm on Thursday where they found the two selling the tickets illegally.Cops said that they found four tickets each worth Rs 500 from Kamlesh Patel and three Rs 500 tickets from Dakshesh Patel.The FIR mentioned that the two used to sell the tickets at higher rates, but the police did not mention at what price they were selling the tickets.Cops said they have recovered Rs 10,650 from the duo claiming that they had earned the amount from illegal sale of tickets.Police have booked them for selling tickets in black market and begun an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-nab-two-for-selling-t-20-cricket-tickets-in-black/articleshow/81474333.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Patna||CPI-ML to mobilise state farmers for March 26 Bharat Bandh||PATNA: CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya said here on Friday that his party has decided to mobilise farmers from every village against the controversial three farm laws passed by the Centre, besides demanding a legal guarantee for the minimum support price. "The party will also focus on several other issues such as the Centre’s drive for privatization of PSUs, price rise of petroleum products and LPG cylinders, and its indifference to the common man’s woes," he said. Bhattacharya had addressed a Kisan Mahapanchayat on Thursday held near Bihta Ashram in Patna district, established by peasant leader Sahajanand Saraswati in the pre-Independence period. He said the party has decided to hold demonstrations by farmers and peasants, along with trade union organisations, on March 15 across the state to protest against the privatization of PSUs. These events, along with the march planned to the assembly on March 18, will culminate in the participation of CPI(ML), its peasant groups, and other outfits in the Bharat Bandh on March 26. “The Bihta Kisan Mahapanchayat was a big rally and a huge success, as big and small farmers and also sharecroppers participated in it. Sahajanand was a Left-leaning peasant leader and had spearheaded the campaign for the abolition of zamindari in the state, which eventually happened (in 1954),” Bhattacharya said. From the Kisan Mahapanchayat venue, he also flagged off seven ‘Kisan Raths’, which would touch most of the villages in seven zones in which the entire state has been sub-divided for the purpose. “The campaign will continue till March 15 by which time most of the villages will have been covered by the raths,” Bhattacharya said, adding the party’s state leaders, including the 12 MLAs, will also address Kisan Mahapanchayats organized in the seven zones. The party’s state leaders, including CPI(ML) legislature party leader Mahboob Alam, and state secretary Kunal, accompanied Bhattacharya at the press meet here on Friday. Asked about the low-key participation of Bihar farmers in the December 8 Bharat Bandh, Bhattacharya said, "In Bihar, they are worried about the burden of repaying loans to banks due to the low returns on the sale because they are not getting the benefits of the MSP in the state.” “In Punjab, Haryana and western UP, the farmers, whose monthly income is higher than that of Bihar farmers, are worried that they will also be reduced to the same level as the Bihar farmers by the three farm laws,” Bhattacharya added. “But this time, we are touching every village and are also mobilizing farmers of all categories from ryots to sharecroppers. From my personal experience, I can say that Bihar farmers have begun to understand their situation. They also want the legally guaranteed MSP, and have become aware of the danger that is posed to their land and agriculture produce market by the three farm laws,” Bhattacharya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cpi-ml-to-mobilise-state-farmers-for-march-26-bharat-bandh/articleshow/81473621.cms||Abhay Singh
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||‘Need MoU to send nurses from Raj to UK’||JAIPUR: Praising the efforts by the state government in Covid-19 management and its control, Peter Cook, British deputy high commissioner on Friday advocated on the need of having Memorandum of Understandings (MOUs) to send nursing staff from India and Rajasthan to United Kingdom and urged on the need of mutual sharing facilities like tele-medicine and online consultancy. Cook met the state health minister Raghu Sharma and praised the efforts made by the state government during Covid-19 epidemic especially the fact that the state managed to attain a recovery of 97% and a very low mortality rate. During the meeting, Cook was very outspoken and praised the ‘Bhilwara’ and ‘Ramganj’ models. “I think the proper monitoring has been done by the Rajasthan government through its micro monitoring of the Covid-19 cases,” he said. Talking about the severe shortage of the nursing staff that was felt in Britain, he said, “There is a need of MOUs like sending nursing staff to the UK from the India and its various states like Rajasthan. The two countries can work together in the medical field especially on developing facilities like tele-medicine, online consultancy, social media and digital assistance so that the common people can get seamless medical facility.” Health minister Raghu Sharma apprised him of the efforts made by the health department and the government during the Corona times since its inception in the state on March 1, 20202.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/need-mou-to-send-nurses-from-raj-to-uk/articleshow/81474433.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Mosquito drive not showing much result, allege residents||NEW DELHI: While civic bodies claim to be taking a number of measures to control mosquito breeding in the capital, residents in several areas are complaining that drains adjoining internal roads and societies are yet to be attended to for anti-larval spray. As part of a drive to control mosquito breeding, besides doing regular desilting and anti-larva spraying, East Delhi Municipal Corporation claims to have started an exercise to place bags stuffed with sawdust and soaked with Malaria Larvicide Oil (a pesticide) in 150 drains to stop breeding and growth of larvae. “The oil released from sacks spreads over the surface of drains and hence, breeding of mosquitoes has stopped to a major extent in the past 10-15 days. We have been following this practice for a long time because of its success rate,” said EDMC deputy mayor Hari Prakash Bahadur. South Delhi Municipal Corporation claims to be using a group of bacteria, which produces toxins that are effective in killing various species of mosquitoes. “The eco-friendly exercise has started from the beginning of this year,” said an SDMC official. However, residents claimed that they were yet to get rid of mosquito menace.  Harish Khurana (name changed), a resident of Vikaspuri, said that despite urging the officials, no spraying work started in his area. “During evening, one can’t even sit comfortably at house,” said the resident. “It’s just the beginning and if the mosquito control programme is not implemented strictly now, the situation will go out of control during the peak season,” said a resident of Daryaganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mosquito-drive-not-showing-much-result-allege-residents/articleshow/81488263.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Patna||Lightning and thunderstorm in some Bihar districts today: Met||PATNA: As predicted by weathermen, partly cloudy skies were witnessed in several parts of the state on Friday. The Patna Meteorological Centre has also issued warning for thunderstorm and lightning in several districts like Kaimur, Rohtas, Aurangabad, Nawada, Gaya and West Champaran, on Saturday. The turbulent weather has been attributed to the combined impact of three different weather systems, including an anti-cyclonic circulation over north-west Bay of Bengal. Weathermen at Patna Meteorological Centre said the anti-cyclonic circulation shifted northwards from north-western Bay of Bengal on Friday. They said the moisture incursion from winds coming from the anti-cyclonic circulation was higher on Friday as compared to the previous two days. “The mix of moist and dry winds from different weather systems in the region is leading to development of thunderclouds. Accordingly, one or two places in the state are likely to witness thunderstorm and lightning along with light rain over the next 24 hours,” said Abhishek Prakash, an official at Patna Meteorological Centre. Meanwhile, at 36 degrees C and 14.5 degrees C, the highest and lowest maximum temperature in the state was recorded at Dehri on Friday. The temperature readings remained higher than normal in Patna as well. Maximum temperature in the state capital stood at 34.4 degrees C, three notches higher than normal, on Friday. The minimum temperature stood at 21.2 degrees C, five notches above normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-lightning-and-thunderstorm-in-some-districts-today/articleshow/81472640.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Results in small towns likely by noon; long haul in Vizag||AMARAVATI: The result of Naidupet municipality in Nellore district is expected to be the first to be declared after the counting of votes on Sunday. With 23 of the 25 wards becoming unanimous in the town, polling was held for two wards in Naidupet in which merely 2,100 votes were polled. Counting in both wards is expected to be completed by 11 am on Sunday. Since the YSRC has already bagged 23 wards in the municipality, the outcome of the two remaining wards is a mere formality. Meanwhile, the district administrations have made elaborate arrangements for the counting of votes. Most results are expected to be declared within six hours of commencement of the counting process. The results of small towns where only around 10,000 votes have been polled are expected to be declared by noon. As per the instructions of the State Election Commission (SEC), the district collectors have set up separate counters for counting of all the wards and divisions that went to polls on Wednesday. While the counting of votes in all the wards and divisions would commence almost simultaneously, results will be declared ward-wise as soon as the completion of the counting process. “There is no need to wait for the completion of the process in all the wards. Result of each ward will be made public immediately after the completion of the process,” said a senior official. This makes the job of the electoral officers easy while it is the headache of the political parties to wait for the magic figure to snatch the urban civic body. Sources said that the results of Rayachoti where only 3,744 votes were polled, Dhone (5,882), Yerraguntla (6,604), Palamanair (7,505) Sullurpet (8,670), Kovvur (10,339), Tuni (12,774), Giddalur (12,111) and Ramachandrapuram (14,220) are expected to be out before 12 noon. In fact, 31 wards of 33 in Rayachoti, 18 of 26 in Palamanair, 22 wards of 32 in Dhone, 13 wards of 23 in Kovvur, 15 wards of 30 in Tuni were captured unanimously by YSRC. The party has also won 14 of 25 wards in Sullurpet and 12 wards of 20 in Yerraguntla in Kadapa district. Similarly, the result of Chittoor municipal corporation is expected be the first among the corporation cities to come out as polling was held only for 13 of the total 50 divisions in the city. Around 20,000 votes were polled in 13 divisions. YSRC has already won 37 divisions in the city making the result of remaining 13 divisions insignificant in capturing the mayor’s post. Tirupati Municipal Corporation polled around 65,000 votes in 28 divisions. YSRC bagged 22 divisions of the 50, uncontested. With YSRC pocketing 23 of 50 divisions in Kadapa Municipal Corporation unanimously, the elections were held for 27 divisions for which about 70,000 votes were polled. The results of the remaining divisions in Tirupati and Kadapa are also expected to be out by noon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/results-in-small-towns-likely-by-noon-long-haul-in-vizag/articleshow/81472563.cms||Samdani MN
March 13, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Cops seek local help to nab dacoit gang in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag rural police have sought the support of locals to nab a gang threatening car passengers on ghat road between Darakonda and Sapparla villages in Vizag Agency. The gang waylays passengers during night with country-made firearms and sharp-edged weapons and loots valuables from them. On Thursday evening, passengers in a car on the ghat road were followed by dacoits on bikes. The driver heading towards Darakonda, however, sped ahead of them. The car hit a boulder and overturned. The two passengers escaped with minor injuries. The dacaoity gang then fled from the spot. One of the injured told villagers in Darakonda about the incident over the phone. The villagers reached the spot but in the process, one person suffered injuries after his bike overturned on the way to reach the spot. So far, Vizag rural police have recorded four dacoity cases on the ghat road. A few weeks ago, when four people were travelling in a car from Darakonda to Vizag, six armed dacoits stopped the vehicle by placing boulders on the road, threatened them with country-made guns, evicted the passengers and took away the vehicle along with Rs 32,000. Three similar offences were committed in January and February. In the last four cases, property and cash to the tune of over Rs 1 lakh were robbed. Additional superintendent of police (Chintapalle) Vidyasagar Naidu told TOI that they are seeking the help of the locals to identify and nab the gang. “The assailants are from Malkangiri district in Odisha,” he said. Sources said since Darakonda and Sapparla are Maoist-affected areas, police are struggling to deploy patrolling vehicles at the night in forest areas. The forest cover also helps the gang escape from the location after committing the crime. Locals have appealed to commuters to travel in a convoy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cops-seek-local-help-to-nab-dacoit-gang/articleshow/81472822.cms||Nalla.Babu
March 13, 2021||Business||Credit bureaus to note Covid loan rejigs||MUMBAI: The RBI has asked credit information companies (CICs, or credit bureaus) to create new information fields in their borrower history to reflect loans that are restructured due to Covid. The changes will apply to databases of consumer loans, credit to businesses and microfinance. The move will enable banks to restructure loans to borrowers without having to report them as delinquent to the credit rating agencies. The absence of the new category would have created a problem for the classification of borrowers. “The modifications are being made to enable lenders to report the information relating to restructured loans to CICs as envisaged in the circular dated August 6, 2020, on the resolution framework for Covid-19 related stress,” the RBI said. The August circular allows banks to do a one-time restructuring for Covid-hit businesses. While allowing a moratorium on loans in its March 27, 2020 circular, the RBI had made it clear to banks that the borrower’s credit profile should not suffer if they chose to delay repayment because of the lockdown. “The rescheduling of payments, including interest, will not qualify as a default for supervisory reporting and reporting to CICs by the lending institutions. CICs shall ensure that the actions taken by lending institutions under the above announcements do not adversely impact the credit history of the beneficiaries,” the RBI had said in March 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/credit-bureaus-to-note-covid-loan-rejigs/articleshow/81474749.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Patna||Adhere to Covid safety norms: Experts||PATNA: The resurgence of coronavirus cases in Maharashtra, Kerala and some other parts of the country notwithstanding, the authorities in Bihar are yet to re-enforce strict measures to prevent the spread of new virus variants. Unlike other states, Bihar has yet not reported fresh spike in the number of Covid cases, but experts claim that stricter vigil is needed on passengers arriving and departing from railway stations, airport and bus stands to maintain the curb on infections. Chief public relations officer of East Central Railway (ECR), Rajesh Kumar, said they are waiting for fresh instructions from the state government, especially in view of the upcoming Holi festival. “As of now, we are strictly adhering to all the previously implemented Covid-19 safety protocols. Any fresh protocols issued by the government will be implemented and followed diligently,” he said. An official of Bihar State Road Transport Corporation Limited (BSRTCL) said city buses are still overcrowded though masks and social distancing are mandatory. “Social distancing in buses is almost impossible. People board the same bus everyday irrespective of its capacity or occupancy,” he said. In the crisis management group meeting of the state government on February 19, the officials decided to strictly re-enforce the Covid-19 preventive norms like compulsory use of masks even while driving or using public transport. But it was not implemented effectively. Doctors in the state are advising stricter adherence to preventive measures in the wake of the new virus strain and the change in temperature. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, head of cardiac surgery department and nodal officer of Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna, said, “Although the severity of the new strain of the virus is less in comparison, the transferability is high due to which this can spread easily. People even after getting vaccinated shouldn’t be complacent and continue following the norms,” he said. Dr Diwakar Tejaswi, a general physician, said strict adherence to four protocols — use of masks, sanitizers, social distancing and handwash — is mandatory. “Every citizen should practice ‘Covid appropriate behaviour’ as India is far from achieving herd immunity with just 2% of it’s citizens being immunised,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/experts-adhere-to-covid-safety-norms/articleshow/81472781.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Business||Don’t plan to raise term policy rates: HDFC Life||MUMBAI: HDFC Life Insurance will not do any major revision of term insurance rates, but will tighten medical underwriting to ensure that its experience does not change as it expands business outside cities. The private insurer is also deploying technology to do professional-level underwriting of even those policies that offer a lower level of protection. HDFC Life’s decision comes at a time when some private insurers have announced a revision in rates effective from April. This follows reinsurers raising rates on the fear that mortality costs may rise because of the pandemic, and citing low rates in India. HDFC Life MD & CEO Vibha Padalkar told TOI that, while the company did see several claims on account of Covid, it did not have to dip into the reserves set aside at the beginning of the year due to fewer death claims outside Covid. “Reinsurance rates were revised last year in March-April. At that time, we said that we won’t increase carte blanche, but look at proposals on a risk-calibrated basis. We have already launched our new Click2Protect Life term plan product and we do not see rates being revised. Having said that, if there is a resurgence or the pace of vaccination is not as expected, we will take a call,” said Padalkar. She added that HDFC Life would continue to engage with reinsurers and see what their concerns are. “They want some additional checks, and we are doing those additional checks and moving ahead as a partnership,” she said. According to Padalkar, medically underwritten policies will go up, especially as the company expands in interior India. “The mortality rates may not be the same as people who have access to better healthcare. We need to be sure that there is no adverse selection and pricing is based on probability,” she said. “Although this is at a nascent stage in our country, we are experimenting with building capability to do telemedical through apps. Retina scans can help in identifying diabetes,” said Padalkar. To ensure that a larger proportion of policies are underwritten, HDFC Life is increasingly using technology. Its ‘selfie for a quote’ application can generate a quote by identifying a proposer’s gender and age from a selfie. For savings products (with a relatively lower protection component), the company uses software that mimics the approach of professional underwriters when they receive a life proposal. At the customer servicing stage, the company has deployed an Emolyser tool that can tell when a customer is irate and escalate his issue to a senior person. A Sentilyzer application can read emails to identify ones that need to be immediately looked at. For annuity plans, senior citizens instead of visiting the branch for proof of existence need to only look into an application and blink a few times. “We also have the capability to do telemedical through apps. Retina scans can help in identifying diabetes,” said Padalkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dont-plan-to-raise-term-policy-rates-hdfc-life/articleshow/81474728.cms||Mayur Shetty
March 13, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Woman, child found dead; parents cry foul||VISAKHAPATNAM: A woman along with her daughter were found dead under suspicious circumstances at their house in Hanumannagar area under Narasannapet police station limits in Srikakulam district on Thursday night. The deceased were identified as G Latha (21) and Lasya (16 months). They were found dead on the bed. The police took into custody Latha’s husband G Ramesh for questioning after Latha’s parents alleged that Ramesh and his mother and brother were behind the double murder. The police said that Latha, a native of Koilam village under LN Pet mandal in Srikakulam district, married Ramesh, a native of Narasannapet three years ago. The couple had a boy, Tanish, and a girl, Lasya. Ramesh is a driver by occupation and had allegedly entered into an affair with another woman. Latha came to know about the extramarital affair and this often led to fights between the couple. Neighbours told the police that Ramesh would beat Latha whenever she raised the issue of his extramarital affair. According to neighbours, Ramesh along with other family members, visited a Lord Shiva temple on Thursday morning on the occasion of Maha Shivratri. Latha and her daughter were found dead on Thursday night under mysterious conditions. Narsannapet police sub-inspector Satyanarayana told TOI that they are yet to ascertain whether it is a case of double murder or suicide. “We are waiting for the postmortem report,” he said. Satyanarayana said the police received a complaint from Latha’s parents that their daughter and granddaughter were strangled to death by Ramesh and his relatives. “We have registered a case and an investigation is on,” he added. The deceased woman, Latha, and her husband Ramesh would have frequent fights over Ramesh’s extramarital affair. Police have taken Ramesh into custody||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/woman-child-found-dead-parents-cry-foul/articleshow/81472786.cms||Nalla.Babu
March 13, 2021||Patna||Crimes against women continued in Bihar during lockdown last year||PATNA: Crime against women continued in the state even during the period of Covid-induced lockdown last year when other forms of crimes had reduced. Crimes like rape, molestation, dowry deaths, domestic violence and atrocities were recorded in the state even during complete lockdown in April and May. However, overall, there has been a dip in crime against women in the state in the last three years. As per an analysis of police headquarters, the state witnessed 20% dip in crime against women last year when compared to 2019. Asked about continuation of crime against women even during lockdown, CID SP (weaker section) Bina Kumari said a large number of people returned to the state last year during and after lockdown and some of them indulged in crimes against women. “Domestic violence and dowry atrocities rose during the period,” she added. The SP, however, added that overall scenario has improved in the state as far as crime against women is concerned. “Women have become vocal in the state and they fight for their rights and justice. Women have become mukhiyas and sarpanchs in villages. Many women from villages are getting police and other government jobs,” she said. Padma Shri recipient Sudha Varghese, a social worker, said women faced varying levels of hardships during lockdown. “Family members made women suffer. There was a lack of unity and harmony in family which created problems for women,” she said. On the SP’s claim that crime against women has dropped in the state in the last three year s, Varghese said, “This decrease means cases are not being reported. I receive complaints from women that their complaints are not entertained at police stations,” she said. CID ADG (weaker section) Anil Kishore Yadav said several policies of the state government have created a positive impact on the society and women have become vocal now. “The confidence of women has gone up in the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/crimes-against-women-continued-in-bihar-during-lockdown-last-year/articleshow/81472727.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Betting picks up in Vijayawada as counting day looms||VIJAYAWADA: With the fate of municipal election contestants sealed in ballot boxes, it is the turn of punters to test their luck. Betting has picked up in the city following the end of polling, with all major political parties exuding confidence of winning the elections. Soon after the conclusion of polling concluded on Wednesday, poll managers from both ruling and opposition parties started assessing the mood of the electorate. While the ruling YSRC is confident of winning majority of the wards and the mayor’s seat, opposition TDP is also hoping to clinch majority. At the ward level, punters are betting on the party as well as majority. Bets are also being placed based on social equations and popularity of contestants within their area. The odds are high in the 11th division where Kesineni Swetha, daughter of Vijayawada MP Kesineni Srinvas, is contesting. As she has also been announced TDP’s mayoral candidate, punters in favour of TDP are betting big on her win. The situation in 34th division is similar, with YSRC mayor candidate Punyasheela in the fray and the ruling party confident of a huge majority in this ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/betting-picks-up-in-vij-as-counting-day-looms/articleshow/81472694.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 13, 2021||Kanpur||Mentally challenged man stabs father to death in Uttar Pradesh, injures mother||KANPUR: A 65-year-old man was stabbed to death allegedly by his 38-year-old mentally challenged son at Mahera village under the limits of Biwanr police station in Hamirpur district on Friday. The accused also injured his mother. Police identified the deceased as Jageshwar and the accused as Dalchandra. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Dalchandra, who was mentally ill, killed his father when the latter was working in the fields. “On Friday morning, Dalchandra went to the fields where his father Jageshwar was working. An argument broke between the father-son duo and Dalchandra attacked his father with a knife. He also attacked his mother. Jageshwar was rushed to hospital where he succumbed to wounds,” said SP Hamirpur Narendra Kumar Singh. Biwanr police sent the body to government hospital for an autopsy and took Dalchandra into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mentally-challenged-man-stabs-father-to-death-injures-mother/articleshow/81473212.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Business||Finance ministry asks Sebi to reverse ‘disruptive’ AT1 bonds order||MUMBAI: The finance ministry on Thursday asked Sebi to reverse its directive to mutual fund (MF) houses to value Additional Tier-1 (AT1) bonds issued by banks as 100-year instruments, terming it as “disruptive”. The circular issued by the markets regulator on Wednesday had the potential to create problems on Reserve Bank of India’s turf as it could have triggered a selloff by MFs of these bonds issued by public sector and private banks. A selloff risk was created because if MFs held on to the bonds, the Sebi directive would have led to a dip in net asset value (NAV) of debt funds from April 1 when the circular became effective. In an office memorandum, the department of financial services said that MFs currently hold more than Rs 35,000 crore of the total bank AT1 issuances of about Rs 90,000 crore. The memo said that the Sebi circular would limit the ability of MFs to buy bank bonds and the coupon rates on them would rise. “The abrupt drop in valuation is likely to lead to large NAV swings and potential disruption in debt markets. This measure will also take away the appetite for MFs for investing in such instruments, given valuation norms,” the memo said. The ministry also feared panic redemption of MFs impacting the overall corporate bond markets. The genesis of the problem with AT1 bonds lay in the RBI’s reorganisation plan for the failed Yes Bank, which resulted in AT1 bonds issued by the lender being extinguished even as shares continued to trade. This story was repeated in the case of Lakshmi Vilas Bank. The decision to extinguish the bonds was taken keeping in view that the terms of the issue included some loss-absorption feature in those bonds where investors would not be paid if the bank were to fail. Given that investor protection was part of Sebi’s turf, market players said that the move to curb AT1 bonds was justified. Funds body AMFI on Friday supported Sebi’s stance, stating that AT1 bonds are issued without any maturity date, but are usually issued with call option(s) and qualify for tier-1 capital. “Most trades in AT1 bonds happen on a yield-to-call basis. This is based on the established market convention, locally as well as globally, that the issuer will exercise the call option on the due date,” it said. Despite the hybrid nature of these bonds, rating analysts said they will continue to analyse them as debt instruments, “based on willingness and ability to repay” by the issuers. “The government ownership and support will be weighed in while rating bonds issued by public sector banks. But recent events could reduce the investors’ appetite for these bonds,” said ICRA VP & sector head (financial sector ratings) Anil Gupta. “Top-rated private banks will not have a problem when their existing bonds mature as they have raised adequate capital.” Sebi had engaged with AMFI on the treatment of AT1 bonds as it is a hybrid instrument and carries a differentiated risk-reward ratio than a normal debt instrument. “Treatment of AT1 bonds was discussed in the Mutual Fund Advisory Committee where several members of AMFI participated,” it said. The trade body fully supported “the need and spirit” of Sebi circular in capping exposure to AT1 bonds. It also supported Sebi’s objective of fair valuation. However, AMFI was in discussion with Sebi to further smoothen the process of implementation of this circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/finmin-asks-sebi-to-reverse-disruptive-at1-bonds-order/articleshow/81474717.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Rajkot||Blackmail and extortion racket busted, two held in Rajkot||Rajkot: Tempted by a call from an unknown woman soliciting friendship, beware. Rajkot police arrested Anil Saresa and Dilip Gohel for running a blackmail and extortion racket using the same modus operandi. The two accused — with the help of other accomplices Ashwin and Manisha, who are on the run — used to run the racket. Police informed that 31-year-old Ramanji Yadav, who runs a security agency in Shapar-Veraval area in the outskirts of the city, lodged a complaint against the accused with Gandhigram police station. Yadav said that he was kidnapped with the intention of extorting money by the gang on March 10. “On March 10, I received a call from one woman who identified herself as Manisha and asked me if I was interested in friendship. I agreed and she asked if I wanted to meet her. We decided to meet at Madhapar Chowkdi,” Yadav said. “I went to the meeting place on my bike and she asked me to drive towards Morbi Road. After sometime she asked me to stop the bike on the pretext of attending nature’s call. Suddenly, three people arrived at the spot and started beating me. “One of them claimed that he was the woman’s brother and demanded Rs 2.5 lac for settling the issue. They kidnapped and took me to an ATM near Greenland Chowkdi. I saw a few people near the ATM and shouted for help,” Yadav said in his complaint. The passers-by rushed to help Yadav. In melee, one of the accused managed to escape but Saresa was caught. Later, the police were called in. Police have so far arrested Saresa and Gohel while a manhunt has been launched to nab the other two accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/blackmail-and-extortion-racket-busted-two-held-in-rajkot/articleshow/81472147.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Patna||‘Govt committed to providing sustainable means of irrigation'||PATNA: Water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha on Friday said the state government is committed to providing sustainable means of irrigation, which will contribute to increasing farm income, bring prosperity to rural areas and strengthen the state economy. He was speaking at a national conference on ‘Water to Every Farm: Building Climate Resilient Agriculture in Bihar’ in Patna. Agriculture minister Amrendra Pratap Singh also addressed the meeting, highlighting the impact and consequences of climate change on agriculture, organised by the Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED). "Water to every farm is an ambitious programme of the state government under the ‘Saat Nischay-2’ initiative, and any suggestion to safeguard our farmers from disasters is welcome and will be incorporated in this flagship programme," Jha said. The agriculture minister said, "The state government is successfully running the Jal Jeevan Hariyali Mission, which ensures water availability for farming and helps in recharging groundwater. Government is committed to increasing the coverage of irrigated land and will subsequently provide irrigation services to every farmer for making agriculture climate-resilient as well as profitable for our farmers." The CEED stated in a statement that Bihar is one of the most climate-vulnerable states in the country with 16 of its districts listed in the top-20 most climate vulnerable districts of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-committed-to-providing-sustainable-means-of-irrigation/articleshow/81472866.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Car falls into canal, 3 drown||Rajahmundry: Three persons drowned when the car they were travelling in fell into an agricultural canal near Lolla Locks under Athreyapuram mandal in East Godavari district. The deceased have been identified as Chintalapati Srinivasa Raju (46), Manthena Suresh Verma (45) and Indukuri Satyannarayana Raju (46). Another two persons in the car—Mudunuri Ganapathi Raju and Sitharama Raju—managed to swim to safety. Athreyapuram SI Naresh said five persons from the same apartment in Gollalakoderu in West Godavari came to Vasanthavada village on Thursday. They started their return journey after midnight on Friday. When the car reached Lolla Locks, the person behind the wheel lost control and the car plunged into the canal. Police suspect the driver was drowsy and may have been speeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/car-falls-into-canal-3-drown/articleshow/81472759.cms||Samson Raj
March 13, 2021||Pune||Allow jabs for those over 18 in Pune district to curb cases: Ajit Pawar||MUMBAI/PUNE: As the clamour grows for Mumbai’s vaccination drive to accelerate in the light of rising cases, the BMC said it is still awaiting the Centre’s approval to allow 49 more private hospitals to join the drive. On Friday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the state would approach the Central government for allowing mass vaccination of people above 18 years of age in Pune district in view of the recent increase in cases and daily positivity rate. Stating that medical experts had suggested this move, he urged Pune MPs Girish Bapat, Supriya Sule, Shrirang Barne and Amol Kolhe to submit this proposal to Union health ministry officials in Parliament. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state advisor, had criticised the Centre for controlling the drive. “A change in policy is required for Pune in Maharashtra as well as all other districts in different states having a high positivity rate. A mass vaccination drive for those above 18 years will have to be allowed immediately. For this, more doses have to be allotted to these states,” Ajit Pawar, also the district guardian minister, told TOI, citing that Niti Aayog member (health) and other health officials had also prescribed more focus on such districts. The vaccine numbers in the state dipped significantly on Friday as a dozen districts didn’t carry out the drive on the occasion of Mahashivratri (usually the previous day’s figures are released the next day; Mahashivratri was on Thursday, so that day’s count is effectively out on Friday). A total of 80,705 people took the vaccine, down from the high of 2.28 lakh doses administered the previous day, which was the highest in a day. Of the 80,707, 51,775 were senior citizens and 11,006 were people above 45 with comorbidities. Mumbai, on Friday, maintained the rise in vaccinations. As many as 44,264 people were vaccinated, including 28,664 senior citizens and 4,587 people above 45 with comorbidities. A senior civic official said 77 centres are currently administering the vaccine through 196 sessions. “Public hospitals may run extended hours from next week, but we are unlikely to vaccinate on Sunday as vaccinators need at least a day’s break,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC executive health officer. Private hospitals, however, can run their centres on Sunday that have so far been no-vaccination days, she said. Another civic official added the Centre has not approved names of 49 private hospitals, three days after the proposal has been sent. “They should have left such micro-management to corporations or districts,” the official said. Ajit Pawar too said the Centre would have to make changes in vaccine distribution policy for districts with high caseload so the spread of the disease could be curbed. The Centre announced earlier that Pune was among the 8 severely affected districts. Dr Tanu Singhal, an infectious disease expert who has treated scores of Covid patients, said the Centre may even start considering patients under 45 years with comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mumbai-allow-jabs-for-those-over-18-in-pune-dist-to-curb-cases-ajit/articleshow/81477453.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 13, 2021||Patna||Major setback for RLSP as 35 leaders join RJD||PATNA: Former union minister Upendra Kushwaha-led Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) received a major setback when its 35 prominent leaders joined the RJD on Friday amid rumours of party’s merger with the JD(U). State president (incharge) Virendra Kushwaha, women cell president Madhu Manjari Mehta, principal general secretary Nirmal Kushwaha and minority cell state vice-president Md Naseem were prominent among those who joined the RJD. A few others from Jharkhand also switched sides. RJD released the list of the leaders who reposed faith in the leadership of former CM Lalu Prasad. The RLSP functionaries were given membership by RJD state president Jagadanand Singh at the party office in the presence of leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Later talking to mediapersons Tejashwi said, “RLSP virtually lost its existence as all prominent leaders and dedicated workers have joined the RJD. Only Upendra Kushwaha is left and he will join hands with CM Nitish Kumar.” Taking a swipe at Kushwaha for accepting Nitish’s leadership, Tejashwi said that he forgot all what Nitish had earlier told about him. Earlier, 41 leaders and workers had resigned from the primary membership of the RLSP as mark of protest againt Kushwaha’s move to join hands with Nitish. They said that majority of the workers were not in favour of the merger of the RLSP with the JD(U). Vinay Kushwaha was given charge of the party at a time when RLSP state president Bhudev Choudhary resigned from the party and joined the RJD ahead of the state assembly polls last year. The RLSP chief received a flak ever since the party failed to get a single seat in the 243-member state assembly in the recently held election. Nirmal Kushwaha, who resigned from the post of principal general secretary said, “In fact, we were feeling disheartened ever-since Upendra Kushwaha met CM Nitish Kumar in December last year to talk about merger of the party.” Meanwhile, reliable sources said that RLSP may merge with the JD(U) by March 15. The speculation got ripe when JD(U) Rajya Sabha MP Vashishtha Narayan Singh and Upendra Kushwaha took Covid-19 vaccines together and held talks with each other reently. Another senior functionary of the RLSP Madhav Anand said, “Wait till March 14. Everything will be crystal clear by then.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/major-setback-for-rlsp-as-35-leaders-join-rjd/articleshow/81472321.cms||Ramashankar
March 13, 2021||Patna||Stage set for RLSP merger with JD(U)||PATNA: The district to national office-bearers of Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) headed by former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha will meet on Saturday and Sunday to formally decide on the party’s merger with CM Nitish Kumar’s JD(U). It is being considered ‘ghar wapsi’ (homecoming) for Kushwaha, who had quit JD(U) and formed RLSP in 2013 and explored the chances of spectacular success on the basis of his base in the Koeri or Kushwaha caste by joining NDA and grand alliance. As per the agenda, the participants will present their points of view on Saturday on the issue of RLSP merger with JD(U) in the presence of Kushwaha, who will take the next step of formally announcing the merger on Sunday, it is learnt. Although it could not be confirmed, Kushwaha’s wife Snehlata might also attend the party meeting. The national and state councils, as well as national and state office-bearers and also district presidents are also likely to ratify the RLSP merger with JD(U) on Sunday. RLSP had seen occasional switching of its rank to other parties even before October-November 2020 assembly elections. But after the assembly poll results, it changed into desertion, which happened even on Friday when a large number of them joined RJD. While the RLSP has its units in various states, it has 40 organisational districts in Bihar. The actually existing number of the party members cannot be quantified and the mood favours its merger with JD(U). “Sir (Kushwaha) is very happy. We are also very happy at the merger of RLSP with JD(U),” RLSP state spokesman Bhola Sharma said, adding: “CM Nitish Kumar will give a big responsibility to him in the organization after the merger. This is the dominant feeling in our party.” Talks regarding the likely alliance of RLSP with BJP or JD(U) and even its merger with JD(U) had started after its electoral debacle in the 2020 assembly elections in which it had fielded 125 candidates, but could not open its account. Kushwaha had walked out of the grand alliance comprising RJD, Congress and Left and then formed a separate alliance with six smaller parties, including the Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM, which, however, alone won five assembly seats in the state. Prior to that, during the 2019 parliamentary elections, Kushwaha’s party had ambitiously contested six parliamentary seats as part of the grand alliance, but drew a blank as BJP, JD(U) and LJP together had won 39 of the 40 parliamentary seats in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stage-set-for-rlsp-merger-with-jdu/articleshow/81472334.cms||Abhay Singh
March 13, 2021||Patna||MGCU celebrates Amrit Mahotsav||MOTIHARI: Amrit Mahotsav, a festival to celebrate the 75th year of India’s Independence, was launched by Mahatma Gandhi Central University (MGCU) here on Friday to mark Bapu’s ‘Dandi March’. A procession was taken out by students and teachers from MGCU Chanakya campus. It was flagged off by MGCU vice-chancellor (VC) Sanjeev Kumar Sharma. After parading on main road, the procession of students reached Gandhi Udyan where floral tributes were paid to Mahatma Gandhi and other freedom fighters. Addressing the students and teachers, the VC said, “We got Independence after a long struggle and sacrifices of freedom fighters. There is a need to adopt the ideals of great leaders and freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for the country’s Independence. The young generation should take lessons from these heroes of freedom movement.” The VC said as part of Amrit Mahotsav, 75 events would be organised during 75 weeks at different places by the university to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the country’s Independence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mgcu-celebrates-amrit-mahotsav/articleshow/81472415.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Dispelling myths, docs bat in favour of expanding vaccine drive||Visakhapatnam: Despite assurances by medical experts on the safety of Covid-19 vaccines, apprehensions among the public, especially the elderly, remain. As per district health officials, in Visakhapatnam district, from January till March 10, around 75,000 beneficiaries have been vaccinated out of which 11 persons have reported AEFI (adverse events following immunisation). While some districts have reported a few deaths, there is no concluding evidence to link these deaths directly to Covid-19, officials said. Covid-19 nodal officer for north-coastal Andhra Pradesh Dr P V Sudhakar said, “Combining the various phases of the vaccination programme, so far we had around 75,000 beneficiaries in the district. Of these 11 from various age groups, mainly women, have reported AEFI. Nine among them had anxiety neurosis and high blood pressure while two of them had an increased bout of bronchial asthma, from which they were already suffering. All of them were treated and discharged within 24 to 48 hours.” Speaking to TOI, pulmonologist and civil surgeon at ESI Hospital Dr Phanender Ketha, said, “The approved vaccines in India, Covishield and Covaxin, have 100% efficacy in preventing death due to Covid-19 and very high efficacy against severe Covid, high to moderate efficacy (60% to 95%) against symptomatic Covid-19 but poor efficacy only against asymptomatic Covid-19, so people should not seek efficacy data while choosing a vaccine. To prevent severe Covid-19 and deaths, vaccination of a large cohort of population is needed. But the drawback is, even if a person is vaccinated, he is not protected from the mild/asymptomatic disease in case of exposure and can still transmit Covid-19 to others.” Doctors added that those with certain medical conditions of the heart, diabetes, cancer, recent hospitalisation and surgeries, immunocompromised state and those who have recovered from Covid-19 should consult their doctors and allow for a sufficient period of time, ranging from a few weeks to a few months, between getting vaccinated and regular medication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dispelling-myths-docs-bat-in-favour-of-expanding-vaccine-drive/articleshow/81472853.cms||Sulogna Mehta
March 13, 2021||Patna||Bhagalpur’s daughter is RJD candidate from Tinsukia||PATNA: Hira Devi, the RJD candidate from the Tinsukia assembly seat in Assam, is a native of Bihar’s Bhagalpur district. Born to Savitri Devi and freedom fighter Vishnu Dev Chaudhary, she spent her childhood at her native village Amarpur under the Bihpur police station of Bhagalpur. She went to Assam in 1984 after her marriage to a Tinsukia-based businessman. Even after shifting to Assam, she completed her graduation with History honours from a Bhagalpur-based college in 1990. She entered into active politics in Assam in 2000 after she formed the Akhil Assam Hindi Bhasi Mahila Manch and openly protested against the wrongdoings of ULFA. She still heads the Manch as its founder president. Besides being a successful businesswoman and becoming the first woman executive member of the Tinsukia Chamber of Commerce in 2008-09, Hira Devi, (now 52) is active members of more than a dozen social, political and business organisations in Assam, especially in Tinsukia township. She is also the trustee and office-bearers in the management committee of several Hindu temples in Tinsukia. Interestingly, Hira was the treasurer of the Tinsukia District Congress Committee till March 9 (Tuesday), the day she filed her nomination as the RJD candidate from the Tinsukia assembly constituency. Her clout in the Congress can be gauged from the fact that she had been holding the post of treasurer in the district Congress committee since 2016. She was an active member of Congress since 2003. Sources in RJD said, despite being an active member of Congress, Hira Devi got a ticket from RJD as the Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra prevailed upon her party leaders to leave Tinsukia assembly seat for Bihar’s leading opposition party RJD to make an all-inclusive alliance of opposition in Assam. As Tinsukia seat went into the kitty of RJD, Hira, who had already applied for a Congress ticket, was asked to file her nomination as an RJD candidate who will have support from the Congress-led eight parties’ alliance. “It is true that I had applied for a Congress ticket from Tinsukia seat. But as the seat went to RJD, the Congress leadership advised me to file the nomination as an RJD nominee. I am the candidate of the Congress-led alliance, contesting on an RJD ticket. I have the support of all parties in the alliance. All prominent leaders of the Congress-led alliance and the RJD extended their support when I filed my nomination on Tuesday,” Hira Devi told TOI over the phone from Tinsukia. “My main aim is to make Tinsukia a greener, cleaner and better town and transform it into a hub for education, business and tourism,” she said over the phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpurs-daughter-is-rjd-candidate-from-tinsukia/articleshow/81473645.cms||Madan Kumar
March 13, 2021||Patna||Rajgir zoo safari to open next month: Minister||PATNA: State tourism minister Narayan Prasad on Friday said the state-of-the-art zoo safari at Rajgir, developed by the forest department, would be thrown open to the visitors next month. “In a bid to conserve the forest area at Rajgir, the tourism department has planned to allot 506 e-rickshaws to the local ‘tonga’ riders to take tourists from Vishwa Shanti Stupa to Ghora Katora. The new facilities will boost tourism sector in Bihar, which has been going through a rough phase owing to Covid-19 pandemic,” the minister told this newspaper. The Rajgir zoo safari is spread over 480 acres of land. “At the zoo safari, animals will move freely in big enclosures and tourists will be taken there in closed vehicles. There will be separate enclosures for leopards, lions, tigers and herbivores,” a tourism department official said. The minister said the tourism department has also spent Rs 2,048 lakh on several upcoming ropeway projects in the state. “Modern ropeway facilities would come up at Rajgir, Mandar Hill in Banka district, Rohtasgarh in Rohtas, Mundeshwari Hill in Kaimur district, Vanabar Jill in Jehanabad and Brahmayoni Hill, Dungeshwari Hill and Pretshila hill in Gaya district. The ropeway facilities will promote religious tourism and generate employment,” Prasad said. He added the tourism facilities are being improved at Patna Sahib where Sikh tourists from across the globe arrive to offer prayers to tenth Sikh Guru Gobind Singh. People in the state are elated with new tourism amenities coming up in different districts. “I am quite keen to visit zoo safari at Rajgir with my friends and family. At a time when travelling outside is a risky affair due to Covid pandemic, development of such facilities in the state is a boon for common people in the state,” said Mansi Agarwal (20), an undergraduate student. Mayank Pradhan (26), a software engineer, said, “Bihar is undoubtedly growing in tourism. The government is focusing more on promotion of religious sites, which will surely boost the sector. However, the state’s tourism sector needs more branding to attract people from other places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rajgir-zoo-safari-to-open-next-month-minister/articleshow/81472884.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Patna||Nitish: Dagmara project to generate low-cost electricity||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Friday said the Dagmara multi-purpose hydro power project, which would come up on Kosi river in Suapul district, would provide several additional benefits to flood-prone districts of north Bihar, besides generating low-cost electricity for the state. While reviewing an energy department’s presentation on the multi-purpose 130MW hydro power plant at the CM residence here, Nitish said hydro power and solar energy have become important these days for environment protection. He asked the officials concerned to take care of convenience of people living around the Kosi embankment while constructing the hydro power project. “We must remain alert for security and robustness of the main barrage to be constructed for the power project. We will also have to pay special attention on removing silt deposits from the bed of the Kosi,” Nitish said. Energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said the overall cost of electricity in the state would be reduced once the Dagmara project begins generating hydro power. “The Rs 375-crore project at Dagmara is awaiting clearance from the Centre,” the minister added. State’s energy secretary Sanjeev Hans made a detailed presentation before the CM about the project background, its layout and additional benefits to be made available to local population. “The project will be located near Bhaptiahi on the left bank of the Kosi, about 31km downstream of Bhimnagar barrage in Supaul district,” an energy department official, who did not wish to be identified, told TOI on Friday. “The project will not only arrest the Kosi flood events, but also generate employment and encourage eco-tourism in the area,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-dagmara-project-to-generate-low-cost-electricity/articleshow/81473600.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid test must for T MLAs before session||Hyderabad: With minister Satyavathi Rathod and a couple of legislators testing positive for Covid-19 in the last one month, legislative assembly speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy has made Covid-19 tests mandatory for all the members attending the budget session. The budget session is beginning on March 15 and is likely to continue for two weeks. Srinivas Reddy held a review meeting with officials and police on Friday and directed the health wing to arrange testing facilities for elected representatives, police and media. “If any person is tested positive for the coronavirus infection, he or she will not be allowed to enter the premises of the assembly,” the speaker said. Since the session is beginning on Monday, he asked them to begin rapid antigen tests for MLAs and others from Friday itself. “The decision on testing was taken as the session has to continue and health of members is important,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-test-must-for-t-mlas-before-session/articleshow/81474432.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Over 26L people vaccinated in Raj||Jaipur: The state has got more than 26 lakh people including health workers, frontline workers, people with co-morbidities in the age bracket of 45 to 59 years and senior citizens got vaccinated for the first and second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine till Friday. Out of this, 22,58,451 got vaccinated for the first dose, while 4,39,812 got vaccinated for the second dose.Till Friday, the percentage of the second dose taker is low compared to the first dose of the vaccine. However, with the arrival of the fresh lot of the vaccines from the centre authorities are aiming at expediting the second dose to the health workers and frontline workers.“We had planned 31,449 sessions till Friday since the inception of vaccination on January 16 out of which we could achieve 31,186 sessions. In these sessions so far, we have got 22,58,451 vaccinated for the first dose, while 4,39,812 got vaccinated for the second dose,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, nodal officer vaccination while quoting the figures.Also on Friday, 18,572 people in the age bracket of 45 years to 59 years with co-morbidities and 1,32,255 senior citizens having age 60 or above got vaccinated for the first dose. Authorities stated that the fear among the senior citizens and those with various co-morbidities for vaccination is gradually fading away.“Since there has not been adverse events people in the age bracket of 45 years to 59 years with co-morbidities and those who are 60 years and above too are coming for the vaccination in numbers. This included many who have not registered themselves and are preferring on the spot registration by showing their Aadhaar card,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-26l-people-vaccinated-in-raj/articleshow/81474430.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Allow jabs for those over 18 in Pune district to curb cases: Ajit Pawar||MUMBAI/PUNE: As the clamour grows for Mumbai’s vaccination drive to accelerate in the light of rising cases, the BMC said it is still awaiting the Centre’s approval to allow 49 more private hospitals to join the drive. On Friday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the state would approach the Central government for allowing mass vaccination of people above 18 years of age in Pune district in view of the recent increase in cases and daily positivity rate. Stating that medical experts had suggested this move, he urged Pune MPs Girish Bapat, Supriya Sule, Shrirang Barne and Amol Kolhe to submit this proposal to Union health ministry officials in Parliament. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state advisor, had criticised the Centre for controlling the drive. “A change in policy is required for Pune in Maharashtra as well as all other districts in different states having a high positivity rate. A mass vaccination drive for those above 18 years will have to be allowed immediately. For this, more doses have to be allotted to these states,” Ajit Pawar, also the district guardian minister, told TOI, citing that Niti Aayog member (health) and other health officials had also prescribed more focus on such districts. The vaccine numbers in the state dipped significantly on Friday as a dozen districts didn’t carry out the drive on the occasion of Mahashivratri (usually the previous day’s figures are released the next day; Mahashivratri was on Thursday, so that day’s count is effectively out on Friday). A total of 80,705 people took the vaccine, down from the high of 2.28 lakh doses administered the previous day, which was the highest in a day. Of the 80,707, 51,775 were senior citizens and 11,006 were people above 45 with comorbidities. Mumbai, on Friday, maintained the rise in vaccinations. As many as 44,264 people were vaccinated, including 28,664 senior citizens and 4,587 people above 45 with comorbidities. A senior civic official said 77 centres are currently administering the vaccine through 196 sessions. “Public hospitals may run extended hours from next week, but we are unlikely to vaccinate on Sunday as vaccinators need at least a day’s break,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC executive health officer. Private hospitals, however, can run their centres on Sunday that have so far been no-vaccination days, she said. Another civic official added the Centre has not approved names of 49 private hospitals, three days after the proposal has been sent. “They should have left such micro-management to corporations or districts,” the official said. Ajit Pawar too said the Centre would have to make changes in vaccine distribution policy for districts with high caseload so the spread of the disease could be curbed. The Centre announced earlier that Pune was among the 8 severely affected districts. Dr Tanu Singhal, an infectious disease expert who has treated scores of Covid patients, said the Centre may even start considering patients under 45 years with comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-allow-jabs-for-those-over-18-in-pune-dist-to-curb-cases-ajit/articleshow/81474447.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 13, 2021||Visakhapatnam||NIA files chargesheet in Vizag espionage case||VISAKHAPATNAM: The National Investigation Agency on Friday filed a chargesheet against an operative of Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence in the sensational Visakhapatnam espionage case. The case was registered in 2019 against some Navy personnel and ISI agents. The NIA has filed the first supplementary chargesheet against ISI operative Yakub Imran Giteli, a resident of Godhra town in Gujarat. Sections 120-B and 201 of IPC and Sections 17 and 18 of the UA(P)A have been invoked against the accused. The chargesheet was filed before the NIA special court in Vijayawada over his alleged involvement in raising funds for espionage activities in India. “In furtherance of their conspiracy, they were involved in espionage activities by collecting sensitive and classified official information relating to vital defence installations in order to threaten the integrity, security and sovereignty of India,” the NIA said in a statement. The NIA said Yakub was in contact with Pakistani agents and used to meet them on visits to Pakistan. On the instructions of ISI, he transferred money into accounts of Navy personnel in lieu of passing sensitive and strategic information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nia-files-chargesheet-in-vizag-espionage-case/articleshow/81472730.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Will jump in voter turnout impact GVMC poll results?||VISAKHAPATNAM: With a near 7% increase in polling in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation elections, compared to the 2007 polls, the principal political parties have started drawing their own conclusions as to how the voter turnout would affect their poll prospects. Both YSRC and TDP claimed edge over the other. While YSRC leaders say that they are on course to win at least 60 seats, another prime contender, TDP, is quoting similar numbers. The Left parties and BJP-Jana Sena alliance are also hopeful of good results. Soon after the end of the polling on Wednesday, the political parties have started decoding the voting trends, the implications of increased polling per cent and the factors contributing to it, participation of youth and women, and the ground-level situation in various wards. But as per the political observers of the city, the votes polled in the last one to two hours may be able to change the fortunes of the candidates and consequently the parties, both YSRC and TDP, are apprehensive over the last-minute footfalls and their preferences. From the thin crowds at the polling booths in the morning, the city managed to draw about 59.41% of the total electorate before curtains came down on voting. Both YSRC and TDP deployed all their key leaders and wherewithal to capture the largest municipal corporation in Andhra Pradesh – both in terms of population and area. Even though the elections were held in 12 municipal corporations and 71 municipalities, the polls in Vizag city, which is tipped to become the executive capital of the state, is the flavour of the polls. When it comes to the electoral trend, voters from the city outskirts evinced more interest in the polling process rather than that of the core city. For example, all the four wards in Bheemili zone and five wards in Anakapalli zone witnessed about 70% polling. The 80th ward in Anakapalli recorded 79.11 polling percent, the highest among all the wards. The 40th ward in zone-IV has the worst voter turnout among all the wards with a mere 19% polling. Meanwhile, the Visakhapatnam district officials have made arrangements for the counting process on March 14, Sunday. Andhra University has been chosen as the venue for counting of votes from all zones of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/will-jump-in-voter-turnout-impact-gvmc-poll-results/articleshow/81472624.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
March 13, 2021||Patna||Patna: Institute owner gets life term for student’s rape||PATNA: A special court in Patna on Friday sentenced computer coaching institute owner Hrishi Kumar Sinha to rigorous life imprisonment for raping a 15-year-old girl, who used to study at her institute in 2015. The Pocso court of ADJ-VI Awadhesh Kumar had pronounced Hrishi guilty on March 10. The FIR in connection with the incident was registered with Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna in November 2015. Special public prosecutor Suresh Chandra Prasad said Hrishi had studied software engineering and run the institute at Rajiv Nagar where the victim used to attend computer classes. He said the court sentenced 10-year imprisonment to Hrishi under Section 363 and 7-year jail under Section 366A of IPC along with Rs10,000 fine under each of the sections. “He was sentenced to rigorous life imprisonment and fined Rs1 lakh under Section 376 (2)(n) of IPC. All sentences would run concurrently,” he said. “Hrishi had spotted the victim returning home on foot on November 7, 2015 after which he gave her lift in his car and took her to Sitamarhi, Bettiah and even Nepal. He kept her with himself for almost a month and repeatedly raped her. The convict had prepared a forged identity card of the victim,” Prasad said. He said police had finally arrested Hrishi from Bettiah and recovered the girl. The PP said Hrishi was aged around 25 years at the time of the incident. “He has been in jail since then,” he said. Prasad said altogether Rs7.2 lakh as compensation would be paid to the minor. “While Rs 6 lakh would be paid by the state government and Rs1.2 lakh total fine slapped on the convict,” he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/institute-owner-gets-life-term-for-students-rape/articleshow/81472670.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Cases on upswing as Andhra Pradesh reports 210 Covid-19 cases, highest in 2 months||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 210 new Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative case load to 8,91,388. This is the highest single-day case total in the last two months since the state reported 227 cases on January 10. The toll increased to 7,180 as one more patient succumbed to the novel coronavirus in Krishna district. Altogether 140 patients have been declared cured. There are currently 1,227 active cases with 8,82,981 cumulative recoveries and 7,180 deaths. Chittoor reported a whopping 85 new infections, followed by East Godavari (41), Guntur (18), Visakhapatnam (16), Krishna (14), and Anantapur (12). The remaining seven districts posted single-digit case numbers. Chittoor alone has 431 active cases, followed by Krishna (160) and East Godavari (111). Vizianagaram district has only nine active cases. Four students of class VIII at ZP High School in Gopalapatnam tested positive for Covid-19 during routine testing of students on Friday. The students have been placed under home isolation said Visakhapatnam district health officials. Andhra Pradesh tested 44,709 Covid-19 samples on Friday and detected 210 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.5%. The overall case positivity rate stood at 6.2%. Maharashtra and Kerala account for about 72% of India’s active caseload.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cases-on-upswing-as-state-reports-210-covid-19-cases-highest-in-2-months/articleshow/81472804.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Surat||Covid-19 death in Surat after four months||Surat: After almost four months, the city registered a death due to coronavirus infection on Friday. An 82-year-old man, who lived in Vesu area of Athwa zone, succumbed in the state-run New Civil Hospital (NCH). “He was suffering from Parkinson’s disease and other comorbidities,” said official sources. The death toll since the beginning of the pandemic in Surat last year has now touched 851. The Covid-19 cases, especially from educational institutes, continued to spike with 183 more testing positive on Friday. Athwa zone continued to register the highest cases among eight civic zones with 59 cases. "On Friday, 2,484 Covid-19 tests were conducted in 37 schools and colleges across the city. Out of these, 14 which include nine school children, one house keeping person and one nanny. Three students of a school in Godadara tested positive while educational institutions which have reported cases are in Adajan, Athwalines, Magdalla Amroli, Bhestanand Pandesara.  The diamond and textile centres too have been witnessing a steady rise in infections. According to SMC officials, educational institutions, textile markets and people coming or returning from outside the city are new super spreaders of the infection.  "With rising infections and its complications, cases in isolation wards in different hospitals in the city are steadily on rise. On Friday, there were a total 156 Covid-19 patients who are under treatment in hospitals, said officials.  Meanwhile, the vaccination drive is going on in a full swing with 1.47 lakh people having taken the jab till Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-19-death-in-surat-after-four-months/articleshow/81472346.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Business||HDFC Bank to pay for staff, families’ vaccine jabs||NEW DELHI: HDFC Bank said that it will sponsor the inoculation of its over 1 lakh employees and their immediate family members against Covid. The bank will reimburse vaccination cost for the two mandated doses. "Our employees have shown exemplary perseverance, professionalism and dedication to serve millions of customers. Covering the cost of vaccination for our employees and their dependent family members is a small gesture from the organisation to express our gratitude to our employees," Vinay Razdan, group head – HR, HDFC Bank, said. Earlier, the Indian Banks Association had advised banks that they could consider reimbursing to their employees the cost of Covid-19 vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-bank-to-pay-for-staff-families-vaccine-jabs/articleshow/81474740.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Patna||Download Swachhata app, rate Patna for cleanliness: PMC||PATNA: More than 35,000 people in the city have so far installed Swachhata application on their cellphones. The application provides an interface between residents and Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC). Its use, according to civic body officials, will increase the chances of the city getting better rating in Swachh Survekshan 2021. Swachhata app was created by the Union ministry of urban development and housing affairs under the Swachh Bharat Mission in order to resolve civic complaints raised by residents. “Using this app, people can raise complaints or give feedback related to sanitation and garbage removal among 18 categories,” PMC commissioner Anand Sharma said, adding the app is available on Google Play. “We appeal to the people to use the app and rate the city for cleanliness by giving citizen feedback till March 31. It will help the city get better ranking in Swachh Survekshan 2021,” Sharma added. “The sanitation workers are regularly promoting the Swachhata app through various steps, such as playing jingles on their vehicles while collecting garbage from each house and also through social media,” Sharma said. PMC public relations officer Harshita said a dedicated control room has been set up at the headquarters of the corporation to handle the complaints and feedback received through the app. “Whenever someone files a complaint through the app, it reflects on the dashboard in the control room and simultaneously the officer concerned gets the message, including all the details of the complainant along with the location where the issue needs to be resolved. There is a specified timeframe for all the 18 certified categories. The complaints are usually addressed within 24 hours,” Harshita added. A PMC official said the app can be used anywhere in the country. “Using Swachhata app is highly beneficial for people in various aspects. People can digitally track the status of their complaints and get updated through the app regarding the same. It becomes very convenient for the authorities to address the complaints and also find out grey areas existing in the city,” the official added. The app facility has also been welcomed by people. Nikita Singh, a resident of Gardanibagh, said, “Being youth, it is our responsibility too to take a step forward in keeping our city clean. The app bridges the gap between resident and municipal officials.” Ramesh Kumar Roy, a trader, said the civic body has been doing its job and it is also the responsibility of the citizens to maintain cleanliness in the city. Akanksha Raj, a student, said, “People should stop dumping their household waste on roads if the garbage collecting vehicles make delay in reaching their localities. Those living in apartments are often seen throwing garbage on roads.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-download-swachhata-app-rate-patna-for-cleanliness/articleshow/81472577.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Patna||1.20 lakh get Covid vaccine shots in Bihar||PATNA: The Covid-19 vaccination crossed one lakh mark for the second time since its launch as total 1,20,400 people were administered the vaccines on Friday. They included the recipients of both the first and the second doses. The highest number of beneficiaries were those above 60 years (83,661) as 3.44 lakh senior citizens have taken the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Bihar so far. The maximum single day vaccination was registered on the International Women’s Day on Monday with over 1.73 lakh beneficiaries, including over one lakh women, taking the shots. Apart from senior citizens, another 10,600 people above 45 years with comorbidities took vaccines on Friday, taking the total number of such beneficiaries to 54,018 in Bihar. Another 20,382 beneficiaries took their second dose in the state. Total 2.81 lakh people have taken the second shot so far. No adverse events following immunization was reported on Friday. As per the data shared by the state health society, nearly 13 lakh doses have been administered in Bihar since the launch of vaccination drive on January 16. To further intensify the drive and create awareness among common people, the State Health Society flagged off 75 e-rickshaws to advertise about the importance of Covid-19 vaccination. One e-rickshaw each will be used in 75 wards falling under Patna Municipal Corporation. Meanwhile, 28 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Friday. The state’s recovery rate was 99.29%. However, there were 322 active cases in the state. Officially, one death was reported from Muzaffarpur. Bihar’s toll mounted up to 1,549. AIIMS-Patna registered the death of a 54 year old woman from Chakbinda in Gardanibagh. While three Covid-19 patients were admitted, one was discharged from the hospital. Covid-19 positive cases were registered in 11 districts on the day, with Patna reporting maximum 13 cases. Rest other districts registered less than five new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-20-lakh-get-covid-vaccine-shots-in-bihar/articleshow/81472816.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Going Out? SDMC To Take Care Of Your Pet||New Delhi: Pet owners in south Delhi will no longer need to look for isolated places where their canines and cats can stretch themselves. South Delhi Municipal Corporation is all set to create a pet park that will have space for grooming, sale of food and accessories, veterinary centre and fun activity courses, including swimming. There will also be provision for a day care centre where people can leave their pets when out on work. “The concept of a dog park has already been implemented in Greater Hyderabad and Bengaluru, and we will create at least one of them in south Delhi as soon as possible,” said Alok Kumar, horticulture director, SDMC. Explaining the need for such facilities, SDMC additional commissioner Randhir Sahay said, “It is usual to see people having arguments with others when they unleash their dogs while walking on the roads or running around in the parks. This happens because not everyone feels safe or comfortable in the presence of dogs in public areas.” Sahay continued, “At pet parks, we will offer membership at reasonable prices and provide ample activities for the pets. There will be also cafeterias, vet services, etc. to make the visit even more worthwhile.” SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti added, “Within the park, there will be trees to provide ample shade and keep the park cool even in summer. Gazebos have also been proposed in the open areas for both pets and visitors. The surface materials planned in the dog parks include grass, decomposed granite, wood chips/mulch, pea gravel, etc., which will not make the pets uncomfortable to walk on.” As of now, the concept of such a park has been prepared and it is planned to be implemented at an undeveloped site/park located at a roundabout near Defence Colony Market. The idea has been uploaded on the SDMC website and the public’s views and suggestion have been invited. “We are approaching various organisations to fund the project as a CSR activity. We will also involve animal lovers in implementing the project,” said an SDMC official. As far as the proposed park at Defence Colony is concerned, there will be enough parking space there to avoid congestion on the roads as well as multiple entries to avoid crowding at one point. This place is located at some distance from the residential area and can be easily accessed by a large number of pet owners, said the official. Provision will be made for a waste bag dispenser to provide bags to collect the pet poop. Covered bins will be put up for waste disposal, said the official. Sanjeev Kumar, an animal activist who runs grooming centres in Delhi and abroad, said that pet lovers have aspired to his concept for a long time. “I had followed up the idea of pet parks with the lieutenant governor, chief minister and former mayor around a decade ago,” claimed Kumar. “I also support monthly or quarterly membership fees to encourage people from distant areas to visit parks at frequent intervals. But maintaining hygiene has to be the top priority at such parks to maintain public interest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/going-out-sdmc-to-take-care-of-your-pet/articleshow/81475429.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 13, 2021||Delhi||3 held for killing man, hiding body in toilet||New Delhi: Three people have been arrested for killing a rickshaw puller, preserving his body at a Sulabh toilet and later disposing it off in a sack in Kamla Market. Police said, an unidentified body was found in a plastic bag on a road near Minto Bridge. The man was later identified as Puddan Lal (50) who worked as a rickshaw puller. During investigation, a man identified as Mustaq (35) was held who used his e-rickshaw to drop the body. On his instance, another accused — Deepak Malik — who works as a sweeper at Sulabh Shauchalaya opposite to Police Bhavan, Asaf Ali Road, was apprehended. The battery rickshaw was also seized from a footpath opposite Police Bhavan. Caretaker of the public toilet, Aijaz, was later arrested. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-held-for-killing-man-hiding-body-in-toilet/articleshow/81474440.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Puducherry||HC on sexual harassment: Why was DGP not suspended?||Chennai: The Madras high court on Friday asked the state government why it had not suspended a DGP-rank officer accused of sexually harassing a woman IPS officer, when it had suspended an SP for allegedly blocking the victim’s car while she was rushing to Chennai to file a complaint. The court has sought a status report by March 16.“The SP was only an arrow, the (then) special DGP was the bow. But the arrow has been suspended, not the bow. Is the special DGP so powerful that the state cannot suspend him?” Justice N Anand Venkatesh asked public prosecutor A Natarajan on Friday. The judge made the observation while hearing a suo motu case initiated by him. The case was initiated on the basis of the woman SP’s complaint of sexual harassment by the then special DGP who was later removed the post and has not been assigned any responsibility yet. Noting that the court would ensure that the probe was closely monitored, Justice Anand Venkatesh directed the prosecutor to file a status report on the investigation by March 16.The court also refused to vacate the prohibition against publicising the name of the accused in addition to the victim. “The court did not want a parallel media trial to happen in this case,” the judge said.Advocate Abdul Saleem, representing the DGP, submitted that while the accused officer was cooperating with the investigation and had filed his submission before the internal complaints committee (ICC), a committee member had openly commented on WhatsApp that the accused should be hanged without trial. The comment was made even before the proceedings started, he said.“And, another person, whom I have cited as a witness to my case, is sitting as a committee member,” he said, adding that he be permitted to put certain things to the court explaining the manner in which the inquiry is going on, in a sealed cover.To this, Justice Anand Venkatesh said, “I would appreciate it if you keep watching as to what is happening here rather than making submissions in this case. The more submissions you make the more the court has a problem.” “Whatever protest you want to make, give it in writing and let it be part of the case file,” the judge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/hc-on-sexual-harassment-why-was-dgp-not-suspended/articleshow/81474442.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||AFT orders Army to reinstate services of jawan who was 'forcefully discharged||LUCKNOW: The regional bench of the Armed Forces Tribunal here has directed the Chief of Army Staff and other respondents including ministry of defence to reinstate the services of Lance Naik Manish Shukla, who was “forcefully discharged” from the Army. Shukla was discharged from the service in September 2013 while he was posted with the 16th Guards (infantry) in Nashirabad Rajasthan. According to his counsel Ajit Singh Gaherwar, Shukla had an unblemished record of 10 years and seven months when he was forcefully discharged. “After being sanctioned a leave of 15 days, the jawan was asked to return to his unit by the then commanding officer following a complaint lodged by Havildar GS Rathore.” “When Shukla refused to return prior to the end of his leave period, the CO sent teams twice to bring him back. On return, Shukla was placed into detention. He and his wife were forced to sign papers of discharge on false grounds,” Gaherwar told the court. However, according to the court order copy, government counsel Ashish Kumar Singh stated that Shukla had applied for premature discharge from service before proceeding on leave. After hearing the case from both sides, a bench of Justice UC Srivastava (judicial member) and Vice-Admiral Abhay Raghunath Karve (administrative member) noted, “As in case of premature discharge Shukla would not have been eligible for pension due to less than 15 years minimum qualifying service. He joined the Army in 2003.” “The due process was not followed to discharge Shukla even if a discharge was indeed at his own request. It gives rise to a doubt about mala fide intentions. Therefore, the tribunal found that Shukla was discharged forcefully from service and hence he is required to be reinstated in the service with all benefits,” read the court order. The court said that Shukla would be entitled to all financial benefits in present rank in accordance with law and pension from the date of discharge to the date he reaches pensionable service. He would also be paid 8% interest on arrears accrued from date of discharge. The bench cautioned the Army chief and other respondents to give effect to the order within four months, otherwise default would invite interest of 8% per annum till actual payment. Shukla’s wife Nutan told TOI, “For the past eight years, we had been fighting for justice. As a family we had suffered a lot of mental distress and embarrassment. But now my husband can join the service again and we are happy.” Tribunal registrar, Col (retired) Seemit Kumar said, “The judgment by the court will help many to come forward and seek justice in their case. The case sets a benchmark for the Army.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aft-orders-army-to-reinstate-servicesof-jawan-who-was-forcefully-discharged/articleshow/81475421.cms||Arvind Chauhan
March 13, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra: Alert MSRTC driver saves 39 passengers||NASHIK: As many as 39 people had a close shave as the MSRTC bus they were travelling in caught fire after the vehicle crossed Ozar village on the Nashik-Agra road around 9:30am on Friday. None of the passengers were injured as they deboarded the bus in time. Shubhangi Shirsath, depot manager of Nashik-2 depot, MSRTC, said the bus started its journey from the New Central Bus Stand in Nashik city around 8.45am and was on its way to Nandurbar. “The bus left the terminus on time. On its way, the driver of the bus noticed smoke coming from the bonnet of the vehicle. He immediately pulled the vehicle to a side of the road and helped the travellers deboard the bus,” said Shirsath. The driver then shut off the engine and used water to douse the flames. “A short circuit caused the fire,” said Shirsath adding that mainly the bonnet and the engine section of the bus were damaged.  The driver got in touch with the MSRTC office. Soon, a rescue bus, along with an alternate bus, was dispatched from the depot. The alternate bus took the passengers to their desired destinations. “Since there was limited damage, the bus was towed back to the depot with the help of another bus. By 10.30am, the bus was back in the depot for maintenance works,” said Shirsath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/alert-msrtc-driver-saves-39-passengers/articleshow/81475416.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Family of ‘murdered’ man protest seeking arrest of accomplices||Ludhiana: Family of Shanty Pandey, the 27-year-old from Guru Gobind Singh Nagar who was murdered in February, staged a peaceful protest outside the office of commissioner of police (CP) Rakesh Agarwal on Friday afternoon. The family alleged that the police have arrested only two persons, while alleging there were more accomplices to the murder. They also alleged that the absconding accused are threatening to kill them if they did not withdraw the case. On Friday, the family members sat on a peaceful protest with placards in their hands and also gave a written complaint to the CP. On February 28, the Sahnewal police had arrested Pawan Thakur of Shimlapuri and Roshan Kumar of Daba area for allegedly murdering Shanty by strangulating him. According to the police, the trio consumed liquor together in a vacant plot and got into a spat over drugs. Later, the accused allegedly strangulated him to death with a bandage and damaged his face. Krishan Lal, paternal uncle of Shanty, said, “The police have arrested two accused in this case. However, we suspect that more people are involved in it. In December 2020, I was attacked by a group of people, Shanty used to help me by taking me to doctors and accompanying me to the police station. Those people had threatened Shanty to not help me. Those people who had attacked me are involved in Shanty’s murder.”  He also alleged that the family of Pawan Thakur are pressurising the family to withdraw the case. “They say they will kill us otherwise. We have given a written complaint against it to the CP and demanded action against the accused and a fresh probe,” he added. CP ]Agarwal has marked enquiry to the additional deputy commissioner of police-II, Jaskiranjit Singh Teja. After murdering Shanty, the accused had hid his body under the debris inside a vacant plot. Some children who were playing cricket near the area had noticed the hidden body when their ball fell inside the plot. They informed the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/family-of-murdered-man-protest-seeking-arrest-of-accomplices/articleshow/81474437.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Scaffolding support for crumbling verandas||Jaipur: The promises of renovating verandas of the Walled City have fallen flat as the authorities are now resorting to erect scaffolding at many places where cracks have appeared on the roof.The verandas were supposed to be renovated under the Smart City project, but the slow pace of work is a major hindrance. In Johri bazaar, Tripolia and Chandpole market, scaffoldings have been put up at many places to support the broken structures. In Johri bazaar, there are places where the scaffolding is supporting the roof for the last five years now.President of Jaipur Vyapaar Mahasangh, Subhash Goyal said, “In Chandpole market, under Smart City project, work on roads is almost complete and verandas are being renovated now. But the pace of renovation is slow and the work being done is not satisfactory. The coming monsoon will show how reliable the work is.”TOI tried to contact Jaipur Smart City Ltd CEO Lok Bandhu, but he didn’t answer the call.Vice-president of Johri Market Association Kailash Mittal said the market has had the scaffolding for many years and cracks are seen in other places as well.“Neither the officials are working efficiently, nor are they taking the job of preserving the heritage seriously. There is encroachment on the verandas, but nothing has been done to remove them. There are thousands of street vendors who are selling the same stuff on road that we are selling in the shops. This is affecting our business, but nothing moves with such lethargic bureaucracy,” Mittal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/scaffolding-support-for-crumbling-verandas/articleshow/81474438.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||JMC turns a blind eye to heritage bldg demolition||Jaipur: Despite continuous reports of severe alterations being made in the heritage building of ‘Jaipur College’, no criminal complaint has been filed against the owners by Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Heritage.JMC, Heritage had given many notices to the owner earlier stating that alterations have been done in the building that is listed as a heritage structure in the UNESCO World Heritage City. The notice stated that if the work is not stopped, then a criminal complaint will be filed against the owner and strict action will be taken against him.When TOI contacted Heritage commissioner Lok Bandhu, he said that he will get the information from the zonal deputy commissioner regarding this. Later, TOI tried to reach out to him, but he didn’t answer the call.The ‘Jaipur College’ building is of historical importance for the Walled City which is now being converted into a commercial complex and the internal part of the building is being brought down.Patron of Dharohar Bachao Samiti in Walled City, Bharat Sharma, who has vehemently opposed this move, said, “The entire construction is being done during night in connivance with the JMC, Heritage officials. Why haven’t the officials filed a criminal complaint against the owner? The entire building is being destroyed and slowly Walled City is losing its heritage, but no one is taking it seriously,” said Sharma.According to an RTI filed by Sharma, around 280 people applied for renovation of their houses for residential purposes in Hawa Mahal West area, out of which 90% of them have converted them into commercial complexes.“Despite being declared as a no construction zone by the Rajasthan high court, rampant construction is being done in the Walled City area. Those 280 people had even given an affidavit that they will not use the structures for commercial purposes, but the opposite is happening. Government officials are hand in glove with these building owners,” Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-turns-a-blind-eye-to-heritage-bldg-demolition/articleshow/81474441.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Smuggled phones key to Tihar trouble||NEW DELHI: Whether it was the plot to eliminate an accused in the Delhi riots case through mercury poisoning or the Antilia case, questions are being raised on the state of affairs at Tihar Jail. While the Tihar administration claims that it is taking measures to maintain order, police investigations have been throwing up jail links in many cases of late and easy availability of mobile phones seem to have become a cause for concern. A few months ago, gangster Jitender Gogi and his aide Dinesh Karala, both lodged in Tihar, had tried to extort Rs 5 crore from a Dubai-based businessman who had arrived in Delhi. Searches were conducted in jail and three mobiles were seized. It was revealed that the criminals were using voice and video calls of social networking sites to avoid detection. Around the same time, gangster Manjeet Mahal’s associate had demanded Rs 1 crore from a businessman by sending an audio file. Some time ago, a prisoner had exposed an alleged mobile phone racket within the premises through a video. Identifying himself as Shashank, the inmate showed three mobile phones in the video and accused the jail authorities of smuggling in the devices. Tihar officials said they were in the process of installing 4G jammers as the existing 3G equipment had become useless with inmates using VOIP, etc to communicate using smuggled phones. Sandeep Goel, DG (prisons), said, “We regularly conduct raids and surprise checks in various prisons. Some people try to throw the mobile across the walls. In many such instances, we have caught the phone before it could reach the prisoner. We are conducting an internal inquiry regarding the recent incident.” Asked about the number of mobile phones seized in 2020 and this year, Goel said, “I can’t share such details.” Within the next two months, Tihar is expected to get 4G jammers installed to prevent the misuse of mobile phones. So far, only Mandoli Jail has the new technology jammers. “We required a few permissions. Now that we have got them, 3-4 towers will be installed in the next two months,” said a jail official. IG Mukesh Prasad has been asked to take measures to reign in illegal activities inside the jail, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/smuggled-phones-key-to-tihar-trouble/articleshow/81475419.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Cop’s stolen car found, but cash missing||Jaipur: Bani Park police recovered a stolen car of a policeman from Jaisinghpura Khor on Friday, two days after the report was filed. The police didn’t find the bag containing Rs 9.50 lakh in the car. The complainant, Rajendra Singh posted in Jaipur (West) had parked his car with a bag full of cash at Jaipur collectorate parking. In the complaint filed on March 10, Singh said that he went to the collectorate on behalf of his brother-in-law land deal. “The amount was meant for the deal and I kept it in the car since I had to leave for a protest. When I returned from the assignment, I couldn’t find the car,” said Singh. Police launched a major hunt to find the car and traced it with the help of some CCTV footage. t nn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-stolen-car-found-but-cash-missing/articleshow/81474450.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM to Maratha leaders: Let’s fight unitedly||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday held an online review of the Maratha quota case in Supreme Court, as the next hearing is on March 15. At the meeting with representatives of Maratha organisations, he said the state will fight unitedly and win the battle in SC. He assured community representatives that the state was working on other demands raised by them and will hold a meeting soon to discuss them. He chaired the meeting and PWD minister, chairman of cabinet sub-committee for Maratha quota Ashok Chavan, attended it as a state representative. The meeting was attended by more than 50 representatives of Maratha organisations, and BJP MPs Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje and Udayanraje Bhosale. Virendra Pawar, member of Maratha Kranti Morcha, said nothing fruitful came out. “There was no Plan B ready,” he said. Thackeray said points raised by Maratha representatives will be taken into consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cm-to-maratha-leaders-lets-fight-unitedly/articleshow/81475446.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Chandigarh||PM Modi, BJP will be haunted constantly to see ‘turbaned farmer’ as LoP : Bittu||Ludhiana: A day after he was named as leader of party (LoP) by Congress in the Loksabha for the ongoing session, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu has hailed party’s decision and claimed that in addition to this responsibility he will continue with his dharna against farm bills at Jantar Mantar, which has entered its 95th day now. Bittu has also warned Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that in the session that will be starting from Monday, he will, as LoP, bring together all the opposition parties to force Prime Minister to budge from his stand on the farm bills. Speaking to TOI, Bittu said, “This is a huge responsibility showered on me by our high command. But my appointment as LoP will constantly haunt Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP ministers. As LoP I will sit right opposite PM and after seeing a farmer — and that too a turbaned farmer from Punjab — opposite him in the Loksabha all the times, PM Modi and his party will be reminded about the plight of the poor farmers who are sitting under open skies for months and so many of them have been martyred fighting only to get the farm laws repealed. Besides this, I too will keep reminding PM and BJP about farmers woes every minute and at the same time will also continue debate and discussions on all the issues which will come up in the parliament.” Bittu also added, “I have already started preparations for the session that begins on Monday and my top priority will be to take along all the opposition parties to bring BJP to task, which now is in the habit of frequently snubbing the opposition by not hearing us. I will also coordinate to ensure that everyone of the opposition MP, whether from Congress or other party, gets proper time to speak in Parliament. As far as my agitation at Jantar Mantar is concerned, that too will continue until the farm laws are repealed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pm-modi-bjp-will-be-haunted-constantly-to-see-turbaned-farmer-as-lop-bittu/articleshow/81474451.cms||Mohit Behl
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||JMC-Heritage pips Greater in swachh feedback survey||JAIPUR: The JMC-Heritage has left behind JMC-Greater in terms of getting feedback from citizens for Swachhta Survekshan 2021. JMC-Heritage has received 60,000 feedback, while JMC-Greater is able to get just 10,000. The Survekshan will end by March 31, 2021. The reason for higher number of feedback for JMC-Heritage is that they had already outsourced their feedback collection to a private firm. Ashish Kumar, nodal officer of Swachhta Survekshan 2021 at JMC-Heritage, said, “The private firm that registers our complaint at the call centre has been given the contract of getting feedback from the public. We have registered good number of feedback on the Swachhta Survekshan 2021 app and the number is expected to rise. Our sanitation workers are also going door-to-door for the feedback.” Last year, municipal corporation (undivided) was able to get 40,000 feedback, but this year due to pandemic, corporations are not able to gather people for awareness. JMC-Heritage has taken up task to get the feedback from home. JMC-Greater’s Swachhta nodal officer Harshit Verma, said, “We will soon use radio and garbage collection vehicles to collect feedback from door-to-door. It is an important part of the Survekshan. Our commissioner Yagya Mitra Singh has already started to go on round to check the swachhta of the city.” Till last year, Swachhta Survekshan was divided into four parts with 1,500 marks each. This year there has been a change in the pattern of marking with 2,400 marks for service level programme, 1,800 for citizen’s feedback and 1,800 for certification. One of the biggest challenges for the Jaipur is the absence of waste segregation system and proper disposal. After so many years, Jaipur city is not able to chart out a plan for the segregation of dry and wet waste. Indore which has been at number one ranking in the country have mastered this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-heritage-pips-greater-in-swachh-feedback-survey/articleshow/81474445.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Probe graft in 12 colleges of DU: Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: The Directorate of Higher Education (DHE) has been instructed by deputy CM and education minister Manish Sisodia to set up an inquiry committee to look into financial irregularities in 12 Delhi University colleges funded by Delhi government. DHE has also released the fourth and final instalment of the grant-in-aid amounting to Rs 104.4 crore. However, while Bhagini Nivedita College didn’t get funds for both salaries and general purposes, Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences was given grants just for salaries. Maharishi Valmiki College of Applied Sciences received no funds under the salary head. Government sources said the grant was not released as these colleges had unspent funds. The principals of a few colleges didn’t respond to TOI’s queries. Sisodia said, “It has been brought to my notice that several Delhi government-funded colleges of Delhi University have not disbursed the salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff from the grant-in-aid released for the third quarter of 2020-21. I have also come to know that many colleges have not submitted the utilisation certificate of the funds.” “If the colleges have not disbursed salaries, then what has been done with the funds? What is the reason that utilisation certificates have not been submitted? Non-submission seems to indicate financial irregularities and an attempt to avoid scrutiny and accountability,” added the minister. The committee will check if the grants provided in the third quarter and existing surplus funds have been spent transparently. The colleges said that the funds released for the fourth quarter would help them clear the dues of teaching and non-teaching staff till March. Hemchand Jain, principal of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, said they were also getting funds for property tax dues. “We have received funds for four months of salaries and property tax. The recurring expenses till this month can be met. We submitted the utilisation certificate a month ago,” he added. Sujit Kumar, associate professor at BR Ambedkar College, said, “It’s really strange that the government releases grants whenever we approach court. Why do we have to fight every time to get our dues? Till October 2019, there was no problem with our grants. All successive governments, including Arvind Kejriwal’s in its first term, released our salary in time. We don’t know if we will get our salary in time in future.” Principal of Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences Payel Mago said, "We have no idea why we have not received the funds. We have no unspent funds. We will be facing problems in paying expenses, like electricity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-probe-graft-in-12-colleges-of-du/articleshow/81474452.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Postponed MPSC exam to be held on March 21||MUMBAI: The postponed Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) entrance examination will now be held on March 21. The decision comes a day after thousands of MPSC aspirants agitated in Pune following the announcement that the exam will not be held on March 14. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had to issue a video statement to address the students. According to the notification issued by MPSC on Friday, the same hall tickets are to be used for the exams. “Covid-19 cases are rising and we want to ensure the exams are conducted safely, so we are postponing them only for a few days. We don’t want to play with the emotions or the future of the aspirants,” Thackeray had said on Thursday in his address. “All the manpower required to carry out the exams is currently busy with Covid-related work and will be diverted for these exams. I also want to ensure the manpower diverted has been tested or only those who have received vaccination are deployed for exam duty,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-postponed-mpsc-exam-to-be-held-on-march-21/articleshow/81472513.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||2 or 3 days’ wait likely for MLC poll results||HYDERABAD: The results of MLC elections of Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar (HRM) and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda (WKN) graduates constituencies are likely to emerge 48 hours after the counting of votes is taken up on March 17. With a huge number of candidates in the fray and none of the candidates likely to get the required number of first preference votes to declare them elected, election authorities said the outcome could be delayed. Also, the elections are on ballot paper and counting could be cumbersome as it involves ‘elimination’ process if none of the contestants get more than 50% of the valid votes. The polling is on March 14 and counting will be taken up from 8am at Saroornagar Indoor Stadium. “We are looking at a minimum of two to three days to declare the results if none of the candidates gets the required number of first priority votes after the counting begins. Counting of second preference votes will be continued till a candidate gets the required majority,” Priyanka Ala, returning officer of HRM constituency, told TOI on Friday. For declaring a candidate elected straightaway, he or she has to get a minimum 50% of the valid votes and one more vote extra as first preference. If all the candidates fail to get the required first preference votes, second priority votes will be counted, officials said. Officials said counting of votes in 2015 elections took 37 hours in WKN constituency as none of the contestants polled over 50% of valid votes. While the magic number for declaration of results was 66,777 votes, TRS candidate Palla Rajeshwar Reddy secured 59,764 first preference votes. He got the majority during the counting of second preference votes. There were only 22 candidates in the fray then and now, the number of candidates in the fray is 71. Six years ago, the result of HRM seat was announced within 10 hours after counting began. BJP’s N Ramchander Rao secured 53,000 votes in the first preference (magic figure 40,500 votes) and, hence, there was no need for counting of second preference votes. But this time, the verdict of HRM seat is likely to take more time as 93 candidates are trying their luck. With parties taking the election seriously and a couple of strong independent candidates in the fray, it is unlikely that any candidate will get to the magic figure in the first preference votes, officials explained. “Bundling of votes, putting them in respective candidates’ boxes and removing invalid votes, NOTA and doubtful votes itself take a minimum six to seven hours. In view of more number of candidates, the number of counting tables has also been increased. Counting of second priority votes will take more time as well,” a senior GHMC official said. The electors have also doubled in both the constituencies. In the previous MLC elections, there were only five lakh electors in both constituencies put together but now there are over 10 lakh voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-or-3-days-wait-likely-for-mlc-poll-results/articleshow/81475447.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Of 27 boys rescued, 25 to be sent home: Child panel||Jaipur: The child commission has started the process to send 25 out of the 27 boys rescued from the ashram in Chomu back to their native states. The commission has gotten in touch with the child welfare departments of the other states and recorded the statements of all the children. The officials will also talk to the parents of the children to find if the boys were left at the ashram in exchange for money as few of the boys claimed that they were made to work by the shelter officials and were also beaten up often. Chief of Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Right Sangeeta Beniwal said, “The statements of all the boys has been taken and 25 of them want to go back home while two boys who are a bit older want to continue their studies here as they were apprehensive that moving away would disrupt their education. We have started the process and it would take few days to complete the documentation.” The unregistered shelter had housed 29 boys though two of them are yet to be found. The officials will also look into the fact as to how the Aadhaar cards which the children possessed had the shelter as their home address. Officials alleged that the ashram was being run by the VHP and they suspect that it is a case of child trafficking. Claiming it to be a part of the bigger network, officials said possibly the children were brought for child labour as the villagers initially protested and helped two of the 29 boys escape when the child commission’s team reached the ashram, Bharatiya Vidya Niketan ten days back. “We tried to talk to the parents but there was a language barrier though we will get to the bottom of the matter to find as to why the children were left here. Few of them are so young that they do not even remember as to how they reached here,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/of-27-boys-rescued-25-to-be-sent-home-child-panel/articleshow/81474455.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||NDMC acts tough to tackle stray cattle||NEW DELHI: Failing to see much difference on ground despite introducing a new policy for catching stray cattle three weeks ago, North Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided stringent measures. Taking note of shortage of staff in the veterinary department and reports of lackadaisical attitude of some employees, the standing committee ordered transferring the lower divisional clerks in the department working for more than three years to other departments. Besides, it has also decided to hire ex-servicemen for vacant posts of drivers in the department to streamline the process for smooth action. “To help cattle catchers on ground, lower divisional clerks (LDC) with less than three years of experience will be transferred to veterinary department as milch taxing officers (MTI),” said the standing committee meeting chairman Chhail Bihari Goswami. At present, out of 113 sanctioned posts, only 50 LDC/MTIs are working in the veterinary department. Only eight drivers are employed for 32 posts. Yogesh Verma, leader of house, north corporation said that the policy was approved on February 11. “But the results are unsatisfactory due to short staff and some non-performing staffers,” he said. Verma had moved a short notice in a standing committee meeting, in which he questioned the number of challans issued after implementation of new policy. In reply, the department informed that only 289 challans have been issued and Rs 1.3 lakh have been collected. Further, at least nine illegal dairies were sealed and of them, electricity and water connection of six dairies were discontinued. “But the figures were disappointing, which is why we called a meeting with the veterinary department after the meeting. It was decided that intense drives will be carried out in all six drives,” said Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-acts-tough-to-tackle-stray-cattle/articleshow/81475449.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||JU scores high in placements despite pandemic||Kolkata: The pandemic, the consequential lockdown and its effect on the industry did not seem to take a toll on the hiring of freshers from Jadavpur University’s engineering faculty. Some recruitments were also made from the English and economics departments. In the placement process that has started for the university, some of the big names from the corporate world have already picked up students, especially those from the core sector, and more companies are scheduled to conduct interviews. Placements are usually held from mid-year for the outgoing batch, but owing to the pandemic and the restrictions imposed by the authorities to minimize the spread of the novel coronavirus, the process began late last year, in September. Most of the companies have been holding the interviews online as physical interactions are not possible and several students have already received their job offers. “Despite the pandemic, placements have been good. We are observing good response from companies hiring in the core sectors, which include mechanical and electrical engineering, too. These are high-value core-sector jobs and several multinationals are appointing freshers from the campus,” said Chiranjeeb Bhattacharjee, pro-vice-chancellor of Jadavpur University who was the former dean of the engineering faculty. Airbus, Google, Amazon, Microsoft, Indian Oil Corporation, Tata Steel and D E Shaw & Co are some of the reputable names that are part of the recruitment exercise. “Almost 98% students from the department of computer science and engineering have received offers, some of them bagging multiple offers,” said a professor of the department. “We feared the pandemic might impact the recruitment process but thankfully, it has turned out to be the other way round,” said another professor from the department. “Students from the mechanical engineering department have been hired by several public sector Units. Automobile and consultancy firms have also hired our students,” said a mechanical engineering professor. Some service-sector and finance firms have also picked up English and economics students. Students getting hired in spite of the pandemic also showed the brand value that JU enjoyed in the corporate world, pointed out faculty members and administrators of the university. “Our students have consistently been bagging high-value, core-sector jobs in top companies for the past several years. This shows the brand value the university enjoys among some of the big recruiters in the country,” said the pro-vice chancellor, Bhattacharjee. In January, TOI had reported on how service sector-oriented companies were hiring graduates from various colleges in Kolkata. A senior HR manager of a company that has hired from JU said the focus was on fresh, talented graduates. “Most companies are now focusing on hiring fresh graduates as it doesn’t impact the budget too much. More importantly, this is also a strategy to prevent competitions from hiring good talent from campuses,” said the HR manager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-scores-high-in-placements-despite-pandemic/articleshow/81473657.cms||Zeeshan Javed
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 63-year-old man with diabetes dies while queueing up||MUMBAI: A 63-year-old man who had gone to register for vaccination at a civic centre in Nalasopara (W) collapsed and died while waiting in the queue on Friday. Harish Panchal, a resident of Patankar Park, had gone to the centre to register for vaccination. He was standing in queue outside the centre when at 10 am, he complained of uneasiness and collapsed. Vasai Virar Municipal Corporation medical health officer Dr Surekha Walke said the victim was suffering had diabetes and hypertension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-63-year-old-man-with-diabetes-dies-while-queueing-up/articleshow/81474462.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Jodhpur||Jodhpur: Close shave for cop in firing by arms smuggler||JODHPUR: A police officer had a close shave in yet another incident of firing in Jodhpur, when an arms smuggler shot at the police in Dangiawas on Friday night. In the counter firing by police, the smuggler sustained an injury in his leg. Police caught him and took him to hospital, where he is undergoing treatment. Police have also seized 7 pistols from him. Before being caught, the accused also fired two rounds at SHO (Dangiawas) Kanhaiyalal, who intercepted his vehicle. One of the bullet hit him on his bullet proof jacket, while the other hit his vehicle. DCP (east) Dharmendra Singh Yadav said that police had an information that an arms smuggler Ashok Bishnoi has got some pistols and is roaming in the area for their delivery. “So we had a fix patrol near Dangiawas police station. When his vehicle was signalled to stop, he started firing at police. One bullet hit the bullet proof jacket of SHO Kanhaiyalal and other hit his vehicle,” said Yadav. “The officer retaliated with counter fire and a shot hit Bihsnoi’s leg and he fell down. Police caught him and rushed him to hospital,” he added. According to the police, he had already delivered two pistols to two persons, who had already been arrested from Karwar area in the evening. On the basis of their interrogation, it was learnt that Bishnoi was having 7 more pistols to be delivered to some other persons. Yadav said that Bishnoi, a member of 007 gang, was also involved in the shootout on Thursday in Dali Bai Mandir area. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/close-shave-for-cop-in-firing-by-arms-smuggler/articleshow/81474453.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||No more barb wires, forest department to make Delhi Ridge wildlife-friendly||NEW DELHI: The forest and wildlife department has asked its officials to remove barbed wire fences from parts of the Delhi Ridge where wildlife is found. In the past, there have been incidents of animals getting injured by these fences at locations like Sanjay Van or Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary. The department says in addition to removal of such fences, watering holes and moisture conservation structures are now also being set up in the rocky landscape of the Aravalis to sustain wildlife. The decisions were taken recently in a meeting held by Ridge Management Board (RMB), which said several complaints of barb wire injuries were reported to them in the past. A senior forest official said directions regarding removal of fences had been issued to all deputy conservators of forest in Delhi. “Fences have already been removed at some locations. It comes as a huge relief as these fences were causing a lot of problems. They were not sustainable in a natural habitat as animals were getting injured. Nilgai and monkeys were mainly coming in contact with the wires,” said the official. To ecologically improve the Southern and Central Ridges, the board has also decided to create a mix of moisture conservation structures to provide water to wildlife in the summer. “If there is adequate food and water, herbivores will stay and carnivores can come along too. These are required to create and sustain a proper habitat,” said a forest official. Sohail Madan, centre manager (Bombay Natural History Society) at Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary, says check dams have already been created at the sanctuary for water conservation purposes, while watering holes, gulleys and salt lakes will be created soon. “The check dams will be reinforced before the monsoon. We are also looking to create salt lakes now, which are marshy areas with sodium, calcium, zinc and other nutrients. Animals, herbivores in particular, can drink from these and get essential nutrients along with the water,” said Madan, adding barb wire fencing has already been removed at the sanctuary. CR Babu, head of Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems, who is working on restoration of the Central Ridge, said: “Bio-fencing will be used to deter animals from grazing on the new saplings, while earthen bunds are being created to store water. These act as watering holes for animals. The flow of water can also be diverted using stones to create a waterbody.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-more-barb-wires-forest-dept-to-make-ridge-wildlife-friendly/articleshow/81474460.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
March 13, 2021||---||DMK, AIADMK clash in 131 seats; Stalin picks Kolathur for 3rd time||CHENNAI: The list of candidates released by the DMK on Friday for 173 seats pitted the party in a direct fight with arch-rival AIADMK in 131 constituencies for the TN assembly poll slated to be held on April 6. While DMK president M K Stalin will seek a third term from Kolathur constituency, his son Udhayanidhi will make his electoral debut from the Chepauk-Triplicane constituency, represented by his late grandfather M Karunanidhi for three straight terms since 1996. The DMK is hoping to make a comeback after a 10-year stint in the opposition. DMK general secretary S Durai Murugan leads the pack of old war horses, including K N Nehru, K Ponmudi, I Periasamy, M R K Panneerselvam, Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan and Poongothai Aladi Aruna, fielded by the party at the hustings. DMK candidates will directly fight 24 ministers, including CM Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam, while its allies, the Congress and the CPM, will take on three ministers — Udumalai K Radhakrishnan, Dindigul C Sreenivasan and Kadambur C Raju. As several alliance parties are contesting on the DMK and the AIADMK symbols, rising-sun and two-leaves will face off in 156 of the 234 constituencies. After submitting a list of corruption charges against AIADMK ministers to governor Banwarilal Purohit, DMK chief M K Stalin has already campaigned extensively in the high-profile constituencies, raising fight against corruption as the main poll plank. “The state government is a slave of the Centre. The BJP controls it. This needs to be ended,” Stalin said, while releasing his party’s candidates’ list at the party headquarters, Anna Arivalayam, on Friday. The DMK has roped in former AIADMK-leaders-turned rebels to take on some bigwigs in the ruling camp. Thanga Tamilselvan is taking on OPS in Bodinayakkanur and Senthil Balaji is locked in a battle with transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar in Karur. Former AIADMK MP R Lakshmanan and three-time MLA S K Vedarathinam of Vedaranyam, who shifted allegiance from the AIADMK and the BJP to the DMK, has been given poll ticket. Lakshmanan will contest against law minister C Ve Shanmugam in Villupuram, while Vedarathinam will oppose minister O S Manian. Former speaker Sedapatti R Muthiah’s son and Madurai south district secretary M Manimaran will take on minister R B Udayakumar in Thirumangalam. A prominent face in Kongu belt, Karthikeya Sivasenthapathi, who recently joined the DMK and became head of its newly constituted environment wing, is pitted against minister S P Velumani. Salem west district deputy secretary T Sambath Kumar is DMK’s nominee for fighting against CM Palaniswami in Edappadi. “The AIADMK government is highly corrupt and people are aware of that. Neither could they speak out against the Centre nor get schemes for the state. DMK led by ‘Thalapathi’ Stalin will secure a massive victory,” Thanga Tamilselvan told TOI. The DMK has fielded Erode strongman and former AIADMK minister S Muthusamy to take on former AIADMK minister K V Ramalingam in Erode West and former AIADMK MLA-turned rebel, G V Markandeyan is pitted against Vilathikulam MLA P Chinnappan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/dmk-aiadmk-clash-in-131-seats-stalin-picks-kolathur-for-3rd-time/articleshow/81474457.cms||Julie Mariappan
March 13, 2021||Chennai||Corpn gender lab to guide planners||Chennai: The city corporation has set up a gender lab at Amma Maligai in Ripon Buildings to ensure its existing and future urban infrastructure policies are gender-sensitive. Five consultants from the World Bank who are working on the project began discussions with various department heads on March 8 and have already begun field surveys. They will submit their findings that will shape the civic body’s policy of urban infrastructure and planning. Four more experts will be hired to study all data available on accessibility, mobility, safety, health and hygiene, climate resilience and social security. “The four experts will be from the field of urban planning, mobility, gender policy, and behavorial training. We are very excited about this project and want to even include gender budgeting from next year, where separate budgets are allotted for woman-centric projects,” said Meghnath Reddy, in charge of works department of the corporation. Be it availability of clean and accessible toilets on pavements and streets, better street lighting at night, safe public transport and public spaces, most urban policies are usually planned, developed and executed by men. “In simple terms, these policies are not designed keeping women or children in mind,” explained Raj Cherubal, CEO, Smart City. “To change this right from the policy level, the Chennai corporation has now set up the gender lab on women’s day as part of the Nirbhaya project implemented by the World Bank. Along with this, a road safety cell will also be set up this week. All projects of the city will be made gender inclusive using their inputs and decisions at policy level can be made,” he said. As part of the plan to implement various big budget projects, the specific needs of women will be taken into account. “We will not just create a policy but educate public, build capacity and propose more projects for women. This will set in a system that will guide for future projects,” said Reddy. Raj Cherubal said this was the first such lab set up by a city corporation in the country. “Universities have such labs. However, to ensure policy planning and urban infrastructure is also gender sensitive, these experts will guide local planners,” he said. Kirthi Vijaykumar, a gender expert from the city, said while adopting any approach, scheme or policy toward gender-sensitizing urban infrastructure, the corporation should focus on a wholesome approach. “Start by educating the community on why gender-sensitive approaches are needed, speak to the community in question to understand what they see as a solution and what they want to see that manifest as, and then co-create urban infrastructure that responds to that. Following that, build sustainable behavioural change by staying engaged with the community to ensure that the implementation is a community-led process for the community's well-being,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-gender-lab-to-guide-planners/articleshow/81470352.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Penalty of Rs 4L on directors of Shiv Vilas Resorts||Jaipur: The additional district magistrate (ADM), north, Beerbal Singh on Friday imposed a penalty of Rs 4 lakh on the directors of Shiv Vilas Resorts Private Limited, located at Kukas on NH-8, having found substandard food items at the resort.Singh informed that the penalty has been imposed on the directors of the resort in two cases. The decision was taken on Thursday on finding substandard Vanilla ice cream and cheese at the resort. A penalty of Rs 2 lakh each was imposed in both the cases. He said the penalty has been imposed on Viswanath Shukla and other directors of the resort after deciding on the complaints received under the Food Safety and Standards Act. District collector Antar Singh Nehra on Friday instructed the revenue officials to take the cases of encroachment on various schools, playgrounds, public roads and the complaints related to it seriously and take action to free them from encroachment within a month. He instructed the sub-division officers (SDOs) to seek gram panchayat’s support in the removal of encroachments on schools and public roads. Nehra expressed dissatisfaction over long pendency of several revenue cases and gave instructions for their early disposal. He directed to clear the revenue cases pending at various levels within the stipulated period and warned of fixing responsibility if the directions are not followed. The district collector also instructed all the SDOs to settle pending cases of primary investigation within one month. He also directed to expedite the disposal of 17 CCA and 16 CCA cases that are under consideration of departmental inquiry. Nehra said that matters related to land allocation for government offices should be taken on a priority and encroachments on government land should be removed at the earliest. He instructed all the SDOs to settle the pending revenue cases. He said the outstanding cases enrollment of tehsils should not be kept pending for more than 47 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/penalty-of-rs-4l-on-directors-of-shiv-vilas-resorts/articleshow/81474459.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Endangered Indian vultures sighted in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Schedule 1st Indian vultures, which are on the verge of extinction, have been sighted in Degrai Oran area. Wildlife enthusiast Sumer Singh Bhati saw around 200 Indian vultures at Degrai pasture land in Fatehgarh tehsil in Jaisalmer district on Friday. Currently, it’s the breeding season of the vultures and they are expected to have come from the Pakistan border. These vultures in India are on the verge of extinction and are rarely seen in northern India. Bhati said that these vultures have been seen rarely at DNP in Jaisalmer and the protected place adjoining field firing range behind Shri Bhadaria Rai temple. Vultures being sighted in such large numbers is a very good sign, he said. Environmentalists Radheyshyam Pemani and Parth Jagani said black-necked and golden-feathered vultures found throughout the year in India are the most endangered species in the world in IUCN red list. The government of India to protect these vultures had opened Jatayu vulture breeding and conservation centre at Chandigarh. A few vultures were left in the jungles a few months ago from this centre. At Degrai pasture land, three species of vultures including Himalayan Griffon and Cinereous Vultures are found and even they are dying after hitting the electric wires. In such a situation, sightings of Indian vultures here prove the purity of the environment in the pasture lands. It is to be mentioned that Bhati took photos of the vultures, which were confirmed by ERDS foundation scientists and zoology professor with Indraprasth University New Delhi Dr Sumit Dookia, Radheyshaym Pemani and Parth Jagani. Expert IUCN WHSG, WCPA and Save Vulture Community member Dau Lal Bohra said that the critically endangered oriental white-rumped vulture and long-billed vulture, have declined across most of their range by over 95% since the mid-1990s. Pakistan’s north eastern Tharparkar district, mainly the Thar desert, which borders India, hosts the largest population of vultures, followed by scattered spots in southern Punjab, Azad Kashmir, and the south western Balochistan province. He said that the population of long-billed vultures in Jaisalmer was not seen before today. This population has been detected as a group, as the breeding season is about to begin. Having 70–80 pairs in one place ensures that the Thar desert is the best place in Rajasthan for the vultures. Dr Sumit Dookia, faculty, GGS Indraprasth University, New Delhi and Honorary Scientific Advisor, ERDS Foundation, said that rural economy of western Rajasthan is still dominated by livestock rearing. The carcasses of these animals attract a large number of vultures. The sighting of a flock of Indian Vultures inside Shree Degray Mataji Oran near Sanwatha confirms that Thar desert still supports these critically endangered vultures. He said that since last year, ERDS Foundation started monitoring of few important species of birds in this Oran along with Great Indian Bustard and raptors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/endangered-indian-vultures-sighted-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/81474464.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Youth drugged, robbed after chai & charcha with stranger||MUMBAI: A Nepalese was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly looting a student’s luggage after spiking his tea with sedative at Bandra railway terminus. The accused, Hamid Khan, befriended the student, Deepak Sharma ( 22), who was at the terminus to take a train to Rajasthan. Railway police officials said 13 stolen cellphones have been recovered from Khan’s home in Kurla. They expressed suspicion that he is a habitual offender in north India. Khan worked as a cook at an eatery in Delhi. Sharma, who was to travel to Bikaner on Tuesday morning, reached Bandra Terminus. around 9 am. He had reserved a ticket on the Bandra-Bikaner Express. While he was waiting for the train Khan walked up to him. Khan asked Sharma where he was headed to. When Sharma told him, Khan pretended he too was on his way to Bikaner, and struck up a conversation with him. “Later, Khan offered tea to Sharma,” said Vilas Chougule, senior inspector, Government Railway Police. While fetching Sharma’s tea, Khan allegedly laced it with a sedative. Afterwards, the two headed back to the waiting hall. But Sharma felt drowsy and passed out. Khan lifted Sharma’s luggage and fled. Railway employees rushed Sharma to hospital. He returned a day later to give a statement to the railway police. “We checked CCTV footage at the station and found grabs of the culprit. Copies of his image were circulated and we combed the area around Bandra,” said assistant inspector Devidas Aranye. Khan was nabbed outside Bandra station a day later. The railway police said that they have recovered a part of Sharma’s belongings have from Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-youth-drugged-robbed-after-chai-charcha-with-stranger/articleshow/81474470.cms||Nitasha Natu
March 13, 2021||Allahabad||Elderly citizens and 45 yrs above with comorbidities get vaccinated at govt hosps||Prayagraj: Elderly citizens are making a beeline at government hospitals and community health centres to get themselves vaccinated in the district. The officials of the health department, apart from government hospitals, have taken up Covid-19 vaccination at all 20 Community Health Centres (CHCs) and 61 New Primary Health centres (New PHCs) from Friday in the rural pockets of the district to administer vaccine among beneficiaries above 60 years of age and those above 45 years having co-morbidities. On Friday, beneficiaries especially elderly citizens in sizable number arrived at all government hospitals, 20 community health centres and 61 new PHCs to get themselves vaccinated. After vaccination, the senior beneficiaries appreciated the efforts of the health department for taking up the vaccination drive in all urban, semi-urban and rural areas which made it easier for them to get vaccinated without any hiccups. All the Medical Officer-In-Charge (MOICs) of community health centres including Madna, Koraon, Meja, Ram Nagar, Kaundhiyara, Karchana, Shankargarh, Jasra, Chaka, Mauaima, Holagarh, Soraon, Kaurihar, Baharia, Phulpur, Pratappur, Dhanupur, Handia, Saidabad, and Kotwa were asked to monitor the vaccination exercise strictly so that there will be no wastage of vaccine with the clear message that MOICs will be held responsible if the vaccine wastage per cent goes more than three per cent. From Friday, New PHC and CHCs were converted into CVCs (Covid Vaccination Center) and health workers assigned to administer the vaccine to at least 120 beneficiaries of the target groups at their respective CHCs\ New PHCs. Deputy chief medical officer and District Surveillance Officer, Dr Rahul Singh told TOI, that the Covid-19 vaccination exercise has been started at all CHCs and News PHCs. He added that ground health workers like ANMs and ASHAs were also roped in to mobilize the target groups and also to encourage them for pre-registration on the health department portal as well as to take them to community vaccination centre for vaccination. At CHCs, Covid-19 vaccination will be taken up every Monday, Thursday and Friday. Besides, vaccination will be held six days a week at all urban-based medical units (government hospitals).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/elderly-citizens-and-45-yrs-above-with-comorbidities-get-vaccinated-at-govt-hosps/articleshow/81472093.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kanpur||Army Commander, Southern Command, witnesses fire power in Jhansi||Done/ALVI Jhansi: During his visit to Jhansi, Army Commander, Southern Command, Lt-Gen JS Nain, AVSM, Sena Medal, General Officer-Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Command visited White Tiger division in Jhansi and Babina Cantonments on Friday and witnessed the ongoing exercise ‘Silver Strike’, an integrated firing and manoeuvre exercise held at Babina field firing ranges. As per the officers involved in organizing the event, the firing exercise showcased the integrated application of surveillance, manoeuvre and fire power resources of armoured, mechanised infantry, artillery, air defence and aviation assets for destruction of targets. After the exercise, the Army Commander complimented the troops and the formations for showing exceptional firing standards and executing the integrated firing on a near realistic technology. He also exhorted all ranks to continue working hard in the quest for professional excellence and expertise in equipment handling skills. Lt Gen Nain also interacted with senior Commanders, officers and troops of the elite White Tiger division and reviewed the operational preparedness of the formation. On this occasion, the Army Commander was briefed on the operational, security, training and administrative aspects including measures taken to improve quality of life by Major General Vipul Shinghal, General Officer Commanding, White Tiger Division. Apart from this, Lt Gen Nain also visited and interacted with the student officers attending the Southern Command pre-staff course and exhorted them to continue their sustained efforts to achieve success in the exam. During his visit, he was accompanied by Lieutenant General Atulya Solankey, AVSM, Sena Medal, General Officer Commanding, Sudarshan Chakra Corps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/army-commander-southern-command-witnesses-fire-power-in-jhansi/articleshow/81473231.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Nashik||Foundation stone layed for girls’ hostel||Nashik: State tribal development minister K C Padvi performed the ‘bhumi puja’ for the construction of a hostel for girls from the tribal community at the Peth Road in Nashik city on Friday. “The state-of-the-art hostel in Nashik would not just be a grand building but will also encourage girl students from the tribal community to pursue higher education,” said Padvi while addressing the programme. The seven-storey building of the girls hostel is being constructed at a central location, from where students can easily commute to their respective educational institutions. The building will be one of the biggest facilities in the state which will host 310 students at a time. Among the facilities that the hostel will have are solar hot water system, separate study areas, a dining hall and recreational areas. The building is estimated to cost Rs 3.1 crore which has already been sanctioned by the tribal development department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/foundation-stone-layed-for-girls-hostel/articleshow/81475444.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Drizzle brings temp down, met predicts cloudy weather||Ludhiana: After days of sunny weather, it rained in the city on Friday bringing the much needed respite to residents from hot weather. The met department predicts weather disturbance to continue in the city for the next two days with chances of rainfall on Sunday. It remained cloudy on Friday morning and later it drizzled. However, drizzle lasted only for a brief while after which it remained cloudy for most part of the day. The met department recorded rainfall, between 8.30am to 5.30pm in Ludhiana at 1 millimeter on Friday. According to the met department, maximum (day) temperature in Ludhiana on Friday was recorded at 26 degrees Celsius, which is a degree less than normal. On Thursday, the day temperature in city was recorded at 31.8 degrees Celsius, which was five degrees more than normal. The met department mentioned that the minimum (night) temperature in city was recorded at 17.3 degrees Celsius which was 5 degrees more than normal. A met department official in Chandigarh said the weather forecast for Saturday is “partly cloudy sky” for Sunday it is “generally cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers” after which it is expected to remain dry for next few days. He added that for next two to three days both day and temperatures are expected to rise. Meanwhile, acording to the met department website, the day temperature is expected to rise to 31 degrees by Monday whereas night temperature is expected to rise to 18 degrees. Residents are happy with the pleasant change. “It was getting hotter every passing day and it felt like harsh summer is round the corner. But with rain todaywas a pleasant surprise. Even after it rained, it was cloudy and windy and it felt wonderful to go out on a stroll in the neighbouring park,” said Harpreet Singh, a Dugri resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/drizzle-brings-temp-down-met-predicts-cloudy-weather/articleshow/81474458.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Kanpur||Andhra beat UP by 2 wickets||Kanpur: Andhra Pradesh drubbed Uttar Pradesh by 2 wickets in their inaugural match of Elite Group C of Women’s Senior One-Day Trophy (2020-21) held at RCA Academy ground in Jaipur on Friday. UP girls after being invited to bat first scored 160 for 9 in stipulated 50 overs. Andhra girls in response scored the required 162 runs for the loss of 8 wickets in 44.5 overs. Credit goes to CH Jhansi Laxmi and S Hima Bindu, who not only scored half-centuries but also executed 88 runs partnership for the third wicket which repaired the early damage. Anjali Singh gave a break to UP claiming Hima Bindu for 51 runs consisting of 10 boundaries. AP at this juncture required just 26 runs with seven wickets in hand. But Tanu Kala’s three quick wickets in a row pushed AP in trouble. In between Jhansi Lakshmi blocked one end and pulled her side on the road of victory. AP required just 4 runs when Jhansi Lakshmi fell prey to Kajal after scoring 66 runs in 125 balls. Jyothi and Saranya completed the formality of victory thereafter. Earlie,r UP in the morning lost the top three batswomen on 43. Captain Muskan Malik and Anjali Singh (25) repaired the damage adding 68 runs for the fourth wicket. Thereafter, wicket fell at regular interval and in between Muskan Malik completed her half-century and returned back to pavilion after scoring 66 runs with the help of 9 boundaries in 120 balls. Brief score UP: 160 for 9 (Ekta 10, Shobha Devi 12, Muskan Malik 66, Anjali Singh 25, Nishu Chaudhary 12, K Jyothi 2 for 40, B Anshu 1 for 17, G Chandra Lekha 1 for 16, Saranya Gadwal 2 for 38, CH Jhanshi Lakshmi 1 for 24) Andhra Pradesh: 162 for 8 (CH Jhanshi Lakshmi 66, V Pushpa Latha 14, S Hima Bindu 51, Rashi Kanojiya 1 for 31, Kajal 1 for 31, Anjali Singh 2 for 22, Aditi 1 for 34, Tanu Kala 3 for 27)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/andhra-beat-up-by-2-wickets/articleshow/81473175.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kanpur||One more arrested in Sajeti gang-rape case||Revised Kanpur: The police on Friday arrested Saurabh Yadav, the third accused and the elder son of a police sub-inspector Devendra Yadav, in connection with the Sajeti gang rape case. The main accused Golu Yadav and Deepu Yadav, who is SI’s younger son, were arrested by the police on Wednesday. “The police today (Friday) arrested Saurabh Yadav and are now looking for SI Devendra Yadav, posted in Kannauj and five police teams along with SWAT and surveillance wings are conducting raids at his possible hideouts. He has already been suspended by SP Kannauj for being absent from duty,” DIG Preetinder Singh told TOI. DIG further said, “We will file a chargesheet in the case soon, besides will also ensure that the case be taken to Fast Track court.” The police, meanwhile, ordered a probe into the allegations that the father of the 13-year-old gang rape survivor committed suicide after he felt humiliated by the policemen probing the case. He died in a hit-and-run case on Wednesday outside a community health centre in Ghatampur area where his daughter was undergoing medical examination. His family members have alleged that he was killed in a planned manner. While the police were probing these allegations, the girl’s relative, who was accompanying them during the medical examination, stated that the survivor’s father committed suicide after being humiliated by policemen probing the rape case. The DIG said, “Superintendent of police (rural) Brijesh Srivastava has been asked to conduct an inquiry and thoroughly probe charges of humiliation following reports that the manner in which policemen handled the case probably forced the gang rape survivor’s father to resort to extreme step.” The SP has also been asked to inquire into the allegations wherein the minor had to face an awkward situation after the cops investigating the case asked her objectionable questions, the officer said. “I have directed the SP to probe all allegations and submit a report soon. As of now, no evidence has been found which corroborates that the survivor’s father was perturbed over police behaviour and which drove him to end his life,” he- said. With regard to the alleged dilly-delaying attitude of the police, he said: “As the distance between the district headquarters and the survivor’s village is nearly 75-80 km, besides police have to follow the guidelines of High Court and Supreme Court with utmost sensitivity in such a case, it is quite possible that police had taken it’s due course of time. Also, as far as allegations with regard to shielding of SI, I would like to assure that in this particular case, which I am supervising, there is no scope of any leniency.” He also said that a police outpost is to come up in Sajeti gang-rape survivor’s village. During his visit to the survivor’s village on Thursday, ADG Zone Bhanu Bhaskar had met her family members and directed the SSP/DIG to step up security measures in the village, police sources informed TOI. Singh said, “Going by the threat perception wherein the SI is still at large, besides as it was also alleged that they also threatened the survivor and her 10-year-old brother, we are raising a police outpost in the rape survivor’s village. Further, on the basis of call detail records of the two, we are zeroing in on them and are raiding their possible hideouts to make their arrest possible.” To recall, the Kanpur’s Sajeti Police had filed a case under Section 376D (A)-(punishment for gang rape on woman under sixteen years of age), 504 (whoever intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause him to break the public peace, or to commit any other offence), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 5G/6 POCSO Act on Tuesday based on a complaint by the girl’s father. The girl’s father had stated in his complaint that on Monday when his daughter was returning home from the fields at around 7 p.m., accused Deepu Yadav and Golu Yadav caught hold of her. They took her to a secluded spot and took turns to rape her and also threatened to kill her if she try to raise alarm. The girl somehow managed to return home late at night and narrated her ordeal. The girl’s family alleged that a day after the incident when they were heading toward Sajeti police station to lodge a complaint, Deepu’s brother Saurabh Yadav had threatened to eliminate them if they would make a complaint against them. Subsequently, the police on the complaint of the girl’s father had booked (Saurabh) under relevant sections including 506 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/one-more-arrested-in-sajeti-gang-rape-case/articleshow/81473224.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
March 13, 2021||India||Bombay HC slams CBI, SIT for slow Narendra Dabholkar probe||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Friday came down heavily on CBI and the special investigation team (SIT) of the state police for the delay in investigations into the killing of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar, pointing out that it was over seven years since the murder. On being told that trial has commenced in Karnataka where the murders of Kannada writer M M Kalburgi and journalist Gauri Lankesh occurred much later, a bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale responded with scathing comments. “These are undisputed facts. The incident is of 2013. We are in 2021. Incidents in Karnataka took place after the incident in our state. Trial has commenced in Karnataka. Why not here? Incident is similar.” The HC is monitoring the probe into the killings of Dabholkar on August 20, 2013 and CPI leader Govind Pansare on February 20, 2015 on a plea by their families. The matter was last heard in February 2020. It came up for the first time before a new bench to which it has been specially assigned. Advocate Abhay Nevagi, for the families, said it was Maharashtra ATS that found a link in all the four cases. Kalburgi was shot dead on August 30, 2015, while Lankesh was assassinated on September 5, 2017. He said while CBI had filed three chargesheets against four accused in the Dabholkar case, the SIT has made “zero” progress in Pansare’s case. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for CBI said, “we have done what we were supposed to do” and added that Thane creek was searched with expert help for the murder weapon which was not found. He sought time to file a fresh status report. Prosecutor Mankunwar Deshmukh, for SIT, also said a status report will be submitted. The judges said they wanted a “concrete statement” at the next hearing. “Otherwise we’ll not spare anybody,” said Justice Shinde, adding, “you may say this court is making such a harsh observation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bombay-hc-slams-cbi-sit-for-slow-narendra-dabholkar-probe/articleshow/81476566.cms||Rosy Sequeira
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Keep hardcore Islamists out of Urdu academy’||Mumbai: Sahitya Akademi Award-winning Urdu novelist Rahman Abbas requested chief minister Uddhav Thackeray that Maharashtra State Urdu Sahitya Academy should not appoint “hardcore Islamists” as academy members. The academy may be reconstituted soon. “Secular values will be promoted and defended only when the academy’s secretary/president and executive body comprises of people devoted to literature,” he said. He discouraged appointment of politically-affiliated people having no understanding of literature as members, “as they don’t work for literature, but promote nepotism”. He said, “People of hardcore religious organizations or having links in promotion of ideology of religion in literature should not be included in the academy, as that would be against the fight you and your team have continued. It will be disastrous for free-thinking in the state and approach to literature.” Mohammed Wajihuddin||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-keep-hardcore-islamists-out-of-urdu-academy/articleshow/81475451.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Demands being examined by fin dept: Min to patwaris||Jaipur: While the patwaris on Friday started civil disobedience movement against various orders issued by the government to, revenue minister Harish Chaudhary, urging the patwaris to end their strike, said the matter related to increasing their grade pay to 3,600 is being examined by the finance department, considering the financial condition of the state arising out of Covid situation. He assured the state assembly that the process of recruitment on 4,421 vacant posts will be completed soon.Meanwhile, the patwaris have started a civil disobedience movement against the orders issued by the government to appoint senior officers in their place to carry out the work of the patwar mandals and issuing show-cause notices. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/demands-being-examined-by-fin-dept-min-to-patwaris/articleshow/81474471.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Monsoon just 2 months away, hardly any desilting done in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Even as the revised schedule drawn up to prevent waterlogging during monsoon says desilting exercise now takes place round the year, the data from municipal bodies shows that very little work has been carried out so far. With just two months to go for the deadline, Delhi may face another season of waterlogging if the target is not met. The municipal corporations had earlier announced that the concessionaires doing waste management in the zones will be roped in for this annual exercise. Data from North Delhi Municipal Corporation shows that only 6.64% of drain desilting has occurred so far with 644 tons of silt being removed. Similarly, officials from south as well as east civic bodies have also reported that the process is just in initial phase and not much work has occurred so far. In Keshavpuram and Rohini zone, the extent of desilting is less than 2%, the alarming report shows. There are 192 major drains, which fall under the north corporation with a cumulative length of 1,08,804 metre. The department has fixed a target of removing 9,696.5 tonnes of silt under the annual action plan for this year. South corporation areas have 243 major drains, while the east civic body has 223 drains. An EDMC official said that the exercise has been started last week and the target will be met in next 60 days. The deadline for completing the desilting exercise is May 15. Every year the capital witnesses large-scale waterlogging, while the civic bodies continue to trade blames over the issue. In previous monsoon season, the administration and civic bodies had argued that the unprecedented situation due to the pandemic had led to a situation when hardly any work could be carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/monsoon-just-2-mths-away-hardly-any-desilting-done/articleshow/81474487.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||With 85 pts, state bags second spot in PM awas yojana||Jaipur: A performance index report 2019-20, which was released on Friday, showed that Rajasthan ranked second among all states in the country, after Uttar Pradesh, in the progress made under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Grameen (PMAY-G). The state scored 85 points compared to Uttar Pradesh’s total score of 91.11. Additional chief secretary (ACS), rural development and panchayati raj department, Rohit Kumar Singh attributed the department’s performance to “strict monitoring and follow-up”. “A significant progress has been made over the past six months through strict monitoring at the state level. The districts that were lagging were identified and pressure was put on them to perform,” said Singh. Earlier, the state’s ranking hovered around 6th to 4th position in the country. Jharkhand stood at the third position with 83.5 points and Madhya Pradesh was at the fourth position with 79.6 points. Assam was at the fifth position with 74.6 points. Karnataka was the worst performer among the states with just 17.01 points. Singh said out of 6.87 lakh houses sanctioned in the first phase, construction of 6.70 lakh houses has been completed, which accounts for 98.31% completion. Out of 6.48 houses sanctioned in the second phase, construction of 4 lakh houses has been completed.He also informed that of the 13.34 lakh houses sanctioned since the start of the scheme, construction of 10.69 lakh houses has been completed, which accounts for 80.11% completion. Singh had written to all the collectors to complete construction of the remaining houses under PMAY-G by March 31. Singh had earlier expressed displeasure over slow progress of work by the districts under PMAY-G as only 15.3% (33,334) of its target was met in February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-85-pts-state-bags-second-spot-in-pm-awas-yojana/articleshow/81474486.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Road lies battered, agencies confused||CHENNAI: A 400m road in Mahalakshmi Nagar linking the Manali Express Road has not been laid for a decade due to confusion between the state highways and Greater Chennai Corporation over the road’s ownership. Residents of Mahalakshmi Nagar Main Road in Thiruvotriyur have written to all departments asking them to re-lay the road but there has not been any response. The road was earlier with the state highways when Thiruvotriyur was a municipality. However, after the Eranavoor bridge was constructed, the road was converted into a service lane and merged with the civic body in 2011. Despite residents getting a letter from the highways stating that the road didn’t belong to them, the civic body has not laid it. Jayaraman, former chairman of erstwhile Thiruvotriyur municipality, said in 2008 they sought help from ITC which donated about Rs 32 lakh and then district collector had sanctioned Rs 64 lakh. “Using this fund, we laid the road ourselves. We renovated the street lights, laid new interior roads in the entire area and we have been maintaining it. In 2010, when we asked highways to re-lay the road, they refused to do so. But we managed as the road was motorable. However, three years ago, the road was dug up by CPCL to lay pipelines to transport crude oil. Since then, we have visited all departments requesting them to lay the roads. Several inspections have been held after residents protested. But there has been no action,” he said. The corporation informed the residents that the road belonged to the state highways. “We met the state highways and they have given us a written letter stating that the road doesn’t belong to them. The GCC hasn’t responded even after that,” said Jayaram. Another resident, Chandravel, told TOI that children are unable to cycle to schools. “It is dangerous to ride two-wheelers. Protests to get the attention of the authorities have yielded no result,” he said. A corporation official said he will look into the matter. “If the road belongs to us, we will re-lay it,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/road-lies-battered-agencies-confused/articleshow/81473671.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Varanasi||Prez to attend ‘Vanvasi Sangam’in Sonbhadra on March 14||Varanasi: After being delayed by a year due to the coronavirus pandemic, the tribal event, Vanvasi Sangam, will be graced by President Ram Nath Kovind in Sonbhadra on March 14. Earlier, the event was scheduled to be held on March 15, 2020 but was cancelled due to Covid-19 outbreak. During his three-day tour of eastern Uttar Pradesh beginning March 13, the President will take part in various programmes in Sonbhadra, Varanasi and Mirzapur districts. According to the visit schedule of the President released by PIB, he will arrive in Varanasi on Saturday. After offering prayer at Kashi Vishwanath Temple and watching the grand Ganga aarti at Dashashwamedh Ghat in the evening, the President will leave for Sonbhadra and Mirzapur on March 14. He will also attend a programme on the issues of the Ganga, environment and the culture of India in Varanasi on March 15. In Sonbhadra, the President will attend the Vanvasi Sangam and inaugurate the newly-built school and hostel of Seva Samarpan Sansthan of Akhil Bhartiya Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram at Seva Kunj Ashram, Chapki. Earlier, this programme was scheduled on March 15, 2020. “All the arrangements for the President’s visit have been completed,” Sonbhadra district magistrate Abhishek Singh told TOI over phone on Friday. He said that after a 15-minute round of the Seva Kunj Ashram, the President will take part in Vanvasi Sangam to interact with the tribal populace. After attending the programme, the President will leave for Mirzapur, where he will offer prayer at Vindhyavasini Devi temple in Vindhyachal. Meanwhile, the Varanasi administration has geared up for foolproof arrangements for the President’s visit. While district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma took stock of the preparations on Thursday, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal had held a meeting of officials on March 9. The meeting was attended by many officials including vice-chairman of Varanasi Development Authority, municipal commissioner, and the officials of other departments including police, airport, PWD, BLW, and tourism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/prez-to-attend-vanvasi-sangamin-sonbhadra-on-march-14/articleshow/81473051.cms||Binay Singh
March 13, 2021||Allahabad||Singh takes over as new VCof Rajju Bhaiya State varsity||With Pic (To go prominently) Prayagraj: Director of Educational Multimedia Research Centre (EMRC) of Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya, Indore, Akhilesh Kumar Singh has been appointed as the new vice-chancellor of Prof Rajendra Singh (Rajju Bhaiya) University by the Governor Anandiben Patel. The new VC has been appointed for a period of three years from the day he assumes office. Born and brought up at Dawani village of Ballia district, Singh did his early schooling from Ballia. He pursued his undergraduate and postgraduate from a college at Ballia, which was then affiliated to Gorakhpur University. For further studies, he moved to Banaras Hindu University where he did his BEd . He later did his MEd, MPhil and PhD from Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya, Indore and joined the university which has around 375 colleges affiliated to it. He has about 28 years of professional experience in different aspects of teaching & training, research & development and educational administration in various capacities including research officer, course coordinator and director Inicharge at EMRC, DAVV, Indore. Singh has contributed substantially in the fields of media production and broadcast, and media education. He has been bestowed with several awards such as MP Young Scientist Award, UGC-CEC national and international awards for research. Talking to TOI, Singh said, “After taking over the new responsibility, I would like to do the SWOC (strength, weaknesses, opportunity and challenges) analysis after which the area of priority would be identified and worked upon.” He added, “The best thing of this state university is that it is a ‘growing institution’ which gives immense opportunity and scope of development and streamlining the system. My predecessors have done great work by setting the ball rolling and now it is my turn to take the university, which is associated with the great leaders like Rajju Bhaiya, to a new height.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/singh-takes-over-as-new-vcof-rajju-bhaiya-state-varsity/articleshow/81472099.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||6 arrested for stealing antiques||New Delhi: A gang of six criminals, who had fled with antique idols and sculptures from a shop in central Delhi’s Karol Bagh, has been busted and the stole items recovered. All the accused have been arrested, police said on Friday. DCP (central) Jasmeet Singh said the incident took place on March 5. “An FIR was lodged and a team led by SHO Maninder Singh formed to nab the accused,” he said. The gang was involved in over 50 cases and had carried out 10 back-to-back burglaries recently. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/6-arrested-for-stealing-antiques/articleshow/81474501.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Sporadic fires drive animals out of habitat||HYDERABAD: Even as Amrabad Tiger Reserve in Nagarkurnool district has been struggling with multiple incidents of forest fires in the last few days, the forests of Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district, around 500 km away, have also started witnessing forest fires that are occasionally driving wild animals out of their natural habitat. Officials of the forest department told TOI that ‘A2’, the suspected maneater-tiger, was also among the animals that was driven out of the forest area due to the fires earlier this week. “Sporadic fires are happening in certain areas of the forest in the last few days. We are sending our teams to extinguish these fires as soon as we get a satellite alert. Also, due to these fires, more animals are coming out of the forest and this is going to be a big task in the coming days. A2 has also moved out of the forest two or three times and was spotted walking towards the road near Kondapalli village area,” said Asifabad district forest officer (DFO) S Shantaram. The forest areas of Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district are primarily known for the presence of tiger population. Last month, while on a hunt to capture A2, after it killed two persons in the tribal villages of the forest, the tiger tracking team was pleasantly surprised to discover another tigress and two cubs in Sirpur range of the forest area. Speaking about the cause of these fires that are increasingly posing a threat to the wildlife, experts and officials said that 95 per cent of the fires are deliberate and lit by people living in the vicinity for inducing growth of grass for animal grazing or for crop rotation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sporadic-fires-drive-animals-out-of-habitat/articleshow/81474491.cms||Moulika.KV
March 13, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu second in GST evasion frauds in the country||CHENNAI: It is not any coincidence that GST enforcement wings in and around Chennai have stepped up fraud detection. Data tabled in Lok Sabha by the Union ministry of finance shows that Tamil Nadu has the second highest GST evasion from 2017-18 to 2020-21. Totally, 27,000 such cases were found across the country in these three years. Tamil Nadu accounted for 3,220 cases, second to Delhi which has 3,295 cases. The most common modus operandi according to the department is setting up of fake companies, creating fake invoices and collecting illegal input tax credit to the tune of several crores. Input tax is a rebate claimed by a registered dealer. For instance, if a manufacturer has paid Rs 500 as GST for purchase of raw materials and has to pay a tax of Rs 750 on the finished product, then she needs to pay only Rs 250 as taxes with Rs 500 being availed as an input tax credit rebate. The Chennai outer commissionerate of GST arrested three people earlier this week for a similar fraud. Fake invoices to the tune of Rs 423.27 crore were created and illegal input tax credit to the extent of Rs 57.62 crore was claimed. Of the three arrested, one was a scrap dealer from Vellore. In many of these cases, officials found that GST registrations have been made by misusing KYC documents of other persons. A number of fictitious companies are floated by using PAN, Aadhaar and photographs of unknown persons to issue fake invoices to other companies and claim input tax credit. Commission agents and chartered accountants are also part of the racket, official information stated. In some cases detected by Chennai-based GST wings, the person floating the fictitious companies also acts as a tax-consultant and helps others in floating companies as well as claiming fraudulent tax credit as well. The ministry has created a directorate general of analytics and risk management to help with advance analytics and innovative technology utilising various data sources for a focussed and targeted action by the enforcement wings. “The GST department is committed to a non-adversarial tax administration and assist honest and law abiding tax payers. However, it is in data-driven pursuit of such fraudsters,” the department said in an official statement. It also encouraged whistleblowers to give credible information and said the identity of such people would be protected. GST helpdesk at the Anna Nagar headquarters can be contacted on 044-26142850,26142852 and 26142853.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-2nd-in-gst-evasion-frauds-in-the-country/articleshow/81480113.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mulund MLA urges BMC to start vax centre at school for senior citizens||As vaccination drives are picking pace at municipal facilities and private hospitals, Mulund MLA Mihir Kotecha has written to BMC to start a vaccination centre at a Covid care centre started at a BMC school in Mulund (E), where the pandemic is at a peak. Kotecha said there was an urgent need to vaccinate more senior citizens from the locality. He said Mulund (E) has around 35,000 senior citizens, for whom the nearest centre is Veer Savarkar municipal hospital, or they have to go to Mulund jumbo covid care facility, 4km away. “Making them wait at the municipal hospital is not right considering their age, and crowding could lead to a further rise in cases. The centre at the hospital can vaccinate only 200 persons a day,” he said. “I requested BMC to start a centre at Navghar municipal school. At least 1,000 can be vaccinated there,” he said. Richa Pinto||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-mulund-mla-urges-bmc-to-start-vax-centre-at-school-for-senior-citizens/articleshow/81474493.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Alert Vasai woman foils ATM theft, locks thief inside kiosk||MUMBAI: A 45-year-old Vasai woman foiled a theft in an ATM located in a residential building she was in to meet a relative for condolence on Thursday. Sukanya Pawar, who suspected a thief to be in action inside the ATM kiosk with its shutters down, returned with a lock and latched the shutters before alerting neighbours. Pawar was visiting a relative in Fatherwadi, Vasai (east) where a relative had passed away recently. She was reading some religious books when she heard noise from the ATM centre of a nationalised bank below the building at around 2.30am. She came down and found the shutter pulled down. She went closer and could hear the banging of the ATM machine. She got back to the relative’s home, took a lock and latched the shutter. She then raised an alarm and alerted other residents of the building. The screams of the crowd alerted the police patrolling van. The residents narrated the incident, following which the cops opened the shutter to find a man inside the ATM kiosk. The accused tried to scare the cops and the public with a hammer but he was soon overpowered by the police. He was identified as Salim Mansoori (25), a resident of Borivli. Police said that Mansoori had managed to destroy the machine but had not been able to lay his hands on the Rs 10 lakh cash inside it. When he realised that he was trapped inside, he stopped tampering with the machine and sat inside the kiosk. Other residents of the building told the police that they had heard some sounds but had not bothered to check. The Valiv police registered a case against the accused under various sections of the Indian Penal Code. Police said that Mansoori has been booked in the past for theft but none related to ATM theft. Cops suspect that this was his first try at an ATM as he had destroyed the machine but had no clue where the cash was stored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-alert-vasai-woman-foils-atm-theft-locks-thief-inside-kiosk/articleshow/81474497.cms||Sandhya Nair
March 13, 2021||Erode||Tamil Nadu second in GST evasion frauds in the country||CHENNAI: It is not any coincidence that GST enforcement wings in and around Chennai have stepped up fraud detection. Data tabled in Lok Sabha by the Union ministry of finance shows that Tamil Nadu has the second highest GST evasion from 2017-18 to 2020-21. Totally, 27,000 such cases were found across the country in these three years. Tamil Nadu accounted for 3,220 cases, second to Delhi which has 3,295 cases. The most common modus operandi according to the department is setting up of fake companies, creating fake invoices and collecting illegal input tax credit to the tune of several crores. Input tax is a rebate claimed by a registered dealer. For instance, if a manufacturer has paid Rs 500 as GST for purchase of raw materials and has to pay a tax of Rs 750 on the finished product, then she needs to pay only Rs 250 as taxes with Rs 500 being availed as an input tax credit rebate. The Chennai outer commissionerate of GST arrested three people earlier this week for a similar fraud. Fake invoices to the tune of Rs 423.27 crore were created and illegal input tax credit to the extent of Rs 57.62 crore was claimed. Of the three arrested, one was a scrap dealer from Vellore. In many of these cases, officials found that GST registrations have been made by misusing KYC documents of other persons. A number of fictitious companies are floated by using PAN, Aadhaar and photographs of unknown persons to issue fake invoices to other companies and claim input tax credit. Commission agents and chartered accountants are also part of the racket, official information stated. In some cases detected by Chennai-based GST wings, the person floating the fictitious companies also acts as a tax-consultant and helps others in floating companies as well as claiming fraudulent tax credit as well. The ministry has created a directorate general of analytics and risk management to help with advance analytics and innovative technology utilising various data sources for a focussed and targeted action by the enforcement wings. “The GST department is committed to a non-adversarial tax administration and assist honest and law abiding tax payers. However, it is in data-driven pursuit of such fraudsters,” the department said in an official statement. It also encouraged whistleblowers to give credible information and said the identity of such people would be protected. GST helpdesk at the Anna Nagar headquarters can be contacted on 044-26142850,26142852 and 26142853.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-2nd-in-gst-evasion-frauds-in-the-country/articleshow/81480111.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana on alert as Covid rises in Maharashtra, Karnataka||HYDERABAD: The state government on Friday sounded a high alert across Telangana in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Maharashtra and Karnataka. The government imposed fresh restrictions and ordered effective implementation of the trace, test and treat policy in all districts of the state that now stand at risk. Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender, who reviewed the Covid-19 situation at a meeting, directed health officials to increase the number of daily tests to 50,000 and issued instructions to tackle any likely impact in Telangana due to mounting cases in neighbouring states. “Ensure that there are no loopholes in the implementation of tracing and testing Covid-19 patients. We will continue the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state and see that the remaining groups are also covered,” the minister said. Special instructions were issued to district medical and health officers of Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Adilabad, Asifabad, Mancherial, Jayashankar Bhupalapally and Jagtial districts bordering Maharashtra. The minister also appealed to people to help the government in checking the spread of new infections across the state. “No matter how many steps the government takes, they can yield the desired result only when there is cooperation from people,” he said. Friday’s review conducted by the Telangana health minister was also attended by health secretary S A M Rizvi, medical education director Ramesh Reddy and other senior officials. Director of public health, G Srinivas Rao, joined the meeting via video conference. Amid concerns over the steep rise in number of new Covid-19 cases, authorities in Nagpur imposed a lockdown for a week from March 15. Maharashtra reported over 14,000 new Covid-19 cases and over 50 deaths on Thursday, with the Union health ministry expressing concern over the situation in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-on-alert-as-covid-rises-in-maha-ktaka/articleshow/81475454.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt biased against SC, ST, minority MLAs: Sachin Pilot loyalists||JAIPUR: Fresh trouble is brewing against the Ashok Gehlot government, with at least three Congress MLAs from the Sachin Pilot camp alleging discrimination against those from the SC, ST and minority communities at the “party, government and assembly levels”. Ramesh Meena, Murari Lal Meena and Ved Prakash Solanki were among the 19 MLAs, including Pilot, who revolted against Gehlot’s leadership in July last year. The MLAs alleged that their constituencies were ignored in the state Budget and many ministers routinely treated them badly. We have sought time from Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to discuss with him. If things do not improve even after that, we will not hesitate to resign,” MLA Ramesh Meena said on Friday. “I have no desire for a ministership. I was a minister. I want Congress to be strong and want a check on those who are doing whatever they feel like. We want the government to take care of the communities that backed it. There should be development in their areas and they should get respect,” he said. Party sources said Congress chief whip and Gehlot loyalist Mahesh Joshi has already been dispatched to Delhi for firefighting. A day earlier the chief whip tried to pacify the aggrieved MLAs by saying that SCs, STs and minorities formed the Congress backbone. It started with MLA Ramesh Meena targeting Speaker C P Joshi in the house on Wednesday over the seating arrangement and calling it biased against legislators from the SC, ST and minority communities. Meena, a former cabinet minister, objected to being given a back seat, without a microphone, in the temporary arrangement made as per Covid-19 guidelines. Speaker Joshi had lost his cool at the charge and threatened to quit. He said the seating arrangements are decided on the recommendations of political parties. During the last assembly session Pilot, too, was shifted behind the front row after being sacked as deputy CM following the revolt. He has been brought back to the front row in the current session. “If we do not get respect in the assembly, what will be the message conveyed to the people — that these MLAs are not allowed to raise public matters,” Ramesh Meena asked on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govt-biased-against-sc-stminority-mlas-pilot-loyalists/articleshow/81474499.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
March 13, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu second in GST evasion frauds in the country||CHENNAI: It is not any coincidence that GST enforcement wings in and around Chennai have stepped up fraud detection. Data tabled in Lok Sabha by the Union ministry of finance shows that Tamil Nadu has the second highest GST evasion from 2017-18 to 2020-21. Totally, 27,000 such cases were found across the country in these three years. Tamil Nadu accounted for 3,220 cases, second to Delhi which has 3,295 cases. The most common modus operandi according to the department is setting up of fake companies, creating fake invoices and collecting illegal input tax credit to the tune of several crores. Input tax is a rebate claimed by a registered dealer. For instance, if a manufacturer has paid Rs 500 as GST for purchase of raw materials and has to pay a tax of Rs 750 on the finished product, then she needs to pay only Rs 250 as taxes with Rs 500 being availed as an input tax credit rebate. The Chennai outer commissionerate of GST arrested three people earlier this week for a similar fraud. Fake invoices to the tune of Rs 423.27 crore were created and illegal input tax credit to the extent of Rs 57.62 crore was claimed. Of the three arrested, one was a scrap dealer from Vellore. In many of these cases, officials found that GST registrations have been made by misusing KYC documents of other persons. A number of fictitious companies are floated by using PAN, Aadhaar and photographs of unknown persons to issue fake invoices to other companies and claim input tax credit. Commission agents and chartered accountants are also part of the racket, official information stated. In some cases detected by Chennai-based GST wings, the person floating the fictitious companies also acts as a tax-consultant and helps others in floating companies as well as claiming fraudulent tax credit as well. The ministry has created a directorate general of analytics and risk management to help with advance analytics and innovative technology utilising various data sources for a focussed and targeted action by the enforcement wings. “The GST department is committed to a non-adversarial tax administration and assist honest and law abiding tax payers. However, it is in data-driven pursuit of such fraudsters,” the department said in an official statement. It also encouraged whistleblowers to give credible information and said the identity of such people would be protected. GST helpdesk at the Anna Nagar headquarters can be contacted on 044-26142850,26142852 and 26142853.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-2nd-in-gst-evasion-frauds-in-the-country/articleshow/81480112.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu second in GST evasion frauds in the country||CHENNAI: It is not any coincidence that GST enforcement wings in and around Chennai have stepped up fraud detection. Data tabled in Lok Sabha by the Union ministry of finance shows that Tamil Nadu has the second highest GST evasion from 2017-18 to 2020-21. Totally, 27,000 such cases were found across the country in these three years. Tamil Nadu accounted for 3,220 cases, second to Delhi which has 3,295 cases. The most common modus operandi according to the department is setting up of fake companies, creating fake invoices and collecting illegal input tax credit to the tune of several crores. Input tax is a rebate claimed by a registered dealer. For instance, if a manufacturer has paid Rs 500 as GST for purchase of raw materials and has to pay a tax of Rs 750 on the finished product, then she needs to pay only Rs 250 as taxes with Rs 500 being availed as an input tax credit rebate. The Chennai outer commissionerate of GST arrested three people earlier this week for a similar fraud. Fake invoices to the tune of Rs 423.27 crore were created and illegal input tax credit to the extent of Rs 57.62 crore was claimed. Of the three arrested, one was a scrap dealer from Vellore. In many of these cases, officials found that GST registrations have been made by misusing KYC documents of other persons. A number of fictitious companies are floated by using PAN, Aadhaar and photographs of unknown persons to issue fake invoices to other companies and claim input tax credit. Commission agents and chartered accountants are also part of the racket, official information stated. In some cases detected by Chennai-based GST wings, the person floating the fictitious companies also acts as a tax-consultant and helps others in floating companies as well as claiming fraudulent tax credit as well. The ministry has created a directorate general of analytics and risk management to help with advance analytics and innovative technology utilising various data sources for a focussed and targeted action by the enforcement wings. “The GST department is committed to a non-adversarial tax administration and assist honest and law abiding tax payers. However, it is in data-driven pursuit of such fraudsters,” the department said in an official statement. It also encouraged whistleblowers to give credible information and said the identity of such people would be protected. GST helpdesk at the Anna Nagar headquarters can be contacted on 044-26142850,26142852 and 26142853.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-2nd-in-gst-evasion-frauds-in-the-country/articleshow/81480110.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Over 13,000 companies in Rajasthan struck off by ROC over past 4 years||JAIPUR: More than 13,000 companies in Rajasthan have been struck off by the Jaipur branch of Registrar of Companies. Of these, 9,718 companies have been struck off due to non-compliance of corporate laws while 3,731 companies approached the registrar to wind up the operations due to their inability to operationalize businesses. In fact, in 2016-17, the Registrar of Companies in Jaipur struck off 5,046 companies on the grounds that they failed to comply with the norms of the Ministry of Companies Affairs. As per the rules, the ROC can strike off the names of the companies if they have not started business within one year of their incorporation or if they have not been carrying on business or operation for a period of two immediately preceding financial years. Similarly, ROC struck of names of 3,201 and 1471 companies in the financial year 2017-18 and 2018-19 on similar grounds. A senior official of the ROC said, “Such a scrutiny removes bogus firms and also the possibility of misusing the company as a platform for transactions that are not legal.” But if any company has genuine grounds for not starting business, it can obtain a dormant company status under Section 455 or appeal the ROC justifying the failure to start business on legal grounds. Many companies, which have failed to start or run businesses, have also approached ROC to remove their names as non-compliance of the law invites penalty. The rule says that every company has to file with ROC a copy of the annual return within 60 days from the date of annual general body meeting, failing which its officers will be liable to a penalty of Rs 50,000 and in case of continuing failure, a penalty of Rs 100 each day will be imposed. In the financial year 2018-19, 811 companies approached ROC to remove their names. The number was much higher in 2019-20 which stood at 2,441 and so far in the current financial year, till February, 479 have been struck off. Sources in ROC said the number this year is lower because of the relief given by the Centre due to Covid-19 pandemic. Companies were given a nine-month relaxation for filing annual return which ended in December 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-13000-cos-in-raj-struck-off-by-roc-over-past-4-years/articleshow/81474488.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu second in GST evasion frauds in the country||CHENNAI: It is not any coincidence that GST enforcement wings in and around Chennai have stepped up fraud detection. Data tabled in Lok Sabha by the Union ministry of finance shows that Tamil Nadu has the second highest GST evasion from 2017-18 to 2020-21. Totally, 27,000 such cases were found across the country in these three years. Tamil Nadu accounted for 3,220 cases, second to Delhi which has 3,295 cases. The most common modus operandi according to the department is setting up of fake companies, creating fake invoices and collecting illegal input tax credit to the tune of several crores. Input tax is a rebate claimed by a registered dealer. For instance, if a manufacturer has paid Rs 500 as GST for purchase of raw materials and has to pay a tax of Rs 750 on the finished product, then she needs to pay only Rs 250 as taxes with Rs 500 being availed as an input tax credit rebate. The Chennai outer commissionerate of GST arrested three people earlier this week for a similar fraud. Fake invoices to the tune of Rs 423.27 crore were created and illegal input tax credit to the extent of Rs 57.62 crore was claimed. Of the three arrested, one was a scrap dealer from Vellore. In many of these cases, officials found that GST registrations have been made by misusing KYC documents of other persons. A number of fictitious companies are floated by using PAN, Aadhaar and photographs of unknown persons to issue fake invoices to other companies and claim input tax credit. Commission agents and chartered accountants are also part of the racket, official information stated. In some cases detected by Chennai-based GST wings, the person floating the fictitious companies also acts as a tax-consultant and helps others in floating companies as well as claiming fraudulent tax credit as well. The ministry has created a directorate general of analytics and risk management to help with advance analytics and innovative technology utilising various data sources for a focussed and targeted action by the enforcement wings. “The GST department is committed to a non-adversarial tax administration and assist honest and law abiding tax payers. However, it is in data-driven pursuit of such fraudsters,” the department said in an official statement. It also encouraged whistleblowers to give credible information and said the identity of such people would be protected. GST helpdesk at the Anna Nagar headquarters can be contacted on 044-26142850,26142852 and 26142853.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-2nd-in-gst-evasion-frauds-in-the-country/articleshow/81473709.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Salem||Tamil Nadu second in GST evasion frauds in the country||CHENNAI: It is not any coincidence that GST enforcement wings in and around Chennai have stepped up fraud detection. Data tabled in Lok Sabha by the Union ministry of finance shows that Tamil Nadu has the second highest GST evasion from 2017-18 to 2020-21. Totally, 27,000 such cases were found across the country in these three years. Tamil Nadu accounted for 3,220 cases, second to Delhi which has 3,295 cases. The most common modus operandi according to the department is setting up of fake companies, creating fake invoices and collecting illegal input tax credit to the tune of several crores. Input tax is a rebate claimed by a registered dealer. For instance, if a manufacturer has paid Rs 500 as GST for purchase of raw materials and has to pay a tax of Rs 750 on the finished product, then she needs to pay only Rs 250 as taxes with Rs 500 being availed as an input tax credit rebate. The Chennai outer commissionerate of GST arrested three people earlier this week for a similar fraud. Fake invoices to the tune of Rs 423.27 crore were created and illegal input tax credit to the extent of Rs 57.62 crore was claimed. Of the three arrested, one was a scrap dealer from Vellore. In many of these cases, officials found that GST registrations have been made by misusing KYC documents of other persons. A number of fictitious companies are floated by using PAN, Aadhaar and photographs of unknown persons to issue fake invoices to other companies and claim input tax credit. Commission agents and chartered accountants are also part of the racket, official information stated. In some cases detected by Chennai-based GST wings, the person floating the fictitious companies also acts as a tax-consultant and helps others in floating companies as well as claiming fraudulent tax credit as well. The ministry has created a directorate general of analytics and risk management to help with advance analytics and innovative technology utilising various data sources for a focussed and targeted action by the enforcement wings. “The GST department is committed to a non-adversarial tax administration and assist honest and law abiding tax payers. However, it is in data-driven pursuit of such fraudsters,” the department said in an official statement. It also encouraged whistleblowers to give credible information and said the identity of such people would be protected. GST helpdesk at the Anna Nagar headquarters can be contacted on 044-26142850,26142852 and 26142853.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-2nd-in-gst-evasion-frauds-in-the-country/articleshow/81480116.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BJP demands ‘no lockdown’ policy in state||Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Friday said MVA government should come out with a policy of having no lockdown in any part of the state, despite the recent rise in Covid-19 cases. “One cannot afford more lockdowns, considering the condition of the economy in the wake of Covid-19. The state government has to come out with a policy to disallow ministers and district administrations from randomly declaring lockdowns,” Patil, who represents Kothrud in the state legislative assembly, told TOI. Health minister Rajesh Tope had said a lockdown was not the answer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bjp-demands-no-lockdown-policy-in-state/articleshow/81474535.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||One tribal battling for life at OGH||Hyderabad: The Chenchu tribals who suffered serious burn injuries in a wildfire that engulfed Amrabad tiger reserve on Sunday afternoon are still battling for their lives at Osmania General Hospital in the city, reports Moulika KV. According to the forest department officials, 11 persons were injured in the fire that broke out when the tribals were harvesting minor forest produce from the area near Mallapuram penta (hamlet). “While two people suffered more than 50% burns, the condition of one patient Lingaiah (35), is critical. He suffered 65% burns is also experiencing alcohol withdrawal symptoms,” OGH Department of Plastic Surgery head Dr Palukuri Lakshmi told TOI. The family members of the injured have said that the two people who are undergoing treatment are in urgent need of blood. “We have not received any help from the authorities till now,” said Lingaiah, a family member of the injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-tribal-battling-for-life-at-ogh/articleshow/81474500.cms||Moulika.KV
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Builder gets SRA notice for 18-year rehab delay in Andheri||MUMBAI: The Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) has issued a termination notice to a developer who failed to rehabilitate slum dwellers in Andheri despite submitting a proposal in 2003. The wait for redevelopment at Junaid Nagar, Samata Nagar and Khajurwadi, has been longer: since 1996. SRA officials said the notice was for terminating the proposal of Emel Ashok Enterprises and appointing a new builder to redevelop the ‘Basera Slum CHS’ unless urgent steps were taken. There are over 900 slum units on the 3.4 acre plot. Denying allegations of delay, the builder has told the SRA that an NGO had moved the Bombay high court, which ordered a stay on redevelopment since a part of the plot was reserved for a playground. BJP MLA from Andheri Ameet Satam raised the question of the project delay in the state assembly last week. “Over 40 slum units were demolished and a transit camp and builder’s office constructed. This is illegal since an LOI hasn’t been issued. These findings are part of the report of the deputy collector (encroachment) and not just my allegations,” he said. “Many slum dwellers who gave consent for redevelopment (later shifted out). The SRA must... file an FIR against the builder.” SRA secretary Ranjit Dhakne said in his March 2 order, “The builder has said that though the proposal was put up in 2003 and LOI was approved... it was not issued due to an HC stay... Later, work was also halted due to Covid-19. The builder must get an LOI in three months and start work in another three months.” Vijay Sharma, partner at Emel Ashok, denied Satam’s allegations. “Due to the HC stay the project could not start. We are following SRA orders and will start work as soon as we receive approval from the authorities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/builder-gets-sra-notice-for-18-yr-rehab-delay-in-andheri-in-mumbai/articleshow/81475464.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Bangladesh war: Victory Flame reaches Sriganganagar||Jaipur: The Victory Flame commemorating the 1971 Bangladesh war reached Sriganganagar on Friday where veterans will again be felicitated. It had previously been taken to Alwar, Hisar, Bharatpur, Jaipur, Dausa and Sikar among others. To commemorate the 50 years of India’s victory over Pakistan in 1971 War, 2021 is being celebrated across the country as Swarnim Vijay Varsh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi handed over four Victory Flames or Swarnim Mashaals to the Indian Army on 16 December 2020. These Victory Flames are traveling the length and breadth of the country halting at historically significant locations, to honour the forces. “The hallowed dunes of Nagi witnessed one of the fiercest battles along the Western Front wherein our forces played a pivotal role in blunting Pakistan’s attempt to gain territory. To honour our veterans and the memory of our martyrs, the Mashaal will be stationed in Sri Ganganagar for 07 days from March 13 to 19.During the stay of the Victory Flame at Sri Ganaganagar, a variety of events will be organised such as wreath laying at Sri Ganganagar and Nagi War Memorials, felicitation of Veer Naris and war veterans, weapon and equipment displays in places across Sri Ganganagar, exhibition of the Victory Flame at multiple places and a victory march,” said an army official. The culmination of Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations at Sriganganagar will be marked by the handing over of the Victory Flame to Suratgarh Military Station on March 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bangladesh-war-victory-flame-reaches-sriganganagar/articleshow/81474502.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Oppn mocked at our dreams, but we achieved them: CM||New Delhi: Hitting out at those mocking Delhi government for dreaming of the capital’s per capita income touching Singapore’s level and Delhi hosting the 2048 Olympics, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday, “When we fought elections in 2013, we promised to provide electricity at half rates, and the opposition parties mocked us. We achieved it in just 49 days. We promised to improve education and government schools and they mocked us. We did it in just five years. We promised to improve healthcare and did it in five years despite the mockings. Today they are mocking our Olympics and per capita income dreams, but we will definitely do it.” Concluding the discussion on the budget, Kejriwal said Delhi had the only surplus budget among all those presented by the states and the central government in the last one month. “In such difficult times as these, this is a huge achievement,” he asserted. Kejriwal said even though the Covid pandemic threw many challenges and caused a massive drop in tax collection, Delhi government was continuing to provide free electricity, water, school education, healthcare, bus rides for women and would do so in the next financial year too. “I read the Indian Olympic Association’s statement in which they opposed Delhi government for wanting to bid as a host city without consulting them. I want to tell them: This is our dream. If we must go through you to fulfil this dream, we will. It is a matter of pride for India, and we will seek the support of the central government, Indian Olympics Association and sports organisations,” said Kejriwal. Kejriwal also countered the opposition’s criticism on Delhi government celebrating the 75th anniversary of Independence and said, “I fail to understand why BJP and Congress are opposing the installing of flags across Delhi. If not in India, will our flag be unfurled in Pakistan, if not in Delhi, will it be unfurled in Islamabad?” Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, who is also finance minister and presented the state budget on Tuesday, blasted BJP for its criticism of the deshbhakti budget, and said that party’s patriotism was impure unlike what it meant for AAP, which encompassed progress, schools and mohalla clinics, affordable power and water and respect and equality for all. “You claim to be patriots, but plant nails to stop farmers from asking questions as if they were enemies of the country. You declare a soldier mad when he questions the quality of food,” Sisodia jibed. Leader of the Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri objected to the remarks and said Sisodia was discussing BJP and its politics when he was supposed to be replying to the issues raised by the opposition. Earlier, the BJP MLAs attacked the government for the budget provisions. “The government talks of hosting the Olympics in Delhi but has cut the sports budget this year,” noted Bidhuri. The BJP MLAs walked out during Sisodia’s speech and did not participate in the passing of the budget with voice vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/oppn-mocked-at-our-dreams-but-we-achieved-them-cm/articleshow/81475465.cms||AlokKNMishra
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Rain brings relief, but mercury to touch 35°C soon||NEW DELHI: A day after recording the warmest day of the year so far, the capital saw some relief on Friday in the form of light rain and gusty winds. The mercury dipped by around five degrees Celsius. While Delhi’s maximum temperature was 35.2 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the maximum was recorded at 30.7 degrees Celsius on Friday. Track the pollution level in your cityKuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department, however, says the impact is expected to be short-lived with mercury set to touch 35 degrees once again by March 18. “A lot of locations in Delhi have recorded light rain and with an increase in wind speed, it has provided temporary relief. The cooling effect will stay in place until Saturday. However, the maximum will gradually start rising from Saturday onwards,” said Srivastava. According to the weather department, Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, recorded 2.6mm of rainfall till 8.30 am on Friday. The Lodhi road and Palam observatories received 3.4mm and 1.8mm of rainfall, respectively. Ayanagar recorded 2.1mm of rainfall in the same period. “These three locations also recorded rain between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm,” said the Met official. The warmest location in Delhi on Friday was Palam at 34 degrees Celsius, while the maximum dropped to 28.2 degrees Celsius at Mungeshpur. Delhi’s minimum temperature was recorded at 17.9 degrees—three notches above normal. Delhi’s air quality post the rain was, meanwhile, in the ‘poor’ category with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 218. “The AQI is likely to improve to the ‘moderate’ category for Saturday. It will be between the ‘moderate’ and ‘poor’ categories on March 14 and March 15,” said SAFAR, a body under the ministry of earth sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rain-brings-relief-but-mercury-to-touch-35c-soon/articleshow/81474531.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Over 12 shopkeepers fined||Aurangabad: District collector Sunil Chavan on Friday hit the road and took action against shop owners and business establishments that were not following the Covid-related safety norms. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, Aurangabad district has reported over 56,000 cases, out of which over 50,000 have successfully recovered from the contagion. As on Friday, around 4,200 are undergoing treatment, while over 1,300 have succumbed to the infection. On Thursday, a total of 902 new cases were reported across the district — highest daily cont since March 1, 2020 — and this prompted Chavan to take the matter in his own hands. The authorities have blamed the citizens for failing to follow the laid down norms which is the main reason behind the second wave. “I found at least four pharmacy store keepers who were attending to the customers without wearing masks. I have initiated action against them apart from several other shops in the city,” Chavan said. The collector also inspected different areas from Padegaon to Chishtiya Chowk and slapped fines amounting to over Rs 24,000 on about a dozen establishments. He has even warned of sealing the business establishments for a fortnight, if the same set of traders are found violating the norms for the second time. Authorities said that in addition to the urban pockets, rural areas too are reporting high number of cases adding to the worries of the health as well as district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-over-12-shopkeepers-fined/articleshow/81471765.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||MUHS to hold first to third year UG exams from April 19||NASHIK: The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has rescheduled the upcoming first-, second- and third-year undergraduate exams for all health science courses. The varsity’s board of examination headed by acting vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar conducted a meeting on Friday and decided to hold the exams from April 19 instead of March 23. More than 45,000 students of government and private health science colleges affiliated to MUHS are to appear for exams such as MBBS, BDS, BAMS and BHMS, among others. The varsity’s controller of examination Ajit Pathak told TOI the university took the decision due to technical reasons. The varsity will upload the decision on its website. Pathak said there will be no deferment of the ongoing fourth-year UG exams, which commenced on March 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-muhs-to-hold-first-to-third-yr-ug-exams-from-april-19/articleshow/81472646.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Aid increased, but not many ready to set up STPs in Delhi parks||NEW DELHI: With many RWAs and NGOs complaining of not receiving funds from Delhi Parks and Garden Society (DPGS) for upkeep and maintenance of parks last year, the body said it has started releasing funds. However, only seven applicants have shown interest in setting up sewage treatment plants (STPs) in parks after Delhi government recently increased the financial assistance from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3.5 lakh. Officials said they will soon launch an awareness campaign among RWAs and NGOs. According to National Green Tribunal’s order, all parks should use treated water only. An official of DPGS said a total of 1,648 parks spread across 533 acres are maintained by 450 RWAs and NGOs in the city. Till now, the society has released Rs 6.46 crore. The first instalment has been released to 249 RWAs and NGOs and 154 of these bodies have also received the second instalment. However, 47 of these are yet to receive any funds. Delhi government provides an annual assistance of Rs 2 lakh an acre to RWAs and NGOs registered with DPGS for upkeep of green spaces. However, in 2020, RWAs that opted for this scheme did not receive funds and struggled to maintain the parks. Under another scheme, Delhi government will provide a one-time fund of Rs 3.5 lakh for installation of an STP of five kilolitres per day (KLD) in a community park managed by RWAs or NGOs. “However, we are still not getting good response due to lack of awareness among RWAs and NGOs. We will soon start an awareness drive,” said an official. These STPs will get sewage flow from the nearest Delhi Jal Board lines, treat the sewage and convert it into grey water (accepted biochemical oxygen demand standard), which should be utilised for horticulture purpose. “As only treated water has to be used for irrigating the parks, the parks have to either arrange treated water tanks from DJB daily or get a pipeline connected to the nearest STP if it is located within five km. It is practically not possible for all parks to get a pipeline connected to nearest STPs. Besides, some parks take out water from borewells, which is illegal as it impacts the depleting ground water,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aid-increased-but-not-many-ready-to-set-up-stps-in-parks/articleshow/81474542.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
March 13, 2021||Navi-mumbai||MUHS to hold first to third year UG exams from April 19||NASHIK: The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has rescheduled the upcoming first-, second- and third-year undergraduate exams for all health science courses. The varsity’s board of examination headed by acting vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar conducted a meeting on Friday and decided to hold the exams from April 19 instead of March 23. More than 45,000 students of government and private health science colleges affiliated to MUHS are to appear for exams such as MBBS, BDS, BAMS and BHMS, among others. The varsity’s controller of examination Ajit Pathak told TOI the university took the decision due to technical reasons. The varsity will upload the decision on its website. Pathak said there will be no deferment of the ongoing fourth-year UG exams, which commenced on March 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-muhs-to-hold-first-to-third-yr-ug-exams-from-april-19/articleshow/81480855.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
March 13, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad, Parbhani restrict public movement, shut shops||Aurangabad: Aurangabad and Parbhani districts will observe complete closure of shops, establishments over the weekend, though essential services will be allowed to operate. The Aurangabad district administration has said that market areas, malls and other places of high footfall including hotels, restaurants, malls, educational institutes, cinema halls, will remain closed over the weekend. Authorities added that action would be taken against those stepping out of homes without any valid reason. District collector Sunil Chavan said, “There will be a complete lockdown barring essential services.” He said that exemption has been granted to health and medical services, media, sale of essential commodities including milk, eggs, meat, vegetables, standalone grocery shops,construction, garages and workshops, industrials houses, private transport services and fuel stations. In cases of banks, their respective managements have been asked to take appropriate call. Civic authorities said they would intensify their drive against those violating physical distancing norms. Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta said that the police are geared up to enforce the restrictions effectively. Similarly, Parbhani district has imposed restriction on movement on Saturday and Sunday. Parbhani district collector Deepak Mugalikar said, “We have imposed restrictions on the movement in the five km radius of Parbhani Municipal Corporation and in three km radius of other civic bodies in the district.” He said that the restrictions, except for essential services, will strictly remain in place from Friday midnight to 6am on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-parbhani-restrict-public-movement-shut-shops/articleshow/81471771.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||Ban women-centric abusive language: BJP corporator||NAGPUR: BJP corporator and former chairperson of the women’s and child welfare committee Pragati Patil on Monday demanded censorship on usage of abusive language attributed to women. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Patil has demanded a ban on abusive words aimed at women. She also plans to approach President Ramnath Kovind with a similar request. On International Women’s Day, Patil said woman-centric abusive language needs to be banned and should be treated on the lines of the Atrocities Act. Patil alleged that atrocities against women in Maharashtra are on the rise. No efforts are being made to control it though complaints pertaining to crime against women are being filed at all police stations across the city, she said. She also demanded censorship of abusive language in the web series aired by various channels and web portals. “Abusive language is becoming a style statement for youngsters. But this trend is not good for us,” she said. She has urged people to support her in this movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ban-women-centric-abusive-language-bjp-corporator/articleshow/81470423.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Five held in 2 theft cases worth Rs 1 crore in Mumbai||MUMBAI: In two separate cases of theft, Azad Maidan police arrested five people in south Mumbai and recovered stolen gold and cash worth around Rs 1 crore. In the first case, jeweller Pawankumar Kothari lodged a complaint that someone had stolen 750 grams of gold chain worth Rs 30 lakh. The police nabbed three men and recovered a major portion of the stolen gold. In the second case, a businessman from Powai, Umesh Dedeja, lodged a complaint claiming that his driver Deepak Singh had fled with Rs 75 lakh. The police nabbed Deepak and his associate Pankaj Singh (26) from Madhya Pradesh and recovered Rs 74.6 lakh and a mobile phone. All accused are in police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/five-held-in-2-theft-cases-worth-rs-1-crore-in-mumbai/articleshow/81475513.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Change in origin point of trains||Hyderabad: To facilitate construction/ commissioning of Automatic Coach Wash Plant (ACWP) at Secunderabad Railway Station, several daily trains will originate/terminate from Kacheguda . The trains include train No. 02704 Secunderabad –Howrah special train (Falaknuma Express), train No. 02787 Secunderabad –Danapur special train, train No. 07064 Secunderabad – Manmad special train (AjantaExpress). These will also arrive at Kacheguda station. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/change-in-origin-point-of-trains/articleshow/81474543.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Bins at 66 sites in NDMC areas for hazardous waste||New Delhi: New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has placed black bins for collecting hazardous material at 66 locations, including prominent markets and commercial areas like Connaught Place, Janpath, Goel Market, Kalibari Marg, Bengali Market, Copernicus Marg, Khan Market, Lodhi Colony, Chanakyapuri and Sarojini Nagar. These bins, which have been placed along with green and blue bins, will encourage people to properly dump their hazardous waste that includes earbuds and used batteries, said an NDMC official. “Domestic hazardous waste materials, such as expired medicines, used bulbs, batteries, earbuds and sanitary napkins, are often disposed of with dry or wet waste. But ideally, these should be kept separately because their processing or recycling process is different from others. While we have already placed bins for dry and wet waste at a number of places, we aim to sensitise people about this type of waste also. We will start the practice from the market,” said the official. The civic body has also got all the bins geo-tagged. “From the command and control centre of NDMC, these bins will be monitored for regular cleaning by the sanitation department,” said the official further. The civic body has, meanwhile, already introduced a separate hazardous waste (e-waste) collection system through NGO Chintan. It has also arranged for twin litter bins at commercial and public places at a distance of 100 metres. These initiatives are part of NDMC’s endeavours to strengthen its sanitation and cleanliness arrangements by achieving 100% segregation of waste at source, processing within a complex by bulk generators, 100% door-to-door collection and scientific disposal, community binless city with temporary storage bins, 100% implementation of user charges and adding it in electricity bills, developing separate e-waste and hazardous waste collection system, etc. The civic body has applied for a seven-star rating under Swachh Survekshan 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bins-at-66-sites-in-ndmc-areas-for-hazardous-waste/articleshow/81474548.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Kolhapur||43 fresh Covid cases reported in Kolhapur dist||Kolhapur: The district reported 43 fresh cases of Covid, including 17 from Kolhapur city, on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 50,816.  The death toll stands at 1,749. Of the total patients, 48,756 patients have recovered and 311 patients are undergoing treatment. 95.83% recovery rate in Kolhapur city The recovery rate of Covid cases in Kolhapur city is 95.83%. Currently, the city has 102 active patients, which is the highest in the district. The city has reported 13,394 patients, of them, 12,835 have been cured. 24 vaccination centres in Kolhapur city The number of vaccination centres in Kolhapur city has been increased to 24, of which, 13 are private hospitals. The vaccination turnout of healthcare workers for the first dose is 82% while for the frontline workers is 78%. Of the 13,400 beneficiaries of the first dose, only 3,300 have turned up for their second dose administered after 28 days. Sangli adds 43 cases On Friday, 43 people tested positive in Sangli district. The total number of cases in the district has reached 48,866, including 325 active cases, 46,776 recoveries and 1,765 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/43-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/81471801.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Special officers to ULBs appointed||Hyderabad: The Telangana government on Friday appointed special officers to four Urban Local Bodies—Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation, Khammam Corporation, Atchampet Municipality, and Siddipet Municipality as the term of these elected bodies will end by March 14. The additional collector of Nagar Kurnool district has been appointed as the special officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/special-officers-to-ulbs-appointed/articleshow/81474553.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kolhapur||Satara records 159 new cases||Kolhapur: Satara district reported 159 new cases and one death due to the infection since Thursday late night, taking the total number of cases to 60,476. The death toll has now risen to 1,869. Satara taluka added 37 cases, Khandala taluka registered 34 cases, Phaltan taluka recorded 30 cases, Khatav taluka reported seven cases among others. As many as 56,615 patients have recovered while 1,992 are undergoing treatment. Solapur adds 176 cases As many as 176 cases of Covid-19 along with three deaths were reported across Solapur district, taking the total number of cases to 54,318. The death toll stands at 1,869 and all the three deaths were reported from the city areas. The number of active cases in rural and city areas stands at 728 and 557, respectively. Till date, 39,456 patients have recovered from the contagion in rural areas, while the figure in the city is 11,708.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-records-159-new-cases/articleshow/81471790.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Big parkings directed to keep 5% space for electric vehicles||NEW DELHI: In a major decision aimed at promotion of electric vehicles (EV), it will be now mandatory for all commercial and institutional buildings, including malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, office spaces, hotels, restaurants, hospitals, etc, with a parking capacity of more than 100 vehicles to set aside 5% of the total vehicle capacity for EVs. In a meeting held under Delhi’s power minister Satyendar Jain, it was directed that relevant infrastructural additions be made for EV charging. Jain said that 500 charging points at 100 locations are coming up in the first phase of creation of EV infrastructure in the capital. As per the Unified Building Bye-Law (UBBL) for Delhi, 2016, which was amended on February 12, 2020, 20% of all parking capacity of all new constructions under UBBL have to provide charging infrastructure for EVs. This is applicable to all new constructions, like commercial, institutional or residential premises. However, most semi-public spaces like existing commercial and institutional buildings do not have any hard mandate to set aside space for EV parking with requisite charging facilities, including shopping complexes, offices, cinema halls, hotels, etc. Jain decided that all such existing buildings, which have a parking capacity of more than 100 vehicles, will have to set aside 5% of the capacity for EVs. This would be ensured through orders or amendment in bylaws by Delhi government’s urban development department. It would be mandatory for such premises to have reserved EV parking spaces fitted with suitable chargers, including slow ones with 3.3 kW output. The government feels this mandate would help in addressing the issue of ‘range anxiety’ and facilitate wider adoption of EVs in the city. Delhi government had issued a tender for the 100 public charging stations last month, which Jain had said was the largest of its kind in the country. He had said that Delhi Transco Limited, a Delhi government agency, had initiated the process for setting up the charging stations and all power infrastructure costs will be borne by the government. These 100 charging stations are expected to be ready within a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/big-parkings-directed-to-keep-5-space-for-evs/articleshow/81475524.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Special trains from Hyd to Vij||Hyderabad: In order to facilitate the passengers, South Central Railways will run special trains between Chennai Central and Vijayawada, Vijayawada and Chennai Central, and to and fro trains from Kanyakumari and Howrah, Guwahati and Secunderabad. All these special trains will be fully reserved services. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/special-trains-from-hyd-to-vij/articleshow/81474558.cms||---
March 13, 2021||India||Intestinal blockage new Covid symptom||MUMBAI: City doctors have seen Covid patients with newer and unusual symptoms, some not related to the respiratory system at all. Most, though, could be managed with conservative Covid treatment when detected early. Surgeon Dr Muffazal Lakdawala recently encountered four Covid cases where the patients presented with intestinal obstruction — blockage that prevents food or liquid from passing through the small or large intestine. All tested positive for Covid. “The new coronavirus strains are showing varying gastrointestinal symptoms like diarrhoea, abdominal colicky pain and even subacute intestinal obstruction,” said Lakdawala, adding the cases were referred to him as intestinal obstruction often require surgical intervention. Former KEM dean Dr Avinash Supe concurred that doctors are seeing diarrhoea as a recurrent symptom. One of the four cases was a 37-year-old man, who came complaining of a mild abdominal pain and inability to pass stool. A mandatory Covid test found him to be positive. Dr Pranav Mehrotra from Reliance Hospital, who diagnosed the case, said he was treated with antivirals. Dr Tanu Singhal, an infectious disease specialist from Kokilaben Hospital, said there is definitely a shift in the severity of the disease from the cases seen in 2020. “In serious patients, we are seeing more involvement of the kidney. However, we are also observing that the sick patients respond sooner,” she said. Some physicians, though, said the dominant symptoms have not seen any remarkable change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/intestinal-blockage-new-covid-symptom/articleshow/81476777.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 13, 2021||Nashik||Jewellers in Nashik to operate on Tuesdays||Nashik: The Nashik Jewellers’ Association has announced to keep their shops open on Tuesdays beginning next week. Going by senior office-bearers of the association, the jewellery shops in Nashik will function on Tuesday for ther first time in 37 years. The decision of keeping the jewellery stores open on Tuesdays comes in view of the district administration’s decision to keep all non-essential commodities shops closed on Saturdays and Sundays. Chetan Rajapurkar of the Nashik Jewellers’ Association said, “The jewellery store owners cannot afford to keep their establishments closed on Saturdays, Sundays and again on their weekly closure days considering that during the lockdown, the jewellery stores were closed for a long time and now with the wedding season underway, keeping the jewellery stores closed on the days announced by the administration and also on Tuesdays would mean more losses and hardships .” “Hence, we have decided to keep the shops open on our weekly closure day as well. Our customers can come to make the purchases anytime between Monday and Friday,” said Rajapurkar. According to him, the decision of keeping Tuesday as the weekly closure day was taken way back in 1984. Hence, it will be after almost 37 years that the jewellery stores would be kept open on Tuesdays. There are over 7,800 jewellers under the Nashik Jewellers Association. Rajapurkar said that a large number of jewellery store owners have also moved to the e-platform mode of business. At least 25% jewellers have switched to online business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jewellers-in-nashik-to-operate-on-tuesdays/articleshow/81471806.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai university yet to get its e-system in place: Senate members||vMUMBAI: A year into the pandemic, Mumbai University (MU) is yet to get a robust online system in place, alleged senate members on the first day of the budget session on Friday. Students are still forced to travel to the campus to get their migration certificates and document verification done, they claimed. The members also have asked the MU to initiate action against colleges that have been overcharging students even in the pandemic and those that are not paying their teachers. A member said that though MU managed to announce final-year results early, it failed to distribute marksheets in time. Results of many students were kept on reserve, he said. The members alleged that there have been technical glitches in the software by Maharashtra Knowledge Corporation Ltd .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-university-yet-to-get-its-e-system-in-place-senate-members/articleshow/81475527.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 6,000 civic staff hit by Covid, but 5,000 fine now||MUMBAI: A total of 6,099 BMC staff have been affected by Covid-19, off whom 197 died, civic data showed. Around 1.2 lakh frontline workers have been vaccinated, and many have been officials who have been at the forefront in managing the outbreak. Of the total infected, 5,066 have recovered. The pandemic last year had claimed the life of a 57-year-old assistant municipal commissioner (H east ward) and 55-year-old deputy municipal commissioner had died at his Mahim residence, hours after he tested positive. A civic official said several civic employees are still getting infected. “Those who are seriously affected are being admitted to SevenHills hospital. Besides, we are encouraging staff to get themselves vaccinated,” said an official. BMC has announced a Rs 50 lakh compensation to kin of employees who died after getting infected with Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-6000-civic-staff-hit-by-covid-but-5k-fine-now/articleshow/81474570.cms||Richa Pinto
March 13, 2021||Nashik||Over 200 locals, police save driver’s life||Nashik: Over 200 villagers from Kasari area joined hands with police to carry out a three-hour-long rescue operation for saving the life of a 25-year-old truck driver who met with an accident at Kasari Ghat in Nandgaon taluka — over 110 km from here — on Thursday evening.The driver, hailing from Punjab, is stable and has been admitted to the Malegaon General Hospital. The truck was loaded with onions and was travelling from Bolthan village in Nandgaon village to Punjab. There were five people in the truck, including the driver.While the truck was passing from Kasari Ghat, the driver lost control and the vehicle fell into a gorge. Police inspector Anil Katkade of the Nandgaon police station said the truck fell some 20 feet deep into the valley. While the other four people in the truck escaped with minor injuries, the driver’s hand got trapped under the truck. The truck fell into the valley at 5 pm and soon after the information about the accident spread, residents of the area started gathering at the spot. “We first deployed two earth movers to lift the truck so that the driver could be rescued, but the truck was too heavy. Then one more earth mover was deployed to move the truck, but it also failed to yield any result,” Katkade said.“Subsequently,the villagers decided to unload the onions from the truck following which the earth movers managed to lift the truck and driver was rescued. The driver was rescued by 8pm and immediately rushed to the MGH,” he added.The driver’s condition is stable and he is now undergoing treatment “I thank all the villagers for their sincere effort. Had it not been for them, it would have been difficult to save the driver’s life. The earth movers came voluntarily, so did the villagers. A doctor from the area also came to the incident spot and administered pain killer to the driver,” Katkade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-200-locals-police-save-drivers-life/articleshow/81471812.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur educationist Telang delivers lecture at national-level seminar in Bhopal||Nagpur: City’s well known educationist Panini Telang was last week invited to Bhopal to deliver a speech at a seminar organized by Vidya Bharati Uchcha Shikshan Sansthan. The theme for the seminar, organized on March 5 and 6, was ‘Rejuvenation of Teacher Education in 21st Century’. The event was held in association with department of school education, government of Madhya Pradesh and National Council of Teacher Education (NCTE). The seminar was inagurated by chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, Shivraj Singh Chouhan and professor Kailash Chandra Sharma, former vice-chancellor, Kurukshetra University. Telang spoke during a special session on ‘Experiments in Education’, for which 10 speakers were invited from various states in India. His key points focussed on the topic of ‘genetic coding of the learning process’. Telang said, “Every child is equally potent to learn different things in the world as they have the same genes to learn, but which genes are triggered by the external agents are more important to drive them in particular direction of careers. For education of the child, it is important to trigger different genes and make them choose careers that will bring success to the students.” He said the genes that are to be triggered for success are as follows: reading skills, language skills, logical thinking skills, questioning skills, reasoning skills, observation skills, experimentation skills, creativity, mathematical skills, communication skills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-educationist-telang-delivers-lecture-at-national-level-seminar-in-bhopal/articleshow/81488400.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 13, 2021||Nashik||Focus on measures to curb nCoV spread: CS to admin||Nashik: State chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on Friday directed the Nashik district administration to take a series of steps immediately to curb the spread of the nCoV virus in the district – more so in the city areas. The chief secretary had a video conference meeting with the top officials of the district including, the district collector Suraj Mandhare, municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav, police commissioner, the superintendent of police, the zilla parishad chief executive officer. In a statement issued by the district administration, the chief secretary has stressed on measures restricting movement of people in Nashik city. He also stressed on demarcation of the containment zones. The officer has directed the NMC commissioner to take all the measures to start the RT-PCR laboratory at the earliest to boost testing and go for strict enforcement of the containment zones. He has also directed the administration to speed up the vaccination programme. Mandhare noted that despite the existing restrictions such as night curfew and closure of non-essential shops from 7 pm, the situation had not improved in the district.The administration has announced complete closure of all private shops and establishments, markets, malls, temples during the weekends starting from Saturday besides a ban on any religious, political function till further orders. Shops related to essential goods, hospitals only will be functioning during the weekend period and on other days the shops and establishments will function from 7 am to 7 pm only. The district administration has already been asking people to follow Covid-safety protocols but ‘the situation in the district is only growing grim, the collector observed. It may be noted that the union health ministry has counted Nashik among the top ten districts across the country where the Covid-19 situation is gloomy. “We will wait till Sunday and if the things do not improve in terms of reduction of Covid-19 cases, then we will have to announce harsher restrictions,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/focus-on-measures-to-curb-ncov-spread-cs-to-admin/articleshow/81471858.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 13, 2021||Nashik||MGH bed capacity to be raised to 100 as cases up in textile town||Nashik: Civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande, owing to the recent spike in Covid-19 cases, has decided to increase the bed capacity for Covid patients at Malegaon General Hospital (MGC) from 30 to 100.The hospital currently has 200 beds, out of which 30 are reserved for the treatment of coronavirus patients. The hospital also witnesses a rush of patients not only from rural parts of Malegaon, but also from adjoining talukas like Nandgaon, Baglan, Deola, Chandwad along with bordering villages of Dhule district.“The number of Covid patients is increasing everywhere over the past few weeks. Hence, the need for additional beds may be felt. We are concentrating on strengthening the Covid facilities where the number of patients are more. Since the rural parts around Malegaon are also witnessing a rise in cases, we are planning to increase the bed capacity at the MGH,” Raokhande said.Hitesh Mahale, additional civil surgeon at Malegaon General Hospital, said, “The hospital is a referral centre. Patients from other places are referred to this hospital. Hence, it becomes very difficult to refer the arriving patients to some other hospital just due to the lack of beds. At times the relatives of the patients also become aggressive on being told that the patient has to be shifted somewhere else owing to the lack of beds.”He added, “The current quota of 30 beds is now falling short. We have a tie-up with Sahara hospital that is catering to Covid patients of Malegaon city. But if that too gets filled to capacity, we should be ready with some alternate arrangements. Thus, the proposal of increasing the bed capacity of the hospital has been made.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mgh-bed-capacity-to-be-raised-to-100-as-cases-up-in-textile-town/articleshow/81471817.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Foreign grant scheme for SCs tweaked||Mumbai: The state social justice department has revised its internal rule to cover maximum Scheduled Caste (SC) candidates under the scholarship scheme for higher studies in foreign countries. In 2003-04, the department had launched the scheme to fund SC candidates for higher education abroad and the maximum quota was fixed to 75 a year. However, it was observed that many SC candidates applied to both the state and Centre schemes and withdrew from the state programme on being selected for Centre-funded scheme, resulting in vacant seats in Maharashtra. To ensure that maximum students from the state get the benefit of the available quota, the department has decided that the vacant seats will be allotted to candidates on the waiting list. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-foreign-grant-scheme-for-scs-tweaked/articleshow/81475552.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM expands cabinet; 11 ministers take oath||DEHRADUN: A total of 11 ministers, including eight of cabinet rank, and the rest ministers of state, were administered the oath of office and secrecy by governor Baby Rani Maurya in a function at Raj Bhawan on Friday evening. Out of the 11, four are new faces in the present government although all of them have been legislators for two or more occasions. The list of cabinet ministers includes Satpal Maharaj (who represents the Chaubattakhal seat), Bansidhar Bhagat (Kaladhungi), Harak Singh Rawat (Kotdwar), Bishan Singh Chuphal (Didihat), Yashpal Arya (Bajpur), Arvind Pandey (Gadarpur), Subodh Uniyal (Narendranagar) and Ganesh Joshi (Mussoorie). The ministers of state with independent charge are Dhan Singh Rawat (Srinagar), Rekha Arya (Someshwar) and Yastishwaranand (Haridwar-rural). While five ministers — Satpal Maharaj, Harak Singh Rawat, Subodh Uniyal, Ganesh Joshi and Dhan Singh Rawat are from Garhwal, another five — Bansidhar Bhagat, Yashpal Arya, Bishan Singh Chuphal, Arvind Pandey and Rekha Arya are from Kumaon. Yatishwaranand represents the Haridwar (plains) area. With this combination, political observers said that the new CM has tried to strike an equal balance between Garhwal and Kumaon which was lacking in the Trivendra Rawat government where out of the eight ministers (six cabinet rank, 2 MoS), one was from Haridwar, four were from Garhwal and three from Kumaon. While all the ministers took oath in Hindi, Pandey who had held the education portfolio in the Trivendra Rawat government, took the oath of office in Sanskrit. Minister of state Rekha Arya was dressed in a traditional Kumaoni outfit for the ocassion. The portfolios for the 11 ministers are likely to be announced on Saturday. Chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said that he was hopeful that all the ministers will work in co-ordination for the betterment of the state and help build a new Uttarakhand. “I am confident that I will get everyone’s support to take the state on the path of constant development,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-cm-expands-cabinet-11-ministers-take-oath/articleshow/81472778.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gold price down by Rs 800 in a single day||Ahmedabad: Gold price fell by Rs 800 in a single day to settle at Rs 46,000 per 10 gram in the Ahmedabad market. Yellow metal prices declined against Thursday’s Rs 46,800 per 10 gram. According to analysts, prices have become slightly volatile over the past few days in line with the fluctuation in gold price in the international market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-price-down-by-rs-800-in-a-single-day/articleshow/81474349.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Rajkot||Beautician commits suicide due to declining income||Rajkot: The lockdown enforced due to Covid-19 pandemic and resulting economic slowdown claimed another life on Thursday. Dimple Asodariya, a 25-year-old beautician, facing uncertain future due to fall in number of clients visiting her beauty parlour ended her life by suicide.The deceased’s father informed the police about the incident and a case of accidental death was lodged. According to police, Dimple, a resident of Patel colony in Jamnagar, was found hanging on a ceiling fan at her residence on Thursday afternoon. Her father Vinod Asodariya called the police immediately after the incident came to light.“Vinod leads a retired life and his daughter was earning by running a beauty parlour at home. For the last few months her income declined, forcing her to take this extreme step,” police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/beautician-commits-suicide-due-to-declining-income/articleshow/81472194.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Make or break poll for Ramana & Kodandaram||HYDERABAD: A lot is at stake for presidents of two political parties contesting from the two graduates MLC constituencies. After failing to make an impact in the 2018 assembly elections, Telangana Jana Samithi founder-president M Kodandaram is testing his luck from Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda seat. Telangana TDP chief L Ramana has jumped into the fray from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar constituency. This election is crucial for both TJS and TDP ahead of 2023 assembly polls as its state presidents are in the fray. Also, the CPI-CPM combine has fielded Jayasaradhi Reddy from WKN seat. The Left parties have a significant presence in these districts as they try to stay afloat in electoral politics. Political analysts said one has to wait and see whether the candidates from these parties can pull off a stunning win or end up spoiling the prospects of the TRS, BJP and Congress. “It is important for the TJS and TDP to build cadre at grassroots level and what better opportunity than the graduate MLC elections as the two constituencies cover over 70 assembly segments, which is 80 per cent of the total 119 assembly constituencies in Telangana,” said a political analyst. Ramana said that people are vexed with the wrong policies of the TRS and BJP governments respectively. “I am appealing to the people to give me a chance and I will stand up to their expectations,” he said. Kodandaram said despite repeated demands, the TRS government has not extended the unemployment allowance. “The Telangana Rashtra Samithi government is treating teachers and employees as bonded labour. These and other sections of voters are looking at us to become their voice,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/make-or-break-poll-for-ramana-kodandaram/articleshow/81473850.cms||Roushan Ali
March 13, 2021||Vadodara||Hospitalizations double in Vadodara in a month||Vadodara: In a month, the number of hospitalisations in the city and district due to Covid-19 has more than doubled. Strict enforcement of guidelines is now on the cards in wake of the rising cases. On February 13, the number of hospitalisations in the city and district stood at 515. This increased to 1,192 on Friday (March 12). The rising numbers have raised a concern as its happening when no stringent steps are in place as well as mingling and movement of people has increased significantly. Officer on special duty for Covid-19 Vinod Rao who held a series of meetings in the city to check the preparedness in wake of the increasing cases said that it was after a gap of 60 days that the number of Covid-19 patients admitted in hospitals had crossed 1,000 on Thursday. Notably, these hospitalizations are not only from Vadodara city and district but from surrounding districts and, at times, even other states. Rao pointed out that unlike the first wave, the positivity rate of tests was very low this time. However, he added that the number of persons approaching the OPDs of hospitals had increased. He said that another round of door-to-door surveys was being planned. “We will also activate our quick reaction teams again to ensure guidelines are followed strictly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hospitalizations-double-in-vadodara-in-a-month/articleshow/81473839.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Surat||Hospitals, schools among 17 institutes sealed over fire safety norms||Surat: The Fire and Emergency Department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Friday sealed 15 hospitals, pathology laboratories, clinics and schools for flouting fire safety norms. Stepping up its efforts to ensure hospitals, clinics and schools comply with the government norms, the department also issued notices to institutions which did not have the necessary fire safety standard in place. “Despite repeated notices, many hospitals, clinics and schools have not complied with the fire safety norms and therefore we have started a sealing drive to enforce the norms. As part of this drive, we sealed 15 hospitals, pathology laboratories and clinics in the Central zone on Friday,” said an official from the Fire and Emergency Department. “We have also sealed two schools in Varachha (B) zone which have not complied with the fire safety norms. These two schools were Kirtikumar Kothari Secondary and Higher Secondary School and Secondary and Higher Secondary School managed by Sadhna Vidhyabhavan,’’ said an SMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hospitals-schools-among-17-institutes-sealed-over-fire-safety-norms/articleshow/81472390.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||HC refuses to defer judicial service exam at 11th hour||New Delhi: Delhi High Court on Friday refused to postpone Delhi Higher Judicial Service Main Examination-2019, which is scheduled to be held on March 13-14. A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and AJ Bhambhani observed that “the exam cannot be postponed at the eleventh hour as other candidates who have already arrived for writing the exam would be prejudiced.” The court was hearing a petition filed by one of the candidates going to appear for the examination. The petitioner had sought a direction to postpone the examination till the completion of Covid-19 vaccination drive of all lawyers. The plea requested quashing of February 18 notification issued by the high court notifying the schedule of the examinations on March 13 and 14. The bench, however, issued notice to the high court administration on the petition and asked them to file its response in four weeks. It also studied the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to be adopted by the high court for conducting the exams on Saturday and Sunday and considered the concession made by the high court administration. “We direct them (the high court administration) to provide the petitioner with a separate room in which he may write the subject examination...It is further directed that the Delhi high court shall provide the petitioner with every necessary medical assistance as may be required by him in view of his stated medical condition,” the bench said and listed the matter for further hearing on May 5. Senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, representing the petitioner, said he was seeking postponement of the exam as it would expose the candidate to medical risks. “The petitioner is suffering from severe medical conditions, leaving him at a risk of serious and life-threatening complications if he contracts coronavirus,” the plea stated. Advocate Ankit Jain, representing the high court administration, said the examination would be conducted in three buildings of the high court and on each floor, there would not be more than 36 candidates. He further stated that the authorities were willing to provide a separate room to this candidate in view of his medical condition, where no other candidate would be there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-refuses-to-defer-judicial-service-exam-at-11th-hour/articleshow/81475544.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand BJP appoints former urban development minister Madan Kaushik as new state chief; incumbent Bansidhar Bhagat gets cabinet berth||DEHRADUN: Days after replacing of the chief minister in Uttarakhand, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also replaced its state unit chief by appointing former urban development minister Madan Kaushik as the new state chief.  The incumbent state chief Bansidhar Bhagat meanwhile was inducted into the Tirath Rawat government on a cabinet rank. The move to appoint Kaushik, a Brahmin from the plains area of Haridwar came as a bit of surprise for political watchers since it signalled a break from tradition in the political landscape of the Himalayan state. DEHRADUN:Both the parties – Congress and BJP -- have followed the tradition of striking a balance between Garhwal and Kumaon as well as the Thakur and Brahmin population in the state. Consequently, if the CM is a Thakur from Garhwal, the party chief is usually a Brahmin from Kumaon and vice-versa. With Kaushik’s appointment, political analysts said that this is the first time that the BJP has picked its state chief from the plains area of the Himalayan state and not from the hills. Commenting on the decision of BJP appointing Kaushik to the top party post, Doon-based analyst Jay Singh Rawat said, “It is evident that both Congress and BJP have been maintaining the Kumaon- Garhwal, Brahmin-Thakur balance for long. When Trivendra Rawat — who is a Thakur from Garhwal — was CM, chief of the ruling party was Ajay Bhatt, a Kumaoni Brahmin. Later, Bansidhar Bhagat, another Kumaoni Brahmin, became party chief. During the Congress regime, Harish Rawat, a Thakur from Kumaon, was CM, and Kishore Upadhyay, a Brahmin from Garhwal was Congress state chief.” He added that there have been slight deviations from this formula in the past though. “Congress and BJP have had CMs and party chiefs from one region although the Thakur-Brahmin equation has still been kept intact. This was the case in ND Tiwari’s chief ministership when the Congress state chief was Harish Rawat and both were from Kumaon. Even in BJP, during Nishank’s tenure as CM, Tirath Singh Rawat was the state party chief and both hailed from Garhwal although later Rawat was replaced by Ajay Bhatt from Kumaon.” Meanwhile, Kaushik soon after taking over as the new state chief on Friday thanked the party for giving him an important responsibility during an election year and added that he will “work in a way to ensure BJP’s victory in the state with more seats than before.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-bjp-appoints-former-urban-development-minister-madan-kaushik-as-new-state-chief-incumbent-bansidhar-bhagat-gets-cabinet-berth/articleshow/81472805.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: No on-campus classes till poll results are out||KOLKATA: Many schools in the city will not start the new session for classes IX-XII in the physical mode till poll results are declared. Though some schools are reopening on April 5 and a few others on April 12-13 or April 20, many said they would have to restart online teaching for senior sections as physical classes would resume only after the election results were out. Some said since the summer break would start in mid- May, physical reopening of classes should happen only after the vacation — by this time the board examinations would be over. Most schools have completed their annual exams for all classes other than board examinees whose practicals, practice tests, pre-boards and doubt-clearing sessions are on. DPS New Town has decided to re-start online classes for Std IX-XII, along with others, according to the principal Sonali Sen. “We will let the election results be out and then decide on physical reopening,” said Sen. St James’, too, has planned to reopen in the virtual mode for all, including classe IX-XII, and then, gradually switch over to the physical mode. “Perhaps we can reopen in the physical mode after the summer vacation. We will decide according to the situation,” said principal T H Ireland. Apart from the elections, some more dates, like Ambedkar Jayanti and Bengali New Year, would have to be taken as holidays in April, said Seema Sapru, principal of The Heritage School. “We will reopen on April 12 and it is possible that we might start with online classes for all,” she added. DPS Ruby Park planned a physical reopening for classes IX-XII on April 5, said the principal, Joyoti Chowdhury. For other classes, schools have decided to retain students in the same sections and not mix them up as they didn’t get an opportunity to interact last year. “We are beginning the new session from April in batches, except for Class XI students. The students, who have been promoted to Nursery II in 2021-2022 session, were not able to attend a single physical class last year. Even now, they do not know the concept of an in-person classroom. The children, who have taken new admission to Nursery I in this session, will attend online classes with their parents till the school is allowed to function in the physical mode,” said Krishna Damani, spokesperson for South Point High School. For juniors, classes will remain virtual. “The new academic session in our school will resume from the second week of April. Even the newly admitted children in Lower Nursery will be inducted into their school life on the virtual platform,” said Sujoy Biswas, principal of Ram Mohan Mission School. Some school administrators rued the lack of discipline among students on the virtual platform. “In the new session, kids were briefed about the curriculum, seat allocation was done, induction sessions were held, where they were told about examinations. It is difficult to do so on a virtual platform,” said Bobby Baxter, principal of Julien Day School, Ganganagar. At La Martiniere schools, the new session will commence online from the first week of April. “The new students, who have been admitted to the Lower Nursery, will be allowed to participate in online classes, along with their parents. Till the government gives a go-ahead, we can’t bring the students to campus,” said Supriyo Dhar, secretary of the schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-on-campus-classes-till-poll-results-are-out/articleshow/81473881.cms||Somdatta Basu
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||Record number of aspirants vie to get into Navodaya Vidyalaya at Gadchiroli||Nagpur: Tribal students from remote Bhamragarh taluka of Gadchiroli district are queuing up for admissions in cental government’s Navodaya residential schools. Education officials from the taluka said almost 200 students will be appearing for the entrance exam, scheduled in April. “This figure had never crossed 90-mark before,” said Dharmanand Meshram, block education officer, Bhamragarh. The reason that Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNVs) are so sought-after is that education, lodging-boarding, uniforms and books are provided free of cost. For tribal students, who come from poor economic background, JNVs are the best chance of getting quality education in a CBSE-affiliated school, without hurting their families economically. There’s just one JNV in every district, and the one in Gadchiroli is located in Chamorshi taluka. Competitive entrance exams, officially called as selection tests, ensure quality of students admitted is high. This year’s rise in number is because of sustained efforts by the education department to prepare the aspirants for the selection test. Meshram said, “JNV admissions happen in Std VI, IX and XI. We are focusing on Std VI admissions and have been holding free coaching classes for eligible students. Every week, our teachers spend time with the students and prepare them for the upcoming tests. It’s a very hands-on training which our students are getting.” Later this month, all these students will start appearing for a series of mock tests. Meshram said, “We have prepared the question paper in exactly the same format which will be applicable to JNV selection tests. Our students will appear for four such mock tests so that they are comfortable with the format, the time needed to complete it, plus, the exam room environment.” The JNV selection test is designed and conducted by Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). Candidates only from the district where the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya has been opened are eligible to apply for admission. The exam is held in 20 languages, including Marathi. The test comprises three papers — mental ability, maths and language.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/record-number-of-aspirants-vie-to-get-into-navodaya-vidyalaya-at-gadchiroli/articleshow/81473872.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: New PIL seeks orders to state to resume car shed work at Aarey||Mumbai: Bombay high court on Friday received a fresh PIL seeking orders to state to continue construction of Mumbai Metro III car shed at Aarey milk colony, in the heart of the green lung, and not be shifted to Kanjurmarg. It claimed the state decision to modify reservation of 102 acres of Kanjurmag land from ‘public purposes’ to ‘metro car depot’ was “illegal and undoubtedly a ploy to subserve political ego’’. Aarey colony has “been approved as best suitable site in all aspects for construction of Metro-III car shed by courts and committees’’, including a January 2020 report by a panel, to ensure completion of the public project, the PIL said.It challenged a November 2020 state notification to shift the car shed to Kanjurmarg as “illegal’’ in view of pending litigation over ownership rights to the land. The PIL filed by Uttamkumar Mallah and two other residents of Mumbai, two of whom said they were social workers, said shifting the car shed to Kankurmarg was “contrary to larger public interest’’. Also on Friday, tree activist Zoru Bhathena sought to intervene, saying if the Central government and Mahesh Garodia, who claims to be a Central government lessee of the Kanjurmarg plot, can prove their right over the plot, they would be entitled to compensation, and neither would suffer loss, but the city would, unless Kanjurmarg is selected as the car shed site. He requested that “in interest of Mumbai’s fragile ecology, “ the stay order passed last December be vacated and work be allowed on the integrated Metro depot at Kanjurmarg. Bhathena cited records to claim the Kanjur plot was neither a salt pan land, not Central government land, and neither coastal zone regulation land.His application cited documents from 1906 and said the Metro plot was different from the plot Garodia claims rights over.The PIL claimed that the Maharashtra government “gave a complete go-by to the conclusion of the second committee report of January 20, 2020’’, which had concluded that the “existing site, Aarey colony, is the only suitable site’’.An HC bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni briefly counsel Birendra Saraf for the new PIL petitioners, additional solicitor general Anil Singh for Centre, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for state, Shyam Mehta for Garodia and and Sonal for Bhathena, before seeking a reply from state to his intervention and adjourned it to March 19 for a physical hearing.Earlier this year, making a case to protect 1,000 more trees at Aarey and save almost Rs 2300 crore for the exchequer, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is executing Mumbai Metro rail project, also sought lifting of a stay by HC last December, to ensure work resumes at Kanjurmarg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-new-pil-seeks-orders-to-state-to-resume-car-shed-work-at-aarey/articleshow/81473880.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Jumbo ballot paper: Voting through a maze and folding it right quite a task||HYDERABAD: There’s much more to than just marking your preferences on the ballot paper in the graduates MLC elections. You have to know exactly how to fold the jumbo ballot paper – and that is easier said than done. Election authorities have explained how to fold the ballot paper to groups of professionals with whom meetings were held. But for the large majority of voters, it will be learning at the polling booth itself. For the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar constituency, there are a total of 94 candidates. The voter has the onerous task of having to look for his preferred names in the 24 inches by 34 inches ballot paper. There are rows and columns and after one has succeeded to wade through the maze to identify preferred candidates, folding the ballot paper is another challenge. The ballot paper for the Khammam-Warangal-Nalgonda seat will have names of 74 candidates but the task is almost equally challenging. The sheer size of the jumbo ballot paper has also made government staff ask for bigger size tables at booths. “This will help us place the huge ballot paper on the table and fold them properly,” polling staff told authorities in Mahbubnagar. After multiple-times folded ballot paper is put in ballot boxes, only then the work is done for the voter. For polling personnel, special buses have been arranged to transport ballot boxes to a centre after polling. Instructions are clear: No stopping anywhere en route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jumbo-ballot-paper-voting-through-a-maze-and-folding-it-right-quite-a-task/articleshow/81473877.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS banking on PV charisma to win: Uttam||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said that the TRS and the BJP have lost face among the voters and that's the reason why the TRS is banking on the charisma of former prime minister late PV Narasimha Rao of the Congress and the BJP is playing the communal card. “CM KCR has realised he has lost his face value. He is using the picture of PV Narasimha Rao, who was a Congressman all his life, to seek votes. Modi government did not honour promises made to Telangana in AP Reorganisation Act, did not grant funds and remained a spectator to economic crimes committed by TRS pushing Telangana into a debt trap,” Uttam alleged. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-banking-on-pv-charisma-to-win-uttam/articleshow/81473871.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Every grad feels TRS & NDA govts aren’t good and unfair to them: Kodandaram||HYDERABAD: Osmania University retired professor M Kodandaram, who led the statehood agitation as the chairman of the Telangana Joint Action Committee, is making his electoral debut from Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam graduates MLC constituency. Excerpts from an interview: This is your first election. How was the campaign and response from the people?The campaign went off very well. We were able to cover the constituency and a large number of people as we started early. There is dissatisfaction among the people over the performance of the state government. Why do you think people should vote for you?We fought for statehood and that state is not in a position to fulfill the aspirations of the people. The TRS and the BJP governments’ policies have gone against the interests of the people and benefitted mainly contractors and corporates. The state and Central governments are unable to provide employment. Indiscriminate privatisation by the BJP government will hurt the country. The governments are using the administration to fulfill their personal interests. The Congress and major Left parties rejected your request to support your candidature?The mood of the society is that all those opposed to the existing dispensation should be united. We cannot go against the thinking of the people. However, they are not willing to consider. But the CPI-ML New Democracy and the local TDP unit are supporting us. A lot of joint action committees (JACs) had come into existence during statehood agitation. Members of those JACs have become active now and started campaigning for me. You toured extensively. What is the mood of the people?Almost every graduate feels that the existing government is not good. They feel that the TRS and the BJP-led NDA governments have been unfair to them. The central concern among people is, they are looking for someone who can fight against this dispensation with determination and without compromising their interests. What are you promising the graduates? Can one person, if sent to the Legislative Council, bring about a change?This election is different, where the battle is between the autocratic rule of the government and the democratic aspirations of the people. People want a democratic administration. In this clash, we are on the side of the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/every-grad-feels-trs-nda-govts-arent-good-and-unfair-to-them-kodandaram/articleshow/81473884.cms||Roushan Ali
March 13, 2021||Dehradun||Man held for duping person of Rs 5L on the pretext of admission into law college||Almora: A 32-year-old man, Arvind Kumar Maurya, was held by the local police for duping one person of Rs 5,05,150 on the pretext of ensuring his son’s admission into a Pune-based law college. The arrest comes after Almora-resident Gauri Shankar Shah approached the police with the complaint that he paid over Rs 5 lakh to Maurya — who pretended to be an education counsellor — for the admission of his son. However, the admission didn’t happen and the amount was not refunded by the accused. Accused Maurya is an Azamgarh resident and had completed B.Tech in 2011. According to the police, he has been duping people in the name of admissions for about 10 years now. He lives in a flat in Pune. SSP Pankaj Bhatt said that the accused had put fake information on Google and Facebook to trap people and extract money from them on the pretext of admissions. The official added that the accused has confessed to his crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-held-for-duping-person-of-rs-5l-on-the-pretext-of-admission-into-law-college/articleshow/81472844.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Poll effect: Excise department stares at Rs 300 crore loss||HYDERABAD: The excise department is set to lose about Rs 300 crore income on account of closure of liquor shops for three days starting Friday for the MLC polls on Sunday. The shops will be shut again on March 17 when counting is taken up and will open only after the counting process is completed, which this time is likely to take two to three days. With the model election code in place in six districts, 2,200 wine shops, 1,400 bars and pubs and clubs downed their shutters. Before 2013-14, when the state was united, it had earned Rs 9,813 crore through liquor excise. It touched Rs 10,500 crore in the next financial year. The income kept growing in subsequent years at Rs 12,350 crore, Rs 14,250 crore, Rs 16,092 crore, Rs 18,244 crore and Rs 21,600 crore last year. In February this year alone, the state earned Rs2,331 crore. “The state’s average daily sale is around Rs 90 crore,” an official said. In this financial year, the state earned Rs 10,000 crore till now. Sources said there is a likelihood of another hike in liquor prices in nedt financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poll-effect-excise-dept-stares-at-rs-300cr-loss/articleshow/81473888.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Freedom@75: Let us fulfil basic needs of all, says Delhi CM||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal kick-started the ‘Freedom@75’ celebrations on Friday to commemorate the 75 years of Indian Independence at a beautifully decorated Central Park in Connaught Place. Amid patriotic slogans and songs, Kejriwal said, “This is the time to remember the martyrdom of our bravehearts, this is the time to remember the struggle of thousands of our freedom fighters who gave their lives away for our freedom.” The CM said Delhi government had made comprehensive plans to celebrate the 75 years of Indian Independence. At the event, which was marked by dance and music by the Delhi government’s art & culture department and headlined by Palash Sen’s Euphoria band, Kejriwal also felicitated several citizens. Ministers Manish Sisodia, Rajendra Pal Gautam and Imran Hussain and chief secretary Vijay Dev were also present on the occasion. Large screens had been put up outside for people to follow the performances. Pointing at the national flag flying at Central Park, Kejriwal said that 500 flags like these would be installed across Delhi. “When we look at our Tricolour, we feel a sense of patriotism, we remember Bharat Mata. This will instill a sense of patriotism and nationalism in the people as they step out of their homes for schools and offices,” the CM said. “These flags will make people remember our soldiers on the borders.” Kejriwal said the dreams of 130 crore Indians remained unfulfilled since nobody should go to sleep hungry, everybody should have clothes and shelter, every child should get a good education, everyone, irrespective of class, should have access to good healthcare, everybody should find employment, every farmer and labourer should get their dues, and everybody should get free electricity and access to drinking water. “I am happy to say that Delhi is the only city in the world where electricity is free 24x7,” he claimed. He also said there should be love and harmony among all communities in India and people of all castes and faith should have access to equal opportunities. “Today, on the occasion of 75 years of Indian Independence, let us resolve to fulfil these dreams of India’s people,” Kejriwal said. The CM felicitated several senior citizens, starting with Anguri Devi, a resident of Chilla, Mayur Vihar and a beneficiaries of the Tirth Yatra Scheme, eminent artist Gogi Saroj Pal, Suman Kurade, who runs Goenkarancho Ekvot and is the organiser of the Goa Festival celebrating the spirit of the littoral state in Delhi, renowned photographer Raghu Rai and Jaspal Kaur, a 91-year-old who fought the perpetrators of violence in the anti-Sikh riots of1984 and the first woman to be given Rs 5 lakh as compensation by the AAP government under the 1984 rehabilitation scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/freedom75-let-us-fulfil-basic-needs-of-all-says-cm/articleshow/81475566.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 13, 2021||Nashik||Janata curfew in Dhule from Sunday to Wednesday||Nashik: The Dhule district administration has announced janata curfew from Sunday to Wednesday in a bid to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. According to the orders issued by the district collector Dileep Jagdale, all the commercial establishments, markets and shops will remain closed during the janata curfew period that begins at 6pm on Sunday till 6am on Wednesday. The decision has been taken to discourage people from moving out of their homes. The cultural, religious, traditional programmes have been banned. Educational institutes, hotels and restaurants (excluding the delivery and parcel services), vegetable and fruit vendors, private shops and establishments will also remain closed during the period. The shops, weekly markets, malls along with all private and government construction sites, excluding the pre-monsoon work, will also be shut during the period. The recreational centres such as gymnasia, swimming tanks will also remain closed. However, the district collector’s order states that the medical establishments and the emergency services related to hospital and medical stores, agriculture and related activities, government and industrial establishments, pre-announced examinations, petrol pumps, public transportation have been allowed to continue. “The situation is getting grim. We had to act fast to ensure the number of Covid-19 cases are contained. This is the reason that measures like janata curfew have been implemented,” the collector said. The local civic bodies in case of municipal corporation and the councils, the local police will jointly implement the ‘janata curfew’ orders aimed at restricting the movements of the people,” said collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/janata-curfew-in-dhule-from-sunday-to-wednesday/articleshow/81471862.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Dehradun||‘Friend’ killed 35-yr-old over heroin: Police||Roorkee: Local police claimed to have solved the murder case of 35-year-old Ravi Rawat. The victim's body was found disfigured in the New Bharat Nagar Dhandera locality on Thursday (March 11). According to the police, 28-year-old Surender Ary — a close ‘friend’ of the victim — committed the crime. SHO Rajesh Sah, Civil Lines police station, said, “Ravi and Ary used to consume narcotics together. On Wednesday, the two entered an argument over the money they spent on the purchase of heroin. The brawl intensified and Ravi hit Ary with a brick. In retaliation, Ary smashed Ravi’s head with the brick.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/friend-killed-35-yr-old-over-heroin-police/articleshow/81472859.cms||Tapan Susheel
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ATS may have found out businessman’s last location||MUMBAI: API Sachin Waze has moved court for anticipatory bail. Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis, in the assembly this week, demanded immediate action against Waze. Waze was on Friday transferred from the crime intelligence unit (CIU) and transferred to the special branch (SB). He will be posted at the citizen facilitation centre (CFC) at the police headquarters at Crawford Market. Meanwhile, several teams of ATS and NIA, which has taken over the explosives case, fanned out across Thane on Friday. Officials from NIA and ATS were seen questioning shopkeepers, possibly to gather CCTV footage from the evening Hiran got missing, so that they could get certain leads. An ATS officer said they have almost identified Hiran’s last location from where he disappeared mysteriously. “Absence of CCTV footage slowed the progress of investigation,” the officer told TOI. On March 7, ATS registered a case of murder after Hiren’s family members expressed suspicion about his death. Investigators had found a face mask and a couple of handkerchiefs on Hiren’s face when his body was pulled out of the creek. Hiren’s wife Vimla stated that when her husband went out, he was wearing a normal face mask. Apart from his mobile phone, a one-and-a-half tola gold chain, a gold ring embedded with sapphire, a watch and five to six ATM cards and cash were missing. “There is no water in the stomach, no trace of sand in the body. Injury marks on the left nostrils and shoulder reveal Hiren was killed and dumped in the creek thinking that during high tide, the body would be washed away in the Arabian Sea,” a police source said. Waze in his statement to ATS has denied he had used the car. Sources said the technical analysis of Waze’s CDR and mobile locations shows him present in South Mumbai on the night Hiren went missing. Further inquiries from the Dongri police have also shown that Waze was that night with officers of the social service branch carrying out checks at beer bars and hotels running late in the night. Hiran’s brother and elder son were at ATS office for 9 hours on Friday recording their statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ats-may-have-found-out-bizmans-last-location/articleshow/81473900.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Gastrointestinal obstructions new Covid symptoms||MUMBAI: City doctors have seen Covid-19 patients with newer and unusual symptoms, some not related to the respiratory system at all. Most, though, could be managed with conservative Covid treatment when detected early. Surgeon Dr Muffazal Lakdawala recently encountered four Covid cases where the patients presented with intestinal obstruction—blockage that prevents food or liquid from passing through the small or large intestine. All tested positive for Covid. “The new coronavirus strains are showing varying gastrointestinal symptoms like diarrhoea, abdominal colicky pain and even subacute intestinal obstruction. We need to remain cautious,” said Lakdawala, adding the cases were referred to him as intestinal obstruction often require surgical intervention. Former KEM dean Dr Avinash Supe, who also heads the city’s Covid death audit committee, concurred that doctors are seeing diarrhoea as a recurrent symptom. One of the four cases was a 37-year-old man who came to HN Reliance’s outpatient department complaining of a mild abdominal pain and inability to pass stools. A mandatory Covid test found him to be positive. The patient was admitted to SevenHills Hospital. Dr Pranav Mehrotra from Reliance Hospital, who diagnosed the case, said he was treated with antivirals. Intensivist Dr Kedar Toraskar, also a member of the state task force, said many are coming with non-pulmonary involvements. “We have seen some come with frontal headaches. Often there is no high-grade fever,” he said. Although, a clear change is the infection affecting multiple members of a family together, he said. The hospital’s Covid ward has 70 patients and the ICU is nearly full. Dr Tanu Singhal, an infectious disease specialist from Kokilaben Hospital, said there is definitely a shift in the severity of the disease from the cases seen in 2020. “In serious patients, we are seeing more involvement of the kidney. However, we are also observing that the sick patients respond sooner. One indicator being their oxygen dependence, which comes down sooner,” she said. Some physicians, though, said the dominant symptoms have not seen any remarkable change. Physician Dr Pratit Samdani said the predominant signs are still high fever, bodyache and cough. “If people have fever for 2 days, they should just get tested for Covid without delay,” said Dr Niteen Karnik, head of medicine at Sion Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-gastrointestinal-obstructions-new-covid-symptoms/articleshow/81472871.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||Cop crackdown on parking mafia near vaccination sites; 2 attendants held from Bypass, south Kolkata||KOLKATA: Acting on complaints from elderly citizens against fleecing by parking attendants near vaccination sites, cops and civic officials have launched a crackdown. Two persons have been arrested so far near two hospitals at Mukundapur and Minto Park, where vaccination programmes are going on for senior citizens and others with co-morbidities. The arrests were made based on the inputs from the KMC car parking department and traffic wing of Lalbazar. TOI had earlier reported about the parking extortion racket targeting senior citizens, who turn up for Covid-19 vaccine shots, outside private hospitals. Officials of KMC car parking department have been asked to keep tabs on the agencies operating car parking lots in and around private hospitals. A senior KMC official said the civic body was forced to seek help from cops to conduct surprise raids following the complaints of extortion from senior citizens. “Often we fail to take appropriate action against the errant car parking agencies as they disown a section of parking attendants who are engaged in extortion. Based on the complaints from motorists, we issue show-cause notices to them but aren’t able to terminate their contract due to the lack of evidence. We have asked cops to lodge FIR against rogue attendants so that we can act against the agencies as well,” said Debasish Kumar, a member in the KMC Board of Administrators (BoA), who looks after the city’s car parking. Over the last few days, a team from the KMC car parking department and cops have been keeping an eye on a private hospital located off EM Bypass to prevent such extortion. The team will maintain vigil near prominent hospitals and nursing homes in south and central Kolkata, where senior citizens are queuing up for vaccination. DC (traffic) Arijit Sinha also assured that people coming to the hospitals across the city will not be fleeced. “We have asked all 25 guards to carry out general checks. If required, this can be carried out by cops in different times of the day. In addition, we have encouraged people to report any parking extortion to the designated police stations,” he said. Sources said the individual traffic guard OCs have met parking attendants and asked them to fall in line or face the action. “We have informed the KMC about the parking extortion and decided to make videos of the proceedings from here,” said an officer from the Purba Jadavpur traffic guard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cop-crackdown-on-parking-mafia-near-vax-sites-2-attendants-held-from-bypass-s-kol/articleshow/81473894.cms||Saikat Ray
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Bandi to KTR: Talk about Nizam Sugars||Hyderabad: Reacting to minister KTR’s criticism on privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay said he should first reopen Nizam Sugars and Azam Jahi Mills. BJP state unit also complained to state chief electoral officer alleging TRS leaders are involved in money and liquor distribution. They said police are being told not to check bogus voters. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bandi-to-ktr-talk-about-nizam-sugars/articleshow/81473889.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||Online exams declared, NU yet to finalise agency||Nagpur: Though Nagpur University has declared its online examination schedule, it is yet to finalise agency to conduct it. Theory exams are scheduled to begin from March 25, while practicals have already started from March 8. Last year, Promarc Software Pvt Ltd, appointed to handle post-examination work of the NU for the last many years, was asked to conduct the online exams. However, due to several glitches that marred the summer 2020 papers, NU decided not to continue with the company. In view of the stricter restrictions to be imposed from March 15 to March 21, announced by guardian minister Nitin Raut, vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari, on Friday, convened a meeting to decide the modalities. The meeting was attended by pro-VC Sanjay Dudhe and Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable and others. Even as many affiliated colleges have demanded deferring practical examinations citing curbs, the administration has ruled out any change in the schedule. “All practical exams and theory papers would be held as planned as the notification issued by Nagpur Municipal Corporation has exempted pre-scheduled exams from the curbs. We’re also planning to give students an option to appear for papers using desktop in case anyone faces difficulty in accessing mobiles,” Sable told TOI. “We still have about 15 days to appoint the agency. We are exploring all options,” he said. In one of the media briefings last month, the VC had told TOI that NU may consider going on its own for conducting the online exams. In summer 2020 exams, students had faced difficulties right from failure of Promarc’s app to several technical glitches making the question papers inaccessible for many. The company’s servers too crashed a couple of times forcing the NU to re-conduct papers, after complaints were lodged by aggrieved examinees. BEd offline papers as per schedule BEd papers would be held at the stipulated centres and the same time mentioned in the timetable announced earlier, said Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable, in a bid to end confusion after stricter restrictions were announced for the city from March 15 to March 21. “As per the NMC’s notification, all pre-scheduled exams would be held as announced earlier. Accordingly, remaining two papers of BEd students would be held on March 18 and 20, as per schedule, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/online-exams-declared-nu-yet-to-finalise-agency/articleshow/81473896.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS pushed state into debt trap: TDP||Hyderabad: Telangana TDP president, MLC candidate for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubangar constituency, L Ramana said TRS government’s bad governance has led the state into a debt trap. He said though the government says it has spent Rs 7 lakh crore in seven years, development has not reaced the poor. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-pushed-state-into-debt-trap-tdp/articleshow/81473901.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Nashik||Health infra gets boost in battle against Covid-19||Nashik: The silver lining from the year-long Covid pandemic is the improvement seen in the health infrastructure and manpower in Nashik district. The first Covid case in the region was reported in Ahmednagar district on March 13 when a man who returned from Dubai tested positive for the infection. Cases were soon reported from parts of Nashik district too. The government hospitals had a trying time handling the patients. A year later, these hospitals are better equipped and have more manpower to handle Covid patients. Medical superintendent of Nashik Municipal Corporation, Dr Bapusaheb Nagargoje, said they started from scratch when the pandemic broke out. They faced shortfall of beds in the two civic hospitals, had hiccups in oxygen supply and even shortage of other medical equipment. “We worked on these problems. The two civic hospitals are much better placed now with 700 Covid beds and plans are afoot to increase it to 1,000. Plans are in advance stage to set up oxygen tanks and RT-PCR labs in the hospital premises. We have also strengthened the manpower,” added Nagargoje. Nashik civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande said the pending work of rural hospitals in Pimpalgaon Basant, Igatpuri and Yeola taluka got expedited following the pandemic and they have become operational. “The infrastructure and medical equipment that the government hospitals have got in the last one year will be useful even after the Covid pandemic subsides,” said Raokhande. Despite the challenges the health authorities faced, they cured many patients. A 35-year-old Covid patient felt that he would not have survived without the effort of the civil hospital doctors and staff. He was on ventilator support for a week in August last year. “I was reluctant to get admitted to the civil hospital. But the doctors and the health workers took extraordinary efforts to cure me,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/health-infra-gets-boost-in-battle-against-covid-19/articleshow/81471880.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Vaccine coupon chaos haunts recipients||KOLKATA: With vaccination queues getting longer, some private hospitals have been forced to start distributing coupons for registration to recipients, causing harassment to a section of senior citizens who are being asked to either return with the coupon for the shot at an allotted time slot on the same day or on a later date. Scores of elderly citizens, who had visited hospitals expecting on-spot registration, have been turned away over the last few days. This week, AMRI Hospitals introduced the system after its vaccination counters were swarmed by applicants, mostly senior citizens. A majority of them were those without registration. “We were forced to introduce coupons since otherwise they would have to wait for a long time and many would eventually return without the shot. The applicants include those who have pre-registered with time slots apart from those who walked in without registration. So, we have been asking the elderly recipients if they can wait or would prefer to leave with a booked time slot. Many have been choosing the latter option,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. He added that those dropping in early or willing to wait are receiving the shot without a coupon on the same day. At Belle Vue Clinic, recipients are being enlisted on a first-come-first served basis from 9 am every day. Once 250 have been enlisted, registration is being stopped for the day. Those dropping in later are being asked to return the next day. “Each recipient is being given a time slot on the same day. Every day, we are drawing up a fresh list, so those arriving after the list has been drawn up are being asked to return,” said Belle Vue general manager – operations Suranjan Ghosh. Seventy-eight-year-old Uday Chanda had dropped in at Belle Vue with his wife on Wednesday, hoping to get registered and vaccinated. He was refused. “Since most hospitals are allowing on-spot registration and giving the shot on the same day, I had expected the same. But despite repeated requests, they didn’t even take down our names for the next day’s list. Both my wife and I suffer from multiple illnesses and it’s difficult for us to either wait for hours or travel to the hospital on successive days,” said Chanda. Others like Medica Superspecialty, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), Fortis and Peerless, however, are open to registration and vaccination on the same day. At these places, recipients can walk in as late as 5 pm and still get the shot. At Medica and Fortis, vaccination continues round-the-clock. “We are, in fact, advising those calling up to enquire that they should come after 1 pm when the crowd thins. Even though the number of senior citizens is swelling each day, we are not refusing anyone or asking applicants to return for a slot the next day. It would be unfair since most find it difficult to travel and wait,” said RTIICS zonal head R Venkatesh. With the crowd swelling, it has become difficult, said Barua. “Across our three units, we vaccinated around 150 with on-spot registration on Friday. Around 500 were vaccinated at slots given through coupons,” added Barua.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vax-coupon-chaos-haunts-recipients/articleshow/81473910.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Swap kidney transplant gives 2 new lease of life||MUMBAI: In the city’s first swap kidney transplant of 2021, a 41-year-old farmer from Satara whose previous kidney transplant failed got a new lease of life when a 52-year-old schoolteacher from Panvel donated a kidney. In exchange, the farmer's 37-year-old wife donated one of her kidneys to the schoolteacher's 57-year-old husband. This swap transplant--the 69th in the city--was conducted after a gap of almost a year. The last swap, conducted in BMC-run KEM Hospital last March, saved the lives of two school boys. “This swap underlines how 80% of the donors in our country are women. While kidney disease doesn’t show any gender bias, the social realities in our country are such that more women donate,” said nephrologist Dr Jatin Kothari from Hinduja Hospital, Mahim, who treated both the patients. While doctors say that more Indian women donate because men are the breadwinners, medical ethicists have often underlined the women’s lack of choice in the situation. However, 54-year-old teacher Sangeeta Deshpande, who has seen her husband, Kishore, battle kidney ailments since 2010, wanted to donate one of her kidneys for him. “But she couldn’t as my parents have different blood groups,” said their daughter Supriya. Sangeeta then donated a kidney to 41-year-old Sachin Shinde on March 9. Shinde’s kidneys failed in 2007 when, after meeting with an accident, he took painkillers that affected his kidneys. “Our mother donated one of her kidneys to him in 2010, but last year the transplanted kidney failed,” said his brother Vishal. Dr Kothari, who is among the founder members of the city’s swap registry and a member of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre, said both the patients are doing well. Swap transplants were recognised by the central health ministry 10 years back as a method of increasing the donor pool in India, where roughly two lakh Indians develop kidney failure every year. “It was a bit complicated to organise a swap during Covid because four operation theatres are needed for the purpose and there is always the fear of Covid,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-swap-kidney-transplant-gives-2-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/81474691.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Two Dalit families ostracised for opposing ‘mrityu bhoj’||JAISALMER: Two Dalit families who had complained about mrityu bhoj and lodged a case against 63 panchs of 17 villages at Rageshwari police station in Barmer district are facing boycott from the caste panchs. The caste panchs have directed the families to deposit Rs 5 lakh penalty. The families have been barred from going to temples and attending social functions. According to Rageshwari police, two families had protested against the social evil of mrityu bhoj at Maliyon ki Dhani. The caste panchs of 17 villages boycotted these families and decided to stop their interactions with the people. So, the families lodged a case against 63 caste panchs. According to police, Devaram Meghwal and Mishraram had lodged a case saying that a woman in their neighborhood died in Nagar village. Later under the pressure of the society, panchs organised mrityu bhoj on which these Dalit families objected. Panchs from 17 villages had been invited for mrityu bhoj. So, the panchs unanimously boycotted the families alleging they were misguiding the society. They have also imposed a penalty of Rs 5 lakh on the families and till the money is deposited no one from the society will talk to them. They have also been stopped from going to temples and social programmes. As per SP Anand Sharma, a case has been lodged against 63 caste panchs and Rageshwari police is investigating the case. It is to be mentioned that even today in rural areas of Rajasthan, the practice of mrityu bhoj is continuing. The state government has made a strict law against mrityu bhoj but it is hardly followed. If anyone complains about it, the caste panchs harass them and force them to sit at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-dalit-families-ostracised-for-opposing-mrityu-bhoj/articleshow/81473921.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||JMFC can ignore adverse opinion to prosecute accused only after considering probe report: HC||Nagpur: Even while quashing defamation proceedings against five persons, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court held that the judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) has the authority to proceed against accused, irrespective of the contrarian opinion expressed by the investigating agency, but only after considering the material revealed in the investigation. While quashing defamation charges lodged by a lawyer against five petitioners from Chandrapur, justice Rohit Deo remitted the case to trial court. “The magistrate is not bound by the opinion recorded by the investigating agency. S/he is indeed obligated to consider material collected during investigation and then proceed against the accused based on it,” the judge said. Petitioners Rambhau Raut and others through counsel Malvika Yaduka challenged Chandrapur JMFC’s order of November 12, 2013, for issuing process for offence under Section 500 of IPC (defamation). This order was later upheld by additional sessions’ judge in a revision application by the accused petitioners on May 7, 2015, which was also challenged. The petitioners, all working with Chandrapur charity commissioner’s office, said the unsavory incident took place between them and a lawyer on September 25, 2012. They contended that the lawyer behaved in a most arrogant manner and heaped filthy abuses and insults on them. After he refused to listen even after much persuasion, they lodged a complaint against him at Ram Nagar police station at Chandrapur under Sections 294, 506 and 186 of IPC for using bad language against them. In retaliation, the 49-year-old lawyer lodged a defamation complaint against all five petitioners, which included a woman. The JMFC then ordered an inquiry into the incident through Ram Nagar police under Section 2020 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). The petitioners contended that the investigation report found fault with the complainant advocate, and there wasn’t any material against the five accused to proceed in the defamation charges. However, the JMFC started the defamation case proceedings, that was later confirmed by the sessions’ court. “It was necessary for the magistrate to consider the material emerging in the investigation report and then take an appropriate call. It’s from this perspective, the Supreme Court emphasized that in the absence of additional material, an order of issuance of process would be illegal,” justice Deo said while quashing proceedings against the petitioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jmfc-can-ignore-adverse-opinion-to-prosecute-accused-only-after-considering-probe-report-hc/articleshow/81473932.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||‘Intensify exploration, mining of steel grade limestone in Jaisalmer’||Jaisalmer: Mines and petroleum department principal secretary Ajitabh Sharma said that there are huge reserves of steel grade limestone in Jaisalmer and directed to intensify the exploration and mining works. He said that huge reserves have been found in Jaisalmer and seven blocks have been given RSMM (Rajasthan State Mines & Minerals Limited) and MECL (Mineral Exploration Corporation Limited) has been requested to explore and mine new blocks of steel grade limestone in Jaisalmer. He said the institutions of the state government and MECL together can also do this work. It is to be mentioned that at present, RSMM in Jaisalmer produces around 30 lakh metric tonne limestone per annum at Sonu limestone mines and this limestone is sent to steel companies in various parts of the country through 2-3 goods trains every day. There is heavy demand for Jaisalmer limestone because of its excellent quality. Therefore, a meeting was called to intensify the process of exploration of new reserves of limestone found at Jaisalmer. Sharma on Wednesday evening held a meeting with MECL, RSMM and mines department officers, in which RSMM MD Vikas Bhale, MECL CMD Ranjeet Rath, director mines Kunj Bihari Pandya, joint secretary mines Om Kasera, MECL general manager RK Jain, RSMM DGM Reetesh Pokhran and other senior officers were present. Ajitabh Sharma directed to soon complete all the necessary formalities for limestone mining and to start the production. Seven new blocks in Jaisalmer are situated at Khuiwala, Sam Bandha, Ramgarh etc. He has asked MECL to search for possibilities of exploration and mining manganese reserves at Banswara and Rajsamand. He said Rajasthan has huge reserves of minerals, and exploration and mining works should be given pace in phased manner. After MoU with MECL for exploration potash in Nagaur Bikaner Basin, the progress was reviewed and he said MECL is appointing an international consultant for exploring potash. Sharma said that Rajasthan is the only state in the country where potash reserves have been found and mining will be done with modern solution techniques. He asked MECL is to complete the feasibility study within six months so that the pilot project can be started. Bhale said that steps are being taken to start the mining of limestone in Jaisalmer. RSMM is giving pace to mineral exploration and mining works. Rath said that MECL is working on four lignite, two potash, three copper and a manganese in Rajasthan. He said after tripartite agreement with the government for potash exploration, implementation is being done by making an action plan. He said that potash is a boon to Rajasthan by nature and to explore its possible reserves, help of modern technique and experts of the international level will be taken. In the meeting, the information was given through a presentation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/intensify-exploration-mining-of-steel-grade-limestone-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/81473961.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Candidates go all out in high-stakes MLC battle||The high-stakes Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates MLC constituency goes to polls on Sunday. U Sudhakar Reddy analyses the chances of candidates in the fray N Ramchander Rao, BJP candidateStrengthsBJP has done extremely well in recent elections in Telangana, as seen in the GHMC polls and Dubbak bypoll. BJP as a party and Ramchander as a candidate focused on enrolment of a large number of graduates. Most of the enrolments, done by right-wing affiliated organisations, targeted people of similar ideology. Ramchander established a strong connect with advocate community. Six Brahmin associations extended support to Ramchander. Brahmins comprise a decent chunk among MLC voters. Top state leaders campaigned for him. WeaknessesPrivatisation of PSUs, Union government policies and dissent among central government employees against BJP. Other leaders are not happy with Ramchander contesting for MLA, MP and MLC polls and holding multiple positions. Criticism against Ramchander is that he failed to take up key issues during his stint as MLC. OpportunitiesPro-BJP wave and a pro-Modi vote. Growing grassroots level cadre. BJP has appointed in-charges for every 25 to 30 voters, who will bring voters to booths. ThreatsIf the result is not decided with first preference vote or second preference vote, he may face a difficult situation. Brahmin votes to be divided between Ramchander and TRS candidate Surabhi Vani Devi. BJP does not have a strong position among employees’ unions in Hyderabad-Rangareddy- Mahbubnagar seat. Surabhi Vani Devi, TRS candidateStrengthsBeing the daughter of former PM PV Narasimha Rao, his legacy, reputation and reputation as a reformist come in handy for her. TRS being the ruling party extended solid support to her. CM KCR and minister KTR took personal interest and guided the campaign to ensure her victory. KTR himself attended several meetings. TRS ministers from nine districts campaigned vigorously. Party has a strong network of sarpanches, MPTCs, ZPTCs, councillors in urban and rural areas. WeaknessesVani Devi is a novice in politics. She has less knowledge of key issues like ITIR, privatisation. General anti-incumbency towards TRS. She is too dependant on party. Except being PV’s daughter, no individual connect with voters like her rivals. She is a late entrant into the poll ring. Divide within the PV family. NV Subash, grandson of PV, supported BJP’s Ramchander. Unemployed youth not happy with TRS. State government employees have demanded more fitment. OpportunitiesBeing a fresh face and KCR and KTR’s magic touch may help her get votes. If party strategy to get electors to polling booths works out on Sunday, she may have an advantage. ThreatsBrahmin votes to be divided between her and BJP candidate. Prof K Nageshwar, Independent candidateStrengthsHe has a huge number of followers among educated for his oratory skills and participation in TV debates. He is popular on YouTube. The professor is supported by 50 organisations and unions in the banking sector, central government, confederation of employees’ unions, insurance sector. Teachers unions’ enrolled votes stand at around 65,000. Several teachers’ unions extended support to him. As an MLC twice, he had raised multiple issues in council and has a clean image. WeaknessesNo political party backup. No cadre. Has to depend completely on unions. He is a one-man army. Left alliance may not go well in right-wing charged atmosphere. Unlike parties, he does not have a mechanism to take the electors to booths and do micro-level management. He hasn’t organised caste meetings. OpportunitiesIf the result is not decided with the first preferential vote, Nageshwar may get more number of second preferential votes. Experience of previously contesting and winning MLC polls may help him. Sizeable central government employees living in Hyderabad who are against privatisation may vote for him as he has been their voice. ThreatsLast time, a few political parties had supported him and this time all of them fielded their candidates. No financial support unlike TRS and BJP. If money and gifts are spent on a large scale by parties, he is at a disadvantageous position. Bogus votes and impersonation may impact his vote share. G Chinna Reddy, Congress candidateStrengthsHe has an image of being an honest politician. He has been popular in Kollapur, Wanaparthy areas of Mahbubnagar district. Congress has a traditional vote-bank. State and central government employees’ stand against TRS and BJP might help him. WeaknessesCongress party’s weak position in state. Recent defeats of Congress in GHMC, Dubbak and other elections. Trailing in campaign behind TRS and BJP. ThreatsRebel candidate Harshvardhan Reddy to divide Congress vote. Neither PV nor YSR legacy is being used.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/candidates-go-all-out-in-high-stakes-mlc-battle/articleshow/81473949.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Revanth blames TRS govt for shelving of ITIR||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Friday blamed the TRS government for shelving of the Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR) project by the BJP government at the Centre. “The TRS government did not provide the detailed project report to the BJP government though the latter asked for it. The Central government informed the Lok Sabha about shelving of the project in reply to a question by TRS MP Kotha Prabhakar Reddy in 2018 itself. The Central government said its Electronics and IT ministry did not receive any representation from the Telangana government on the project,” Revanth said while releasing the copies of answers given in Lok Sabha.  With an eye on March 14 MLC polls, KTR is trying to mislead the graduates on ITIR project and diverting their attention from failures of TRS government, Revanth alleged. The Congress MP called upon the graduates to question the government over its failure to provide the detailed project report for ITIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanth-blames-trs-govt-for-shelving-of-itir/articleshow/81474694.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Dehradun||66 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths surface in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The cumulative toll of Covid-19 shot up to 1,700 in Uttarakhand after two more coronavirus-related deaths were recorded in the state on Friday. Also, 66 new infections pushed the total tally of the virus to 97,700. The state also recorded 68 cases of recovery from Covid-19. With this, the tally of the cured cases shot up to 93,952 in the state. Among the 66 new infections, the maximum of 23 were recorded in Haridwar, followed by 21 in Nainital, 11 in Dehradun, three each in Pauri and Udham Singh Nagar, two each in Bageshwar and Rudraprayag, and one in Tehri Garhwal. Meanwhile, the state has also managed to fully inoculate 77,903 healthcare and frontline workers till Friday. More than 77,500 elderly people, above 65 years of age, have been given the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the last 12 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/66-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/81472882.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Tikait: Two-person govt is running the country||Jodhpur: Taking a dig at PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday said that there was nothing like the government in the country today and only two persons have been running the country who do not listen to anybody or ask anybody. "If there were any government, the dialogue would have been possible. But there is a two-person government in the country, which does not ask anybody," said Tikait while addressing a Kissan Mahapanchayt in Jodhpur’s Pipar on Friday. He further said that this was not a government but a company and this company would have to be fought with and chased away. Calling upon the youth, the farmer leader said that this was a long fight and the youth would have to be ready to take this fight to its culmination, while terming it to be a revolution for saving lands. "We would lose our lands in the next 20-30 years and this would happen to every farmer of the country. But we could save our lands only by fighting with government," he said, terming the land more beloved than a son for a farmer. In his purported reference to lackluster response to the farmers’ movement, Tikait said that youth shout "you keep fighting, we are with you", but how long could he fight. "Ultimately, they will have to come forward and shoulder this movement. For this. barricades would have to be broken but Rajasthan did not know how to break barricades," he said. Taking a swipe at the opposition, Tikait said that the opposition was in a poor state and not speaking on the issue. "Their old deeds are coming in their way and they are scared that lest they are entangled in any issue or investigation," he said. Calling upon the youth to be the torch-bearers of this struggle, Tikait said that they were prepared for a year and would continue till November for now. "Since we have reached this far, there was no question of retreating our steps. We would go to the entire country to save the land, jobs and vocations," he said. Though the mahapanchayat failed to draw farmers in large numbers those present did not leave any stone unturned in boosting the mood of the meeting. Some Congress leaders also addressed the meeting and endorsed the call of Tikait to form committees in every village for this fight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tikait-two-person-govt-is-running-the-country/articleshow/81473987.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Pune||2,401 penalised for flouting norms||Pune: Police penalised 2,401 people in the district for not wearing face masks and violating the Covid-19 norms on Friday. The total fine collected was Rs11,61,800. The Pune city police penalised 1,779 people and recovered Rs8,89,500 in fines. The Pimpri Chinchwad police, on the other hand, took action against 246 people and recovered Rs1,23,000 in fines from them. The Pune rural police penalised 376 people and collected Rs1,49,300. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2401-penalised-for-flouting-norms/articleshow/81473999.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||With more than 11 lakh doses, Bengal gets biggest single-day vaccine consignment||KOLKATA: Bengal got the biggest consignment of Covid vaccines on Friday since the vaccination programme started on January 16. Over 11 lakh doses — both Covishield and Covaxin — arrived at the Central Family Welfare store at Bagbazar on Friday. Distribution and despatch of the doses to districts will begin from Saturday. “We got close to 10 lakh doses of Covishield and over 1 lakh doses of Covaxin on Friday. These are being stored at the Bagbazar, from where we will be sending them to different districts,” said state family welfare officer Ashim Das Malakar. Sources at the Bagbazar depot said they are working out the requirement for different districts that will start receiving their shares from Saturday. The last time Bengal got vaccine doses was on February 24 when 7.3 lakh doses of Covishield reached the Bagbazar vaccine depot. Despite a slow start, Bengal has picked up its vaccination speed significantly in the past two weeks. With a remarkable response from senior citizens and those above 45 with co-morbidity in this Phase III rollout, the state health department has jacked up the number of Covid vaccination centres (CVC) majorly since the launch off Co-Win 2.0 on March 1 beginning the rollout of community vaccination. Currently, inoculation is taking place from CVCs close to 2,000 fanned out across the state. “A large number of doses arriving is a shot in the arm for us as we plan to scale up number of CVCs to 5,000. We were unable to do so due to glitches in the app. But the technical issues are getting resolved gradually and we should be in a position to add about 1,000 more vaccination sites by next week,” said a senior health department official. With Bengal picking up fast and the number of recipients reaching one lakh and above mark on a number of days, Bengal now climbed up to the fourth spot in terms of number of people vaccinated, after Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Gujarat, according to data uploaded with the Union ministry of health and family welfare. But, according to communication from the state director of health services, Ajay Chakraborty, on Friday, Bengal has reached the second spot. Till Friday, the state has utilised 22.4 lakh doses. Even till a week ago, it was on the fifth spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-more-than-11-lakh-doses-state-gets-biggest-single-day-vaccine-consignment/articleshow/81473989.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: FIR against actor filed for fake UK visa||Mumbai: Bandra-Kurla Complex police recently registered a first information report (FIR) against actress Shweta Tiwari for allegedly getting a fake British visa. The case was registered a week ago after police received a compliant from the British consulate. A probe is on but no arrest has been made till date, police said. A case of cheating and forgery has been registered under various Indian Penal Code sections. The FIR was registered recently after the consulate received a tip-off from the actress’ second husband, Anubhav Kohli. A police officer said the actress and her husband were not on good terms and she had sought a divorce. The actress had lodged a domestic violence complaint against her husband in 2019. Shweta is a film and TV actress known for her roles in serials and had participated in reality shows, two of which she won. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-fir-against-actor-filed-for-fake-uk-visa/articleshow/81474002.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Bareilly||Ahead of panchayat polls, kisan yatra appeals to farmers 'to cast vote wisely'||PILIBHIT: With a convoy of around 200 tractors and 100 bikes, the 'Kisan Mazdoor Jagrati' yatra which started its journey from Ramraj on March 6 has reached Pilibhit on Thursday evening after touching upon several parts of neighbouring Uttarakhand. The main objective of the yatra is to spread the message against the three farm laws and appeal to marginal and small farmers "to cast their votes wisely" in the upcoming panchayat polls in UP. Most of these farmers had earlier voted for the BJP, sources said. The yatra had been flagged off by Bharatiya Kisan Union's (BKU) Rakesh Tikait on March 6 and is now being led by Jasveer Singh Virk, the national president of Bharatiya Sikh Sangathan. It is scheduled to pass through several UP districts - Lakhimpur Kheri, Shahjahanpur, Sitapur, Bareilly, Badaun, Kasganj - and is expected to conclude its journey at Delhi's Ghazipur border on March 27. The yatra has been peaceful so far, sources said, adding that around 300 tractors may reach the Delhi border to strengthen the farmers' movement by March-end. Without naming the ruling party, Virk called upon the farmers to boycott the candidates of the political party that introduced the contentious agri laws and is continuing with its anti-farmer role, and "cast their vote wisely". “Workers of the ruling party are visiting rural areas extensively to misguide marginal and small farmers by saying that the three agrarian laws are to bring an attractive package of benefits to them and that these may simply affect the interests of the big farmers adversely to some extent," he said, adding that the farmers should be fully aware of their false promises. Office bearers, BKU workers and a large number of farmers in Pilibhit joined the yatra on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ahead-of-panchayat-polls-kisan-yatra-appeals-to-farmers-to-cast-vote-wisely/articleshow/81472946.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Sexual abuse case: Interim relief for actor||MUMBAI: A sessions court on Friday granted interim relief to an actor accused of sexually abusing his girlfriend. The court directed police not to take coercive action against him until March 26, the next date of the hearing. The anticipatory bail plea submitted by advocate Saveena Bedi claimed the relationship was consensual and there were arguments as he could not give much time to the relationship. The plea said that on February 13, she argued with him, pushed him and allegedly abused his parents. Ten days later, an FIR was filed against him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sexual-abuse-case-interim-relief-for-actor-in-mumbai/articleshow/81474699.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand to decide on Pantnagar airport expansion, land transferred to civil aviation ministry||Rudrapur: Six years after the central government announced the expansion of the only airport in Kumaon region at Pantnagar in Udham Singh Nagar district, the project is yet to take off. The authorities say that the plan was earlier shelved due to technical glitches but now the required land has been transferred to the ministry of civil aviation. Meanwhile, TOI sources said that the ball now lies in the state government’s court as it has to decide the mode in which the proposed airport will run. Back in 2015, the expansion of Pantnagar airport was announced and banners were put up announcing imminent expansion. These banners had the Prime Minister’s face on it. When the plan was not executed for almost four years, a local, Bhagwan Das, wrote a letter to Hardeep Singh Puri, civil aviation minister, highlighting that work regarding the expansion of the airport has not started. In his letter dated July 16, 2019, Das had alleged that the concerned authorities have failed to execute the expansion plan. He requested the ministry to intervene and also sent the copies of complaint to the chief minister and chief secretary of Uttarakhand, who on July 26, 2019, directed the competent authorities of civil aviation to take prompt actions. The officials of the Pantnagar airport authority had then said that the plan is still in the pipeline as they have yet not been provided any land for the cause by the district administration. To this, Udham Singh Nagar district magistrate (DM) Ranjan Rajguru said that the land required for the expansion of the airport has been transferred in the name of ministry of civil aviation. “I was a part of the video conferencing between state authorities and the civil aviation ministry department officials. The only glitch in the expansion of the airport is that the state is yet to decide the mode of operations and the model of the airport before the expansion begins,” DM Rajguru added. TOI sources said that the state government is mulling to put this airport under public private partnership (PPP) under the ministry of civil aviation’s proposal for privatisation of airports. The airport could also be given on lease like those at Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati. Talking to TOI, Pantnagar airport director Rajeev Punetha said that the previous plans were shelved due to technical glitches. “Almost 1,100 acres of land near Pantnagar industrial area, stretching towards Kichha town, has been identified for the expansion of the airport. The expansion will be done swiftly once the state government gives its nod,” Punetha said. According to him, “The extension plan was shelved because of limitations like elephant corridor, railway property and other restrictions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-decide-on-pantnagar-airport-expansion-land-transferred-to-civil-aviation-ministry/articleshow/81472952.cms||Aakash Ahuja
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||GB to take decision on handing over Aapli Bus service to MahaMetro||Nagpur: After getting green signal from transport department, the civic administration has submitted a proposal before general body meeting handing over Aapli Bus service to MahaMetro. Along with this, the administration has also submitted two more proposals of the transport department to provide 18 mini buses and one electric bus to MahaMetro to run feeder services on several routes. Even though the NMC has not received any consent from the MahaMetro, TOI had recently reported that Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari was of the opinion that two public transport services — Metro Rail and city buses — should be operated by any one agency, which led the NMC to go ahead with the proposal. At present, the NMC is operating Aapli Bus fleet of 438 including 237 standard buses, 150 midi, 45 mini and six electric buses through three red bus and one electric bus operators. “The NMC will hand over 438 these buses along with 40 electric buses to be procured under central government scheme to MahaMetro along with four bus operators, two ticketing agencies and the existing manpower of the transport department,” Borkar has stated. Actually, the proposal was meant to curb financial loss to the already cash-starved NMC. The NMC incurs over Rs100 crore loss every year due to operation of city bus service as against a ticket revenue of Rs64 crore per annum. These proposals will come before the general body meeting schedule to be held on March 19 through video-conferencing. The town planning department has proposed to revise the fee for issuing colour copies of maps of various sizes. For example, the present price of A4 size colour map is Rs60 and it has now proposed to increase it to Rs700. Similarly, the price of A3 size map too may cost Rs1,100 instead of Rs89.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gb-to-take-decision-on-handing-over-aapli-bus-service-to-mahametro/articleshow/81474000.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Trichy||AIADMK rests hope on ex-MLA in Thuraiyur||Trichy: AIADMK has given former MLA T Indira Gandhi the ticket in Thuraiyur reserved constituency. She was denied ticket last time. It is the only constituency where AIADMK has fielded a woman candidate in the district. While a section of party cadres have been opposing her candidature and even staged protest, local functionaries said that she holds support within the party and among the voters in Thuraiyur and that she is unlikely to be changed. A section of AIADMK party cadres took out procession demanding change of party candidate in Thuraiyur town on Thursday. She had tough contest with party functionary Arivalagan Vijay for the ticket as he also wanted to contest. “The party decided to give Indira Gandhi an opportunity considering her experience as a former MLA in the constituency to take on DMK which appears competitive,” said a party functionary. Thuriayur was one among the constituencies formed newly in 2008 following delimitation process. Indira Gandhi was the first MLA in 2011 after defeating DMK’s D Parimalai. She was not given party ticket in 2016 and the seat was bagged by A Maivizhi, who lost to DMK’s S Stalin Kumar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aiadmk-rests-hope-on-ex-mla-in-thuraiyur/articleshow/81474700.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||Bar Council chief demands National Lawyer Academy in city||Nagpur: Even as proposal for establishing National Judicial Academy (NJA) in the city is pending, a demand has been raised to set up a National Lawyer Academy (NLA) here. The demand was made by newly elected chairman of Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa Anil Gowardipe. A week after taking over the reins, Gowardipe dispatched a letter to Bar Council of India chairman Manan Kumar Mishra in Delhi to set up NLA in Nagpur with a view to impart training to lawyers in various aspects of the profession. “Nagpur being centrally-located in the country, opening NLA here would definitely help law students planning to have a career in judiciary and also to lawyers practising in various courts, including the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court. Even law students from neighbouring states like Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh would be benefited by the NLA,” he said. Supporting Gowardipe’s demand, many lawyers said the NLA would help law students to learn the intricacies of the profession and become well-informed lawyers. “The city would be an ideal location for such an institution, considering the fact that it already has a high court bench, renowned bars (High Court Bar Association & District Bar Association) and a National Law University here,” they said. The NJA’s concept was first mooted by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Bobde during the groundbreaking ceremony of NLU’s campus at Waranga on August 18, 2019. He had announced that the new institution would function on the lines of National Defence Academy (NDA), which churns out graduates for direct recruitment in the Indian armed forces. Explaining the concept, the CJI had stated that once students enter the NJA, they would be fully trained in the art of judging after passing out in five to six years. They would further undergo several courses to become familiar with the functioning of various courts. According to Gowardipe, the Bar Council regularly organizes various programmes in the city to help law aspirants and lawyers for making them well versed with various aspects of the noble profession. “They’re being trained by the high and district court judges. If NLA is opened here, all these activities would receive a big boost and would continue throughout the year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bar-council-chief-demands-national-lawyer-academy-in-city/articleshow/81474013.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||ED files complaint against Ebiz.com for MLM fraud||HYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) filed a prosecution complaint against Ebiz.com Private Limited and its managing director Pawan Malhan in PMLA special court on Thursday. The ED registered a Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) case based on the FIRs registered by Cyberabad police against Ebiz.com and its directors. In 2019, the ED had provisionally attached various movable and immovable properties worth Rs 278 crore of Pawan Malhan, his son Hitik Malhan and others. The provisional attachment has been confirmed by the PMLA adjudicating authority and the ED has taken possession of these assets. The prosecution agency said the accused ran a multi-level marketing (MLM) scheme for sale of worthless products like computer education packages which were downloaded freely from Internet. “These products were only for name sake. The primary purpose of the members joining the scheme was to get commission from enrolments and not for the products. They extensively advertised their commission model in which very high commissions were paid to sponsoring members for enrolment of new members,” the ED said. The accused company used to hold large conventions in which top rung members of the pyramid scheme take part and encourage thousands of others to join the MLM scheme. “The enrolment fee paid by the new members was used to pay commission to older members. The Malhan family was siphoning off the balance. Such schemes are inherently unsustainable and collapse as soon as there is a run on the business. In such ponzi schemes, only the top members make sizeable profits, leaving lakhs of members at the base of the pyramid poorer of their investments,” the ED explained. Investigation under the PMLA revealed that funds were fraudulently collected from the subscribers as membership deposit through a chain of agents spread across India. These deposits were illegally diverted into the personal accounts of the directors, their family members and other associates under various heads like dividend, salaries/incentives, etc., and were utilised to purchase properties for themselves or relatives, alleged the ED.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-files-plaint-against-ebiz-com-for-mlm-fraud/articleshow/81474703.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Meerut||Schoolgirl beats stalker in full public view in Meerut||MEERUT: A video of an angry schoolgirl beating up an alleged stalker with a stick while he tries to beg for forgiveness at a busy marketplace in Meerut has attracted plaudits from a large section of the Twitterati. In the video, the girl can be heard purportedly saying repeatedly, “how dare you harass us”, while hitting the youth with the stick. “For days, he has been harassing my friend and I on the road, asking for our phone numbers,” said the girl. Vineet Bhatnagar, SP (city), said, “We have detained the youth. An FIR will be filed after receiving a complaint from the girl.” The entire drama unfolded in the Sadar area of Meerut, where two schoolgirls were allegedly being stalked by a youth for quite some time. He, accompanied by a friend, would wait for the girls on a motorcycle. But on Friday, something snapped in one of the girls and instead of quietly walking past the youths on the motorcycle, she confronted them. They were taken aback. Before they could flee, passersby caught the duo. The girl allegedly slapped the youth who was harassing her even as he started pleading for forgiveness. Soon police reached the spot and she allegedly took a police baton and thrashed him. All the while, the crowd cheered her, egging her to continue hitting him. The police then took away the two youths, identified as Shubham Kumar and Arun Mehandi of Kankerkhera area of Meerut. Some onlookers shot the video and it was widely circulated on social media. Twitterati also praised the girl for taking on the stalkers. @Kumar2001M wrote, 'Good job. We need more such girls to set right such romoeos since police cannt be everywhere.' @Saloni18813048 wrote, 'Good…Brave daughter… God bless them. (sic)' Watch On cam: Schoolgirl thrashes stalker in full public view in Meerut||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/schoolgirl-beats-stalker-in-full-public-view-in-meerut/articleshow/81472959.cms||Sandeep Rai
March 13, 2021||Meerut||In UP, runaway couple forced to beat each other with slipper||BIJNOR: Their plans were hazy. In love for quite some time now, all they wanted was to run away from their dusty Bijnor village. The rickety motorcycle they rode to escape to somewhere in the hills of Uttarakhand ran out of petrol, just before Haridwar, close to a police picket. And they ran out of a plan. Not satisfied with their answers, a bunch of policemen asked the couple to wait till their parents came to take them home. Hours later, standing at a panchayat and facing scores, the couple were given slippers and told to beat each other with it. To escape a harsher punishment, they did it amid tears. The panchayat in Bijnor’s Najibabad then asked the youth to tie a ‘rakhi’ to the girl he loved, which he did without looking at her. The youth was then told to leave the village for a month. He nodded in reply. According to locals, the couple, in their early 20s, was from the same village. They were neighbours. Panchayats and khaps in Uttar Pradesh and in Haryana don’t allow marriages in the same village and also in the same ‘gotra’ (ancestral lineage). “The couple wanted to get married. But their families and villagers were against it. That is why they had decided to flee. But sadly they were caught and brought back,” a villager said. Police, however, said that they had no clue about any panchayat. But they promised to look into it. Najibabad’s station house officer Satyaprakash said, “A girl and a youth of the same village went to Haridwar two days ago for outing. Uttarakhand police found them roaming there. The couple failed to explain their relationship. So the police called their families. They were later handed over to the parents. There was no complaint from any side so no case was registered. We had visited the village and inquired about the matter thoroughly. During the investigation police found that no panchayat was called in the village in this connection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/runaway-couple-forced-to-beat-each-other-with-slipper-by-panchayat-in-up/articleshow/81472955.cms||Harveer Dabas
March 13, 2021||Dehradun||Man-eater leopard eliminated in Almora||Almora: A man-eater female leopard, nearly 12 years old, was shot dead by forest department-appointed shooter Asif Saifi in Ranikhet town of Almora district on Friday. The leopard had killed a 60-year-old man, Ramesh Dutt Pant, and several cattle in the region in the past few weeks. In view of the killings, divisional forest officer (DFO) Mahatim Yadav had recommended the department to declare the leopard a man-eater and neutralise it. DFO Yadav told TOI, “Around 7.30 pm on Thursday, the leopard was coming towards the place where it had killed cattle. Hunter Saifi — who was called from Kanpur — brought down the big cat in a single shot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-eater-leopard-eliminated-in-almora/articleshow/81472962.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Trichy||DMK, AIADMK vie to offer women dole, but cut tickets||Trichy: When DMK leader M K Stalin promised a monthly honorarium of Rs 1,000 for woman heads of families if his party were to come to power, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was quick to counter it by promising Rs 1,500 a month if the AIADMK retained power. EPS also announced six LPG cylinders free of cost a year, apparently to gain the goodwill of women. However, the interest shown by the Dravidian giants in garnering the support of women was grossly missing while giving party tickets for the assembly election. Both have set apart fewer number of seats for women compared to the previous election. DMK has allocated only 12 seats this time against 19 in 2016 while AIADMK has nominated only 14 women as against 31 last time. Indeed, AIADMK had contested 234 seats last time as against 179 now. Only three woman candidates (two from AIADMK and one from DMK) have got tickets to contest in the central region where there are 41 constituencies. “The trend only reflects the lack of space and opportunity provided to women in political parties over the last 70 years,” said Congress MP from Karur Lok Sabha constituency S Jothimani. According to her, 50% reservation is the only solution to increase women’s participation in politics as they are denied opportunity citing multiple reasons like financial dependency and poor winning prospects. “I could not have come this far if not for the 33% reservation that was ensured in the 1993 local body elections. But I would personally advocate inner-party reservation as it doesn’t require nod from Parliament and it would help more women scale the ladder in politics,” she said. Jothimani added that parties will be compelled to field women candidates in case of 33% or 50% reservation in the assembly election, but if it is implemented within the party, women may be contesting against men too and more women may win. Women’s rights activist Sudha Ramalingam said politics is still a male’s world. Even the women who got seats in these parties are those who serve as proxies for their family members. Appreciating Seeman of Naam Tamilar Katchi who stood apart and ensured 50% reservation for women, she stressed the need for real reservation in political parties and in assembly election as in local bodies where women have started exercising their powers. “Parties should come forward to give reservation to women in their party structure and it’s important for all parties to collectively come to a consensus,” she said. Interestingly, both DMK and AIADMK have shown interest in fielding women candidates in reserved constituencies. Half of the seats allocated for women by AIADMK and two of the three by DMK are in reserved constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-aiadmk-vie-to-offer-women-dole-but-cut-tickets/articleshow/81474705.cms||Sampath Kumar
March 13, 2021||Patna||24,599 qualify for teachers’ posts in state govt schools||Patna: The Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) on Friday declared the results of state-level secondary teachers eligibility test (STET), 2019, paving the way for appointment of 24,599 teachers in 12 subjects against vacant posts at secondary and higher secondary schools in the state. The BSEB had conducted the online test from September 9 to 21, 2020. The results of Urdu, Sanskrit and Science could not be declared on Friday. Releasing the results, education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said it was indeed a herculean task to conduct online test of altogether 1.78 lakh applicants with full adhering to Covid-19 protocols. The publication of results for the recruitment of over 24,599 teachers is a step towards fulfilment of government’s commitment to providing employment to the unemployed youths of the state. With these results, the appointment of teachers would be made for the seventh phase. The appointment of teachers in the sixth phase has not been made due to the high court’order. However, Choudhary pointed out that the department has filed an interlocutory application (IA), which is likely to be heard by the court on April 5. He expressed the hope that the court would clear the way for appointment of teachers in the sixth phase as well. BSEB chairman Anand Kishore said the test was held in 15 subjects, but the results of only 12 subjects were published on Friday. More than 1.09 lakh candidates had taken the test in Paper I and 45,284 in Paper II. Out of a total of 1.54 lakh examinees only 24,599 candidates have been declared successful, he said. He further pointed out that as per Patna High Court’s directive, a re-examination of 106 candidates in three subjects, namely, Urdu, Sanskrit and Science of paper I on April 2. Hence, the results of altogether 23,671 candidates, including 106 candidates taking the re-examination in these three subjects would be published in the first week of May. Education department’s additional chief secretary Sanjay Kumar was also present on the occasion. Candidates can see their results by using their user ID and password on BSEB’s website (www.bsebstet2019.in and http://bihareboardonline.bihar.govt.in), said BSEB sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/24599-qualify-for-teachers-posts-in-state-govt-schools/articleshow/81474024.cms||B K Mishra
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Rave party busted, students & private staffers among 90 held||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda police raided a farmhouse where a rave party was organised and arrested seven persons. Cops seized 400 grams of ganja along with three blots of LSD and apprehended 90 youngsters, including students and private employees, who attended the party. Acting on a specific information, SOT sleuths of Rachakonda along with Narayanpur police raided the farmhouse of businessman-cum-local political worker, J Dhanwanth Reddy at Gandhinagar Thanda near Narayanpur on Thursday night where a rave party with 90 customers was organised by the accused. Police arrested seven organisers, Girish Dhaduvai (29), a businessman from AS Rao Nagar, J Dhanwanth Reddy, his son J Srikar Reddy (22), an engineering student, Chi Sharath Chandra (26), a businessman from Vanasthalipuram, Shaik Umar Farooq (25), a diploma holder from ECIL, B Prem (23), a private employee from Suryapet and Syed Arman Ali Reza alias Damru (28), a DJ from Nizamuddin. Cops seized 400 grams of ganja, three LSD blots, two grams of unknown drug, 120 liquor bottles, three laptops, two cameras, 76 mobile phones, 15 cars, 30 bikes, a generator vehicle, DJ music system and cash worth Rs 27,030. According to Rachakonda commissioner Mahesh Bhagawat, Girish, Srikar, Sharath and Farooq are friends. They hatched a plan to conduct rave party to make quick money and convinced Srikar’s father Dhanwanth Reddy to allow them to organise it in his farmhouse. The accused roped in Nizamuddin-based DJ Syed Arman Ali alias Damru by offering him Rs 25,000 as advance payment along with travel charges and started publicising the event on Instagram using the DJ’s name to attract the youth. “They have mentioned in the Instagram advertisement that the entry fee was Rs 500, excluding food and beverage cost,” the commissioner said. The gang contacted Prem to supply drugs at the event and they chose the festival night, anticipating that police will be busy in bandobust work. “We came to know that the gang has previously conducted a similar event in Mulugu. We have to take them into custody to get more details. The farmhouse will be sealed through revenue authorities and the family members of the youngsters will be counselled. I appeal to youth to stay away from such events as having a criminal record will adversely affect their careers,” the commissioner said. While the seven organisers were arrested under various sections of NDPS Act, Excise Act and IPC, the 90 youngsters including two women, were booked under sections 188 and 294 of the IPC. The organisers were remanded and the participants were released on station bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rave-party-busted-students-pvt-staffers-among-90-held/articleshow/81474708.cms||---
March 13, 2021||India||RSS now pushes for debate on Kashi, Mathura temples||NEW DELHI: While still unclear on whether to launch a campaign for possession of the disputed sites in Varanasi and Mathura, RSS seems to be stepping up its effort for Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s demand for a debate on the continuation of Islamic places of worship next to Kashi Vishwanath Mandir and Krishna Janmabhoomi, respectively.  The Sangh has maintained that the mosque at the site of Kashi Vishwanath temple, one of the 12 Jyotirlingas, and the Eidgah at what is believed to be Krishna Janmbhoomi, symbolise India’s “slavery” under “outside” aggressors who destroyed symbols of religion and culture and converted existing shrines to their own faiths. With the Supreme Court accepting a PIL challenging the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, which froze the denominational character of places of worship, including those in Varanasi and Mathura, Sangh sources said it was time that the issue was debated publicly. While it is yet to be seen how the Centre responds to the SC notice, political circles emphasised the affiliation of the petitioner, Ashwini Upadhyay, with BJP. Significantly, Upadhyay, an advocate who was earlier with AAP, has also filed four petitions seeking promulgation of uniform laws on the entire gamut of issues related to personal laws which should come under the purview of a uniform civil code, another key theme of the Sangh Parivar and BJP. During an interaction with proponents of Mathura and Kashi temples in Agra recently, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat had urged them to remain calm and have “patience”. Sangh members want to work for “consensus” for an acceptance of “Hindu claims” on Kashi and Mathura. “There should be a debate on the issue in which the media can play an important role,” a Sangh member said. “However, we believe that there should be a spontaneous approach rather than imposing another movement for any change in the structures of religious sites,” the member added. “We’ve gradually shed the British legacy. Similarly, there should be a debate on how long can one allow existence of structures which symbolise attack on India’s religious belief and traditions,” the member said. “The Pope recently visited Iran with a sole purpose that the churches demolished should be reconstructed. Our country had witnessed similar attacks on religious monuments during Mughals and other Islamic rulers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rss-now-pushes-for-debate-on-kashi-mathura-temples/articleshow/81477194.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||Coaching classes seek permission for office staff||Nagpur: The association of coaching institutes (ACI) has written to mayor Dayashankar Tiwari, seeking permission for the staff to attend office. Rajnikant Bondre, president of the association, said while they appreciated the civic body’s decision to implement lockdown orders, their problem was related to technological infrastructure. Bondre said conducting online classes was possible only from their respective offices, where a reliable internet speed as well as requisite digital content is available. ACI said exam dates for JEE/NEET were approaching fast and students couldn’t be denied the opportunity to revise under teachers’ supervision. “If our teachers are allowed to come to office, we shall ensure that all safety protocols are followed,” said Bondre. He added that Nagpur students would fall behind in the competition if they are denied a chance to learn directly from teachers, even if it’s in the online mode for now. “Now that the course is complete, students need clarification on some concepts. This can be done only in a one-to-one session. For all this to work in online mode, we need our staff to be present in office,” said Bondre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/coaching-classes-seek-permission-for-office-staff/articleshow/81487919.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 13, 2021||Trichy||Celebrations for 75th I-Day begin||Trichy: The district administration on Friday kicked off the 75-week celebrations of the 75th Independence Day with several events remembering the sacrifice of freedom fighters. Artists enthralled the audience with their street dance as part of the celebration. A photo exhibition got up in this connection showcased the pictures of Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabai Patel, Netaji Subash Chandra Bose and other freedom fighters. Rare pictures of Dandi March and Civil Disobedience Movement also figured in the exhibition. The felicitation of the freedom fighters was done by the collector who also flagged off the rally from central bus stand to Gandhi market. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/celebrations-for-75th-i-day-begin/articleshow/81474724.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Pune||Man stopped for not wearing mask, held for abusing cops||Pune: A scooterist (38) was arrested on Thursday on the charge of picking up an altercation and abusing a constable and his colleagues after he was stopped for riding without a face mask at Jedhe Chowk around 11.20pm on Wednesday. The suspect — Ganesh More from Dhankawdi — was also charged with attempting to end his life, after he removed petrol from his vehicle and poured it on himself after he was brought to the police station. A magisterial court sent More in police custody remand till Saturday. A three-member police team had launched a drive to take action against people not wearing face masks. Constable Salman Mulla (29) from Swargate police signalled More to stop as he wasn’t wearing a mask while riding his scooter. Inspector Somnath Jadhav (crime) of Swargate police said, “The policeman told More to pay Rs500 fine, but he didn’t. He wore the mask and picked up a dispute with him and created ruckus at the chowk.” Jadhav said, “More hurled abuses at Mulla and refused to pay the fine even though he was seen not wearing a mask in the video shot by the police officers. He then took out his cellphone and started taking a video of the police taking action.” More accused the police of not taking action against an eatery and allowing it to operate till late in night. After a heated exchange of words, More pushed Mulla and tore the button on his uniform.The police then took him into custody, he said. “More abused the officers at the police station. He ran out after sometime. He used a pipe to remove petrol from his scooter in a bottle and poured it on his head. He was overpowered by the police. An FIR regarding obstructing policeman from discharging duty and attempting to end life was registered under relevant sections of the IPC and Motor Vehicles Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-stopped-for-not-wearing-mask-held-for-abusing-cops/articleshow/81474055.cms||Asseem Shaikh
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||Asia’s biggest medical college to go green with solar power||NAGPUR: City’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Asia’s biggest government medical college in terms of area and number of seats, will soon have solar power generation system which will produce 1200 kw energy. GMCH Nagpur is spread in 196 acres and more than 2,500 students learn almost all subjects of modern medicine here. Earlier this week, the college has received Rs6 crore grant for the construction and development of solar power unit, proposal for which was submitted in 2017. Maharashtra Energy Development Agency (MEDA or MahaUrja) has already started tender process for the work. In-charge dean Dr Sudhir Gupta said the funds have been allotted through the district planning and development committee (DPC). “We have got funds from the DPDC and technical approvals from MahaUrja. This project will soon become a reality and will be one of its kind for any government medical college in the state,” said Dr Gupta. As per a senior official in MEDA, two units of 640 kw power generation capacity will be installed on the GMCH premises. Solar panels will be installed on various buildings on the GMCH premises. Rooftops of ward nos 12, 13, 28, 32, and 33, entire wing in east side, MARD hostel, students hostels and nursing hostels will have solar panels installed. Overall, panels will cover about 10,300 sq metre area. Together they will produce 1260 kw electricity. This will bring the electricity bill to less than half and will provide a long term green solution for the medical college. At present, GMCH spends on an average Rs90 lakh per month on power bills. The state government provides Rs8 crore annually to the medical college to meet power expenses. This grant, however, falls short considering the sprawling GMCH campus that houses trauma care centre, superspecialty hospital, and hostels for resident doctors and students. In near future, GMCH premises will also have cancer hospital, spine care centre, and geriatric care centre. As power demand will increase in next few years, the solar units will prove to be of great benefit for the GMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/asias-biggest-medical-college-to-go-green-with-solar-power/articleshow/81474050.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||IIIT-Hyderabad seeks solutions to tackle water woes||HYDERABAD: Ahead of World Water Day, to be observed on March 22, the International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad has launched a water challenge and is seeking innovative solutions for water woes in urban areas from startups working on water management. The state government in association with the National Institute of Urban Management (NIUM) and the Living Lab, housed in IIIT-H campus has announced this unique initiative. “The state government currently has some projects for water quality measurement and distribution that they’re looking to improve,” said Ramesh Loganathan, professor of practice and co-innovations, IIIT-H explaining the rationale behind the focus on water. He added that the city itself has a broad mandate for water management in the context of urbanization. “It could be the measurement of water quality and quantity, water distribution efficiencies, analytics, wastage modelling, and so on. We’re open to anything around water,” said Loganathan. Waterlogging of arterial roads during monsoons, losses arising due to thefts or illegal water connections and treating wastewater are some of the transmission and distribution challenges for which the institute is looking for solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iiit-h-seeks-solutions-to-tackle-water-woes/articleshow/81474723.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Dehradun||‘Kinnars find acceptance in vedas and that is enough’||Haridwar: Even though kinnars, or trans persons, are well-acknowledged in the Vedas and they participated in Thursday's shahi snan, according to mahamandaleshwar (head) of kinnar akhada, Laxmi Narayan Tripathi, the sect is yet to be recognized as an independent akhada. At this Kumbh, its peshwai was merged with that of Juna akhada, where Tripathi rode in on a camel. They are, for now, a subsidiary of Juna akhada, which is the largest order of seers under the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), and officially known as ‘kinnar samuday’. Tripathi has a graduate degree in Commerce, a post-graduation in Bharatnatyam, she speaks both English and Sanskrit with ease and believes that trans persons do not need acceptance from the ABAP (the apex body of 13 akhadas of the country has till now refused to recognize the sect of kinnars as a 14th akhada). “Religion has been made patriarchal. The akhada parishad is a male-dominated, patriarchal body. They (ABAP) didn’t even accept the Dashnami Panchayati Majiwada (an order of women saints), expecting them to accept trans persons is far-fetched,” Tripathi said. Tripathi said that kinnars had come a long way since when “we were considered ‘updevtas’ (evil)”. “In 2015, when we founded our akhada and took the first shahi snan as such, all akhadas were against us. Only Harigiri Maharaj of Juna akhada had the courage to join us. In Sanatan dharma, entities that find mention include dev, danav, yaksha, gandharva, kinnar, apsara sant, mahatma, sadhu. This dharma (faith), based on which all of today’s akhadas were formed, does not discriminate. It has a place for anybody and everybody,” Tripathi said. The mahamandaleshwar added that many Muslim trans persons had also joined the order by taking diksha and a Hindu name. “Mujra Baksha, Muskan Qureshi are our founding members. They have changed their names as seers. One of our seers, Chhoti Begum, received her diksha and is known as Kalyan Nandagiri now. She used to have an odd job in Delhi and people even cringed to touch her. Now, they seek her blessings,” she said. Swami Avdheshanand, acharya mahamandaleshwar of Juna akhada, said, “Kinnar samuday was with us at Prayagraj Kumbh, as was the akhada parishad. It is the same at Haridwar Kumbh. We have maintained that this section of society, usually mistreated and boycotted, are welcome among us seers. Especially the Juna akhada will greet them with a big heart. Everyone in his universe has the right to connect with God.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/akhada-parishad-is-male-dominated-and-patriarchal-dont-expect-it-to-recognize-kinnar-akhada/articleshow/81472983.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 13, 2021||Hubballi||Karnataka: Brothers abduct, kill 11-year-old for quick money||HAVERI: Desperate to make a quick buck and influenced by TV crime shows, two brothers aged 20 and 17 allegedly abducted and murdered an 11-year-old neighbour, planning to seek ransom for him a few days later. The duo were arrested on Friday after they fled home and their parents — both teachers — reported their suspicious behaviour to police. Duo strangled boy with ropePolice said the brothers abducted Tejasgouda, son of advocate Jagadish Mallikeri, in a car from his house in Ashwini Nagar on March 7. The boy’s parents complained to cops the same day and a search was launched. Four days later, his charred body was found on a hostel premises near his house. SP KG Devaraj said the brothers had trawled many films and TV shows on destroying evidence and evading cops but the burned body left enough leads to follow. The SP said the brothers strangled the 11-year-old with a rope soon after they abducted him and dumped the body in Heggeri tank. However, they seem to have panicked and soon returned to the spot. Retrieving the body, they packed it in a gunny bag and buried it in their backyard. “They took out the body again and burned it at BCM hostel premises on March 10. Next day, they escaped from home,” Devaraj said. The car was intercepted near Shiggaon and the duo was nabbed on Friday. “What is shocking is that the brothers had attempted similar crimes in the past to demand money but failed to follow through their plans. Their parents are innocent and informed us after suspecting their behaviour,” said additional SP Mallikarjun Baladandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/brothers-abduct-kill-11-year-old-for-quick-money/articleshow/81477288.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
March 13, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Teacher among five detained for questioning||BENGALURU: A day after it was set up to investigate the CD scandal allegedly involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Friday picked up five people, including a woman working as a teacher with a government school in Kanakapura, for questioning. While activist Dinesh Kallahalli had lodged a complaint against Ramesh Jarkiholi with Cubbon Park police last week, alleging that the then minister had sexually exploited a woman after promising her a government job, a related video had gone viral. Jarkiholi had sought a detailed inquiry in connection with the complaint. More people could be detained for questioningThree of the detained men are reporters working with vernacular TV channels, while the fourth is from Chikkamagaluru and works for a web channel. The teacher is said to be a close friend of one of the detained scribes, with links to the woman alleged to have been sexually exploited. One of the detained scribes was covering the sex-for-job scandal from the very first day, regularly visiting Cubbon Park police station for updates on the investigation. The four men and woman were detained from different parts of the city, including Vijayanagar, Chamrajpet, Yeshwanthapur and from a village near Ramanagara. All five people were brought to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) headquarters on Palace Road. They were questioned separately. “These are the persons who we strongly suspect to have handed over the CD to activist Dinesh Kallahalli. The teacher has information on the CD and the woman seen in the CD,” an investigating officer said. “Now, we are just questioning them. Arrest can happen only after an FIR is registered. In this case, no FIR has been registered so far,” said a senior officer of the SIT. Police sources said those detained were under the scanner for the past three days. “Cubbon Park police had collected needed information on them and a close watch was kept on each of them. On Friday, senior officials from SIT ordered that they be picked up for questioning,” a source said. Two of them reportedly admitted to having edited the CD in their office near Yeshwantpur. The sources added that two teams have been sent to Andhra Pradesh to pick up two more men. “One of them is a former TV scribe and currently working with a well- known politician,” the source said. “The video was posted on social media four hours before Kallahalli filed a complaint. The culprits had taken enough precautions to mask the server where it originated. Those who loaded the CD to social media had succeeded in changing the IP address. They made it look like it was uploaded from some foreign country,” another officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/teacher-among-five-detained-for-questioning/articleshow/81477293.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Trichy||DMK fields sitting MLAs in Trichy||Trichy: While AIADMK has denied seat to an incumbent minister and an MLA in the district, DMK has fielded sitting MLAs in the respective constituencies in the district. DMK principal secretary KN Nehru has retained his ticket to contest Trichy west for the fifth time in a row since 2006. Nehru will be facing V Padmanadhan, a newcomer from AIADMK. Three more MLAs who have been retained are A Soundarapandian in Lalgudi constituency, Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi in Thiruverumbur constituency and S Stalinkumar in Thuraiyur constituency. Soundarapandian will be contesting from Lalgudi for a fourth consecutive term while the remaining will be seeking for a second consecutive term. Out of nine constituencies, DMK has fielded its candidates in eight segments while the party has allotted Manapparai constituency to its ally Manithaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK). Srirangam candidate M Palaniyandi will be contesting for the second time while it will be the first time for Trichy east candidate Inigo Irudhayaraj, Mannachanallur candidate S Kathiravan and Musiri candidate N Thiyagarajan. On the other hand, AIADMK has dropped minister for backward and minorities welfare S Valarmathi (Srirangam constituency) and Mannachanallur MLA M Parameswari. The remaining incumbent MLAs – minister Vellamandi N Natarajan, R Chandrasekar and M Selvarasu - have retained their seats in Trichy east, Manapparai and Mannachanallur constituencies respectively. Former ministers Ku Pa Krishnan, M Paranjothi, former two-time Trichy MP P Kumar and former MLA T Indira Gandhi got a chance to contest from Srirangam, Mannachanallur, Thiruverumbur and Thuraiyur respectively this time. Lalgudi constituency was initially allotted to AIADMK candidate T Rajaram but later given to TMC candidate DR Dharmaraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-fields-sitting-mlas-in-trichy/articleshow/81474727.cms||Gokul Rajendran
March 13, 2021||Pune||Daily tally jumps to 3,184 as testing stays on higher side||Pune: The daily Covid 19 cases in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) jumped to 3,184 on Friday as testing (14,423) stayed on the higher side. On the brighter side, as many as 1,685 people recovered in the region in teh last 24 hours, taking total discharges above 4.03 lakh. The PMC areas recorded over 1,805 cases in the last 24 hours, while the PCMC limits added 855, followed by the rural pockets (524). Among the recoveries, the Pune civic limits accounted for 598 discharges, followed by the rural areas (611) and the Pimpri Chinchwad area (476). The region’s total positive caseload has increased above 4.31 lakh, including more than 2.14 lakh from the PMC limits and over 1.1 lakh from the PCMC areas. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that the region recorded 16 deaths due to Covid-related complications on Friday, which included eight fatalities in the PMC limits and four each in the PCMC and rural parts. So far, as many as 5,094 people have succumbed to the infection in the PMC limits, followed by 1,870 in the PCMC limits. With this, the total deaths in PMR have reached 9,372. The number of active cases in the region increased further to 18,692 in the last 24 hours. Of these, as many as 13,321 patients were in home isolation, while 5,371 patients were admitted in various hospitals for further treatment. Health officials have appealed citizens to abide by Covid-appropriate behaviour to ensure that cases don’t rise further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-tally-jumps-to-3184-as-testing-stays-on-higher-side/articleshow/81474103.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Panjagutta police raid spa, beautician booked||Hyderabad: A beautician was booked for running a spa-cum-saloon illegally in an apartment complex in Somajiguda. Panjagutta police said the organisers have been using women to do cross massages. Acting on specific information, a team of Panjagutta police under the supervision of SI B Paramesh raided ‘S Beauty Spa and Saloon’ on Thursday. The spa is being run from flat No. 403 in Central Court Apartments. “The organisers have been making women indulge in illegal activities,” the SI said. The spa is operated by G Saritha (33), beautician from Kavadiguda, along with K Pramod (26) of Kukatpally. “Saritha was intentionally not following the guidelines and regulation of law with an intention to gain profit illegally,” Paramesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/panjagutta-police-raid-spa-beautician-booked/articleshow/81474734.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Trichy||Two boats with sea cucumbers seized||Kanyakumari: Two fishing boats with illegally poached sea cucumbers worth Rs 5.45 crore were seized near Lakshadweep on Thursday. Seven people, including one from Tamil Nadu have been arrested for their role in the poaching and smuggling racket. The boats - Rekshika and Badaruthamami - were owned by M Rubin of Thoothoor in Kanyakumari and Abdul Jabbar K I of Agatti Island, the Lakshadweep, respectively. The arrested have been identified as P Julius Nayagam of Kanyakumari, P Sajan of Thiruvananthapuram, Jagannath Das of Delhi, Paran Das of West Bengal and Abdul Jabbar, Mohammed Hafeelu S B and Saqalain Musthaque from Agatti. They were caught by the Lakshadweep marine wildlife protection force watchers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-boats-with-sea-cucumbers-seized/articleshow/81474106.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Meerut||UP man who lost job kills self, blames three company staffers in suicide video||MEERUT: A man in his 30s, who used to work with a leading publication house in the city allegedly killed himself by consuming poison on Thursday evening. He left behind a suicide note and a purported video blaming three staffers of the publication house where he worked for forcing him to take the extreme step after he was allegedly asked to quit. "He was at home for the past four months and was recuperating following an eye surgery at AIIMS, Delhi. He had recently joined work. There are 3-4 individuals at the company who tortured him to such an extent that he was forced to take his own life," the father of the deceased alleged. Based on his mother's complaint, an FIR against the publishing house owner, and three of the staffers named in the video was registered under IPC sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 323 (assault) at TP Nagar police station. The man was a resident of the city's TP Nagar area. He was found unconscious in a room at a hotel on Meerut-Doon highway in Partapur area on Thursday. After hotel staffers alerted police, he was rushed to a private medical college where he breathed his last in the night. Detailing about the circumstances in his Facebook video, the man can be heard saying that he was on medical leave after his eye operation in November last year. But, when he recently tried to get back to his job, a staffer from the human resource department asked him not to join the office. "I have been harassed mainly by three persons who forced me to take this step. All the three work in my company. The same three had colluded to force me out of the company in 2017, but managed to get my job back in 2018," the man can be heard saying. "I was on my way to the office when I got a call from the HR department, and asked me not to report at work. They asked me to leave without any reason or proper explanation. I requested them to reconsider, but they didn't listen," he further said. Watch Uttar Pradesh: Man kills self, blames three company staffers in suicide video||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-man-who-lost-job-kills-self-blames-three-company-staffers-in-suicide-video/articleshow/81473020.cms||Piyush Rai
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Warrant against tahsildar for failing to appear in court||HYDERABAD: Justice M S Ramachandra Rao of the Telangana high court on Friday issued a bailable warrant to Hayathnagar tahsildar K Prameela Rani for failing to appear before the court despite a previous direction from the court. The judge directed the authorities to ensure her production before the court on March 19 by implementing the bailable warrant. Justice Rao passed this interim direction while hearing a petition filed by Golla Yadamma and another from Hayathnagar’s Sahebnagar who were aggrieved with the alleged interference of the officials in the peaceful possession of their 293 square yards of the plot. They were prevented from constructing a house on their plot. The revenue officials who stopped the construction charged the petitioners with encroaching into the nearby government land in survey numbers 230 to 234. The petitioners approached the high court and said that they were unlawfully obstructed by the revenue officials from raising construction in their own plot even after obtaining building permission from the civic authorities. The court had earlier ordered a joint survey of the area in question. The officials did not complete it. When the obstruction to their work did not stop, the petitioners brought to the notice of the court that the officials neither implemented the court order nor did they stop their interference. The judge directed the revenue authorities not to interfere in the plot of the petitioners. Even this order was ignored, the petitioners said and filed a contempt plea. The judge earlier directed the tahsildar to keep on appearing for the court hearings till the disposal of the case. On Friday, she did not turn up. Nor was there any representation on her behalf. The judge then ordered a bailable warrant seeking production of the officer before the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/warrant-against-tahsildar-for-failing-to-appear-in-court/articleshow/81474741.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||HC to hold virtual hearings next week||Nagpur: In view of the stringent restrictions imposed by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) from March 15 to March 21 to curb Covid spread in the city, Bombay high court administration has curtailed working hours for its Nagpur bench. Chief Justice Dipankar Datta has directed all courts to conduct virtual hearings from 10.30am to 1pm, while the timing for the registry staff will be till 2pm. As per notification issued by registrar (judicial VR Kachre), the CJ nominated various judges for hearing urgent matters only. A bench headed by Justice Sunil Shukre and accompanied by Justice Avinash Gharote would hear all PILs and civil cases. This bench would work on March 15, 17 and 19. Another bench of Justice Zaka Haq and Justice Amit Borkar would hear all criminal writ petitions and appeals on March 16 and 18. The third bench of Justice Atul Chandurkar and Justice Pushpa Ganediwala will hear matters related to direct and indirect taxes, all letters patent appeals and family court appeals on March 17. Other judges heading single bench would function alternately as per schedule decided by the CJ.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-to-hold-virtual-hearings-next-week/articleshow/81474104.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Trichy||Central TN records 64 fresh cases||Trichy: A day after crossing more than 60 fresh cases of Covid-19, the central region of TN maintained the trend steady for the second consecutive day indicating the rise in fresh cases, on Friday. The region comprising eight districts including Trichy recorded 64 fresh cases today taking the tally to 77,825. Compared to yesterday where 68 fresh cases were reported, the number of cases reduced by four today. Yet, the number of fresh infections in the region remained above 60 today as well. The number has been standing at above 50 for the past few days. Thanjavur (23) had the highest number of cases today pushing its tally to 18,325 - the highest in the region. However, the number of fresh cases was down by 14 today compared to yesterday where 37 cases were reported. Trichy stood second with 12 new infections. It took the tally of the district to 15,102. This was followed by Nagappattinam (9) and Tiruvarur (7), Pudukkottai (5), Karur (5), Perambalur (2) and Ariyalur (1). The region recorded 409 active cases. The death toll remained 963 with no fresh casualty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/central-tn-records-64-fresh-cases/articleshow/81474093.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Trichy||AIADMK versus DMK likely in all Trichy seats||Trichy: This election may mark an unprecedented contest between the “rising sun” and “two leaves”, the election symbol of DMK and AIADMK respectively, in all nine assembly segments in Trichy district. While the two will be locking horns directly in Trichy East, Trichy West, Srirangam, Manachanallur, Thuraiyur (reserved), Thiruverumbur and Musiri, AIADMK’s ally Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC) will face DMK in Lalgudi. Similarly, DMK’s ally Manithaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK) will face AIADMK in Manapparai. However, as TMC has agreed to use two leaves symbol this time, Lalgudi constituency will also see a two leaves versus rising sun contest. With MMK agreeing to contest on DMK symbol in one of the two segments, Manapparai and Papanasam, allotted to them in the DMK alliance, the party may consider contesting on the rising sun in Manapparai, an AIADMK stronghold. “Since Manapparai has a sitting AIADMK MLA, it would be great if MMK prefers to contest on rising sun symbol. The time available to familiarise the election symbol is too less,” a DMK source added. As Congress and BJP are contesting the lowest number of seats in the central region, as many as 32 constituencies are set to witness direct contest between the Dravidian majors. As TMC is contesting on two leaves symbol in Pattukkottai segment in Thanjavur district, the constituency will also witness a AIADMK - DMK contest. Similarly, MDMK which is contesting on DMK symbol in Ariyalur constituency, will face AIADMK’s Thamarai S Rajendran. Of the 41 constituencies in the region, DMK has ceded nine to allies and AIADMK seven. CPI will contest in Thiruthuraipoondi (reserved) while CPM will contest in Gandarvakkottai and Kizhvelur, reserved constituencies in Pudukottai and Nagapattinam districts respectively. CPM will face AIADMK and PMK in Gandarvakkottai and Kizhvelur respectively while CPI will face AIADMK in Thiruthuraipoondi. VCK, which was allotted Nagapattinam, will take on AIADMK in the segment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aiadmk-versus-dmk-likely-in-all-trichy-seats/articleshow/81474732.cms||Deepak Karthik
March 13, 2021||Trichy||First since 1967: Cong not to contest a seat in Trichy||Trichy: With DMK set to contest all nine assembly segments in Trichy district, its ally Congress will not have a candidate in the district for the first time since 1967. Indeed, the party doesn’t have much to gloat about its past performance as all its candidates in the assembly elections held since 1996 have faced defeat. In fact, in the entire central region comprising 41 assembly segments, Congress will be contesting only from Mayiladuthurai and Aranthangi seats. Though the party has two MPs in the region — Su Thirunavukkarasar of Trichy and S Jothimani of Karur — Congress cadres rued that this will be the first assembly election which will not see ‘hand symbol’ in Trichy and Karur districts which boasts a traditional Congress vote bank. Trichy East (formerly Trichy I), Srirangam and Lalgudi were the constituencies traditionally contested by Congress candidates since the 1967 assembly election. Of the 22 times the party contested in the erstwhile Trichy district in the last 54 years, it managed to win only seven and lost 15. J Logambal, who was fielded in Lalgudi in the 1991 assembly election, was the last Congress candidate to have won an assembly election for the party in the district. “The decision to field DMK candidates in all nine assembly segments was taken to ensure a win in entire district. However, we had to cede a segment to MMK. This election is crucial for us, we cannot take chances on the winning probability and allot seats to the alliance,” a DMK source in Trichy said.Although the district Congress party office near the Main guard gate remained deserted with party cadres expressing resentment at not getting a single constituency to contest, party functionaries recalled the support that came from DMK in successfully electing Congress MPs in Trichy and Karur. “There is no discontent in us. DMK leaders and cadres had supported us in the 2019 general election which we ought to repay,” S Vignesh, general secretary of Youth Congress in Trichy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/first-since-1967-cong-not-to-contest-a-seat-in-trichy/articleshow/81474737.cms||Deepak Karthik
March 13, 2021||Patna||Toddler crushed to death by PMC garbage van in Patna||Patna: A three-year-old child, Rohit Kumar, was crushed to death by a garbage van of the Patna Municipal Corporation on the main road near Doctors’ Colony under the Kankarbagh police station area in Patna around 10 am on Friday. The child lived in the slums opposite the colony. After the accident, slum dwellers gathered on the road and damaged the vehicle and turned it turtle to block the road. They also burned tyres and bamboo sticks. The garbage van crushed the child’s head killing him instantly. Rohit was the only son of Rakesh Paswan and Sushma Devi. The couple has four daughters and Paswan's wife had undergone a tubectomy after Rohit’s birth, slum dwellers said. The traffic in the area, which houses several VIPs, remained blocked for almost two hours which created immense pressure on the police as well as on district administration. Forces from several neighbouring police stations were rushed to the spot after the accident to control the law and order situation. Kankarbagh police station SHO Ravishankar Kumar said the father was carrying the child in his arms when the van hit both of them. "The van ran over the child after he fell from his father's lap," the SHO said. He further said the van’s driver and the assistant driver fled the spot leaving the vehicle. “Police have asked the corporation authorities to give the details of the two persons,” he added. Kumar said Rs 20,000 was provided to the child’s father by the Patna Sadar block development officer as financial assistance for cremation and other necessary arrangements after the death. “The body was handed over to the family after post-mortem at PMCH. An FIR is being registered with the Traffic police station at Gandhi Maidan in connection with the incident based on the father’s statement,” he added. When asked, PMC commissioner Anand Sharma said he would able to comment on the matter after taking details of the incident from his subordinates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/toddler-crushed-to-death-by-pmc-garbage-van-in-patna/articleshow/81474112.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Pay buyer 9% interest till possession: MahaRERA||MUMBAI: MahaRERA in a recent order directed Unmesh Joshi, promoter of Kohinoor City at Kurla, to pay a home buyer 9% interest on the amount paid by him till possession of the flat was handed over. The complainant had booked the flat in 2014 and had paid over Rs1 crore. The developer had initially promised possession by 2016, but later revised it to June 2021. MahaRERA member BD Kapadnis rejected the contention of the developer that the complainant was not entitled to seek interest for delayed possession as an agreement for sale had not been executed. According to the complaint, Deepak Mandlik had booked a flat in the project on December 9, 2014. Though the promoter had agreed to hand over possession by December 31, 2016, the project is still under construction. Mandlik paid over Rs1 crore of the total Rs1.74 crore, but no agreement for sale was executed by the developer. The home buyer, represented by advocate Anil D Souza, approached MahaRERA seeking an interest on his investment from 2016 till the time of getting possession of the flat on account of delayed possession under Section 18 of RERA and also sought execution of an agreement for sale. The promoter, represented by Akshay Bidaye, contended that as per the current status, the project would be completed by June 30, 2021 and also claimed that the complainant had not come forward to execute the agreement for sale. It was also pointed out that Rs 45 lakh was outstanding dues toward the flat. It was also argued that since the agreement for sale had not been executed, the complainant was not entitled to seek interest for delayed possession. However, Kapadnis observed that any aggrieved person can file the complaint under section 31 of RERA. He also said the allottees had paid over Rs1crore, which is more than 10% of the total consideration and Section 13 of RERA lays down that the promoter is not entitled to receive more than 10% of the total amount without first executing and registering the agreement for sale. The developer’s demand for interest on accrued arrears was rejected. Kapadnis directed the promoter to execute the agreement for sale and pay the complainant interest from January 1, 2017, besides Rs 20,000 toward costs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-pay-buyer-9-interest-till-possession-maharera/articleshow/81474120.cms||Sanjeev Devasia
March 13, 2021||Madurai||BJP veep files papers even before party announces it||Tirunelveli: BJP state vice-president Nainar Nagenthran filed his nomination papers as the BJP candidate for the Tirunelveli assembly segment even before an official announcement from the party. “I filed it today because it is an auspicious day,” he told reporters after filing his papers at the office of the returning officer on the first day for the process.Tirunelveli is among the 20 assembly segments in which BJP will contest the assembly elections in the AIADMK alliance. “The official announcement from the party will come from Delhi anytime,” the former minister told reporters who repeatedly questioned him about hurriedly filing the nomination papers without the party’s green signal.On submitting the nomination papers without Form B (the recognition letter from the party he is representing), he said it can be submitted any time. Thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP national president J P Nadda and home minister Amit Shah for the opportunity, he also expressed his gratitude to MGR and J Jayalalithaa saying their blood runs in his veins.Nainar also expressed confidence that the AIADMK will definitely extend their support to him as an individual as well. On his expected victory margin, he said that it would not be appropriate for him to comment on it and leaves it to the people to respond in the form of their votes. He also listed out his achievements as MLA of Tirunelveli for 10 years in two tenures.This is the fifth time he is contesting from Tirunelveli. In all the four previous elections he represented the AIADMK, winning twice (2001-06 and 2011-16). In 2001-06 he was the minister for transport, followed by electricity and industries. In the 2019 elections he unsuccessfully contested from Ramanathapuram constituency as BJP candidate.Senior leaders are disappointed at Nainar for going ahead against the party’s protocol and overstepping the line. “As per protocol, the parliamentary board should release the candidates list. Without official communication from the headquarters he went ahead and filed the nomination,” a senior leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bjp-veep-files-papers-even-before-party-announces-it/articleshow/81474118.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||25-year-old man stabbed in Falaknuma||Hyderabad: A 25-year-old man was murdered by unknown persons while he was standing on the road in Falaknuma on Friday. Falaknuma police said that Mohammed Jaber was repeatedly stabbed in the middle of the road. Police said that Jaber was allegedly involved in the murder of one Shanoor in the past. Jaber has a rowdy-sheet opened against him in Mailardevpally police station. Police suspect that his friends, with whom he has rivalry, might be behind the murder. “We are probing the case from two angles. Persons related to Shanoor or the role of his friends is being suspected. Police are verifying CCTV footage to identify the accused,” said an official. A case was registered under section-302 (murder) of IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25-year-old-man-stabbed-in-falaknuma/articleshow/81474748.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Borivli businessman held in Rs 12 crore GST fraud case||Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) department on Thursday arrested a Borivli businessman for fraudulently availing of input tax credit (ITC) of Rs 12 crore and passing it to others, causing a huge loss to the exchequer. Pranav Harsh (38) is the proprietor of MS Scrap & Shree Steels. Harsh was booked under sections of CGST Act, 2017, and was remanded to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/borivli-bizman-held-in-rs-12cr-gst-fraud-case-in-mumbai/articleshow/81474751.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Pune||Rural Pune’s Covid-19 mortality rate drops despite case rise||PUNE: The Covid-19 mortality rate in the rural parts of Pune has dropped to 2.2% over the last two weeks after staying at 2.4% in February. The reduced number of fatalities come despite a spike in cases over the last few days. In a report tabled before deputy CM Ajit Pawar during a Covid-19 review meeting on Friday, the Pune Zilla Parishad said it had earmarked 50 hotspots, across the 13 tehsils in the district, where the number of Covid-19 cases were 10 or more. Ayush Prasad, the ZP chief executive officer, “Cases have increased in villages which are close to the civic limits, but the situation is under control. Our reduced Covid-19 mortality rate indicates that patients are getting treatment on time, due to which they are recovering fast.” Rural Pune has recorded 74,814 Covid-19 cases since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. Of this, as many as 71,120 have recovered, while 1,657 have succumbed to the virus till March 11. “The early detection has remained our priority and it has been achieved through various surveys. Besides, our coordination with private hospitals across rural Pune has remained excellent, helping us to provide quality treatments to patients. Right now we are admitting patients at Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) to provide critical treatment,” Prasad said. The ZP had conducted numerous special sessions for their doctors at district level to fine tune treatment protocol of various types of critical Covid patients, said Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer. “Our doctors are confident with their treatment protocols now, which is reflecting in the mortality rate,” he said. In rural areas, the ZP has asked the rural police to provide extra manpower to punish people for violating Covid norms. “This is the need of the hour as people are not adhering to social distancing norms. Apart from awareness drive, deterrence is also needed. So, we have asked the rural police to enhance patrolling to levy fine on those flouting Covid norms,” said a senior ZP official on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-punes-ncov-mortality-rate-drops-despite-case-rise/articleshow/81474128.cms||Sandip Dighe
March 13, 2021||Aurangabad||Anti-encroachment drive at Beed Bypass||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Friday initiated a mega anti-encroachment drive on the busy Beed Bypass road. Following the action, civic body authorities said that the action was part of its plan to clear the highway of all the encroachments. As part of the initiative, at least seven structures were brought down partially while some of them were removed completely. Aurangabad municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey cited the increasing number of fatal accidents on Beed Bypass road as the key reason for removing the encroachments on priority. “Civic body’s appeal to the people to abstain from encroaching the buffer area between their properties and the highway have often fell on deaf ears, forcing the civic body to initiate the action,” said additional commissioner Ravindra Nikam who is currently heading the drive. In the past two days, town planning department started marking the encroachments starting from Mahanubhav Ashram Chowk. Following the marking, Pandey, along with Nikam, appealed the property owners to remove their encroachments, but in vain. Finally on Friday morning, the anti-encroachment squad reached the spot and removed the encroachments in the presence of heavy police bandobast. Civic body authorities said that the drive will continue till every encroachment is removed from both the sides of the road. Due to the ever-rising number of fatal accidents at Beed Bypass road, recently Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta personally carried out spot inspection of the road and even interacted with the locals to understand the ground reality and found that encroachments on the either sides of the road were amongst the key reasons for fatal accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/anti-encroachment-drive-at-beed-bypass/articleshow/81471966.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||OU to continue with Covid exam pattern||Hyderabad: Osmania University (OU) has decided to continue with the Covid-19 exam pattern for the semester exams scheduled to be held from March 16. Close to 1.6 lakh students are set to appear for the third and fifth semester (regular) exams from this month. All colleges have been instructed to complete practical exams for undergraduate students on or before March 15. “The duration of theory exams is of two hours and the question paper pattern is the same as revised pattern of second and fourth semesters due to Covid-19 pandemic as one time measure,” read a press note issued by OU. Students will continue to have more choices in the question paper. For the next semester exams, students will have regular question papers and exam duration as per pre-Covid times. The exam is set to be held at 310 centres. Students have been allotted centres via jumbling system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ou-to-continue-with-covid-exam-pattern/articleshow/81474755.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Aurangabad||About 3k trees engulfed in fire near Aurangabad caves||Aurangabad: About 3000 trees were reduced to ashes in a fire that ravaged near cave no seven situated in the vicinity of Vijayind Aranya Buddha Vihara behind the Dr. Babasaheb AmbedkarMarathwada University (BAMU) area on Friday. Police as well as civic body authorities were alerted about the incident by Bhadant Abjayputra Mahathero, following which fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Fire tenders took over two hours to douse the flames and finally prevent it from spreading to other surrounding area having tens of thousands of trees. As per the preliminary reports, an unidentified person set the dried grass ablaze at the Vihar area at around 3 pm on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/about-3k-trees-engulfed-in-fire-near-aurangabad-caves/articleshow/81471971.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 13, 2021||Patna||Patna DM, SSP fined as no witness turns up in 8 years||Patna: A city lower court on Friday imposed a fine of Rs5,000 each on Patna DM and SSP for their failure to produce even a single witness for the last eight years since framing of charges for trial of an attempt to murder case lodged on May 6, 2000. The court of ADJ-XVII Avinash Kumar-I also directed the chief secretary and state DGP to deduct the fine from the salary of both the officers and deposit it to the CM Relief Fund. The court also directed the chief secretary and the DGP to send compliance reports within 30 days after deducting the fine amount from the salary of both officers and depositing it in the CM Relief Fund. The chief secretary and DGP have been asked to look into the misconduct, disobedience and negligence of both the officers. The court had served show-cause notices on both the officers of December 19 last year. It had even fixed hearing on January 18, January 27 and February 23 this year for their appearance, but neither they appeared nor any witness was produced in the court. On September 4, 2019, the court had served show-cause on Kotwali police station SHO, but he, too, could not reply. One Manish Kumar Jha had lodged an FIR with Kotwali police station of Patna against Pappu Thakur, Pappu Rai and Rambali Ram for attempting to murder his neighbour Rajendra Kumar Singh by stabbing him with a knife. Singh, along with Manish’s brother Prashant Kumar Jha, had tried to save a rickshaw-puller whom the trio had been thrashing following an altercation. Pappu is the son of former minister Suryadev Rai, as per case records. Police had submitted chargesheet in the case against the three accused on May 22, 2000. However, charges could be framed against them on November 7, 2012. The trial could not be completed yet due to non-production of witnesses in the case. Rambali is already dead and proceedings have been dropped against him. The court observed that under the provision of the Criminal Code rules of the Patna high court, the DM and SSP are responsible for producing witnesses, but no action had been taken from their side in the case despite several reminders and it was left with no option but to impose a fine on them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-dm-ssp-fined-as-no-witness-turns-up-in-8-years/articleshow/81474126.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 13, 2021||Pune||Dy CM pushes for jabs to all above 18 years old in district||Pune: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the state would approach the Union government for allowing mass vaccination of people above 18 years of age in the district in view of the recent increase in Covid-19 cases and daily positivity rate.Stating that medical experts had suggested this move, he urged Pune MPs Girish Bapat, Supriya Sule, Shrirang Barne and Amol Kolhe to submit this proposal to the Union health ministry officials in Parliament itself.“A change in policy is required for Pune in Maharashtra as well as all other districts in different states having a high positivity rate. A mass vaccination drive for those above 18 years will have to be allowed immediately. For this, more vaccine doses have to be allotted to these states,” Ajit Pawar, also the district guardian minister, told TOI, citing that Niti Aayog member (health) and other health officials had also prescribed for more focus on such districts.The deputy chief minister said the Centre would also have to make changes in the vaccine distribution policy for districts with high caseload so that the spread of the disease could be effectively curbed.The Central government announced earlier that Pune was among the eight severely affected districts. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, along with state technical expert Dr Subhash Salunkhe, have been pushing for speeding up the vaccination process for some time now.Rao said experts were of the view that the Centre should re-consider the age groups, especially for Pune, to prevent any further spike in cases and ensure that larger population was covered in a short period. “The Centre would have to consider the logistics and the availability of vaccines after the proposal to vaccinate everyone above 18-year-old is tabled,” Rao told TOI.State technical expert Dr Salunkhe said, “We have been pressing for disbursal of vaccines on priority basis to the most affected states. Now, we are demanding that we should not restrict to any particular age group but have mega vaccination drive covering all above 18 years, leaving aside only the pregnant women population and children because they are not permitted to take the shot. The highly affected districts will definitely benefit from it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dy-cm-pushes-for-jabs-to-all-above-18-years-old-in-district/articleshow/81474121.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 13, 2021||Madurai||HC dismisses Kamal’s plea to quash FIR||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday dismissed a plea by Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) president Kamal Haasan seeking to quash the FIR registered against him by the Aravakurichi police following his comment that independent India’s first extremist was a Hindu (Gandhi assassin Nathuram Godse). Justice R Hemalatha dismissed the petition after the state informed that police had filed the final report before the jurisdictional magistrate court. Based on a complaint by Ramakrishnan, a case was registered against Kamal alleging that he has made a hate speech in public creating communal disharmony during a campaign in Karur in 2019. In his petition, Kamal stated that his speech was not to promote disharmony Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-kamals-plea-to-quash-fir/articleshow/81474122.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Rajkot||Survivor being harassed to withdraw rape complaint||Rajkot: A Dalit woman, working as a teacher in a private school in Rajkot, alleged that a person, against whom she had filed a rape complaint last year, is harassing and pressurizing her to withdraw the same. The woman filed a complaint against Divyesh Jatakiya in Malaviyanagar police station on Thursday. In April, 2020, the woman had filed a complaint against Jatakiya with Bhaktinagar police station in under IPC section 376, 506 (2) and atrocity act. In her latest complaint she alleged that on March 5 she spotted Jatakiya’s car outside her school. Afterwards, she spotted Jatakiya and his family in the prayer hall of the school. The woman stated that Jatakiya has been stalking her since then. She also alleged that the accused made a video call, which her mother picked. The woman added that Jatakiya is pressurizing her to withdraw the police complaint filed in April. Jatakiya had approached Gujarat high court to quash the FIR, the court rejected his petition in July 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/survivor-being-harassed-to-withdraw-rape-complaint/articleshow/81472218.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Pune||Aspirants happy CM intervened, hope commission sticks to the new date||Pune: In a relief to the aspirants preparing for the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) examination, the crucial test has now been scheduled for March 21. Candidates only hope the exam is not postponed yet again. The MPSC notification issued on Friday stated, “The exam has been postponed to March 21. The entry to the exam hall will be given to candidates based on the hall tickets issued earlier. The Engineering Services Examination to be conducted by the MPSC on April 11 will also be held as scheduled.” After MPSC announced the postponement of the exam on Thursday, candidates took to the streets to protest the decision. The exam had been postponed for the fourth time since last April. An aspirant Nilesh Babar said, “We are happy that the chief minister intervened in this matter but now the commission should stick to this date. Candidates are doubtful if the exams will be conducted. The exam should be conducted in the same manner that the exam for health workers was conducted recently.” Meanwhile, BJP MLC Gopichand Padalkar, who was at Council Hall on Friday, said the government should provide compensation worth Rs 20,000, per student. He also said the government should give a grace period to students due to the Covid-19 situation. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar, who held a meeting with officials on Friday, said MPSC should have handled the situation better. Pawar said, “The candidates should not have faced this situation and we regret it, but one should not politicise the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/aspirants-happy-cm-intervened-hope-commission-sticks-to-the-new-date/articleshow/81474130.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
March 13, 2021||Trichy||9 fishermen stranded in Arabian Sea||Kanyakumari: Nine fishermen on board a deep sea multi-day fishing vessel are stranded in the Arabian Sea after their boat developed a technical snag. Activist P Justin Antony of International Fishermen Development Trust said the issue has been taken to the notice of Union fisheries minister, Indian Coast Guard, navy and the chief minister’s office. Four of the fishermen are from Kanyakumari and five from Assam. The TN fishermen have been identified as Surling 60, Sajin 32, Sujin Kumar 19, and Kejin, 26. The activist said they went fishing from the Kochi harbour on February 25. On Wednesday, they got stranded off the Lakshadweep Coast at a distance of 270 nautical miles (500km) from Kochi. They informed the owner of the boat Benziger through satellite phone. “We have informed the Coast Guard, Chennai, to help them,” a fisheries department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/9-fishermen-stranded-in-arabian-sea/articleshow/81474133.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: CKP Bank closure in depositors’ interest: HC||Mumbai: Reserve Bank of India acted in the interest of depositors and to prevent further loss of their hard-earned money while cancelling the banking licence of CKP Coop Bank Ltd, said Bombay high court on Friday while dismissing petitions against its winding up. A bench of Justices Ramesh Dhanuka and VG Bisht declined to interfere with RBI’s April 28, 2020, order cancelling its banking licence and the May 4, 2020, order of the department of cooperation to appoint a liquidator. The verdict came on three petitions by depositors to direct reconstruction or amalgamation of the bank with any other bank with a sound financial position and for RBI or the Centre to grant financial aid for its revival and to be run directly under supervision and control of the apex bank and the government. The judges agreed with senior advocate Venkatesh Dhond for RBI that the banking regulator had granted sufficient indulgence to revive the bank and its financial position by allowing it to merge with other cooperative banks and to take steps for revival but there was no improvement. The judges “minutely perused” correspondence between RBI and CKP from 2009 till revocation of its licence and said the record shows RBI acted in public interest and also in the interest of depositors and cancelled its licence as a last resort. “We do not find any illegality, irrationality or procedural improbability in the decision-making process of the Reserve Bank of India. If the Reserve Bank of India would not have taken timely appropriate steps and the decision to cancel the banking licence and to direct the Registrar of Cooperative Societies to wind up the affairs of the said CKP Bank, the said CKP Bank would have suffered further loss and erosion of assets including depositors,’ they said. The state’s advocate, Jyoti Chavan, said 94% of the bank’s depositors with deposits below Rs 5 lakh would be fully paid no sooner than the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation grants sanctions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ckp-bank-closure-in-depositors-interest-hc/articleshow/81472477.cms||Rosy Sequeira
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Couple dies in suspicious circumstances at rehab centre||HYDERABAD: A 42-year-old paralysed woman, who was admitted at a rehabilitation centre was found dead at the facility under suspicious circumstances and her 50-year-old husband who was attending her at the rehab centre near Raj Bhavan, ended his life by consuming poison. While the husband mentioned in the suicide note that they ended their lives, police are waiting for the post-mortem report of the woman to see if she was strangled to death by the distressed husband. On March 8, N Sai Lakshmi (42), a housewife from Rahmatnagar was admitted at a private health & rehabilitation centre. “Sai Lakshmi suffered a brain stroke and half her body was paralysed. Family admitted her at the rehabilitation centre for treatment on March 8 and her husband, N Subba Rao, a car driver was her attendant,” Punjagutta SI B Paramesh said. At around 4 am on Friday, the rehab centre staff called Subba Rao’s daughter N Shivani, employee of Amazon company and informed that her parents were unconscious. “Within 40 minutes after receiving the call I reached the facility and found that my father was unconscious and my mother was lying on the bed with a white bandage around her neck and doctors said she was dead. We shifted my father to the Gandhi Hospital for the treatment. We found a suicide note with my father in his own writing. He mentioned that no one was responsible for their death and they ended their lives due to financial and mental problems,” Shivani mentioned in her complaint to police. While undergoing treatment at the Gandhi Hospital, Subba Rao succumbed in the evening. “He consumed unknown poison. As the bandage was found wrapped around Sai Lakshmi which the rehab centre staff did not use, we are waiting for the post-mortem report to check if she died due to strangulation or due to consumption of poison,” the SI said. A case was registered under sections 174 of CrPC (suspicious death).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-dies-in-suspicious-circumstances-at-rehab-centre/articleshow/81474770.cms||---
March 13, 2021||---||M K Stalin fields old horses and young guns, calls them sure-shot winners||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin seems to have played it safe by betting big on party veterans, even while taking along young and emerging leaders, when he announced on Friday the list of candidates for 173 assembly seats that the party is contesting in the assembly elections. Stalin’s son Udhayanidhi makes his debut in electoral politics and will contest from Chepauk-Triplicane assembly segment, a seat represented by his grandfather and former chief minister M Karunanidhi. Udhayanidhi’s candidature, despite plans not to initiate him in this election, is sure to be used by the political opponents to attack the DMK for promoting dynastic politics. Though Udhayanidhi is not the only son to make his political debut, he is the most prominent. "They are not mere candidates. They are our winners," Stalin said, after reading out the list of candidates. "Though several parties are in the alliance and a few of them were seeking the same constituencies, we managed to handle everything smoothly by even burning the midnight oil," said Stalin, who is contesting from Kolathur, from where he won in 2011 and 2016. The DMK has retained most of whom the party workers were expecting to make the cut. DMK general secretary S Durai Murugan leads the pack of old horses and others include K N Nehru, K Ponmudi, I Periasamy, M R K Panneerselvam, Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan and Poongothai Aladi Aruna. Equally strong is the list of young leaders including P T R Thiagarajan, Anbil Mahesh, T R B Rajah and second line leaders including E V Velu, Anitha Radhakrishnan and M Subramanian. "The sole criteria for selection of candidates was seniority and close rapport the candidates had with the people in their constituencies," senior DMK leader and Rajya Sabha MP T K S Elangovan told TOI. Prominent among the new comers, numbering around 25, include A Vetri Azhagan, grandson of former DMK general secretary K Anbazhagan, and Ezhilan Naganathan, son of M Naganathan, former state planning commission chairman. If long-time party loyalists like S S Sivasankar have been retained, opportunity has been given to new comers into the party like Karthikeya Sivasenapathy, who hit headlines during the ‘Marina Puratchi’ and has since become the DMK’s environment wing secretary. Even leaders, who joined from AMMK and the AIADMK – Thanga Tamilselvan and R Lakshmanan – found a place on the list. While the DMK is fielding 173 candidates, another 15 candidates belonging to its allies like the MDMK and MMK are contesting in the DMK’s rising sun symbol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/stalin-fields-old-horses-and-young-guns-calls-them-sure-shot-winners/articleshow/81474788.cms||D Govardan
March 13, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: SHRC screening committee meeting scheduled on March 17||VIJAYAWADA: The government plans to convene a screening committee meeting on March 17 for selection of state human rights commission chairman and members. The screening committee will be headed by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. Opposition leader N Chandrababu Naidu, assembly speaker Tammineni Sitaram, legislative council chairman M A Sharif, home minister Mekatoti Sucharitha and opposition floor leader in the council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu are members of the screening committee. After bifurcation, the SHRC has remained in Hyderabad. The chairman and members continued in their position after the bifurcation but after their retirements, the positions have remained remained vacant since long. A PIL was moved by in high court by AP Civil Rights Association seeking directions to the government to fill up the vacancies in SHRC. The government informed the court in 2019 that it will appoint the chairman and members within four months. The high court directed the government to adhere to the timeline and complete the process within the stipulated period. However, as the government did not complete the process, a contempt petition was moved before the high court to take action against the officials responsible for failing to implement the court’s directions. The government, in a recent hearing, told the court that the selection of SHRC chairman and its members is a work in progress and the screening committee meeting would be convened soon. Sources said the government is considering names of some retired high court judges for the post of SHRC chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/shrc-screening-committee-meeting-scheduled-on-march-17/articleshow/81455278.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 13, 2021||Trichy||Dumped garbage causes chaos||Trichy: The accumulation of waste dumped by residents on roads and poor solid waste management system by the Trichy Corporation are taking a toll on the city’s vehicular traffic, especially on the narrow stretches. The localities around Rockfort hillock falling under Srirangam zone have more than two dozen narrow main roads including Big Bazaar street, Jaffershah street, Andar street and Babu road. As the waste collection vehicles cannot enter the narrow residential streets branching off from the main roads, residents bundle their waste and dump them near the street corners. The waste collection vehicles pick them up only the next day, which results in the space occupied and eventually resulting in traffic snarls during peak hours. “Even when bins were placed, they were occupying the vacant space away from the roads. With bins removed, half the road is occupied by the garbage mounds now,” K Anand Kumar, a resident of White Betal Street, Trichy said. “We are collecting waste on a daily basis. Since the vehicles cannot enter the narrow streets, we were using the road corners to collect waste. We will streamline the lapses,” a sanitary official with the corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dumped-garbage-causes-chaos/articleshow/81474129.cms||Deepak Karthik
March 13, 2021||Surat||13-year-old girl hangs self at home||Surat: A Class VII student, Shruti Jaina, hanged herself at her residence in the Udhna area of the city on Thursday late evening. The 13-year-old girl was a native of Odisha. “The girl who was living with her family in Gandhi Kutir in Udhna hanged herself when she was alone at home. Her sister and parents went out for shopping. When her family returned, they saw her hanging. She was rushed to New Civil Hospital but attending doctors declared her brought dead,” said a police official. Shruti’s father Kana Jaina told police that they were planning to go to their native village after a fortnight to attend a family function. The exact reason behind her extreme step was not immediately known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/13-year-old-girl-hangs-self-at-home/articleshow/81472402.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Aurangabad||Sikh cleric murdered in Nanded; 2 aides suspect||Aurangabad: Sikh cleric Sant Baba Santoksinghji Nihang (65) was found murdered at Arladasingh Parladasingh Gurdwara in Nagina ghat in Nanded city early on Thursday morning. Two of the cleric’s companions, who are at large, are suspected to have committed the crime, said police on Saturday. Sachkhand Shri Hazur Sahib Abchal Nagar Sahib Gurdwara and other places of religious significance of the Sikh community are in Nanded. An employee of the gurdwara, Gurmit Singh alias Badal, who is a Sevadar, first spotted the cleric’s body and alerted people at the religious place and also police. Senior police officers soon arrived at the spot and moved the body to a hospital, where an autopsy was performed. The Vazirabad police station registered a case of murder and named the two companions of the cleric, based on a complaint lodged by Gurmit Singh. The two men named in the complaint took some some cash from the premises and escaped on a bike, said police. “As per preliminary investigation, the two suspects were last seen with the cleric before his murder. We have CCTV footage to corroborate the same,” assistant police inspector Somnath Shinde told TOI. Police said the cleric was staying in Nanded for the past three years along with the two suspects. Inspector Dwarkadas Chikhalikar of the local crime branch said the body was found behind Langar Sahib. “Two police teams are hunting for the suspects, who are suspected to have fled to Punjab.” Police said the suspects must have used a sword to kill the elderly sage, who sustained deep cuts on the neck, chest and other parts of the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sikh-cleric-murdered-in-nanded-2-aides-suspect/articleshow/81471981.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra University of Health Sciences reschedules UG exams||NASHIK: The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has rescheduled the forthcoming first, second and third year undergraduate exams of all health science courses. The varsity’s board of examination headed by the acting vice chancellor Nitin Karmalkar conducted a meeting on Friday and decided to hold the exams from April 19 instead of March 23. Over 45,000 students of government and private health science colleges affiliated to MUHS are supposed to appear for exams like MBBS, BDS, BAMS, BHMS, etc. Speaking to TOI, the varsity’s controller of examination Ajit Pathak said that the university took the decision to defer the exam due to some technical reasons. The varsity will upload the decision in its official website. However Pathak made it clear that there will not be any deferment of the ongoing fourth year UG exams for health science courses which has commenced from March 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/muhs-reschedules-ug-exams/articleshow/81471997.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
March 13, 2021||Pune||At 31k, PMR sees highest single-day vaccination||PUNE: More than 31,000 beneficiaries received their first and second doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday, its highest single-day inoculation so far. In the Pune civic limits, as many as 14,902 beneficiaries, including those above 60 years, got vaccinated, while in the Pimpri Chinchwad 4,403 beneficiaries received the shot. The Pune rural, after the involvement of its Primary Health Centres (PHCs), saw 11,769 beneficiaries getting the shot. The major chunk of the vaccination sites were operated in the Pune rural (114), followed by the PMC limits (83) and the PCMC limits (21). Vikram Kumar, PMC commissioner, said there was ample vaccine stock available and the new consignment would be received shortly. Another PMC official said that they had been told that the vaccine stock would be made available in the next two days. In the PCMC limits, mayor Usha Dhore and municipal commissioner Rajesh Patil got vaccinated on Friday. Dhore said, “To end the pandemic and curb the spread of the infection, we need efforts from each and every individual and the compliance to the Covid appropriate behaviour. All the senior citizens above 60 years and those above 45 years and older with underlying conditions should get vaccinated.” Abhay Tidke, additional district health officer, Pune ZP, told TOI that in the Pune rural area, the increased number of vaccination sites had resulted in the elevated response. State immunisation officer Dr D N Patil assured that there was ample stock of the vaccine available across the district and it will be made available as and when needed. “We provide vaccine stock for at least 10 days to the respective civic body or the rural area,” he said. (With inputs from Sarang Dastane)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-31k-pmr-sees-highest-single-day-vaccination/articleshow/81474143.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 13, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Girl gets BDS seat after court intervention||MADURAI: The state on Friday informed the court that a BDS seat has been kept vacant for Soundarya, the adi dravidar community student who was denied medical admission under 7.5% quota, for studying in a private school. The state also said that it is willing to sponsor the medical aspirant. When her appeal challenging the interim order of a single judge was taken up for hearing on Friday, the state informed that pursuant to the order, a BDS seat was kept vacant for the appellant (Soundarya) in a college at Chennai. It was further informed that since the last date for submission of the final list of candidates to the Dental Council of India was over, they would be able to admit the petitioner based on the directions of the court by treating it as a special case. The petitioner’s counsel also informed the court that she was also willing to pursue BDS course. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi observed that they are dealing with an unfortunate case of the appellant who having availed the concession offered by the government loses out for having studied in a private school. Hence, the judges said that they are impleading the chairperson of Dental Council of India and registrar of Dr MGR Medical University for passing appropriate orders. The judges ordered notice to the newly impleaded respondents and adjourned the case to March 19. Soundarya, had cleared NEET and had submitted an application seeking medical admission under 7.5% quota, however, the same was rejected citing that she had completed her higher secondary course in a private school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/student-denied-7-5-quota-offered-bds-seat/articleshow/81474158.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Pune||Corporators help senior citizens get vax doses||Pune: Local corporators and individuals have extended a helping hand to the elderly who need help with technology to fix appointments for vaccination. Many corporators have set up help centres in their neighbourhood, with volunteers assisting senior citizens in booking slots. Amol Balwadakar, a corporator from Baner-Balewadi, said that the response has been good as over 250 citizens were able to fix the vaccination slots in the last two days. “We observed that citizens have been facing difficulties in getting confirmed appointments despite registering online. Some were unable to find the names of vaccination centres. To streamline the process, we have set up an online system to help citizens register their names and book slots,” Balwadkar added. Kiran Dagade, a corporator from Bavdhan, said that he had made arrangement for elderly people to reach the vaccination centres. Some individuals are also helping senior citizens to register for vaccinations. Vikram Patil, a resident of Shivajinagar, said, “We have been helping citizens register themselves and find vaccination centres,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/corporators-help-senior-citizens-get-vax-doses/articleshow/81474159.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 13, 2021||Coimbatore||Suicide bid ends in gas cylinder explosion in city||Coimbatore: A suicide bid ended in a gas cylinder explosion at Ravuthur in the city on Friday. While a portion of a house was damaged in the incident, there wasn’t any casualties. The Singanallur police said Damodaran, 45, who was living in a rental house along with his wife Amutha and two children, had in the morning picked up a fight with his wife. “Unable to bear his mental and physical torture, Amutha went to a neighbour’s house with her kids. Damodaran, who was under the influence of alcohol, locked the house from inside by threatening to commit suicide. He turned on the cooking gas cylinder and later set some clothes on fire. As smoke started to emanate from the house, neighbours asked him to come out of it,” a police officer said. As soon as Damodaran came out of the house, the officer said, the gas cylinder exploded, damaging the house partially. The neighbours informed the fire and rescue services personnel, who put out the fire. The Singanallur police also reached the spot and picked up Damodaran for interrogation. “He is working with a poultry shop at Ravuthur itself. He used to fight with his wife often after consuming liquor, as he suspected her fidelity. We will register a case and arrest him,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/suicide-bid-ends-in-gas-cylinder-explosion-in-city/articleshow/81474173.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Online ‘friend’ tries to blackmail man over pics||Mumbai: An unidentified woman has been booked for allegedly extorting money and threatening to make viral nude videos of a 24-year-old Nalasopara man whom she met on Whatsapp.The woman, who claimed to be from New Delhi got in touch with the victim last week. They initially chatted and later got onto the video mode to speak. The man went nude and he was unaware that the woman was recording the videos. Between March 6 and 8, the man received whatsapp calls from the woman who showed his nude video clips. She threatened to make the videos public and demanded Rs 50,000The victim, however, did not fall for the trap and approached the Tulinj police. The woman shared some of the videos with the man's friends. Police suspect that the man could have shared numbers of his friends too who may have shown interest in chatting with the unknown woman.Police urged people not to engage in chats and video calls with unknown persons. Police said that the identity of the woman is not known as the victim had not shot her photographs during their video interactions. The number from where the calls were made has been switched off.A case under section 385 (extortion) of the IPC and section 67(a) of the Information Technology Amendment Act has been registered against the woman.(eom)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-online-friend-tries-to-blackmail-man-over-pics/articleshow/81474871.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Chennai||How Udhayanidhi Stalin finally got his way and ticket||CHENNAI: When DMK president M K Stalin announced the candidature of Udhayanidhi Stalin for the Chepauk assembly constituency, firecrackers reverberated through Anna Arivalayam, the party headquarters in Chennai. Hardly a few hours later, chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami burst out against the DMK for its dynastic politics. Both the fireworks were expected in case of Stalin’s son getting the party ticket, more so since it was to come after much suspense. Soon after the ‘interview’ of candidate Udhayanidhi last Saturday, reports suggested that Stalin was hesitant to allow his son to enter the fray. Sources said his advisors had warned him about the AIADMK-BJP combine making it a poll plank. Sources said until two days ago, Stalin has been trying to convince his family members and party seniors about the need to deflect negative attacks against the party. In fact, Stalin used the same reasoning to dissuade a few senior party leaders including K N Nehru to not pile pressure on him to allocate seats for their sons. "But Udhayanidhi kept telling his close circle of friends that he would contest," said a source close to the DMK’s first family. "He did not want to miss out on the opportunity since the DMK is confident of returning to power in the state." He reached out to a few senior district secretaries of the party for support. The seniors in turn mounted pressure on Stalin by taking up his case. Eventually, Stalin had to bow to the pressure from several sides and change his mind," the source said. There was also the worry about another family member involved in behind-the-scenes negotiations with other parties gaining importance in the DMK backstage. "Udhayanidhi was clear that he had to contest to remain next to his father when it comes to the political hierarchy at home," the source said. "He reached out to the right people, now he has to do the right things."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/how-udhayanidhi-stalin-finally-got-his-way-and-ticket/articleshow/81474819.cms||D Govardan
March 13, 2021||Pune||Mumbai developer & 3 others booked on charge of cheating||Pune: The Chatushrungi police on Thursday night registered a case of cheating, extortion and other charges against a prominent Mumbai developer, his son and two others, following an order by a Pune magisterial court in a private complaint filed by a 54-year-old woman lawyer over a deal for flat purchase in a realty project at Worli in Mumbai.The woman, who, according to her lawyer, did not wish to be named, said in her complaint that in 2013, she booked a 39th floor flat in the project that was to be completed by December 2017, but was delayed till 2019. In between, the developer started pressurizing her for cancellation of the agreement. Judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) M P Pardeshi said in her order March 10, “It is alleged…the accused numbers 1 to 4 with common intention cheated the complainant and committed breach of trust by assuring her to sale the alleged flat for the consideration amount of Rs5.25 crore to Rs5.51 crore. They have used all possible means of pressures and pressurizing tactics to make the complainant succumb to their illegal demands of cancelling the documents with respect to the flat thereby causing wrongful loss to the complainant and wrongful gain to themselves.”“The complaint prima facie discloses cognizable offence. Therefore, investigation is required to be made by police. Police station officer, Chatushrungi police, is directed to hold an investigation under Section 156 (3) CrPC after registration of offence,” the JMFC said.Senior lawyer Harshad Nimbalkar, who represented the complainant, told TOI on Friday, “The police recorded our client’s statement after registering the FIR last (Thursday) night. They will now send a report to the court.”Senior inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police said, “We have booked the developer and three others on charges under sections 384 & 385 (both related to extortion), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC. She invested in a housing project at Worli but all financial transactions were held in Pune.”RESPONSE FROM DEVELOPER’S FIRMThe spokesperson of the Mumbai developer’s firm said, “The complainant is a defaulter who has not made payment of her dues for many years and has thereafter refused to pay applicable interest as per Rera. We have filed case against her in Rera for default and cancellation more than 12 months ago. Last year, she had filed the same case in relevant police station in Mumbai and due to no evidence found to support the complainant’s unsubstantial claims, the case was closed, proving the firm had not committed any wrong... We will file appeal against this illegally obtained order soon.”(With inputs from Asseem Shaikh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mumbai-developer-3-others-booked-on-charge-of-cheating/articleshow/81474165.cms||Vishwas Kothari
March 13, 2021||Trichy||Students turn poll ambassadors||Tuticorin: School students of Tuticorin district have written one lakh postcards to their parents and eligible voters in their families on the importance of voting and ensuring 100% polling and on the need for voting with a conscience by not selling their votes for cash or gifts. These postcards were handed over to the department of posts on Friday. District collector and electoral officer K Senthil Raj said that government and private school students from Classes IX to XII in all the six assembly segments in the district were engaged in the Systematic Voters Education on Electoral Participation (SVEEP) activity. “The postmaster general, Madurai, was instrumental in sourcing these postcards from neighbouring districts and distributed to schools by the chief education officer (CEO) of Tuticorin and deputy collector trainee,” the collector said. Stating that there are around 14 lakh voters in the district, Raj expressed confidence that these postcards will reach at least five lakh voters, which is a third of the total voters in Tuticorin. CEO A Gnanagowri said the postcards were sourced last Friday and circulated to the students from government, aided, matriculation, CBSE and ICSE schools. “The postcards were handwritten. We told them the concept and the students came out with the catchy statements. They were happy to write to their parents,” she added. The postcards are expected to reach their homes in a couple of days. The SVEEP activity also serves the purpose of preparing the children who are in their teens and will be eligible to cast the votes in the next general election or assembly polls when they turn 18 years old, officials said. In Sivaganga district, 120 students of a government aided school in Devakottai used postcards to create voting awareness among parents to ensure 100% voting. “Around 150 postcards were posted by the students to parents of their friends or any other relative. We wanted to engage students in voting awareness activity and this was something students could do from their homes. Further, postcards really help people feel connected and the message would have a better reach,” said L Chokkalingam, headmaster of the Chairman Manickavasagam Middle School (government aided). “Don’t forget that your vote is valuable. Ensure 100% voting to uphold Indian democracy. Date of polling is April 6,” read the messages by students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/students-turn-poll-ambassadors/articleshow/81474161.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Pune||Pune: More Covaxin sites likely in region as beneficiary count surges at Aundh hospital||PUNE: As many as 420 beneficiaries got vaccinated at the District Hospital Aundh —Pune’s only Covaxin site — on Friday, the day the submission of the mandatory consent forms was stopped. The Covaxin beneficiary count at the site on Friday, a day after the Union government announced that the indigenous vaccine was out of the “clinical trial mode” and was granted the regular restricted emergency use authorisation just like Covishield, was the highest till date. From March 1 onwards, the average vaccination at the Aundh site was around 200 per day. The health department officials said as many as 4,890 doses of Covaxin had been administered till date at the District Hospital Aundh. Around 8,000 doses are still available. Buoyed by the surge in the Covaxin beneficiary count, the health officials are planning to set up more Covaxin sites in the district. Sanjay Deshmukh, the assistant director (medical), Pune circle, told TOI, “The good response to Covaxin at the District Hospital Aundh site has prompted us to expand it further to the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits. We are in talks with the respective civic bodies to start new Covaxin sites. Within the next few days, we might have new sites for Covaxin.” Deshmukh said a new Covaxin site had been started in Satara, which also garnered good response. “Now, in Pune circle, we have three Covaxin sites — Pune, Solapur, and Satara,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi chose to take Covaxin at AIIMS Delhi on March 1. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh and Pune Zilla Parishad’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ayush Prasad, among others, took the Covaxin shots at the District Hospital Aundh site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-covaxin-sites-likely-in-region-as-beneficiary-count-surges-at-aundh-hosp/articleshow/81474162.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 13, 2021||Pune||Banquet owners in Pune fear further loss||PUNE: Kondhwa Budruk resident Sachin Karulkar is an upset man, as this will be the second successive year that he will have to cancel the banquet booking for his twin children’s birthday party on March 20. “It does not make any sense to throw a party for 50 people. I contacted the banquet hall and sought refund of the advance money I had paid in advance,” Karulkar, a businessman, said. The administration has reduced the number of guests to 50 for a gathering in halls and 100 at lawns “Last year went in paying refunds to clients. The subsequent relaxations were a relief. Now, the new restrictions are in place,” a representative of Utsav banquets and lawn said. A representative of Hadapsar-based Indu banquets, which has space for over 1,000 guests, said, “Last year, there was no business. After some norms were relaxed, we were getting 30% of our deals.” The manager of Aamantran banquet hall and lawn in the Dhole Patil Road area said, “I received some calls from clients, but could not confirm the new norms. Covid regulations should be first followed on the streets.” A representative of a hall in Kondhwa said, “The restrictions will lead to cancellation of bookings.” “A decent banquet hall or lawn does a business of Rs1 crore to Rs10 crore each year. But in 2020, the business was not even 10% of that,” said Kishor Sarpotdar, a representative of Marriage Halls and Lawn Association of Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/banquet-owners-fear-further-loss/articleshow/81474169.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 13, 2021||Pune||Revival a big worry for restaurants||Pune: Restaurateurs on Friday expressed dismay at the new restrictions on their business hours announced by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, while mall owners were concerned about the sector’s recovery after the pandemic slump. “The revised closing time for the restaurants — 10 pm — effectively reduces the functioning duration by up to an hour,” a restaurant owner said. Pawar’s announcement about an extra hour for takeaways — up to 11pm — also did not cut ice with the restaurateurs. “A 10pm closing deadline means we cannot admit customers from 9:30pm, or even before. The hour more for takeaways is not of much use, as most deliveries happen between 7:30pm and 8:30pm. Restaurants have to bear expenses for electricity, rent and excise,” said Ganesh Shetty, president of the Pune Restaurant and Hoteliers Association. Shopping mall owners said they accepted the restrictions in principle from a public health standpoint, but cited the impact that 2020 had on the business. “We respect the government’s decision on the restrictions. There is nothing more important than human lives. We have always ensured safety precautions. The shopping centres and malls recently begun recovering from the distress caused by the lockdown. We hope the situation improves and the restrictions do not last long,” Shopping Centres Association of India chairman Amitabh Taneja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/revival-a-big-worry-for-restaurants/articleshow/81474175.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
March 13, 2021||Coimbatore||5 trains to be diverted for rebuilding railway bridges||Coimbatore: Five trains will be either diverted or operated from a different station on Monday (March 15) and Wednesday (March 17) to facilitate work on rebuilding railway bridges between Coimbatore Junction and Podanur Junction. The Dhanbad-Alappuzha special train and New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram special train, which usually stop at Coimbatore Junction, would be diverted via Irugur and Podanur Junction, where they would be provided a stoppage.While the Dhanbad-Alappuzha special train would stop at Podanur Junction for three minutes from 8.32am to 8.35am, the New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram special train would stop at Podanur Junction for the same duration from 12.27pm to 12.30pm. The KSR Bengaluru-Ernakulam Junction intercity special train would also stop at Podanur Junction for three minutes from 1.02pm to 1.05pm.The Kannur-Coimbatore special train will be terminated at Podanur Junction itself on the two days, while the Coimbatore-Kannur special train would leave from Podanur Junction at 2.23pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5-trains-to-be-diverted-for-rebuilding-railway-bridges/articleshow/81474179.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Pune||State BJP chief wants policy on having no lockdown anywhere||Pune: Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Friday said the MVA government should come out with a policy of having no lockdown in any part of the state despite the recent rise in Covid-19 cases. “One cannot afford any more lockdowns, considering the condition of the economy in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government has to come out with a policy to disallow ministers and district administrations from randomly declaring lockdowns,” Patil, who represents Kothrud in the state legislative assembly, told TOI. “Covid-19 has affected people all over society and the cases are increasing. But a lockdown is not a solution. The local administrations have to ensure strict adherence to all norms aimed at curbing the spread of Covid-19,” Patil said, adding that he has communicated the views to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar during the Covid review meeting at Council Hall.Though the deputy chief minister put to rest fears of another lockdown in Pune district, he said several restrictions have been imposed in the wake of the recent increase in Covid-19 cases. These restrictions would continue till March 31.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-bjp-chief-wants-policy-on-having-no-lockdown-anywhere/articleshow/81474177.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Man dies after bike rams divider||Hyderabad: A 23-year-old security guard, L Sampath Kumar of Kanakadurga Colony in Nacharam died and his cousin, E Sree Vishwa, 19, suffered injuries when their bike rammed into road divider at Mallapur on Friday. While the victims were travelling from Kanakadurga Colony to Mallapur to buy cigarettes, the mishap occurred near FCI Godown in Mallapur, police said. Sampath died of severe head injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-dies-after-bike-rams-divider/articleshow/81474874.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Holi celebrations at Rajpath, Karnavati shelved for 4th year||AHMEDABAD: Clubs in Ahmedabad have cancelled Holi celebrations this time around, in the wake of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. This is for the fourth consecutive year that no club in Ahmedabad will mark Holi celebrations, which is otherwise a vibrant and much sought-after affair. Amid rising Covid-19 cases, the clubs have taken a collective call to not hold Holi celebrations as a precautionary measure in the interest of members. Both Rajpath Club and Karnavati Club have taken the decision to call off Holi Celebrations. “We took the decision of calling off the Holi celebration for March 28 at our club premises. We are not holding any celebrations or public gatherings till the cases of Covid-19 are under control so that there is no harm to the health of our guests,” said Naginbhai Patel, president, Karnavati Club. It is for the fourth consecutive year that Holi celebration is not being held at either of Rajpath or Karnavati Club. Mishal Patel, secretary, Rajpath Club, said, “We have not held celebrations for Holi for at least three years due to water scarcity and last year due to Covid-19 scare. This year as well, we are not holding any celebrations whatsoever in the wake of the rising cases of Covid-19.” Sources confirmed that a few other events too have been put on hold. Other city-based clubs are also mulling over cancelling the Holi celebrations for similar reasons. “It is unlikely that the government will even give permission to hold Holi celebrations in public places,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/holi-celebrations-at-rajpath-karnavati-shelved-for-4th-year/articleshow/81474183.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Coimbatore||DMDK worker’s SUV set on fire||Coimbatore: Unidentified people set a sports utility vehicle (SUV) of a DMDK functionary on fire at Kurichi here in the early hours of Friday. The rear portion of the SUV was completely gutted in the incident, before its owner K Chinnarasu alias Chinna Sait, of GK Square at Kurichi, put out the fire with the help of neighbours. The Podanur (law & order) police said Chinnarasu, Kurichi area organizing president of the DMDK, had parked the SUV in front of his house before he went to bed on Thursday night. “Around 12.30am on Friday, people in a truck that passed through the area noticed the fire and informed Chinnarasu, who along with neighbours, poured water on the vehicle and put out the fire,” an investigation officer told TOI. Chinnarasu called up the Podanur police, who held inquiry with him. “The fire hadn’t spread to the front portion of the SUV. We don’t see any political angle as Chinnarasu told us he was not having any previous enmity with members of any political parties in the area and that he was in good rapport with them all,” the officer said. According to the officer, Chinnarasu suspect it to be the handiwork of some anti-social elements, who consume alcohol in open places and roam around the area. Forensic experts have collected some materials from the place. Based on his complaint, we have registered a case and further investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmdk-workers-suv-set-on-fire/articleshow/81474187.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Coimbatore||DMK, AIADMK fight limited to three seats in Tirupur dist||Coimbatore: In Tirupur, the DMK will be directly locking horns against the AIADMK only in three of the eight assembly constituencies - Tirupur South, Kangeyam and Madathukulam - in the upcoming election. In all, the DMK will be fielding candidates in four assembly constituencies, while it has allocated the remaining seats to alliance partners. The ruling AIADMK is, however, contesting from seven constituencies in Tirupur district and allotted only one seat to its ally, the BJP. The BJP will face the DMK from Dharapuram, the sole seat it has managed to get in the district, and the party’s state president L Murugan is likely to contest from the constituency. The eight assembly constituencies in Tirupur include Tirupur North, Tirupur South, Avinashi, Kangeyam, Dharapuram, Palladam, Udumalpet and Madathukulam. As per the list of 173 candidates that the DMK announced on Friday afternoon, K Selvaraj would contest from Tirupur South, former minister M P Saminathan from Kangeyam and the sitting MLA, R Jayaramakrishnan, from Madathukulam. In Dharapuram (reserved) constituency, the party has fielded a new face - Kayalvizhi Selvaraj. The DMK has allotted Palladam constituency to the MDMK’s Muthurathinam. While the party has allocated Avinashi (reserved) constituency to the Aathi Tamizhar Peravai, Tirupur North to the CPI and Udumalpet to the Congress, candidates are yet to be finalised for these constituencies. The AIADMK would, meanwhile, again field assembly speaker P Dhanapal from Avinashi, from where he had tasted victory last time. The party has allotted Tirupur North and Tirupur South constituencies to the sitting AIADMK MLAs Vijayakumar and S Gunasekaran, while fielding former minister MSM Anandan from Palladam, animal husbandry minister Udumalai K Radhakrishnan from Udumalpet and former MP C Mahendran from Madathukulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-aiadmk-fight-limited-to-three-seats-in-tirupur-dist/articleshow/81474209.cms||A Subburaj
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Bike thief nabbed in Kondapur||Hyderabad: KPHB police arrested a bike thief Ethadi Arun, 19, office boy at a private school in Kondapur and recovered three stolen bikes from his possession. The accused confessed to have committed three offences during the past few months at KPHB Colony, Madhapur and Raidurgam. He was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bike-thief-nabbed-in-kondapur/articleshow/81474886.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Dehradun||Façade lighting adding to the beauty of Mall Road in Mussoorie||Mussoorie: The newly-installed façade lighting at the iconic Mall Road of Mussoorie is catching the attention of tourists and locals alike. The Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority (MDDA), in recent weeks, has installed the LED lighting at several buildings in the Mall Road locality. “It is great to see the unique façade lighting on the Mall Road. It adds to the beauty of the road,” said Rohit Arora, a tourist. Anuj Gupta, chairman of Mussoorie Municipal Council, said, “This lighting gives a character to the buildings and to the Mall Road itself. I am sure it would help in promoting tourism.” Ranvir Singh Chauhan, vice-chairman of MDDA, told TOI, “Mussoorie is an important tourist destination of our state. Through façade lighting, we seek to beautify the Mall Road and attract tourists.” He added that the MDDA is planning to take up more such projects in the hill town in the coming months. SM Sharma, executive engineer, MDDA, said that these lights were installed at a cost of Rs 2.5 crore and that they have been programmed to get automatically switched on at dusk. He also said that these lights were programmed to display the colours of the tricolour on August 15 and Republic Day. Notably, the MDDA has installed RGB (red, blue and green) façade lights at several locations in Mussoorie. Besides a temple and a gurudwara at the Gandhi Chowk, several other buildings, six murals, and five hawa ghars (elevated pavilions) on the Mall Road have also been lit up by these façade lights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/faade-lighting-adding-to-the-beauty-of-mall-road-in-mussoorie/articleshow/81473230.cms||Anmol Jain
March 13, 2021||Chennai||Fresh face takes on EPS, Stalin pitted against veteran||The DMK has pitted a 37-year-old fresh face against chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in the latter’s native Edappadi assembly constituency. T Sampath Kumar, a confidante of party heavyweight Selvaganapathy, has been a surprise selection to take on EPS. "He might be young but is certainly a victorious candidate," DMK president M K Stalin said announcing Sampath’s candidature. An MCA graduate, Sampath hails from an agrarian, apolitical family. He got involved in politics and joined the DMK in his early 20s. He rose up the ranks slowly, from being Konganapuram town panchayat youth wing secretary to Salem (west) deputy secretary. Partymen said Sampath’s performance during Covid lockdown had caught the eyes of the party high command as he was at the forefront of the DMK’s relief work in Salem. Sampath appears confident of his prospects despite being pitted against the chief ministerial candidate of the AIADMK. "People are upset with the present regime and they want change. That change can be given only by our thalaivar, so I am hopeful of winning,’’ he told reporters. Selvaganapathy, who wished Sampath the best after the announcement of his candidacy, said it was not a fight of David vs Goliath as EPS was not a Goliath. "EPS is basking in the image of tall leader while the truth is not so. Sampath, on the other hand, had worked hard at the ground level and has earned goodwill,’’ he said. AIADMK functionaries, however, say Sampath is no match for EPS and the victory of two leaves cannot be stopped by anyone in Edappadi segment. If the DMK has fielded a green horn against EPS, the AIADMK has fielded a veteran – Adhi Rajaram - to take on DMK chief M K Stalin in Kolathur segment. Adhi Rajaram was a strongman earlier, holding sway in Chennai till 2000 as south Chennai secretary, but went low profile after he was booked as one of the accused for assault of advocate K M Vijayan. He was eventually acquitted. It was only in October last year, when Chennai district party unit was reorganised, he was made South Chennai North (east) district secretary. He was made in charge of Chepauk - Triplicane and Thousand Lights assembly segments in the elections. He also holds the post of party’s organising secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fresh-face-takes-on-eps-stalin-pitted-against-veteran/articleshow/81474889.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Patna||3 from Bihar named for Sahitya Akademi Award||Patna: Three littérateurs from Bihar were among 20 selected in different languages and genres for the Sahitya Akademi Award, 2020, announced on Friday.While Anamika of Muzaffarpur has been selected in Hindi for her Tokri Mein Digant 'Theri Gatha' (2014 poetry), Darbhanga's Kamalkant Jha's Gachh Roosal Achhi (short stories) in Maithili and Gaya's Hussain-ul-Haque's Amawas Mein Khwab (novel published in 2017) in Urdu were adjudged the best in their respective languages for the award, which include a casket containing an engraved copper plaque, a shawl and Rs1,00,000. The date of the award presentation function will be announced later.Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan and CM Nitish Kumar congratulated the three winners. "It's a matter of pride for Bihar. The award to Bihar's daughter will inspire half the country's population (aadhi abaadi). The three writers have made Bihar proud," Nitish said in his message.Altogether 13 books in Hindi, nine titles in Maithili and 7 in Urdu were shortlisted for the award. "The books were selected on the recommendations of a jury of three members in the languages concerned following the procedure laid down for the purpose. The awards relate to books first published during the five years immediately preceding the year of the award (between January 1, 2014, and December 31, 2018)," the Akademi press release said.The 20 works selected for the award include seven poetry collections, four novels, five short stories, two plays and one each of memoirs and epic poetry, in 20 Indian languages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-from-bihar-named-for-sahitya-akademi-award/articleshow/81474221.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
March 13, 2021||India||Number of OCI cards issued has doubled since last 5 years||NEW DELHI: As many as 3.2 lakh overseas citizens of India (OCI) cards were issued per annum between 2015 and 2021 as compared to an average 1.7 lakh cards issued per year between 2005 and 2014. This, a home ministry official said, pointed to the growing popularity of the OCI card scheme with the Indian diaspora “in view of the OCI application process being made online and various relaxations offered over the years to extend the coverage and benefits of the scheme”. The government, through an executive order in 2019, had revised the OCI guidelines to require OCI cardholders to take special permission for undertaking activities like research, missionary work, Tablighi work, mountaineering and journalism and for visiting restricted, protected or prohibited areas while on a multiple entry, life-long visa, the changes were given statutory backing last week through a notification in the gazette. Prior to 2019, such permission was required only for research work. “These are not new restrictions and were in existence and in the public domain since 2019. The notification does not further restrict the pursuit of these activities. OCI cardholders can do all major activities without any permission from government authorities,” a home ministry official said. “This notification does not in any way take away the rights and privileges of an OCI cardholder as specified in various FEMA regulations,” he added. Stating that the government had facilitated foreigners eligible for or registered as OCI cardholder to a great extent, the official said these initiatives had led to the number of OCI cards issued doubling in the last six years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/number-of-oci-cards-issued-has-doubled-since-last-5-years/articleshow/81477328.cms||Bharti Jain
March 13, 2021||Dehradun||HC imposes Rs 50,000 fine on petitioner for ‘frivolous’ PIL||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on a petitioner who had filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) demanding that the examinations being conducted for the post of assistant conservator of forests be postponed and conducted after the Kumbh Mela at Haridwar is over. The bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma pointed out that the mela is scheduled to start on April 1, nearly two weeks after the exams that are scheduled from March 13 to 17 and therefore “the prayer should be dismissed”. The court said “such frivolous PIL deserves to be dismissed with exemplary cost” and directed the petitioner to deposit a fine of Rs 50,000 to the advocates’ welfare fund for having wasted the court’s valuable time. “The court has further given respondents the liberty to file a contempt petition for wilful disobedience of court’s orders if the money is not deposited by the petitioner,” said an advocate present in the hearing. Even though the official dates are April 1-30, the Maha Kumbh has already started in Haridwar and devotees from across the country have started coming to the city. According to official estimates, around 32 lakh devotees thronged to Har ki Pauri for the first shahi snan and few maintained Covid protocol. The petition had been filed by Kuldeep Chand Raturi, a resident of Haridwar, who expressed his concerns about people coming to the Kumbh from other states and transmitting the coronavirus, which might prove more dangerous if an infected person shares an a closed setting like an exam hall with other candidates, leading to an outbreak. The petitioner had made the state government, the mela officer, Haridwar district magistrate and Uttarakhand Public Service Commission respondents in the case and prayed that they be directed to hold the exams only after Kumbh is completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-imposes-rs-50000-fine-on-petitioner-for-frivolous-pil/articleshow/81473262.cms||Prashant Jha
March 13, 2021||Allahabad||2 boys drowned in village pond in Manda||Prayagraj: Two minor boys drowned at a pond in Bhagauti village under the limits of Manda police station in trans-Yamuna area on Friday morning while swimming. The villagers with the help of swimmers fished out their bodies. Manda police said that both the boys, identified as Balram (8) and Rahat (7), residents of Meha Jagir village had entered into deep water and got trapped in mud while enjoying swimming in a local pond. Police further added both the boys while leaving their houses had told their families that they were going to set up Holika at a corner of the village. Locals said that they had spotted them moving towards the pond located in Kosra Khurd Gram panchayat, Bhagauti pond. While hearing cries of the boys, the locals made futile efforts to save them. They were taken out and send to nearby Manda community health centre where doctors declared them brought dead on arrival. Police said that Balram was a class IInd student at a primary school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/2-boys-drowned-in-village-pond-in-manda/articleshow/81472084.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Covid cases see steady rise, 431 now||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded more than 400 cases of Covid-19 for the second consecutive day with 431 people testing positive for the viral infection on Friday. On Thursday, the city had recorded 409 new cases. Friday’s tally is the highest single-day count in nearly two months, officials in Delhi’s health department said. They added: “In the last 24 hours, 72,031 samples were tested using RT-PCR and rapid antigen test (RAT). Of them, 431 came positive. The positivity rate was 0.6%.” Dr Navin Dang, founder of Dr Dang’s Lab, said that till about two weeks ago, it seemed that things were good. “It appeared that we had fought our way through the pandemic. But the trend of positive cases over the last few days has proved that the fight is far from over,” he added. According to Dr Dang, socially irresponsible behaviour is a prime cause of spurt in cases. “People have thrown caution to the winds,” he said. Lok Nayak Hospital medical director Dr Suresh Kumar also said that non-adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour was responsible for spurt in cases. “The active cases have increased and so has the number of patients requiring hospitalisation. If this trend holds or picks up the pace, we may again have to increase designated facilities for Covid-19 management in hospitals,” Dr Kumar said. Friday’s 431 new cases pushed the infection tally in Delhi to 6,42,870. The number of active cases of the disease rose to 2,093 from 2,020 on Thursday, while the positivity rate rose to 0.6% from 0.59% the previous day. The death toll climbed to 10,936 with two more fatalities. The number of people under home isolation on Friday rose to 1,097 from 1,028 on Thursday. Over 6.2 lakh people have recovered from the infection till date. Weekly cases have doubled in the national capital in the last four weeks. Last month, from February 8 to 14, the city recorded 911 new cases of Covid-19. In the following weeks, weekly tally went up to 954 (February 15 to 21), 1,389 (February 22 to 28) and 1,812 (March 1 to 7). In the last five days, from March 8 to 12, 1,769 new cases of Covid-19 have been confirmed. Cases of Covid-19 have also been rising significantly in the neighbouring states like Punjab and Haryana, data shows. “If social distancing and mask rules aren’t adhered to, the cases may rise further,” Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of AIIMS, told TOI recently. “The pandemic isn’t over yet. But people are already crowding in restaurants and organising parties with little or no regard to preventive measures such as maintaining physical distance and wearing masks. This is leading to more cases,” Dr Guleria said, adding further that strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour was the need of the hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-cases-see-steady-rise-431-now/articleshow/81474907.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cong demands investigation by central agency into Scania row||Mumbai: State Congress general secretary Sanjay Lakhe on Friday demanded a probe by the Central Vigilance Commission into the multi-crore deals between Swedish automobile firm, Scania, and ministries of transport & coal, Nagpur Municipal Corporation and seven BJP-ruled states. “We have been told the chassis and number plates of most of the vehicles have been changed. Under such circumstances, the probe should be entrusted to the National Investigation Agency,” he said. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari was a pioneer in introducing Scania’s ethanol-run buses in Nagpur as part of his drive to introduce green public transport in India. There are allegations that Scania paid bribes to bag contracts in seven states. “There was massive corruption in the deals. Old vehicles were sold to subsidiaries of Coal India Ltd, number plates and chassis numbers were changed to make it appear the vehicles were new. We have submitted a memorandum to the CVC and NIA,’’ Lakhe said. Gadkari’s office stated the allegations were malicious, fabricated and baseless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cong-demands-investigation-by-central-agency-into-scania-row/articleshow/81474228.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||City hotels get a lifeline from cricket||Ahmedabad: Hotels in Ahmedabad which have been struggling to take occupancies past 50% over the past one year, thanks to the pandemic, are finally getting a lifeline with a slew of cricket matches taking place in the city. The average hotel occupancy has gone up to an estimated 60% or even higher over the past four to six weeks, according to industry estimates, as people from different parts of Gujarat and even outside the state are coming to Ahmedabad to watch the cricket matches. In fact, over this weekend, the average hotel occupancy in Ahmedabad has touched 80% or even higher. “Occupancy levels at our hotel has gone up by at least 25% since the past two days. Sports enthusiasts are flying in from cities such as Mumbai, Pune and Delhi, in addition to a few others in Gujarat too. People book a stay for two nights and three days and we’re offering various inclusions in the stay package to our guests,” said Vivek Sharma, general manager, Renaissance Ahmedabad Hotel. Hotels have been doing brisk business ever since the test matches began with some of them hosting cricket team players, while the others are hosting patrons, spectators and even VVIPs who have come to witness the matches. Puneet Baijal, general manager, Hyatt Regency Ahmedabad, said, “People are travelling from other cities and states. However, since both the test matches were over before three days, many left. The interest is there and some of the hotels have seen an upward trend in occupancy due to cricket matches. The T20 weekend is seeing some major traction in the city.” Hoteliers have in fact begun offering discounts and adding features to package inclusions to ensure footfall. “We’ve offered flexible check-in and check-out over a 24-hour period to customers besides pick and drop service for patrons who have come to watch the match at the stadium,” said Sharma. Estimates by Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA) – Gujarat, suggest that occupancy level at hotels has improved significantly. However, the clause making RTPCR tests mandatory has deterred many from making bookings in big numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-hotels-get-a-lifeline-from-cricket/articleshow/81474213.cms||Niyati Parikh
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Eight arrested for gambling||Hyderabad: Task force police raided Santosh Dhabha in Abids and apprehended eight persons, Satya Prakash, Naushad Ali, Pushpak Jain, Raj Kumar, Alok Jain, Abhishek Jain and Purushotham Upadhyaya for indulging in gambling. Police seized Rs 73,860 cash from their possession and handed them over to local police for further probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eight-arrested-for-gambling/articleshow/81474890.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||Journey into the world of words,metaphors begins with Lit Fest||Lucknow: Literature is not just about reading books, it is more about feeling, understanding and living our life with it. Literature is the re-enactment of life itself in beautiful ways. Eminent authors took students and teachers on a literary journey by making them understand the true meaning of literature, diverse career opportunities and latest good reads during the Metaphor Litfest Spring Edition-2021 inaugurated at Lucknow University’s Malviya Hall on Friday. The seven-day virtual event is being organized by Lucknow Expressions Society in collaboration with Lucknow University’s department of English and Modern European languages. Director, producer and actor Raj Bisaria, who was the chief guest on the occasion, emphasized how his university days played a crucial role in helping him pursue his passion for theatre, acting and writing. “In the last three decades, the university has not given many writers and poets as literary clubs are not that active as they used to be in our times. Just saying that literature is a part of life is not enough. It should be made one. Literature is the re-enactment of life itself in beautiful ways,” said Bisaria. Prof Bisaria was felicitated for his contribution to the field of literature. The third issue of ‘Rhetorica Quarterly’, a literary journal of arts managed by the department of English and Modern European Languages, was also launched. “Literary events like Metaphor connect people’s hearts and minds and also provide a wonderful platform to showcase the works of writers and poets,” said career counsellor and educationist Amrita Dass. A poetry reading session, ‘Naye Lekhak Naye Tevar’, was conducted by the students of the department during which the students read poems on the journey of women and patriarchy. Director, School of Foreign Languages, and professor of English at Indira Gandhi National Open University, New Delhi, Prof Nandini Sahu, Urdu poet Aisha Ayub, poet, novelist and associate professor of English at Delhi University Anamika and head of Lucknow University’s English department Ranu Uniyal recited their works during the session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/journey-into-the-world-of-wordsmetaphors-begins-with-lit-fest/articleshow/81474910.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Chennai||Former colleagues will slug it out in Bodi, Karur seats||Amid the direct contest between the AIADMK and the DMK in 131 constituencies in the elections for the 16th assembly, the fights between old colleagues and friends-turned-foes in some segments are set to spice up the campaign. DMK candidates Thanga Tamilselvan and V Senthil Balaji would take on their old colleagues, deputy CM O Panneerselvam and transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar in Bodi and Karur. Tamilselvan never had a smooth working relationship with OPS when they were together in the AIADMK. To a large extent, he left the party owing to his growing rift with OPS. And the DMk chose to pit him against OPS for the same reason. An internal assessment by the DMK top brass showed that many local DMK leaders in Bodi were more loyal to OPS than to their party. This will be the second time that Tamilselvan will be taking on a member of the OPS family. Contesting in AMMK ticket, he lost the last LS polls to OPS’s son Ravindranath Kumar. Tamilselvan later joined the DMK. "M Karunanidhi is the actual candidate in every constituency where the DMK is contesting. People will definitely give 100% victory to the DMK across the state, including in Bodinayakkanur," said Tamilselvan. OPS is not new to such threats though. AIADMK sources in Theni district said OPS has taken enough precautions to handle challenges at the hustings. Reports from Karur show that V Senthil Balaji and Vijayabhaskar started ground work months ago. Balaji, who represents Aravakurichi in the outgoing assembly, chose to shift his constituency to Karur owing to heavy anti-incumbency factor in the segment. Balaji also vaulted from the AIADMK to the DMK with a stopover in AMMK. Balaji is a street-smart candidate. "He would suddenly fall at the feet of voters. Vijayabhaskar is not adept at such tricks," said a DMK functionary in Karur. Voters are a surprised lot in Karur with gifts landing at their doorstep. Within hours of the EC announcing polls, more than one lakh households in Karur got stainless steel plates as gifts in the dead of the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/former-colleagues-will-slug-it-out-in-bodi-karur-seats/articleshow/81474893.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
March 13, 2021||Coimbatore||Jallikattu activist, Velumani to lock horns||Coimbatore: The poll scene in Coimbatore got hotter on Friday as the DMK and MNM announced their list of candidates to contest in the assembly constituencies in the district. DMK has pitted environmentalist and jallikattu activist Kartikeya Sivasenapathy in Thondamuthur constituency to take on local administration minister S P Velumani. Though Sivasenapathy hails from Kangeyam in Tirupur district, he has done his schooling in Coimbatore. But what has made him a familiar name in Coimbatore was his role during the jallikattu protests. Sivasenapathy who runs a cattle research centre, argued that jallikattu was essential for preserving native cattle breed and took the narrative in favour of the traditional sport beyond Tamil pride and culture. Hitting out at S P Velumani soon after the announcement of his candidature, Sivasenapathy accused the local administration minister of corruption and called upon the voters to defeat the minister. The other surprise announcement on Friday was that of MNM leader Kamal Haasan entering the fray in Coimbatore South constituency. MNM vice-president R Mahendran would be taking on DMK and AIADMK in Singanallur segment. “Several politicians from Coimbatore have become symbols of corruption. We have a duty to defeat them,’’ he told reporters on Friday evening. He said that MNM has winning chances in several segments in Coimbatore, where people are desperate for a change. Seven of the ten constituencies in Coimbatore are going to witness a direct fight between AIADMK and DMK. While AIADMK has fielded sitting MLAs in most segments, barring a few constituencies like Coimbatore South which it has given to BJP, DMK has also chosen to nominate candidates fielded in the past. Singanallur MLA N Karthik has been announced as candidate for the segment once again, while Kinathukadavu will have Kurichi Prabhakaran, Pollachi K Varadharajan, Coimbatore north V M Shanmugasundaram and Kavundampalayam will see party veteran Payya alias Krishnan taking on AIADMK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/jallikattu-activist-velumani-to-lock-horns/articleshow/81474225.cms||Mayilvaganan
March 13, 2021||Chennai||Will be voice of Kongu belt, Kamal Haasan on Coimbatore seat||CHENNAI: Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan has chosen the Coimbatore South segment to test electoral fortunes in his maiden polls. Putting to rest speculations that the actor politician might contest from Alandur constituency, where he began his campaign, Kamal announced his decision to contest from this urban constituency in the Kongu heartland. "I will be the voice of Kongu region in the assembly,’’ Kamal said during the event to announce candidates. "If Kongu prospers, the state prospers," Kamal said citing a Tamil proverb and added that Coimbatore was always dear to him. Kamal handpicking Coimbatore South could have come as surprise to many, MNM’s performance in Coimbatore during the parliamentary elections show that it was one of the safest seats for the party. MNM vice president R Mahendran who contested in Coimbatore LS segment in 2019 bagged 1.45 lakh votes and emerged third. Though MNM’s vote share was higher than Coimbatore in couple of other constituencies, in terms of absolute numbers, the fledgling party had bagged the highest in Coimbatore. Kamal also need not take on Dravidian majors the DMK and the AIADMK as they have allotted the segment to allies Congress and the BJP respectively. Though Kamal was criss crossing the rural hinterland in TN, he seems to have realised that the party’s catchment area lies in the urban pockets. A look at second list of 42 candidates released by Kamal on Friday shows that most prominent faces have been fielded in urban constituencies. Entrepreneur Sarathbabu Elumalai, who had contested unsuccessfully from Velachery constituency as an independent in 2011, will contest from Alandur. Actor Sripriya will contest in Mylapore, Veteran Pazha Karuppiah from T Nagar. V Ponraj, who joined MNM less than ten days ago, was allotted Anna Nagar seat. In 2019 LS polls, though MNM got an overall vote share of 3.7%, it polled over 10% in several urban segments - Chennai south (12.03), Chennai central (11.74), Coimbatore (11.6), Chennai north (10.8) and Sriperumpudur (9.63). Mahendran, however, said MNM’s base was not restricted to cities. "We faced the 2019 LS polls less than 14 months after our party was launched. Our policies, symbol reached urban pockets faster. This time, we will prove our might in rural areas too,’’ he said. Of MNM’s 111 candidates listed so far, 12 are women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/will-be-voice-of-kongu-belt-kamal-on-coimbatore-seat/articleshow/81474915.cms||Srikkanth D
March 13, 2021||Coimbatore||51 test +ve for virus, active cases go up||Coimbatore: The district recorded 51 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the lowest figure since Monday, taking the total number of cases to 56,349. Active cases inched further up to 367 as only 46 people were discharged on the day. The total number of people recovered rose to 55,297, taking the recovery rate to 98.1%. The 51 fresh cases included three members a family staying near the railway station. Health department officials said they would paste a sticker in front of a house where there are three cases. “However, when there are three cases from different houses in a street, we will declare the street as a containment zone and close it for 10 days,” deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said. On Friday, 4,530 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the district. While 2,351 of them took the vaccine in private hospitals, 2,179 were inoculated at government hospitals. To further push the vaccination drive, civic body officials also began putting up posters urging eligible people, including frontline workers and those on election duty, to get vaccinated at any of the primary health centres or government hospitals. The corporation collected Rs 38,400 in fines from inspections across the city. Of this, 184 people found without masks were fined Rs 36,800 in all. Two shops were also penalized. In the east zone of the corporation, 64 people were fined for not wearing masks in the public and a shop was penalized leading to collection of Rs 12,900. Relatively, the south zone saw only 27 being caught without wearing face masks and one shop was penalized. Additionally, the health department is introducing 25 flying squads from Saturday, with two squads attached to each block, who will fine people not following Covid-19 norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/51-test-ve-for-virus-active-cases-go-up/articleshow/81474233.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||Inflict ‘vote ki chot’ on BJP, Kisan Morcha urges poll-bound Bengal||Kolkata: Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which has been protesting against the farm laws, on Friday welcomed the resolution passed at the Bengal assembly against the Centre’s farm laws and urged the farmers not to vote for the BJP in the ensuing election in the state. “We welcome Bengal’s step towards passing the resolution against farm laws. We urge people to take a judicious decision before they go to polls,” activist Medha Patkar said. “If you elect a government that does not believe in democratic rights, then the future will become uncertain. They will take advantage of the situation and work in favour of big corporates. The three farm laws will crush the country’s food security,” she added. Addressing the media hours before taking out a rally from the Ram Leela Maidan, Swaraj India’s Yogendra Yadav said: “We are neither supporting any party nor telling people who to vote for. Our only appeal is that BJP should be taught a lesson.” Appealing to people to hit the BJP government at the Centre with “vote ki chot”, Yadav said the state’s people can ruin BJP’s plans. “If they lose the election here, the Modi government will be forced to repeal the farm laws,” Yadav said. On Saturday, the Kisan Morcha partners will hold a maha panchayat in Nandigram, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting the election. This will be followed by a maha panchayat in Singur. Speaking at Friday’s rally, Patkar alleged that BJP was trying to divide people in Nandigram on the lines of religion through Suvendu Adhikari. “The places that have seen farmers’ movements are now witnessing their divisive narratives. They are stating through Adhikari that they will win the polls on the basis of religious divide,” she said. All India Kisan Sabha leader and CPM Politburo member Hannan Mollah claimed that the farmers were being misled about the minimum support price (MSP) of agricultural produce. “The Modi government is the biggest anti-farmer regime in the country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/inflict-vote-ki-chot-on-bjp-kisan-morcha-urges-poll-bound-bengal/articleshow/81473293.cms||Rohit Khanna
March 13, 2021||Dehradun||Cases filed during lockdown revoked||Dehradun: In his first cabinet meeting on Friday evening as chief minister, Tirath Singh Rawat took two decisions. The first was to withdraw all cases which were registered for violation of norms and guidelines during the Covid-19 lockdown. These cases were registered under the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act against residents for not abiding by Covid norms like wearing masks in public and maintaining social distancing. Speaking to media persons, chief secretary Om Prakash said, “The cases which were registered during the lockdown under the Epidemic Act and the Disaster Management Act for violation of Covid norms have been withdrawn by the state cabinet.” Further, the cabinet has formed a three-member sub-committee headed by minister Bishan Singh Chuphal to probe and inspect the development authorities constituted in the state after 2016. The two other members of the committee are ministers Subodh Uniyal and Arvind Pandey. Since 2016, several development authorities have been made in the state and these bodies had approved maps of house and building construction. The sub-committee formed by the cabinet on Friday would probe the maps approved by these bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cases-filed-during-lockdown-revoked/articleshow/81473354.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||T reports 180 Covid cases, one fatality||Hyderabad: Telangana recorded 181 new Covid-19 infections and one death on Friday, taking the overall toll to 1,650. There are 1,872 patients under treatment and the recovery rate improved to 98.82 % in the state. So far, 91,14,985 Covid-19 tests have been conducted, of which 3,00,717 have tested positive and 2,97,195 persons have recovered. Meanwhile, the director of public health and family welfare in a bulletin said that people with comorbid conditions like hypertension, diabetes, cardiac illness, chronic kidney disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cancer or any other chronic illness should stay indoors and avoid any kind of travel except for medical care. “If symptoms related to Covid-19 are observed, please report to the nearest government health facility and seek the required health services without any delay,” the statement read. In the data released by the health department officials on Friday, 21,340 Covid tests were conducted in the state while reports of another 319 samples were awaited. GHMC witnessed 44 new cases followed by 19 new cases in Rangareddy district and 15 cases in Medchal Malkajgiri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-180-covid-cases-one-fatality/articleshow/81474914.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Before Independence, salt was a symbol of `aatmanirbharta’:PM||It was the commemoration of the historic Salt Satyagraha, and also the occasion to launch India’s Amrit Mahotsav –celebrating 75 years of India’s independence next year – on Friday. PM Narendra Modi in his speech at Ahmedabad termed salt as a symbol of honesty, faith and loyalty. “Salt was never measured by its price in the country… ‘Hum aaj bhi kehte hain, humne desh ka namak khaya hai’ (we use salt as a symbol of loyalty). We say this not because salt is a costly commodity, but because it symbolizes work and equality. Before Independence, salt was a symbol of atmanirbharta,”the PM said, adding, “That one yatra joined every person in the country against the British.” Modi did not hold back words in showering praise on all leaders who shaped India since independence. He mentioned the contribution of Pandit Nehru, Sardar Patel, Babasaheb Ambedkar, Subhash Chandra Bose, Maulana Azad, Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan, Veer Savarkar and others. “India derives inspiration from the contribution of all these leaders as we resolve to move forward with higher goals in mind,” he said. The PM said that there are numerous other instances, where people valiantly fought against the British rule, and the contribution of poets and religious reformers also has been immense. “Five pillars - FreedomStruggle, Ideas at 75, Achievements at 75, Actions at 75 and Resolves at 75 - are the guiding force for moving forward,” Modi said. “Many ideas will emerge from this 75-week programme. Why should schools and colleges not have competitions on events from our freedom struggle. Law schools can document legal cases leading to Independence.Those in the field of arts can contribute as well,” he said. Modi arrived in Ahmedabad on Friday morning and drove to Sabarmati Ashram, where he paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi. Modi wrote in the visitors’ book that the Mahotsav is a tribute to our freedom fighters and freedom struggle. “By coming to the Sabarmati Ashram and with the inspiration of Bapu, my determination for nation building is strengthened,” the Prime Minister wrote. “Mahatma Gandhi gave the message of atma-nirbharta (self-reliance) and atma-vishwas (self-confidence) from here," Modi wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/before-independence-salt-was-a-symbol-of-aatmanirbhartapm/articleshow/81474266.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Pune||Pune: Rs 1 crore duping case against jewellery firm partners||PUNE: The Kothrud police on Thursday registered a case against the partners of a prominent jewellery firm in Kothrud and Laxmi Road for duping three persons to the tune of Rs1 crore on the promise of giving them good returns on investment in a fixed deposit scheme. A case has been registered under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 409 (criminal breach of trust by banker, merchant or agent) of the Indian Penal Code and the relevant sections of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act against five suspects. One of the suspects had shot himself in his Laxmi Road office on December 15 last year. He succumbed to the bullet injuries on December 27, 2020. A 59-year-old woman from Kothrud filed an FIR against the suspects. She told TOI, “I have lost Rs37.8 lakh to the suspects, while my relatives lost Rs25 lakh.” She said she had started investing money with the jewellery firm in 2015 as they had offered 15% interest on investment in their fixed deposit scheme. “For three years till 2018, they paid us the interest regularly. Then they stopped paying anything,” the complainant said. She said, “Whenever we would visit them, they would assure us of paying the interest. After some time, they started telling us that they were waiting for their money to be obtained from some foreign country and after that they would pay us. We believed them and decided to wait.” She said, “In the past three years, we neither got any returns on our investments nor did we get our money back. So, we decided to lodge the complaint.” Senior inspector Meghsham Dange of the Kothrud police said, “Along with the complainant and her relatives, one more couple from Chinchwad approached us. They have been duped of Rs43 lakh. Collectively, the fraud is over Rs1 crore. We are expecting to get more complaints.” Dange said the police were yet to make any arrests in the case. “Our probe is on,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-1cr-duping-case-against-jewellery-firm-partners/articleshow/81474235.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||A peek into royal kitchen to trace Mughal cuisine’s trail||n One theory on how vegetarian dishes entered the Mughlai cuisine is that Mughal emperor Jalal-ud-din Mohammad Akbar would not eat meat during the month he came to power. Fresh vegetables were grown in his garden and a retinue of 400 chefs would prepare different vegetarian dishes for him, which gradually became a part of the cuisine. n The practice of adding saffron to Mughlai dishes was started by Akbar’s son Humayun, who imported it from Persia where he was in exile for several years.  n Biryani, which is synonymous to royalty, could have come into existence when famine stuck Awadh in 1740s and a melange of vegetables and rice along with some meat was prepared for the labourers building an imambara in Lucknow. These are some of the anecdotes that emerged from a talk tracing the origin and evolution of Mughlai cuisine. Shahanshah Mirza, the great great grandson of King Wajid Ali Shah, who otherwise juggles with numbers in the finance department, shared several poignant moments and incidents on the evolution of the Mughlai cuisine with food and heritage connoisseurs of the city while talking at the Victoria Memorial Hall on Friday evening in an event titled ‘The Mughlai Trail — Enthralling Tales of the Royal Cuisine’. Mughals also gave the country fruits like cherries, apricots, grapes and melons but the love of Mughal rulers for mangoes was legendary. “Once emperor Shahjahan rebuked Aurangzeb for not sending him mangoes from the Deccan. They had private orchards with several varities of mango trees,” Mirza added. But no other dish has occupied the collective conscience of Indians like biryani and most theories about the origin of the dish are untrue. “During the rule of Nawab Asaf-ud-Daulah, an Awadh king, famine struck and people lost their livelihoods. He came up with the idea of building a grand imambara, which still exists in Lucknow as a work for food programme. The workers were fed once a day and to provide them all nutrition, and avoid cooking several dishes, large cauldrons were filled with rice, meat, vegetables and spices and cooked in dum pukht style. One day, the king was visiting the place when he happened to taste the dish, which he liked immensely. He summoned his chefs and suggested certain modifications and that is how biryani is said to have come into existence,” said Mirza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-peek-into-royal-kitchen-to-trace-mughal-cuisines-trail/articleshow/81473303.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||Toppled posts, messy cables turn Salt Lake stretches risky||Kolkata: Certain stretches of Salt Lake have turned risky for commuters, thanks to damaged lamp posts lying dangerously on roadsides and overhead cable lines posing a constant threat. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation authorities had earlier thought of following the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) way to set up underground cable ducts — like the ones set up in New Town — but the plan could not be implemented as the cable mess is yet to be cleared. Not only do the cables turn lamp posts vulnerable, at many places snapped cables hang low — as low as touching the pavements. To add to woes, there are several trident poles that were almost uprooted in Amphan but are yet to be repaired or removed. Residents said the mess has been there for years. “Almost all main thoroughfares in Salt Lake are burdened with these overhead cable mess. It not only gives the township an ugly look but also poses a threat to commuters. The authorities should do something to clear the mess,” said Sankhadeep Roy Chowdhury, a resident of AE Block. Civic officials said they had urged cable operators in the township to remove non-functional or damaged overhead cable lines that are dangling from one streetlight post to another to clear up the mess but there was no positive response. “With the civic body now being run by a board of administrators, it is practically not possible to take forward this plan now till the new board is formed. As for the damaged street lights poles, they would be removed,” said a civic official. In New Town, all cable lines move through underground ducts. Even in Sector V, the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) has already cleared overhead cable lines from one stretch and work is on to set up underground duct and to remove overhead lines from other places as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/toppled-posts-messy-cables-turn-salt-lake-stretches-risky/articleshow/81473309.cms||Suman Chakraborti
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Venugopal Dhoot gets bail in ‘money laundering’ case, can’t leave India sans court nod||MUMBAI: Following summons by the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court, Venugopal Dhoot of Videocon group companies appeared before it on Friday and was granted bail on a bond of Rs 5 lakh in the alleged multi-crore ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case. The court directed Dhoot to not to leave the country without permission and surrender his passport immediately. Exactly a month ago, co-accused former ICICI Bank CEO, Chanda Kochhar, had come before the court and was granted bail. Her husband, Deepak Kochhar, has been in custody since his arrest by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on September 7. Earlier, in a detailed order, the court had held that it appeared Chanda Kochhar had misused her official position in granting loans to Dhoot and got illegal gains through her husband. Dhoot’s bail plea, submitted through advocate Sandeep S Ladda, said that having learnt of non-service of summons, he was appearing suo moto. “Contribution of (Dhoot) and Videocon group cannot be forgotten in developing “Make in India” product and standing in the way of Chinese and foreign brands when all other contemporary Indian electronic brands could not sustain,” the bail plea stated. It added that Dhoot himself was victim and the Videocon group had sustained losses due to cancellation of 21 telecom licences, market recession and sudden lapse of CRT TV business, post-demonetisation and sudden fall in oil prices. “It is pertinent to note here that the Videocon Group, being mindful of the large investment of public money and its stakeholders, deliberately took care to sell its assets so as to return the borrowed funds to the banks and avoided a potential loss of Rs 15,000 crores to the private banks and financial institutions,” Dhoot’s bail plea said. It also cited the 70-year-old’s ill health and listed 20 ailments, including coronary artery disease, post-Covid complications and diabetes. Citing his 31 visits to the offices of the investigating agencies, the plea said, “The applicant (Dhoot) has cooperated with the ED; at their terms he gave the statements and has even supplied all available documents in his possession as called upon to do so.” The plea added that due to his cooperation, the ED had not arrested him. Calling Dhoot “a proud Indian citizen” and “an honest businessman”, the bail plea said that till date, he has never even considered fleeing the country in spite of mounting debt of several thousand crores and has dealt with all proceedings against the Videocon Group and him “in a head-on manner”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-dhoot-gets-bail-in-money-laundering-case-cant-leave-india-sans-court-nod/articleshow/81474249.cms||Rebecca Samervel
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||KT Rama Rao defends support to VSP stir, asks if AP isn’t part of India||HYDERABAD: After openly supporting the ongoing stir of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant employees against the Centre’s plans to privatise the PSU, TRS working president KT Rama Rao on Friday again defended his party’s stand and said Singareni Collieries and BHEL could be the next on the Centre’s radar for privatisation. Taking a dig at some leaders questioning him as to why he was raising the issue of neighbouring AP, KTR shot back: “Isn’t Andhra Pradesh part of India? I will question if something wrong is happening at any place.” He said the Centre is on the verge of privatising the VSP and added he would raise the issue and extend support to the steel plant employees. Addressing the Telangana Vikas Samithi interaction meeting here, he said after formation of Telangana, Hyderabad has seen a lot of progress. Three states were carved out before Telangana came into being but they are yet to witness any development, he said. Rebutting the BJP’s remarks of labelling the TRS regime as an ‘anti-employee’ government, KTR said the BJP government at the Centre had given 14% PRC for employees in 2016. “That was before the introduction of GST and when the economic situation in the country was much stable. On the contrary, the TRS government had offered 43% fitment to the state government employees,” he said. On the remarks of BJP MLC candidate NRamchander Rao over non-appointment of vice-chancellors to various universities, KTR said the TRS government has never gone by political interests and appointed scholars as VCs and senior IAS officers as in-charge VCs. Taking pot-shots at the BJP, he said: “The University of Hyderabad VC’s appointment and politics involved in it has led to a lot of disturbances on the campus.” He said the state has spent Rs 12,800 crore on fee reimbursement in the last six years. He said Telangana is giving top priority to education, but the Centre has given a short shrift to the state. “No new institutes or universities have been granted to Telangana in the last years,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-defends-support-to-vsp-stir-asks-if-ap-isnt-part-of-india/articleshow/81474401.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 13, 2021||Chennai||Job for every household, shutting down breweries among TTV’s poll promises||AMMK general secretary T T V Dhinakaran on Friday promised to offer one job for every household if the AMMK-led alliance is voted to power in the assembly election. A scheme named after former chief minister J Jayalalithaa will seek to revolutionise job creation in villages by focusing on agro-based industries and prevent migration of people to villages, he said. Addressing a public meeting, organized to release the party’s manifesto, TTV said a policy decision will be taken to not allow any new distilleries or breweries in Tamil Nadu and to shut down the existing units in phases over the next five years. "These are not empty promises. Every promise will be implemented," he said, appealing to the people of TN to vote for the alliance. AMMK on Friday announced a third list, of 130 candidates, taking the total number of candidates named so far to 195. Promising to establish an ‘Industries Development Board’ with representatives from various industries, the AMMK manifesto sought to ease credit norms and interest free loans to promote self-employment. TTV said he would extend subsidized two-wheeler scheme to working men and return to monthly billing of electricity charges. Participating in the meeting, ally AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi attacked the DMK for hobnobbing with the BJP in the past, while countering allegations that his party was helping the BJP indirectly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/job-for-every-household-shutting-down-breweries-among-ttvs-poll-promises/articleshow/81474924.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Congress stages dharna to ensure housing rights||New Delhi: Delhi Congress organised a dharna against the Delhi government on Friday, highlighting problems related to ownership rights and proper housing in slum areas of Majnu ka Tila and old Chandrawal. Mudit Aggarwal, vice-president of Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee claimed that in 2013, 45 resettlement colonies were given ownership by the UPA government and Delhi government, in which Aruna Nagar, Majnu ka Tila were also listed. “While in office, AAP has built thousands of flats under the scheme, but tdiscriminated against residents of Majnu ka Tila and Old Chandrawal,” he said. Despite attempts, there was no response from Delhi government on the issue. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/congress-stages-dharna-to-ensure-housing-rights/articleshow/81474962.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||HC clears decks for hsg society polls||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Friday refused to strike down a memo issued by the registrar of the cooperative department, thereby enabling the conduct of election to Jubilee Hills Cooperative Housing Building Society (JHCHBS). Elections to the housing society are slated to be held on March 21 and a notification for the poll was issued on March 3. Justice T Amarnath Goud said it would be illegal to interfere in the poll process now and dismissed an interim application moved by petitioner Bollineni Ravindranath, secretary of Jubilee Hills Welfare Society. The registrar issued the memo on March 1, practically erasing section 22A of the housing society’s bylaws from the JHCHBS’s rule book. Section 22A prohibits those members from contesting in the society election if they had already contested twice in the past. Ravindranath urged the court to retain section 22A by declaring it as legally valid. However, the judge junked his plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-clears-decks-for-hsg-society-polls/articleshow/81474918.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai developer, three others booked on charge of cheating||PUNE: The Chatushrungi police on Thursday night registered a case of cheating, extortion and other charges against Mumbai-based Macrotech Developers and its directors following an order by a Pune magisterial court in a private complaint filed by a 54-year-old woman lawyer over a deal for purchase of flat in a realty project at Worli in Mumbai. The woman, who, according to her lawyer, did not wish to be named, said in her complaint that in 2013 she booked a 39th floor flat in the project which was to be completed by December 2017, but was delayed till 2019. In between, the developer started pressurizing her for cancellation of their agreement to sell or pay the prevailing market value of the flat which was much higher than the Rs 5.59 crore agreed consideration. The woman claimed she has paid almost 70% of the consideration to the developer and felt threatened by the latter’s pressure tactics. Judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) M P Pardeshi said in her March 10 order, “It is alleged…the accused...cheated the complainant and committed breach of trust by assuring her to sale the alleged flat for the consideration amount of Rs 5.25 crore to Rs 5.51 crore. They have used all possible means of pressures...to make the complainant succumb to their illegal demands of cancelling the documents with respect to the flat thereby causing wrongful loss to the complainant and wrongful gain to themselves.” “The complaint prima facie discloses cognizable offence. Therefore...Chatushrungi police are directed to hold an investigation under Section 156 (3) CrPC after registration of offence,” the JMFC said. Senior lawyer Harshad Nimbalkar, who represented the complainant, said, “The police recorded our client’s statement after registering the FIR last (Thursday) night. They will now send a report to the court.” Senior inspector Anil Shewale said, "We have booked the developer and three others on charges under sections 384 & 385 (both related to extortion), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC. The complainant invested in a housing project at Worli, but all financial transactions were conducted in Pune. We have asked her to hand over all relevant documents. After studying them, we will summon the developer and others for questioning.” “The complainant is a defaulter who has not made payment of her dues for many years and has thereafter refused to pay applicable interest as per RERA. We have filed case against her in RERA for default and cancellation more than 12 months ago. Last year, she had filed the same case in relevant police station in Mumbai and due to no evidence found to support the complainant’s unsubstantial claims the case was closed, proving the company had not committed any wrong. It appears that she has not disclosed aforesaid information to obtain this new order which, in any event, only says that Police should look into the matter - we will file appeal against this illegally obtained order soon", say Macrotech Developers. (With inputs from Asseem Shaikh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-developer-three-others-booked-on-charge-of-cheating-in-mumbai/articleshow/81474967.cms||Vishwas Kothari
March 13, 2021||Kochi||By fielding Shelna, CPM wants to win UDF’s stronghold||Kochi: Winning Aluva constituency, a stronghold of the United Democratic Front (UDF), has always been a herculean task for the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and despite trying all tactics, the constituency stood with LDF only twice since 1957 (in 1967 & 2006). But this time, by fielding Shelna Nishad Ali, daughter-in-law of senior Congress leader and six-time legislator from Aluva K Mohammed Ali, here, CPM wants to give a better shot at winning the constituency. However, the fight against Congress’s Anwar Sadat, who is set to contest for the third consecutive time with two previous victories, would not be easy for LDF. However, the party believes that Shelna’s Congress family background will be beneficial for LDF in winning some of the UDF votes and neutral votes. Shelna, an architect by profession, highlights LDF’s development works as the main campaign tool. However, even the local CPM leaders believes that defeating Anwar Sadat, will be a challenging task, especially when there are disagreements among the local party members over her candidature. “There were disagreement over her candidature and some workers in Edathala had backed out from the campaign works. But with the intervention of district leadership, everything is back to normal. It will be good fight this time,” a CPM local leader said. Even though the 2020 LSG polls witnessed a pro-LDF wave across the state, Aluva constituency stood with the UDF. Besides winning Aluva municipality, UDF had significant upper hand in six out of eight grama panchayats — Chengamanad, Choornikkara, Edathala, Kanjoor, Nedumbassery and Sreemoolanagaram. However, Shelna, who denied the allegations of disagreements over her candidature, is confident of fulfilling the responsibility the party has entrusted her with. “Everyone has their own politics and choices of ideology. Though my father-in-law was associated with the Congress party, I was close to Left ideology. My family offers full support to me and the party stands united to highlight the development works LDF government has brought over the past five years. Fight will be tough but I am optimistic,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/by-fielding-shelna-cpm-wants-to-win-udfs-stronghold/articleshow/81474260.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Accident victim abandoned, 3 held||Hyderabad: After being involved in a road accident, two persons who were travelling in a DCM, instead of shifting the injured cyclist to hospital, fled away after moving him to the side of the road in Chandanagar PS limits last month. As a result, Cyberabad police on Friday said three persons had been arrested. The injured person B Sailu, 35, died on March 1 while undergoing treatment. Police said that at 5.45am on February 25, a DCM driven by Mohammed Hameed hit the victim. Later, the victim, who had gone underneath the DCM vehicle’s tyre was removed and was lifted by Hameed and Mohammed Tousif, who is the cleaner of the DCM. They kept him on the roadside before fleeing away. Hameed informed about the accident to the DCM owner, Mohammed Afroz. “After the accident, they should have helped the injured cyclist by shifting him to the nearest hospital or calling an ambulance. Instead, they have exhibited condemnable behaviour by dragging the injured person struggling for his life, leaving him on the road and fleeing from the spot. The entire episode was recorded on CCTV,” Cyberabad DCP (Traffic) Vijay Kumar said. The vehicle owner allegedly knew that the driver did not have a driving license. The injured was shifted to a hospital by a passer-by and died while undergoing treatment. Police said that a case was registered against the accused under section 304-II of IPC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/accident-victim-abandoned-3-held/articleshow/81474972.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||Help merely a click away for filling Lucknow University forms||LUCKNOW: If you are facing problems in filling admission forms for undergraduate and PhD course of Lucknow University, help is now just a click away. All one has to do is to just log on to the YouTube channel of the university, #Lucknow University, where a video has been uploaded to help candidates fill online application forms in Hindi and English for academic session 2021-22. Assistant professor in linguistic department Madri Kakoti has made a detailed video with point-wise instructions that highlight what are the documents that the candidates need, what is to be done to apply for a course, and what to do if a candidate makes a mistake while filling the form. Candidates may also go to admission section of LU’s website and get a link to the video. “The video has been made not only to help and guide candidates for filling up admission form but also to make them more responsible by learning to fill their application forms on their own rather than going to a cybercafe or making their parents or elder siblings fill the form for them,” said Madri. “Within a few hours of the update, the video received 35 comments and 100 views. Our admission team and officials are tracking students’ queries and answering them at the earliest,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/help-merely-a-click-away-for-filling-lu-forms/articleshow/81474954.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Rs 10L property damaged in wine shop fire||Hyderabad: A wine shop in Bollaram caught fire and all the liquor stock in the shop was completely damaged in the mishap. Officials said that the incident took place in the wee hours of Friday. Initially, smoke started to come out of the store. A fire quickly spread across the store. Three fire tenders were pressed into service. By the time the fire tenders reached the shop, the whole stock of liquor was gutted. After the fire was doused, many bottles were found broken and the liquor had evaporated. Officials suspect that a short circuit could be the cause for the mishap. Nearly Rs 10 lakh worth property was damaged in the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-10l-property-damaged-in-wine-shop-fire/articleshow/81474936.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Amritsar||Inflict ‘vote ki chot’ on BJP, SKM urges poll-bound WB||BATHINDA: Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders kick-started their campaign against the BJP in West Bengal on Friday by invoking freedom fighter Bhagat Singh and urging the state’s farmers to deal a “vote ki chot” (vote blow) to the saffron party in the upcoming assembly elections so that the Centre is forced to heed the demand of farm groups protesting at Delhi borders for repeal of the three contentious farm laws. A letter by a “farmer of India” addressed to Bengal farmers was sent to all the 294 assembly constituencies of West Bengal through “Kisan doots”. The SKM leaders claimed that if farmers and people of the state “punished anti-farmer BJP”, it (party) would learn a lesson and “lose its ego”. Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said, “Various sectors in the country are being taken over by corporates as BJP is ensuring smooth transfer of public sector to private sector. We have decided to campaign against BJP in poll-bound states and have come to West Bengal to oppose the party. We neither have candidates in these elections nor are we aligned with any particular political party. Our only agenda is to oppose the BJP and support whosoever is capable of defeating it.” Terming it as a historic move, Jai Kisan Andolan’s Yogendra Yadav said the farmers had “dared to politically challenge the powers that be” without directly interfering in the electoral politics. He said nearly 300 farmers have died during the ongoing farmers’ protest because of various reasons like cold, ailments, accidents or suicide. Yet, they are still determined to take the fight against the Narendra Modi government to its logical conclusion by forcing it to repeal the farm laws, he added. Farm leaders said they have made arrangements to ensure that farmers remained at the protest sites and wheat harvesting is also not impacted. On Saturday, SKM partners will hold a mahapanchayat in Nandigram, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting the election. This will be followed by another mahapanchayat in Singur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/inflict-vote-ki-chot-on-bjp-skm-urges-poll-bound-wb/articleshow/81474259.cms||Neel Kamal
March 13, 2021||Chandigarh||BKU activists booked for rioting, defamation||Ambala: Police have booked several Haryana farmers for rioting, criminal intimidation, obscene act and defamation after they protested and burnt an effigy of BJP’s Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel outside his residence in Ambala City. The farmers had protested outside Goel’s on Thursday, objecting to a remark made by him against farmers’ who are protesting against the three contentious farm laws. He had allegedly called farmers as “anti-nationals and traitors”. In his police complaint, constable Naveen Kumar said, “Around 10.30am, about 400 farmers gathered and sat on protest at Inco Chowk in Ambala City. They raised slogans against MLA Aseem Goel. BKU Haryana leaders including the outfit’s Ambala district president Malkiat Singh, Sukhwinder Singh Jalbera, Jai Singh and Navdeep Singh (from Jalbera), district vice-president Gulab Singh and Satwinder Singh Manakpur (Manakpur), Amarjeet Singh (Mohri), Iqbal Singh (Dadiana), Shamsher Singh (Lakhnaur Sahib), and around 9-10 others encouraged the protesters to not let Goel come out.” “Jai Singh Jalbera threatened to kill the MLA,” he alleged. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bku-activists-booked-for-rioting-defamation/articleshow/81474279.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Hosp doctors attacked after patient death||New Delhi: After a 34-year-old patient in Hindu Rao Hospital died on Friday evening, his relatives and attendants allegedly became violent and attacked the healthcare workers on duty. Two doctors in the emergency ward were injured and windo panes of the ward were smashed. The video clips of the incident showed that doctors and nurses on duty had to take shelter by locking themselves in a ward room and called the police. A senior doctor from the hospital said that the matter came under control only after police reached the hospital half-an-hour later. Dr Abhimnayu Sardana, who heads the Resident Doctors’ Association at Hindu Rao, said that they are demanding an institutional FIR in the case and improvement of security arrangements at the hospital premises. Other doctors rued the lack of security for healthcare workers and complained that there are not enough security guards in the hospital. A Hindu Rao doctor said that the deceased patient was from Malkaganj’s Kabir Basti. “He had been operated upon a few days ago and was feeling pain in the same part of the body. He suffered a heart attack around 4.30pm while receiving treatment,” the doctor said. Immediately after the death, the relatives allegedly lost their temper and started attacking the doctors and nurses. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hosp-doctors-attacked-after-patient-death/articleshow/81474994.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai:‘Complainants’ claims unsubstantial’||A spokesperson for Macrotech Developers said the complainant is a defaulter who has not made payment of her dues for many years and has thereafter refused to pay applicable interest as per RERA. “We have filed a case against her in RERA for default and cancellation more than 12 months ago. Last year, she had filed the same case in a relevant police station in Mumbai and due to no evidence found to support the complainant’s unsubstantial claims the case was closed, proving the company had not committed any wrong. It appears that she has not disclosed aforesaid information to obtain this new order which, in any event, only says that police should look into the matter. We will file an appeal against this illegally obtained order soon,” the spokesperson said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaicomplainants-claims-unsubstantial/articleshow/81474985.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Labourers plan mahapanchayat in Nabha next wk||Patiala: Farm labourers from Sangrur, Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib and other districts plan to hold a mahapanchayat in Nabha on March 21 on a call given by the MGNREGA Front, Punjab, in support of farmers in their stir against the three farm laws. Leaders of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) are expected to attend the meeting, but farmers’ leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and BKU (Ekta Dakaunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh have promised to come,, said MGNREGA Front, Punjab, leader Gurmeet Singh Thuhi. He said this mahapanchayat was being organised not just to support the farmers’ agitation but also to end the caste discrimination prevailing in some rural areas of Punjab. “The mahapanchayat would give a message of support to the farmers,”he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/labourers-plan-mahapanchayat-in-nabha-next-wk/articleshow/81474272.cms||Bharat Khanna
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||16 more seats in Lucknow varsity’s PhD course||LUCKNOW: Lucknow University has added three seats to its PhD (regular) course and 13 to PhD (part-time) course, two days after starting the admission process in both. The number may go up in the coming days as some departments had not conducted meetings to finalize their seats. Earlier, LU had declared 439 seats for regular PhD and 76 in part-time Phd course, which are now 442 and 89 respectively. Two seats of anthropology and a seat of economics were increased in full-time PhD while in part-time, nine seats were added in Hindi, two in public administration and one each in physics and geology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/16-more-seats-in-varsitys-phd-course/articleshow/81474981.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Pune||Eateries, malls face tighter curbs in Pune; schools shut till month-end||PUNE: State deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday put to rest fears of another lockdown in Pune district, but announced several restrictions following the recent rise in Covid-19 cases. “These restrictions will continue till March 31 and there will be a further review after a fortnight,” Pawar told the media after chairing the weekly Covid-19 review meeting at the Council Hall here. In new rules that come into effect from Saturday, the district administration has brought back stricter restrictions on the operation of restaurants and bars, public gardens and halls. Restaurants, dining facilities, malls and cinema-halls will be allowed to operate at 50% capacity till 10pm. “Eateries will get an hour’s extension for takeaway services. Restaurants will have to put up a board outside mentioning their total seats and also the number of occupied and vacant tables,” Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said. The restriction on night movement from 11pm to 6am remains the same. The closure of schools has been extended till March 31, with an exception for students of standard X and XII. “All gardens in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits will remain closed in the evening hours. A restriction of 50 people, as against 200 in the past, will apply for any social, religious or political gathering,” Rao said. Roadside eateries will not be allowed to have more than five customers at a time. “All club houses in housing societies will stay shut, while non-essential shops will have to close by 10pm,” Rao said. “People working night shifts in offices will be allowed to commute between home and the workplace. There will be no restriction on inter-district movement,” he said. Pawar told TOI, “We have decided to impose the restrictions after detailed consultations with the local authorities. There will be further decisions after March 31.” For the next 15 days, regular updates would be taken with the local authorities, he said. On the overall situation in the state, Pawar said the chief minister would take a decision on any further restrictions. Rao said the stricter restrictions have been imposed to ensure “strict adherence to social distancing and other Covid-19 protocols”. He said, “I want to iterate that we have not put out any lockdown-like situations, but only decided on the restrictions. A study by Tata Consultancy and Prayas Health care group has indicated that such measures will help decrease the spread of the contagion. We have only put out these restrictions and urge people to follow them thoroughly.” Rao said, “Pune has registered the highest daily cases in the state and the Union government has announced that it (Pune) was among the eight highly affected Covid-hit districts in the country.” Testing would be further ramped up and some facilities at Sassoon hospital would increase testing capacity to 1,000 a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eateries-malls-face-tighter-curbs-in-pune-schools-shut-till-month-end/articleshow/81474282.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Panel on fees regulation set up in state||Mumbai: Taking cognisance of complaints by parents on school fees, state education department set up a nine-member committee to amend Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act. The state issued a GR. The committee will amend Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011, and 2018 and rules as well as the department finds administrative difficulties in implementing the Act and parents and parent organisations have raised issues related to fees. The committee will comprise experts from education and officials from education and law and judiciary departments. Representatives of parents and parents’ associations will be invited for meetings as per requirements, and their recommendations will be considered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-panel-on-fees-regulation-set-up-in-state/articleshow/81474288.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||How tech foiled MBBS’ cheating bid||New Delhi: After failing to clear the examination to enrol as a doctor in India six times in a row, 35-year-old Manohar Singh decided to use a proxy candidate to pass the test. He almost got away with it, but got caught when the face detection system flagged the difference in the photograph of the exam writer and Singh. DCP (Southeast) RP Meena said the accused has been arrested and his degree seized. The paper writer has been identified, but is absconding. A manhunt is on to arrest him. Singh had completed MBBS from Tajik State Medical University in Tajikistan. A probe revealed that he had hired a doctor for Rs 4 lakh to appear on his behalf for the exam. While the doctor successfully wrote the paper, Singh’s result was frozen due to mismatch of his face ID captured on the examination day with the photo in the application form. He was later called in for verification in person and the mismatch persisted. The board then asked him questions from the exam paper, which he failed to answer. National Board of Examinations (NBE), an autonomous body under Union ministry of health, was formed to standardise postgraduate medical education and examination in India. The board conducts Foreign Medical Examination (FME), which is a licentiate examination for Indian or overseas citizens who have completed primary medical qualification from other countries. Foreign medical graduates need to qualify FMGE to get registered with Indian Medical Council. On March 11, two officials from the board approached police with a complaint regarding Singh’s alleged impersonation. “The FMGE screening test was conducted on December 4, 2020. Singh’s centre was at Mathura Road. After the mismatch was detected, he was called for verification of the face ID on February 3, but he did not come. On March 10, he finally visited and the board caught him,” stated their police complaint. The accused was arrested and his admit card, MBBS degree and application form were seized. During interrogation, he confessed to hiring a doctor to take the exam in his place for a fee. A chargesheet will soon be filed against Singh, said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-tech-foiled-mbbs-cheating-bid/articleshow/81474301.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Aatmanirbhar incubator aims to revive unique traditions of India’||Ahmedabad: PM Narendra Modi on Friday launched a slew of events and initiatives in Ahmedabad, with one of the major initiatives to get a place of prominence was the Aatmanirbhar Incubator, which will be run by the Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT) in association with the government of India.Kartikeya Sarabhai, trustee of SAPMT, said the focus of the initiative is to sustain and revive lesser-known traditions involving ‘old world’ cotton and wool. “Right from the British Raj, the focus is on more profitable or industry-fit crops of cotton. But there are many pockets of India that sustain unique traditions, and the incubator aims to revive them,” he said. Government officials claim that the initiative can reach 40,000 families – ranging from farmers and artisans working with types such as hill cotton in Andhra Pradesh and Ghummad cotton in Gujarat.Sarabhai said Gujarat has a history of such conservation.“The kala cotton of Khamir was revived with cultivation to ginning process in place. The model can be replicated across geographies and as it is close to the Ashram’s mission, we will be part of the initiative along with the GoI,” he said.The initiative, which is likely to start inducting artisans soon, will also provide industry interface and mentorship, added officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aatmanirbhar-incubator-aims-to-revive-unique-traditions-of-india/articleshow/81474296.cms||Parth Shastri
March 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Farm outfit opposes proposed Electricity Amendment Bill||Bathinda: Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has opposed a proposed move by the central government to introduce the Electricity Amendment Bill 2021, asking the government to make public the draft of the Bill that might be tabled in the ongoing session in the Parliament. Any amendments to the Electricity Act will clearly violate the commitment made by the Centre to the farmer organisations to withdraw the Draft Bill 2020, the morcha said in a statement on Friday. It said during the 11 rounds of talks with farm leaders, the central ministers had assured to withdraw the Electricity Bill 2020. The government, instead of accepting the demands of the farmers, is constantly harassing people who are supporting the farmers’ agitation, the SKM said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-outfit-opposes-proposed-electricity-amendment-bill/articleshow/81474284.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||Tunisian wood items, Bangla saris draw crowds to trade fair||Lucknow: A blend of culture, couture and craftsmanship is on display at the India International Mega Trade Fair (IIMTF) organised for the first time in the city. Opening on Friday at Indira Gandhi Pratishthan, the fair got an encouraging response on Day I. People started trickling at the venue soon after inauguration. Despite rain and inclement weather, an impressive crowd had gathered in the evening. While a few had come with friends only for a stroll, many families were seen buying handicrafts, even as others flocked around food stalls. Over 35,000 handicraft products from nine countries and 15 Indian states are attracting people at the fair, which will continue till March 21. Among major attractions are Tunisia’s wooden and cutlery products, Bangladesh’s traditional jamdani saris, Malaysia’s water fountains, Turkey’s lamps, Afghanistan’s dry fruits, Dubai’s designer suits and Thailand’s exquisite accessories. Besides, indigenous products from all over India are finding takers. Trishla Singh and Mudita Tripathi, who were clicking pictures of artefacts, said, “We came straight from work and bought aroma sachets and Chanderi suits. The collection is interesting and prices reasonable,” they said. Manjari Srivastava, who bought a Dhakai sari, said, “Bangladesh’s ‘jamdani’ is rich in motifs and includes labour-intensive handlooms.” Salesperson Azizul said, “It takes 15 days for two people to complete a sari.” In search of something unique for her home, Namita Agarwal said, “I bought a hand-painted ceramic plate with exceptional design on it from the Tunisian stall. I look forward to visiting again to buy their olive wood products.” The food corner had mouth-watering delicacies from indigenous cuisines of West Bengal, Rajasthan and Maharashtra to Arabic specialties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tunisian-wood-items-bangla-saris-draw-crowds-to-trade-fair/articleshow/81475002.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Six non-CGHS private hospitals to start Covid vaccination||LUCKNOW: As many as 46 non-CGHS and Ayushman Bharat empaneled private hospitals were allowed to start Covid-19 vaccination service in Uttar Pradesh. Relevant orders in this regard were issued by the additional secretary, ministry of health and family welfare and mission director, National Health Mission, Vandana Gurnani on Friday evening. Marking a copy of the same to additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad she also laid the four pre-requisites for the designated Covid vaccination centre. “The private health facility must have adequate space for vaccination like waiting area, vaccination room and observation room, must possess cold chain arrangement for vaccine storage, have the required number of vaccinators and support staff and adequate arrangement for management of adverse event following immunization,” the order stated. The step was proposed by UP government to speed up Covid-19 vaccination in the state. More than 100 proposals were shortlisted and sent to the Union government for approval. On why a need for this was felt, officials stated that more than 1.9 crore elderly are to be vaccinated in the state of which 25% are to be immunized in March. In addition to this the state has to vaccinate persons with co-morbid conditions in the state which adds another 1.25 crore persons (approximately) to the target list. Achieving the goal is impossible without private sector’s engagement. On Thursday, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath told officials to speed up Covid-19 vaccination in the state and fixed a target of 5,000 persons per day for cities having a population of more than 25 lakhs. Those with lesser population had to vaccinate 3,000 persons per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/46-non-cghs-pvt-hosps-to-start-covid-vaccination/articleshow/81475018.cms||Shailvee Sharda
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Singhu border: Protests on, farmers ready summer shield||NEW DELHI: Gurmakh Singh from Hoshiarpur and Mandeep Singh from Patiala did not know each other before the farmers’ agitation against the central farm laws began late last year. It was when they met at Singhu border that a friendship developed between the two farmers who had brought their tractors for a common cause. Over many cups of tea and many plates of sweet rice, the two survived the winter chill. But they realised that with summer came a new set of problems, among them the lack of open spaces for sleeping. The friends decided to pool in money with others to build a brick building in the middle of the road to accommodate around 150 people. The construction of the structure began a few days ago with the bricks and cement arriving at the Kundli side of Singhu border. “There was an open area on the road and we decided to build the rain basera (shelter) there” said 53-year-old Gurmakh. Read AlsoSinghu border: Blankets, quilts gone, coolers &amp; fans inFrom coolers to fans to refrigerators, farmers at Singhu border are preparing to face the heat of Delhi’s summer. As winter departs, so do the quilts and blankets. In their place have come fans and coolers, all run from the power solar power — and also surreptitiously from nearby electricity poles.Gurmakh and his fellow villagers have been running a small langar for several weeks. “We lived through winter without much trouble because we had blankets, quilts and lots of mattresses. We did not have much space, but we could huddle to ward off the cold and sleep,” said the farmer. “But summer will not be so easy. There are mosquitoes and our tents and trolleys are not ideal spaces for us to live and sleep in.” Mandeep said that people could come and use the building to sleep at night. “We are sure it will house at least 150 people,” he said. Gurmakh added that the structure would be 18 ft wide and 50 ft long and would have a tin roof. “Many protesters have already built houses, but those are on the other side of the road,” he said. The two friends took only a few days’ time to procure material and masons for the job. “We have grown to trust each other a lot in these past four months. You can say that we have almost become relatives due to the strong brotherhood between all of us. This night shelter is a result of that relationship,” said Mandeep. The Patiala farmer asserted that they would stay at the border for as long as it took to have their demand for the repeal of the three laws met. “We are here to win and we will be victorious. We will leave Singhu border only when our aim is fulfilled,” he smiled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/protests-on-farmers-ready-summer-shield/articleshow/81475027.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||30-day-old leopard cub reunited with mother||Nagpur: A 30-day-old leopard cub found in a sugarcane field in Bori Salwadi village in Otur forest range under Junnar division was successfully rescued and reunited with its mother by NGO Wildlife SOS and Maharashtra forest department officials. This is the second such operation in the last three days, after three leopard cubs were safely rescued and reunited with their mother in Vadgaon Kandali, also in Otur range. A 30-month-old female leopard cub was noticed by sugarcane farmers from the neighbouring Bori Salwadi. They hurriedly alerted the forest department, who contacted the Wildlife SOS team operating the leopard rescue centre in Junnar. A four-member team from the NGO and foresters rushed to the location, carrying with them the necessary equipment and medical kit. Wildlife SOS veterinary officer Dr Nikhil Bangar conducted a meticulous on-site examination for ticks and injuries and found the cub to be healthy and fit for release. The teams placed the cub in a safe box, close to where it was found and cameratrap footage installed by the wildlife SOS team captured the mother leopard slowly approaching the cub around midnight. After gently knocking off the covers from the safe box, she picked up her baby by the scruff of the neck and retreated into the tall, dense sugarcane field. Dr Bangar said, “It is not uncommon to spot leopards in this area as there are several sugarcane fields that provide a safe cover for these wild cats and a suitable shelter for giving birth and rearing their cubs. But this also gives rise to conflict situations, especially during the harvest season. Therefore, we try our best to reunite missing cubs with their mother to avoid instances of human-leopard conflict.” Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO of Wildlife SOS, said, “Our priority is to ensure that leopard cubs that get separated from their mothers don’t end up in captivity if we can help it. It is essential for them to grow up in their natural habitat and to learn the skills of survival in the wild. Wildlife SOS makes every effort to make such rescue and reunion operations possible.” Yogesh Ghodake, range forest officer, Otur, said, “This is the second case we’ve responded to this week. We’ve been working with Wildlife SOS for years to conduct successful leopard rescue and reunion operations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/30-day-old-leopard-cub-reunited-with-mother/articleshow/81486271.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 13, 2021||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: ED coerced me to implicate CM, two ministers, says Sandeep Nair||KOCHI: Putting the Enforcement Directorate (ED) under pressure, gold smuggling case accused Sandeep Nair said that the probe agency, which registered a money laundering case in connection with gold smuggling, had coerced him to implicate the chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, two ministers and the son of an influential person in the gold smuggling case. Nair, who is the fourth accused in the case, is currently lodged at Poojappura Central Prison under Cofeposa Act and he sent a letter to Ernakulam principal sessions court judge through the jail superintendent, and said that ED told him they would not oppose his bail petition if he agreed to the conditions they put forward. He also alleged that ED officials tortured him during the custody period and a senior ED officer threatened him that he would face more consequences if he did not obey them. When he opposed to obey them, ED investigation officer (IO) Radhakrishnan added many charges against him in the chargesheet though he had no connections with it, Nair said. “During my 14-day custodial period, IO Radhakrishnan, told me that the agency will help me get a good advocate and secure bail in the case if I implicate the chief minister, two ministers and the son of an influential person in the case. When I opposed, I was denied proper sleep, physically tortured and threatened. When I pleaded, Radhakrishnan threatened more consequences. Just like a movie script, he added many allegations in the chargesheet against me that have no connection with the case for convincing that ED could gather evidence that other investigation agencies could not,” the letter said. He alleged Radhakrishnan later came to the jail for interrogation with names of some influential persons and companies. “In the jail, he told me names of some companies which I had never heard before. He threatened me to say that some influential persons have an investment in these companies. He told me that if I admit these names, the agency will not object when my lawyer files a bail petition in court. If required, the agency will appoint a good lawyer for me,” Nair stated in the letter. According to Nair, the ED officer said that he received orders from his higher officials for all these and threatened him (Nair) that he would never come out of jail if he didn’t follow orders. He said that many influential persons with money and political backing secured bail, but people like him are still trapped in jail. He also said that his family members are facing life threats. However, ED officials said that the letter is part of a conspiracy, and tactics by the accused to secure bail in the case. Earlier, two women police officers had raised similar allegations that ED forced Swapna Suresh, the key accused in the case, to name Vijayan for implicating him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-coerced-me-to-implicate-cm-two-ministers-sandeep/articleshow/81472187.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Coimbatore||West zone police log 468 poll code violation cases||Coimbatore: Police in the west zone, which comprises Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Tirupur, Erode, Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts, have registered 468 cases in connection with violation of model code of conduct as on Thursday. The Namakkal police top the list with 139 cases.According to a press statement that was released by the office of the inspector general of police (IGP), west zone, police in all the eight districts have intensified vigil to ensure a free and fair election since the poll code came into force on February 25.“People needn’t fear to visit polling stations. Enough protection will be provided to the voters,” officials said in the release.Police have registered 23 cases of poll code violations in Coimbatore, 25 in Erode, 80 in Tirupur, 20 in Nilgiris, 65 in Salem, 64 in Dharmapuri and 52 in Krishnagiri as on Thursday, the press note said.The flying squads and static surveillance teams have, meanwhile, seized a total of Rs 2,72,67,320 from the people who were carrying more than Rs 50,000 without supporting documents, from the eight districts as on Wednesday. They had also seized gift items worth Rs 80,16,171 during the period from various people.The press note said 18 people, who were involved in grave crimes repeatedly, have been detained under the Goondas Act in the west zone as on Wednesday. “Police have also identified 941 rowdies in the region and taken actions against them during the period,” it said.At least 20 people have also been arrested in the west zone for illegal possession of firearms. Police have registered 13 cases in this regard and seized 19 firearms. Now that the poll code is in force, people with licensed firearms have to hand over the weapons to the respective police armoury. So far, people have surrendered 6,107 firearms before their respective police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/west-zone-police-log-468-poll-code-violation-cases/articleshow/81474306.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Mayors unhappy with govt reducing allocation||New Delhi: Mayors of the three municipal corporations of Delhi held a joint press conference to express their unhappiness over the reduced budgetary allocation to the civic bodies by Delhi government. They claimed that the Arvind Kejriwal government wanted to paralyse the civic bodies. “While Delhi government’s budget has been increasing every year, the corporations’ share is decreasing. In financial year 2018-19, Delhi government made a provision of Rs 6,930 crore for the corporations, in 2019-20 it made a provision of Rs 6,380 crore, in 2020-21 it was Rs 6,828 crore and in 2021-22 it has made a provision of just Rs 6,172 crore — which is nearly Rs 700 crore less than last year,” north corporation mayor Jai Prakash said. Mayor of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) Anamika said that the AAP government is trying to derail ongoing development works of all three civic bodies to get political “benefits” in the upcoming municipal elections. “In the financial year 2020-21, Delhi government released Rs 94.8 crore to SDMC against budgetary allocation of Rs 106 crore under urban development fund. Under education fund, it released Rs 390 crore against an allocation of Rs 451 crore, under midday meal fund, the government released Rs 7.02 crore against the allocated Rs 23.7 crore, under health fund it released Rs 56.2 crore against an allocation of Rs 65 crore and under non-plan overhead it released Rs 647.2 crore against Rs 1010.26 crore,” she said. Prakash said that Delhi government is selling dreams to people through their budget. “The government had earlier said that it will develop Delhi on lines of London, then said to develop on lines of Paris, but during monsoon season it made the city like Venice as excessive water and floods were seen on roads and streets of the city,”’ he added. East corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said, “The government was allocating separate funds under Parking and Transfer Duty overheads earlier but now it has merged both the allocations in single overhead which is unfair,” he said. Meanwhile, despite attempts, AAP could not be reached for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mayors-unhappy-with-govt-reducing-allocation/articleshow/81474357.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Goa||82 new Covid cases, one death||Panaji: Goa reported 82 new cases of Covid-19, 40 recoveries and one death on Friday, taking the tally of active cases to 744 and total deaths to 805. An 80-year-old man from Quepem who was under treatment in Goa Medical College and Hospital for over a week, succumbed to the virus. Meanwhile, Panaji and Margao continued to report a rise in fresh infections and their tallies rose to 112 and 106 respectively. The case positivity rate went up by a few points to 4.7 %. tnn There were 12 hospital admissions during the day and 36 patients chose to be home isolated. Other centres that had high caseload on Friday but lower than 50 were Vasco, Porvorim, Chimbel and Cansaulim. Casarvarnem primary health centre in North Goa had nil cases, while primary health centre, Marcaim that falls under South Goa jurisdiction, had two cases. Most of the centres in rural talukas of the State have minimal cases of less than ten.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/82-new-covid-cases-one-death/articleshow/81475019.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Kochi||Speaker skips questioning||Kochi: Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan did not appear before customs for interrogation on Friday as part of the investigation in the dollar smuggling case registered by the agency. The customs commissionerate (preventive) had earlier issued a notice to Sreeramakrishnan asking him to appear for interrogation at the Kochi office by 11am on Friday. However, Sreeramakrishnan instead sent an email to the investigation officer stating that he needed more time to be present and he is moving legally against the agency. “The interrogation is inevitable as the investigation has reached a crucial stage. So customs will serve a fresh notice to him soon,” said a customs officer. Meanwhile, customs will issue a fresh notice to Vinodini Balakrishnan, wife of former CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, summoning her for interrogation in connection with the dollar smuggling case. Vinodini had not appeared before the customs in its Kochi office on Wednesday as directed by the agency in its notice served to her last week. “Vinodini did not respond to the notice served to her earlier and failed to appear for questioning. We will issue a fresh notice to her soon and it will be given in person. We are planning to question her next week. If she doesn’t respond to it and fails to appear for questioning, a third notice will be served. If that notice too is ignored by her, we will have to initiate legal steps,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/speaker-skips-questioning/articleshow/81472193.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Coimbatore||Area under horticulture crops increases by 5% in district||Coimbatore: Despite the pandemic, the area under horticulture cultivation in the district has increased by 5%. Data shows 1.33 lakh hectares under cultivation in January compared to the 1.25 lakh hectares last year. While farmers attribute it to increased availability of water, the horticulture department points to reverse migration and agriculture being relatively less affected by the pandemic.As per data with the horticulture department, cultivated area increased by 8,000 hectares. “Once we take March’s survey results, the numbers will be higher,” said an official. The increase is mainly fuelled by plantation crops, vegetables, fruits and spices. This year has seen 10,529 hectares under vegetable cultivation, which is the highest in the last five years. Plantation crops including nuts occupied the most area under cultivation compared to the previous five years at 1.06 lakh hectares.Farmers attribute it to more water availability, and vegetables and fruits fetching better prices compared to alternate crops like sugarcane and paddy. “Since the district received heavy rainfall in the last two years, farmers were confident to cultivate in larger areas,” state secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasaigal Sangam P Kandasamy told TOI. “They realized that vegetables and fruits are more remunerative than sugarcane and paddy, which are labour intensive.”However, horticulture officials said the increase was due to the department’s schemes for farmers and awareness among the public about immune-boosting nutrients in fruits and vegetables.“We motivated many people, who could return to farming as they had lost jobs or had returned home due to the lockdown, to take up cultivation,” deputy director Bhuvaneshwari said. “We also encouraged farmers to utilize all their land for short-term crops. Schemes like 100% subsidy on micro irrigation for small farmers, 100% subsidy on seeds and plants of fruits and vegetables of certain varieties along with 50% subsidy on inputs led to more acreage,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/area-under-horticulture-crops-increases-by-5-in-district/articleshow/81474314.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Three renovated beat chowkies inaugurated||Mumbai: Three renovated beat chowkies, inaugurated in Malad-Goregaon on Friday, will function as mini-police stations shortly. Joint commissioner (law & order) Vishwas Nangre Patil, who inaugurated chowkies at Rani Sati Marg, Gokuldham and Santosh Nagar, said dedicated staff and vehicles would be assigned. “Most chowkies were housed in dilapidated structures. We got them renovated so there would be enough room for complainants and a separate room for police personnel. Clean washrooms have been constructed,” said a senior officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-three-renovated-beat-chowkies-inaugurated/articleshow/81474316.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kochi||HC dismisses review plea of spiritual guru||Kochi: The high court has dismissed a review petition filed by a 52-year-old ‘spiritual guru’ in the case alleging illegal detention of his 21-year-old woman ‘disciple’ by her parents. A bench comprising justices K Vinod Chandran and MR Anitha dismissed a review petition filed by doctor Kailas Natarajan of SN College Junction in Kollam regarding a judgment of Jan 20. In his original petition, the self-proclaimed Vedic yogacharya had alleged that his ‘disciple’ was illegally detained by her parents. After solitary sessions with the girl allegedly suffering from depression, he had claimed that she is his ‘sishya’ and that they are in a live-in relationship as spiritual partners. However, the court had let the girl go with her parents to seek psychiatric treatment. The petitioner had then moved the Supreme Court but the apex court pointed out that there was no finding on illegal detention by the high court. After considering a review petition, the high court held that there is no illegal detention as alleged. The parents had told the court during the hearing in the original petition that there is no illegal detention and that they are trying to provide psychiatric treatment to their daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-dismisses-review-plea-of-spiritual-guru/articleshow/81472201.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Rajkot||Lawyer Pradeep Dav is BJP’s choice for Rajkot city mayor||Rajkot: The ruling BJP appointed a lawyer having business interest in real estate Pradeep Dav as Rajkot city mayor on Friday, which was on expected lines as the post was reserved for an OBC candidate. What many senior BJP leaders found surprising was the appointment of Darshita Shah as deputy mayor and Pushkar Patel as standing committee chairman of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC), for the second time. They both held the same posts in the previous term in the civic body.Dav, who is considered to be close to chief minister Vijay Rupani, had lost the civic body election from ward 12 of RMC in 2015. The 37-year-old had joined BJP about a decade ago. Before that Dav was with the Congress party for about 10 years.Talking to media persons Dav said that his priority was to complete the Aji riverfront project which has been pending for years. “After completion of the riverfront project, Rajkot will have a new identity. I plan to complete this project before my term ends,” siad Dav. Sources in the BJP said that Shah was favourite for the mayor’s post, but with the seat being reserved for OBC candidate, she had to settle for deputy mayor’s post. The other names that were doing rounds for the mayor’s post was of Bhanu Babariya, a former MLA. Senior BJP members like Nehal Shukla and Devang Mankad were also beng considered for the position but they will now have to wait. Shukla’s panel of four had won from ward two having sizeable Muslim votes. The panel won despite heavy weights from Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) contesting from the ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lawyer-pradeep-dav-is-bjps-choice-for-rajkot-city-mayor/articleshow/81472232.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath launches Azadi ka Amrit festival||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday launched the ‘Azadi ka Amrit’ festival in UP from Kakori on the 91st anniversary Dandi march, which set in motion the countdown to India’s 75th anniversary of Independence on August 15. Asking people to fulfil their responsibilities as citizens of the country to ensure India became the world’s largest superpower by 2047, the centennial year of independence, the chief minister said, the government would organise programmes to mark major events related to the independence movement this year. “On March 12, 1930, Mahatma Gandhi led the Dandi march to demand independence, marking the beginning of the freedom movement. Prime Minister Narendra Modi flagged off a symbolic march from Dandi in Gujarat on Friday to celebrate its historic anniversary. On August 15, India will complete 75 years of independence and the country will unite to celebrate this occasion for 75 weeks,” he said. While the CM was present at Kakori to witness the live telecast of PM’s inauguration of celebrations from Gujarat, several programmes were launched at three other designated places in the state, including Ballia, Meerut and Jhansi. Referring to the Kakori incident of 1925, the CM said, revolutionaries fostered the sole dream of India’s independence. He then spoke of the 100th anniversary of Chauri Chaura uprising, which gave a new dimension to the freedom movement. “The government will organise events related to the freedom struggle this year by paying tributes to martyrs and setting up memorials,” he said. The CM called on people, especially youth, to never forget the ruthless crackdown on the freedom movement by the British. He said, independence was not gained overnight and lakhs of people sacrificed for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-launches-azadi-ka-amrit-fest/articleshow/81475032.cms||Neha Lalchandani
March 13, 2021||Bhopal||Will Chouhan go for cabinet expansion before civic polls||BHOPAL: Amid resentment brewing among a section of senior MLAs over being ignored in the state cabinet, talks are on about a fourth expansion of the year-old Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. Suspense prevails whether Chouhan would go in for the cabinet expansion soon after the Budget session of MP assembly or wait for the civic polls to end. Presently, there are 30 ministers in the MP cabinet and four more can be accommodated. BJP leaders on several occasions have expressed displeasure over not getting ministerial berth and those from Vindhya and Mahakaushal region have been demanding proper representation in the cabinet. BJP gave in to demands of its leaders from Vindhya region and named senior legislator Girish Gautam for the post of Speaker of the MP Assembly. Vindhya region is the stronghold of BJP and the party may accommodate MLA, Rajendra Shukla, who is also a former minister and close aide of chief minister, in the cabinet, to balance the power in the region. Shukla was considered most influential in the region, but the stature of Gautam has also increased in the region. Similarly, BJP MLA from Indore Ramesh Mendola is also a strong contender for a ministerial berth. The list of senior party MLAs waiting to be ministers is long in BJP and the party may accommodate a few of them on the posts of mayors of big municipal corporations, cutting down the number of MLAs waiting to be ministers. Earlier, BJP MLA, Akash Vijayvargiya has supported the candidature of Mendola for the post of Indore mayor, but his name is still considered among the front runners for a minister. Another BJP MLA from the Bundelkhand region is among the front-runner for the ministerial berth. “When the cabinet expansion will take place and who will be inducted as a minister is the sole prerogative of the chief minister and nothing could be said right now,” said state BJP spokesman, Rajneesh Agrawal. The first cabinet expansion in MP took place on April 21 last year with the induction of five ministers while the second took place on July 2 last year with the swearing in of 28 ministers, including a dozen loyalists of Jyotiraditya Scindia. After the second cabinet expansion, the strength of the state cabinet went up to 33. MP can have a maximum of 34 ministers. Only one berth was vacant. The third cabinet expansion was held on January 3 for the induction of two loyalists of BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia- Tulsiram Silawat and Govind Rajput in the cabinet. Silawat and Rajput had been inducted into the cabinet in first expansion in April last year. However, they had to step down in October as they could not be elected to the state assembly with six-month, due to the pandemic. Both of them contested the November 3 by-elections in the state and were elected that forced a third expansion was held to induct them again in the cabinet. Three ministers Imarti Devi, Aidal Singh Kanshana, Giriraj Dandotia lost the November 3 by-polls taking the total number of vacant ministerial berths to four in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/will-chouhan-go-for-cabinet-expansion-before-civic-polls/articleshow/81473384.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC pulls up CBI & SIT for delay in probe into 2013 Narendra Dabholkar murder||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Friday came down heavily on CBI and the special investigation team (SIT) of the state police for the delay in investigations into the killing of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar, pointing out that it was over seven years since the murder. On being told that trial has commenced in Karnataka where the murders of Kannada writer M M Kalburgi and journalist Gauri Lankesh occurred much later, a bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale responded with scathing comments. “These are undisputed facts. The incident is of 2013. We are in 2021. Incidents in Karnataka took place after incident in our state. Trial has commenced in the state of Karnataka. Why not here? Incident is similar.” The high court is monitoring the probe into the killings of Dabholkar on August 20, 2013 and CPI leader Govind Pansare on February 20, 2015 on a plea by their families. The matter was last heard in February 2020. It came up for the first time before a new bench to which it has been specially assigned. Advocate Abhay Nevagi, for the families, said trial in Karnataka has started and it was Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) that found a link in all the four cases. Kalburgi was shot dead on August 30, 2015, while Lankesh was assassinated on September 5, 2017. He said while CBI had filed three chargesheets against four accused in the Dabholkar case, the SIT has made “zero” progress in Pansare’s case. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for CBI said, “we have done what we were supposed to do” and added that Thane creek was searched with expert help for the murder weapon which was not found. He sought time to file a fresh status report. Prosecutor Mankunwar Deshmukh, for SIT, also said a status report will be submitted. The judges said they wanted a “concrete statement” at the next hearing. “Otherwise we’ll not spare anybody,” said Justice Shinde, adding, “you may say this court is making such a harsh observation.” The judges also remarked that in such sensitive cases, citizens must know if investigations have been completed. “The incident took place long back. We are not doubting the bona fide of the investigators, but one day there has to be an end in sight. How long can you continue like this?” asked justice Shinde. The judges said they want both agencies to come with a “positive statement” on March 30. They said they were disturbed by the statement that trial had commenced in Karnataka, though Dabholkar’s killing in 2013 preceded the killings of the activists there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-demands-concrete-response-from-cbi-sit-into-activists-killing/articleshow/81475723.cms||Rosy Sequeira
March 13, 2021||Delhi||No tariff hike for 5 yrs, discoms seek a revision||New Delhi: Delhi hasn’t seen a power tariff hike in the last five years. In an Aggregate Revenue Requirement (ARR) filed with the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC), discoms have sought a commercially sustainable and suitable cost-effective tariff. The discoms have filed their petition for truing-up to financial year 2019-20 and ARR and Tariff for financial year 2021-22. The petitions have been filed in accordance with the Audited Accounts for 2019-20, According the petitions filed by the three private discoms — BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL), BSES Yamuna Power Limited (BYPL) and Tata Power-DDL (TPDDL) — the standalone revenue gap for the three discoms for financial year 2019-20 has been computed to be around Rs 2,968 crore. This includes Rs 1,565 crore revenue gap computed for BRPL, Rs 609 crore for BYPL and Rs 794 crore for TPDDL. In the petitions, discoms have also urged that the existing 8% surcharge on electricity bills to be suitably increased and carrying cost ought to be allowed as a separate surcharge on revenue instead of allowing in tariff as per requirements of financial institutions. The petitions have also appealed that pension trust surcharge should be increased. Discoms have requested that the subsidy provided by Delhi government to eligible consumers could be transferred directly to the bank account of the user.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-tariff-hike-for-5-yrs-discoms-seek-a-revision/articleshow/81475066.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 13, 2021||Chandigarh||When fire at Airtel office led to network failure in Haryana, Chandigarh||AMBALA: Fire broke out at the network centre of a leading telecommunications company, Bharti Airtel, at industrial area at Saha in Ambala district at 2pm on Friday, causing network failure across Haryana and parts of Chandigarh. The network problem for Airtel users lasted for about four-five hours. Sources said Airtel’s network services to Haryana and nearby areas are operated from the office at Saha. The services were resumed partly in some areas, but a large number of Airtel users faced inconvenience throughout the day. Fire tenders were called from Shahabad and Ambala, which took about 2 hours to control the flames. A fire safety setup in the company building also helped control the flames, said ASI Mohd Shaqeel, investigation officer who went to the spot from Saha police station of Ambala police. On reaching the spot, the police asked the officials and employees of the company to vacate the building. ASI Shaqeel said, “The reason behind the fire is yet to be ascertained.” “A technical issue in our network centre in Ambala resulted in service outage for customers in some parts of Haryana. Our network engineers have been working on war footing to restore services at the earliest. We deeply regret the inconvenience caused to our customers and thank them for their cooperation,” the official spokesperson of Airtel said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fire-at-airtel-office-leads-to-network-failure-in-hry-chandigarh/articleshow/81474320.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Singhu border: Blankets, quilts gone, coolers & fans in||NEW DELHI: From coolers to fans to refrigerators, farmers at Singhu border are preparing to face the heat of Delhi’s summer. As winter departs, so do the quilts and blankets. In their place have come fans and coolers, all run from the power solar power — and also surreptitiously from nearby electricity poles. Hakam Singh, a 70-year-old villager from Fatehgargh Sahib, spends his afternoon lazing on the charpoy with a big table fan keeping him cool. He has the fan, but as the temperature rose, Hakam and his fellow cooks realised that they needed cooling for the leftover food and curd. “It was then that one of the farmers got a fridge from home. Now we can use it through the summer and even provide cold water to the protestors,” said the septuagenarian. Some like Rajinder Singh of Ropar are using the solar panels on their tractors to run the coolers on the trolleys. “We have got a few coolers from home and we are using solar power because we don’t want to steal power from the poles,” said Rajinder. The Ropar farmer and his fellow villagers have also got a refrigerator “for cold water to drink when we feel thirsty cooking in the heat”. Knowing full well the rigours of the Indian summer, Sukhwinder Singh of Jalandhar and his friends have made small tents and have equipped them with mosquito nets. “We will have a plastic door and cover every nook and corner of the tent with the nets. We will also install a few coolers, like the fans we already have. The plan is to get air-conditioners and generators to run them from home,” said the Sikh from Jalandhar. While a number of ice-cream carts have congregated at Singhu, Surjeet Singh, a 32-year-old from Panipat, showing an adroit business mind, has decided to bring and sell sunglasses to the protesting farmers. “I have been here for over two months and have been selling items like nail-cutters, combs and other essentials. Lately, there has been a demand for black goggles to cope with the harsh sun,” Surjeet smiled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/blankets-quilts-gone-coolers-fans-in/articleshow/81475101.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||Net cast over canal to curb mosquito menace in Kolkata's New Town||KOLKATA: With complaints of the rise of mosquito menace across New Town — specially from areas close to the canals — the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has installed nets on the embankment of a small stretch of Kestopur canal at Lohapul near Balaka Abason to prevent mosquitoes. The authorities have taken up this as a pilot project in consultation with experts as to how mosquitoes could be prevented. The step comes after authorities received complaints from locals that the canal sides have become potential mosquito breeding ground with the water getting stagnant at many places due to accumulation of garbage and other waste.  “We have been taking measures to prevent the onslaught of mosquitoes in New Town. We have identified one spot on the canal side and have installed a net to prevent mosquitoes. It is quite expensive and needs to be seen whether it is effective or not before using it in other places as well,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. NKDA authorities have also taken steps to keep the canal clean by removing the water hyacinths as well as releasing guppy fish that eats mosquito larvae. “Installing such nets on the canal side should be effective. Any such initiative to get rid of mosquitoes is welcome,” said Kingshuk Chakraborty, a local resident. Locals have been raising the issue of mosquito menace in New Town which has been making life difficult for residents for the last few months. Swarm of mosquitoes are invading houses after evening and people are finding it difficult to even stand for a few minutes on the streets with mosquitoes from all around.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/net-cast-over-canal-to-curb-mosquito-menace/articleshow/81473398.cms||Suman Chakraborti
March 13, 2021||Coimbatore||‘Issue concessional certificate to importers without delay’||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association (Codissia) has shot off a letter to Union minister for commerce and industry Piyush Goyal, asking him to ensure there was no delay from the part of the Export Inspection Agency (EIA) in issuing “certificate of origin”.The certificate, the industrial body says, gives importers a concession on import duty, which they pass on to exporters.According to the Codissia, there has, of late, been an undue delay in issuing the concessional duty certificates, affecting the flow of exporters’ fund.M V Ramesh Babu, president, Codissia, says the preferential certificate of origin is a bilateral agreement between two countries. India has trade agreements with Korea, Sri Lanka, Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean), Asia Pacific and South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) countries, among others.“Based on this, the importing country receives duty concession on goods from India. Earlier, these certificates were issued the same day when applied online and the concession was passed on to exporters immediately. However, the micro, small and medium enterprises that are into export business say recently there has been a delay in issuing the certificates without any valid reasons,” he said.Exporters, the Codissia head said, were also facing logistical challenges because of the shortage of containers. “This has hit the export of goods and as a result they are losing both foreign exchange and regular customers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/issue-concessional-certificate-to-importers-without-delay/articleshow/81474325.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Surat||Hemali Boghawala elected Surat’s 35th mayor||Surat: Hemali Boghawala, a three-time coprorator from ward 11 was named as 35th mayor of Surat city during the general board meeting of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) held at Sanjeev Kumar Auditorium on Friday. Boghawala, who has been in BJP for the past two decades, had been director of Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation (GSRTC) in the past and is active in public life. A graduate in English literature, 46-year-old Boghawala belongs to the Surti Modh Vanik community. Dinesh Jodhani, a Leuva Patel from Saurashtra was declared deputy mayor, while Paresh Patel, a businessman and former president of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) was named as chairman of SMC’s standing committee. Patel is close confident of state BJP chief C R Paatil. Besides these key posts, BJP named Vinod Patel was Whip for the ruling party and Amit Singh Rajput, who represents North Indian communities, as leader of the ruling party in the civic body. Elected members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is the main opposition party in the civic body, arrived at the venue shouting slogans. AAP announced Dharmesh Bhanderi as the leader of opposition in SMC. However, BJP leaders picked hole in AAP’s claim of supporting educated people in politics by saying that Bhanderi was just Class VIII pass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hemali-boghawala-elected-surats-35th-mayor/articleshow/81472429.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Man duped of Rs 11 lakh in immigration fraud case||Karnal: The district police booked three persons for allegedly duping a man of Rs 11 lakh on the pretext of sending his cousin abroad. The accused have been identified as Vivek Tomar, his wife Anupa, a resident of Sangam Vihar in Delhi and Bittu of Panipat. In his complaint, Vikash Kumar, a resident of Kamalpur village in Karnal district stated that Vivek, his wife Anupa and Bittu cheated him of Rs 11 lakh on the pretext of sending his cousin Sumit to Australia in 2019. He alleged that after receiving the money, the accused gave him a fake visa and didn’t send him abroad. The complainant alleged, “When we asked them to return the money, they refused, following which we lodged a complaint with the police.” A case was registered under sections 406 and 420 against the accused at Butana police station on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-duped-of-rs-11-lakh-in-immigration-fraud-case/articleshow/81474326.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Congress leaders, workers detained||GANDHINAGAR: Several leaders of the Congress party, including GPCC president Amit Chavda were detained by the police ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the city on Friday to launch the Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav programme and flag off the Dandi march. A number of Congress workers were detained after the PM’s programme as well, as they attempted to participate in a protest march from Sabarmati Ashram to Kochrab Ashram. Police had not granted permission to a tractor rally by the Congress from Sabarmati Ashram to Dandi in Navsari district against the new farm laws, which Congress termed as Khedut Satyagraha. Chavda, along with leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani, former GPCC president Arjun Modhwadia, Siddharth Patel, Punja Vansh, Manish Doshi, Rutvik Makwana, Rajesh Gohel, Jasu Patel, Imran Khedwala and around 40 other workers were detained by police before they could reach Sabarmati Ashram on Friday morning. Congress leaders had planned to stage a protest march from Sabarmati Ashram to Kochrab Ashram in Paldi area, for not being allowed to organise the tractor rally. After completion of the PM’s programmes in and around Sabarmati Ashram, Congress workers attempted to reach Sabarmati Ashram, but were detained. Chavda said, “The Congress had announced the foot march in the city this morning, after police denied permission to organise the tractor rally on the Dandi march route from Ahmedabad to Dandi in Navsari district. Despite our assurance that Congress’s tractor rally on Dandi route will be held only after the PM’s event,we were not given permission. Therefore, we had decided to take out a foo tmarch in the city.” He added, “Instead of democracy, there is police raj in Gujarat.” Minister of state (MOS), home & law Pradipsinh Jadeja said, “It is unfortunate that the Congress tried to create hurdles during the launch of an event of national importance like Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav. Congress workers tried to create a ruckus and defame the state, so police have taken appropriate action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cong-leaders-workers-detained/articleshow/81474337.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Vadodara||Man who fled police custody nabbed from UP||Vadodara: A fortnight after he fled from the police custody, the detection of crime branch (DCB) arrested Ikrar Pathan from Uttar Pradesh. Pathan, a resident of Navayard in the city, was nabbed from his village in Etah district on Friday. The 22-year-old had fled from Fatehgunj police station on February 25 causing embarrassment to the cops. Pathan, a resident of Navayard, was taken out of the lock-up for taking his statement after being nabbed in a criminal case. He told the police that he wanted to visit the toilet. When the cops were busy with their work, Pathan took advantage of the situation and ran towards the police station’s main door. Two cops pursued him but Pathan headed towards Chhani and disappeared into the residential colonies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-who-fled-police-custody-nabbed-from-up/articleshow/81474032.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Coimbatore||Expenditure observer inspects facilities||Udhagamandalam: Expenditure observer for the Ooty assembly constituency Vishal M Sanap, who arrived in Ooty on Friday, inspected the election control room and media centre at the collectorate. Sanap, along Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya, inspected newspapers, TV channels and press releases at the centre. He also inspected the election control room, where complaints are received from the public in connection with the model code of conduct. Expenditure observer Amar Singh Nehra, deputed for Coonoor and Gudalur assembly constituencies, had arrived on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/expenditure-observer-inspects-facilities/articleshow/81474330.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Goa||Three Konkani works bag Sahitya Awards||MARGAO: Goan writer Sampada Kunkoliekar’s travelogue ‘Char Panvlan Ashiyent’ is among three literary works in Konkani that bagged the Sahitya Akademi awards 2020 as announced by the national academy of letters on Friday. She won the Sahitya Akademi’s Yuva Puraskar award. Veteran poet from Kerala R S Bhaskar won the Sahitya Akademi award 2020 for his collection of poems ‘Yugparivartanacho Yatri’ in the Konkani section, while V Krishna Vadhyar, also from Kerala, bagged the Bal Sahitya Puraskar in Konkani for his novelette ‘Balu’. Sahitya Akademi announced its annual awards in 20 languages on Friday. The list includes seven books of poetry, four novels, five short stories, two plays, and one book each of memoirs and epic poetry. Bhaskar, a notable figure in the Konkani literary world, has to his credit nine volumes of poetry collection, two educational books, and seven translations of literary works. His Konkani translation ‘Mhajea Ajeak ek Hasti Ashilli’ from the original Malayalam had won the Sahitya Akademi 2003 award. Kunkoliekar has so far ten titles under her belt. Possessing a technical background in electronics engineering, Kunkoliekar published her first book ‘Mysterious Power’ in 2010. She had earlier won the junior ellowship for literature from the central government’s art and culture department . Vadhyar is a Konkani writer from Kerala who won the award for his novelette published in 2017. Apart from Bhaskar, those who bagged the awards in poetry include Arundhathi Subramaniam (English), Harish Meenakshi (Gujarati), Anamika (Hindi), Irungbam Deven (Manipuri), Rupchand Hansda (Santali), and Nikhileswar (Telugu). Nanda Khare (Marathi), Maheshchandra Sharma Gautam (Sanskrit), Imaiyam (Tamil) and Hussain-ul-Haque were named as winners for their novels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-konkani-works-bag-sahitya-awards/articleshow/81475042.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Thane||Two toll nakas shut in Thane district||KALYAN: People who travel on Bhiwandi-Shilphata road on Friday got relief from traffic, after the state government closed the Katai and Kongaon toll nakas in Thane district. Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) told contractor Eagle Infrastructure to stop collecting toll from heavy vehicles, and told them to hand over the nakas to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/2-toll-nakas-shut-in-thane-district-in-mumbai/articleshow/81474657.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 13, 2021||Goa||Response to vax drive worrying health officials||Panaji: It has been two weeks since the vaccination of senior citizens and people aged between 45 and 59 years having comorbidities commenced. But the daily average on most days has been below 2,500. On some days, it was even lesser than, 2,000 while the health services was targetting vaccinating 3,000 to 4,000 people per day. However, 3,450 people were vaccinated on Friday. Not so satisfactory response to the vaccination drive is owing to lack of community participation and support, a health official said. Health services is hoping the mega vaccination camps planned for Monday and Tuesday will push the daily average. “We will have to consider other options if the response of the target population doesn’t show improvement by next week,” the officer said. “So far it is only us (health services) that are actively involved in the vaccination. We are yet to receive active help from panchayat members volunteering to bring people in their respective wards for vaccination at the nearest health centre that is the vaccination site,” he said. Till Friday about 28,947 senior citizens and 45-plus people have been vaccinated in the state. The health services has set itself a target to vaccinate 1.5 lakh 60-plus citizens and another 1.5 lakh in the 45-59 age group with comorbidities. However, if the pace of vaccination does not pick up, the health services will take months to achieve its target. The officer though admitted that people on their own are not coming forward in expected numbers to get vaccinated, the biggest hurdle is that they do not have vehicles to transport people who want to get vaccinated. “This is true of villages in Sattari, Sanguem or down South, while panchayats have also have not shown any initiative so far in this regard,” he said. Meanwhile, health services has identified six more private hospitals, in addition to the 15 private hospitals, that will join the drive probably from next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/response-to-vax-drive-worrying-health-officials/articleshow/81475023.cms||Bindiya Chari
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bull b’day gets police’s goat||Kalyan: A Dombivli resident Kiran Mahatre (30) has been booked for celebrating his bull’s birthday along with the man’s friends none of whom was wearing face masks or following social distancing norms, the police said. A video that went viral shows Mahatre cut a cake and feed it to the bull, with friends around, on Wednesday night with friends behind Mahatre’s building. —Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bull-bday-gets-polices-goat/articleshow/81474342.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Goa||Opposition leader finds Bandodkar samadhi locked||PANAJI: Opposition LeaderBJP Digambar Kamat, who planned to pay tributes to Goa’s first chief minister Dayanand Bandodkar at his samadhi, found the place locked on Friday. Kamat said that the state government had deliberately locked the Bandodkar samadhi on the his birth anniversary. “I came here with all the municipal candidates along with the Margao panel to pay tribute to the first chief minister of Goa and the architect of Goa, and here we see that the samadhi is locked,” said Kamat. Kamat called up government officials and asked for the samadhi to be opened. “The Supreme Court verdict on municipal elections is a real tribute to “Bhagyavidhata of Goa” Bhausaheb Bandodkar on his birth anniversary,” said Kamat. Earlier in the day, chief minister Pramod Sawant had paid tributes to Goa’s first chief minister at the Bandodkar statue at Panaji and the Miramar memorial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/opposition-leader-finds-bandodkar-samadhi-locked/articleshow/81475065.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||Lack of awareness behind rising crime against women: CM||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said that lack of awareness was the main reason for crime against women. Stating that security and self-reliance will empower women, he said this requires sensitisation for which the state government started the Mission Shakti campaign. Speaking at an event organised by a private media channel on Friday, the CM said women and young girls are becoming an inspiration for the society due to their achievements. He also interacted with 10 women achievers via video conferencing and said there is an urgent need to create awareness among them to face the challenges. In light of this, the government started the first phase of Mission Shakti in 2020. On International Women’s Day, the second phase of this mission was started. Soon after coming to power in 2017, the government set up anti-romeo squads to provide security to women, cybercrime cells, 1,535 police stations and women help desks in 350 tehsils under Mission Shakti, while women recruitment was increased in the police force, the CM said. For quick action, Women Power Line 1090 facilities were extended to all the districts in the state, while Women Helpline 181 was functioning separately. These have now been integrated to form an Integrated Emergency Service-112.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lack-of-awareness-behind-rising-crime-against-women-cm/articleshow/81475068.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Court dismisses LDF govt’s plea to withdraw assembly ruckus case||KOCHI: The high court, on Friday, declined to interfere with a lower court’s order declining LDF government’s plea to withdraw criminal cases in connection with the assembly ruckus in 2015 during budget presentation. Justice VG Arun considered criminal revision petitions (Crl. Rev. Pet. No.s 641 and 662 of 2020) filed by the government and the accused, including ministers EP Jayarajan and KT Jaleel. The court held that the accused, who were members of the assembly, cannot be protected by the privilege given to members of the House. In the judgment, the court said, “Here, the question is whether the acts allegedly committed by the accused, which, if proven, would be offences punishable under the Indian Penal Code, are to be reckoned as part of the proceedings of the House, for the purpose of their protection. The answer can only be in the negative, since privileges and immunities are provided to ensure smooth functioning of the House by guaranteeing absolute freedom to the members to speak and participate in its deliberations.” “…Here the allegation is of the functioning of the assembly session having been disrupted by the members by trespassing into the speaker’s dais and committing mischief. The aforementioned acts, if proven to be true, can, by no stretch of imagination, be deemed to be acts done in furtherance of the free functioning of the house,” it said. Stating that a court can decline the public prosecutor’s application for withdrawing a criminal case if it does not aid advancement of public justice, the court refused to accept government’s contention that public interest justice is present in its move. “Although the learned additional advocate general argued that withdrawal from the prosecution in the instant case will advance the interest of public justice by ensuring that the prestige of the legislative assembly is not lowered in the eyes of the citizens, I am unable to accept the contention. It is for the elected representatives to uphold the prestige of the House and to face the consequences for the violations, if any committed,” the court said. Advocate T Asaf Ali, representing the opposition leader, had argued that government’s decision to withdraw prosecution in this case amounts to collusion with the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/court-dismisses-govts-plea-to-withdraw-assembly-ruckus-case/articleshow/81472209.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kochi||Flood victims here still on a long road to recovery||Kollam: When the Pamba, Manimala and Achankovil rivers crossed the danger-levels and triggered flash floods in several regions in Pathanamthitta on the eve of Independence Day in 2018, the local residents found themselves facing an unprecedented situation. They had no other option but to escape with whatever they could gather. Three years on, even as election heats up and parties are back to making elaborate promises, those who were in regions like Ayiroor near Kozhencherry and Thottomon near Ranni are still in doldrums as they are yet to get adequate compensation.While government and charity organizations had come forward to help the people living in comparably urbanised areas like Ranni, there were many others who were left out. Sunil (50), a resident of Thottamon said he rescued at least 20 people during the floods. “Later, I was admitted to a hospital and on returning home I found nothing in the place where my house once stood,” Sunil recollects. A charity organization constructed a new house for him. But all the flood victims were not as fortunate like him. Many of them received an initial aid of Rs 10,000 but nothing more. While the flood acted like a universal leveller, the officialdom treated them with discrimination, they say. Those who had no influence were ignored.. Prema and Lakshmi of Keezhthottaman near Ranni were fortunate to get a new house from the cooperative department under CARE Home scheme. But Ushakumari, their neighbour said though her house too got submerged her family was not given a house. “We received just about Rs 60,000. My husband is a manual labourer and we have no resources to reconstruct the house,” she says. Vanajakshi (75) of Ponothu house, in Ayiroor too shares a similar story. “I received only Rs 10,000 as assistance. I had to stay in a relative’s house for 20 days. When I returned, my house was filled with mud and slush,” she recollects. Ramachandran, who lives nearby, says he stayed at the first floor of his neighbour’s house for 20 days. “Even now you can see the mud that the waters left behind. As I have no money to do the repairs, I am forced to stay here," says Ramachandran. In Cherukolpuzha ward of Ayiroor panchayat alone, 207 houses got damaged. Preetha B Nair, the then panchayat member representing the ward says the only solace to them was that there had been no human casualty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/flood-victims-here-still-on-a-long-road-to-recovery/articleshow/81474332.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Martyr’s family awaits project announced by CM Khattar years ago||Jind: Family members of Major Sanjeev Lather, pilot in the Army Aviation Corps, who was martyred with two other officers, Lieutenant Colonel Rajneesh Kumar and Major Arvind Bazala during a return landing at the Sukna Army base in West Bengal, when their Cheetah helicopter crashed in 2016, are still waiting for the launch of a project announced by CM M L Khattar during his visit to the martyr’s native village of Budha Khera Lather in Jind district. An alumnus of Sainik School, Kunjpura, Major Lathar joined the National Defence Academy in 2000 and was commissioned from the Indian Military Academy Dehradun, in 2004. He was 33 when he was martyred. CM Khattar visited Budha Khera Lather village in Julana town of Jind district on November 21, 2018 to pay tributes to the officer along with then Union minister Birender Singh. At the time, he announced that an institute would be opened in memory of Major Sanjeev Lather on 25 acres of land given by the village panchayat. Mahender Singh, father of Major Sanjeev, said, “I have been running from pillar to post but everyone ignored me despite me losing my only son for the nation. Everyone failed to apprise me about the status of the project. CM Khattar announced that an Army related institute would be opened in our village but nothing has been done so far. The CM even announced Rs 1 crore but we don’t know where the money has gone. We sought information through RTI two times but the state information commission failed to furnish the details. We are left with no way as the system has disappointed us,” he said. Jind DC Aditya Dahiya assured, “I will speed up the process by holding meetings with persons concerned and will give positive results within one month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/martyrs-family-awaits-project-announced-by-cm-khattar-years-ago/articleshow/81474331.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Goa||CM: I accept SC order, will appoint full-fledged SEC||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that he accepts the Supreme Court’s (SC) order on municipal elections, and the process for elections in five municipalities will commence immediately. Sawant said that “whatever mistakes had occurred during the process of reservation of wards by the directorate of municipal administration (DMA) will now be rectified”. “A new full-fledged Goa state election commissioner (SEC) will be appointed,” the chief minister added. When asked to cite the reason in giving the law secretary additional charge of SEC, Sawant said, “In other states too the SEC used to be a serving IAS officer, and as per that norm the state government appointed the SEC. Now that the court has given instructions, we will accordingly implement the order. The new SEC will be given full-fledged charge.” Sawant, however, did not respond when it was pointed out that following SC’s stay on the high court on March 4, he had stated that “democracy was restored”. Speaking to reporters after the Supreme Court stayed the high court of Bombay at Goa decision to cancel elections in five municipalities over reservation of wards, the chief minister had said, “I welcome the decision of the Supreme Court as it is in the direction to restore democracy. Now, the democratic process has been restored”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-i-accept-sc-order-will-appoint-full-fledged-sec/articleshow/81475139.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Goa||Deliver verdict, don’t delay further: Cong to speaker||PORVORIM: Congress on Friday demanded that Goa speaker Rajesh Patnekar immediately deliver the verdict on the disqualification petitions against 10 former Congress MLAs and two former MGP MLAs, instead of using delaying tactics. Congress also said that the resolution purported to have been produced by the respondents deciding on the merger, is a fabricated document. In a strongly worded statement, party president Girish Chodankar said Patnekar has failed to uphold the speaker’s constitutional mandate and had no right to the post of speaker. “He has to dispose of the petition in whichever way he wants, but he cannot keep it pending,” said Chodankar after attending a hearing on the disqualification petition in Patnekar’s chambers. Patnekar had summoned Congress state president for a hearing on Friday where he dismissed Chodankar’s application to produce additional evidence to support the party’s plea. Congress lawyer, advocate Abhijit Gosawi, said the speaker has been requested to “deliver the judgment as early as possible” instead of using “piecemeal exercises” to delay the disqualification process. “Let the speaker decide one way or the other, either we are right or wrong, let the speaker decide it at least. The requirement of the 10th schedule is that the original party should merge. The resolution that they have produced is a fabricated document. We have pointed out to the speaker that these documents are forged,” said Gosawi. He described the claims of two BJP MLAs that Congress has ceased to exist as “absurd” as the Election Commission of India has stated in an RTI reply that Congress continues to exist and that there is no record of a merger between Congress and BJP. Chodankar claimed that Patnekar, a BJP MLA, is trying to protect the MLAs. “Today he called us just to show the Supreme Court that he is holding hearings. It clearly shows that the speaker does not care about the Supreme Court,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/deliver-verdict-dont-delay-further-cong-to-speaker/articleshow/81475095.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||BSF saves smuggler’s minor daughter||KOLKATA: A man convicted of smuggling silver across the India-Bangladesh border was forced to turn to the Border Security Force (BSF) to rescue his teenaged daughter who was abducted by a youth from Bangladesh. On Sunday, the minor girl was abducted by the youth and taken to Bangladesh. It seemed the girl knew the youth and agreed to go with him after he promised marriage. Her family from Tarali village in North 24 Parganas informed Arun Kumar, commanding officer of the 112Bn BSF. The CO immediately contacted his counterpart in the Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB). “On Thursday, after a medical examination, the girl was handed over to her family. We knew that her father is a smuggler who has been convicted by a court. It was the BSF that apprehended him while smuggling silver. But that didn’t make much difference when we began searching for his daughter. This was a humanitarian act. The family has thanked the 112Bn after getting the girl back,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bsf-saves-smugglers-minor-daughter/articleshow/81473415.cms||Jayanta Gupta
March 13, 2021||Bhopal||Siblings attack youth charged with murder of their bro, bullets fly||BHOPAL: Panic gripped Bajpai Nagar on Thursday night after six accused attacked and fire a shot at a 22-year-old youth. The victim sustained a bullet injury in his right leg. The accused allegedly also torched his scooter. Police said, the accused include two sisters and their brother and three other relatives. The victim was one of the 11 accused arrested for the murder of the siblings’ 24-year-old brother in August 2020. The victim was released on bail five days ago. A case against charges of attempt to murder and mischief by fire has been registered against the accused. The two sisters have been arrested, while the four accused are on the run. Investigation officer SI Raghavendra Singh Sikarwar said, the injured Rupesh, also known as Fukku Bichele is among the 11 accused arrested for murder of Ajay Kanade. Police said, out on bail, Rupesh was living with his sister in Govindpura as he was fearful of an altercation with Kanade’s family if he returned to Bajpai Nagar. He told police that he drove to his house in Bajpai Nagar around midnight on Thursday to pick up his clothes and other belongings. Police said, the Kanade family found out that Rupesh was in Bajpai Nagar. Ajay’s sister Rekha, Preeti and older brother Kapil, relatives Abhishek Masani, Lanka and Sawan started following him. They waylaid Rupesh on his way back and assaulted him. One of the accused fired a shot on Rupesh with a pistol and the bullet injured his right calf. Police was informed and the injured taken to the hospital, where is under treatment. Efforts are on to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/siblings-attack-youth-charged-with-murder-of-their-bro-bullets-fly/articleshow/81473402.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Man held for firing shot in west Delhi||A 32-year-old property dealer has been arrested for allegedly firing outside the house of his former girlfriend’s friend in west Delhi’s Subhash Nagar. Police said the man was upset after his girlfriend had blocked his number and started ignoring him. The accused, Suresh Kadyan, is son of a retired army officer. Police also arrested his friend Pawan (45) for allegedly giving his licensed revolver for the firing. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-held-for-firing-shot-in-west-delhi/articleshow/81475171.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Madurai||No significant rise in cases in South TN unlike Chennai||Madurai: While in Chennai and a few other districts, there has been an increase in Covid-19 cases, there has been no significant increasing trend in any of the southern districts. Health officials are however vigilant, especially with the state assembly elections slated to happen, and are tightening safety measures. While the state health department has instructed for all districts to increase Covid-19 testing, there has only been little difference as the positivity rate remains very low in many of the districts. “In Madurai, around 2100 persons are being tested for Covid-19 on average, which is now to be increased to 3000. However, the current positivity rate in the district remains less than 1%. We will know if there is any increase in prevalence over the next few days,” said a senior health official.The total number of fresh cases in the 10 southern districts on Friday remained over 40 again. With 47 Covid-19 cases and no new deaths, the Covid-19 tally in southern region stands at 1,38,063 cases, including 339 active cases, 1,35,583 recoveries and 2141 deaths. The most number of cases on Friday was reported in Madurai (10), followed by Dindigul (9). Except for Kanyakumari (7) and Virudhunagar (6), all other southern districts reported less than five new cases - Sivaganga (5), Tirunelveli (4), Theni (2), Tuticorin (2) and Ramanathapura (1) and Tenkasi (1). Meanwhile, despite the overall number of active cases in the region falling to below 300 recently continues to see a marginal increase day by day and now is at 339. Kanyakumari continues to have the most number of active cases at 65, followed by Madurai (61) and Dindigul (57). The rest of the southern districts all have less than 50 active cases while three districts, Tenkasi (18), Tuticorin (14) and Ramanathapuram (10) have less than 20 active cases. With no new Covid-19 deaths in south TN on Friday, the overall deaths remain at 2141 and the corresponding regional death rate is at 1.55%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-significant-rise-in-cases-in-south-tn-unlike-chennai/articleshow/81473413.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Goa||Disqualification: Speaker dismisses 1 Cong plea||PANAJI: Speaker Rajesh Patnekar on Friday dismissed an application filed by Goa Pradesh Congress committee president Girish Chodankar submitting documents that indicate that Congress is a nationally recognised party. The application was filed as part of the disqualification petition filed by Congress against 10 of its MLAs who had joined BJP in 2019. At the time, the rebel MLAs had claimed that after they merged with BJP, Congress party ceased to exist. Congress’ counsel Abhijit Gosavi said that the “speaker has dismissed the application” and that he has told them that he will inform them when the order in the disqualification petition is passed. “We have requested the speaker to pass judgment in the disqualification petition as soon as possible,” Gosavi said. On Wednesday, MGP had decided to withdraw one of the two disqualification petitions they had filed — one in May 2019 and the other a while later. Patnekar summoned senior MGP leader Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar and Chodankar to the legislature secretariat to seek clarification in the disqualification petitions. MGP had three MLAs in the 40-member House, which reduced to one after deputy chief minister Manohar Ajagaonkar and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar quit MGP to join BJP. MGP challenged their former MLAs’ claim that two-thirds of MGP’s legislature party had merged with BJP. The two MGP legislators had submitted a letter to the speaker in a midnight drama that played out in March 2019 claiming that they had merged their party into BJP. Dhavalikar had stated that the 10th Schedule of the Constitution does not postulate such a merger. In August 2019, Congress filed a disqualification petition against their rebel MLAs in July 2019. Chodankar had sought that the MLAs be restrained from attending assembly proceedings and holding constitutional posts till the case was decided by the speaker. On July 10, 2019, the rebel Congress MLAs, led by deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar joined BJP claiming that the Congress legislature party had split. The other nine MLAs were Isidore Fernandes, Nilkanth Halarnkar, revenue minister Jennifer Monserrate, Antonio Fernandes, Francisco Silveira, Wilfred D’Sa, Clafasio Dias, Filipe Neri Rodrigues and Atanasio Monserrate. In February, after concluding the hearing in the disqualification petitions filed by Congress and MGP, Patnekar had reserved it for final orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/disqualification-speaker-dismisses-1-cong-plea/articleshow/81475117.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Ludhiana||Owners of luxury cars in city say bad roads hurting their pockets, vehicles||Ludhiana: Bad roads of Ludhiana, which had earned the sobriquet of being the Benz City of India, are driving owners of high-end vehicles up the wall. They say as they pay heavy taxes, they deserve better road infrastructure.“Driving luxury vehicles is not a good experience as roads are in a poor shape in the city. Even in posh areas, at Malhar Road and Pakhowal Road, stretches are dug up. Such roads not only cause damage to the vehicles, but also create a traffic mess, as drivers have to repeatedly reduce speed on encountering potholes and damaged portions, which are aplenty. In Focal Point area where my office is, except for a few roads all others are in a shambles,” says Daleep Khanna, an industrialist from Sarabha Nagar who owns an Audi. “People here have a craze for luxury cars and despite paying heavy taxes to the government, they do not get good roads,” he adds. He claims that because of bad roads his clients don’t come to his office and even he feels embarrassed to invite them.Some car owners say potholed and uneven roads have taken a toll on their vehicles. “There is heavy wear and tear of luxury vehicles and alignment also gets disturbed frequently. We have to spend a tidy sum every few months. During the rainy season, if a tyre gets into a pothole, there is a chance of water entering the engine, causing heavy damage,” says Samir Verma, a businessman from South City who owns a Land Rover, a BMW and a Mercedes. Asking the municipal corporation (MC) to take stock of the roads’ condition, Sukhwinder Singh, a city resident who owns an SUV, says, “Residents of an industrial city deserve better roads. We request the agency concerned to get the roads repaired at the earliest.” An official who works at a service station of luxury cars says they frequently get vehicles with damaged suspension and tyres and these problems arise due to bad roads. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu says, “We will open tenders to repair roads on March 17. Thereafter, the city will get rid of uneven and potholed stretches.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/owners-of-luxury-cars-in-city-say-bad-roads-hurting-their-pockets-vehicles/articleshow/81473408.cms||Shariq Majeed
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||Kala namak rice fest opens today in Siddharthnagar||Lucknow: Close on the heels of a strawberry festival in Jhansi and a jaggery festival in Lucknow, the state government will be launching a kala namak rice festival in Siddharthnagar on Saturday. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will inaugurate it virtually from Lucknow at 11.30am. The festival will provide an opportunity of kala namak rice growers to showcase the specialty produce from the region and gain a larger market, while those visiting the fair will be able to purchase paddy seeds and sample various preparations made from the kala namak variety of rice including kheer, pulao, cumin rice, poha, khichdi, idli. Additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal said the aim of such festivals is to promote, market and brand selected goods under the ‘one district-one product’ scheme of the government for ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ and ‘Local for Vocal’ campaign. “The government wanted to organise similar festivals for all ODOP agri-products which can be processed. This will establish these products more strongly as a brand and if their demand increases, the income of the farmers will also increase,” he said. Cultural programmes will also be organised at the venue. Progressive farmers, farmers producers organisations and self-help groups will also be provided with information related to the cultivation and processing of kala namak variety of rice. A government spokesperson said that kala namak rice is considered Buddha’s “mahaprasad”. It already has been given a geographical indication (GI) tag and is grown in large parts of eastern UP, including Gorakhpur, Deoria, Kushinagar, Maharajganj, Sant Kabir Nagar, Basti, Bahraich, Balrampur, Gonda and Shravasti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kala-namak-rice-fest-opens-today-in-siddharthnagar/articleshow/81475105.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Ludhiana||Man found murdered near Jagraon bridge||Ludhiana: A man was found murdered at an electric engine shed of railways near Jagraon bridge on Friday.“The man, who was yet to be identified, appeared to be around 32 years old. His body bore multiple stab wounds. It was found in the bushes near the railway tracks where engines and wagons are checked,” said a cop. A railway employee spotted the body in the afternoon. It was suspected that it had been lying there for two days.A team led by inspector Sudhir Malik of Government Railway Police (GRP) reached the spot after being informed by the senior officials of engine shed. A dog squad and a forensic team too was called to the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-found-murdered-near-jagraon-bridge/articleshow/81473414.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Tribal youth attacked by elephant dies||PALAKKAD: A tribal youth who was injured in an attack by a wild tusker on Thursday night succumbed to his injuries on Friday. The deceased was identified as Shelvaraj (30) of Vannamthara tribal hamlet at Agali grama panchayat. He was attacked by the wild elephant while taking bath in Siruvani river around 8pm. Though local residents tried to save him from the tusker and took him to Kottathara tribal specialty hospital, he was referred to Thrissur government hospital. Later, he succumbed to his injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tribal-youth-attacked-by-elephant-dies/articleshow/81472216.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kochi||MLA’s excess land: HC seeks govt’s views||Kochi: The high court, on Friday, sought the views of the government on a petition seeking action against MLA P V Anvar for holding land in excess of land ceiling provisions. Justice Anil K Narendran is considering a petition filed by K V Shaji of Malappuram alleging non-implementation taluk land board’s order four years ago to surrender excess land. He is seeking a court directive to implement the taluk land board’s order. As per the petition, the taluk land board and Malappuram collector had found that Anvar had excess land in violation of the land-ceiling limit and has to surrender land as per Section 87(1) of Kerala Land Reforms Act. On December 19, 2017, the taluk land board referred the case to the state-level authority but no action is being taken against the MLA due to political influence, it is alleged. A representation was filed in June 2018 before the revenue minister and district collector seeking action but it did not yield any result, the petition stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mlas-excess-land-hc-seeks-govts-views/articleshow/81472236.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Ludhiana||Covid: Barewal woman dies, 133 test positive||Ludhiana: A resident of the district died of Covid-19 and 133 tested positive on Friday.As per the local media bulletin, six deaths were reported from the hospitals here on the day. A patient each was from Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Sangrur, Fazilka and Fatehgarh Sahib. The deceased from Ludhiana was an 81-year-old woman of Barewal, who had diabetes and hypertension. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the Ludhiana toll tally has risen to 1,047 and that of outsiders to 525.To date, 7,11,827 persons have been tested. Of the 133 new cases, 38 were from flu corner, 30 from OPD, 17 contacts of positive patients, 19 through tracing process, one ANC, one pre-operative case, a traveller from Dubai and 27 students and teachers. Besides, 30 outsiders too tested positive here.The local health department officials said the district case count was 28,456 and that of outsiders 4,500.So far, 26,504 patients have recovered, which constitutes 93.14% of the total cases.There are 905 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 2,533.On Friday, 202 persons were quarantined and 3,323 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four of the government at CMCH. Twelve patients, including eight Ludhianvis, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-barewal-woman-dies-133-test-positive/articleshow/81473422.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC says Parsi body must allow woman to contest its poll||MUMBAI: An appeal bench of Bombay high court on Friday directed Bombay Parsee Punchayet (BPP) to allow a Parsee woman, Zuleika Homavazir, to contest its forthcoming polls as her proposer Rustom Jeejeebhoy, who belongs to an illustrious family, is still on its voters list. The HC bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Vinay Joshi said that until the name of Jeejeebhoy appears on the general register and is not struck off, Homavazir was fully justified in submitting her nomination form proposed by him on January 29 and “the trustees have incorrectly rejected” it. The election is for filling up two vacancies on the board of trustees of the BPP. The BPP had rejected her form, claiming that Jeejeebhoy has embraced Christianity, after receiving complaints and messages circulating on social media of him having renounced the Zoroastrian faith. Its 29-page order said. “onus is not on her to establish that Shree Jeejeebhoy has not renounced the Zoroastrian faith as long as (his) name appears as a Parsee on the registers maintained by the trustees...” “The duty lies at the door of the trustees to inquire into such allegation and take action of striking of the name of such Parsee from its registers by following the procedure... not followed in the instant case,” said the bench. Under the rules a person of Zoroastrian faith whose name is on the general register as an electorate can propose the name of a candidate for the election. Her counsel Rajiv Singh said since Jeejeebhoy’s name still was, BPP, on merely receiving complaints on social media of his alleged conversion could not have rejected her nomination. But Somasekhar Sundaresan counsel for the BPP had said there was “serious doubt” of Jeejeebhoy remaining a Zoroastrian and submitted an affidavit of a trustee, Noshir Dadrewala, in support of their opposition to her candidature. Justice A K Menon on March 8 had declined her interim relief. She then appealed against the lack of relief. The division bench on Friday said Homavazir “cannot be faulted for not joining Shri Jeejeebhoy as a Party Defendant to the Suit.” The appeal bench also said that the single judge had “erred... before reaching a final conclusion that the person whose names appear on the general/ donor register has ceased to profess the Zoroastrian faith...” The bench said while filling nomination forms, “no declaration is sought either from the proposer or seconder…that they continue to follow the Zoroastrian faith.” The Bombay Parsee Punchayetelections will be now held on May 23. The new date was agreed to by warring factions of the BPP trustees before a high court division bench on Friday. All five trustees agreed no further extensions would be sought unless there is a lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-hc-says-parsi-body-must-allow-woman-to-contest-its-poll/articleshow/81474359.cms||Swati Deshpande
March 13, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala assembly elections 2021: Woman candidate makes a mark on IUML's list||KOZHIKODE: Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), the second-largest constituent in the UDF, announced its first list of 25 candidates for the upcoming assembly elections on Friday. In a surprise move, the 73- year old party has decided to field a woman candidate for an assembly election after a gap of 25 years. The party, which will contest 27 seats, has also dropped six sitting MLAs, including gold scam accused MC Kamaruddin and former PWD minister V K Ebrahim Kunju who was arrested on corruption charges in Palarivattom flyover construction but has given a ticket to Kunju's son V E Abdul Gafoor who will replace his father in the Kalamassery constituency. The party has also for the first time decided to implement a three-term norm for legislators which helped it field 10 first-timers. Three senior leaders- P K Kunhalikutty, Dr. M K Muneer, and KPA Majeed- however, have been given an exemption. The party has also made an attempt to make its candidate list an eclectic mix by giving enhanced representation to youth and including two non-Muslims. IUML women's wing leader and former state women's commission member Adv. Noorbina Rasheed has been fielded in the Kozhikode South constituency, marking a break from the party tradition of coming up with an all-male candidate list in the assembly elections all through its history except for the lone instance when it fielded Khamarunnisa Anwar from the Calicut II (currently Kozhikode South) constituency in 1996. The party has also attempted a political experiment by fielding Congress leader and former district panchayat president Dinesh Perumanna as a UDF-Independent candidate in the Kunnamangalam constituency. Dalit league leader U C Raman is contesting from the Kongad seat. Party national general secretary P K Kunhalikutty will contest from Vengara seat and incumbent Vengara MLA K N A Khader has been shifted to Guruvayoor. Party state general secretary KPA Majeed has been given the Tirurangadi seat while senior leader M K Muneer will contest from Koduvally. Former minister Manjalamkuzhi Ali has been shifted from Perinthalmanna to Mankada. The party which had contested 24 seats in the last election got three additional seats this time including Perambra and Punalur/Chadayamangalam. The candidates for these constituencies will be announced later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/woman-candidate-makes-a-mark-on-iuml-list/articleshow/81474355.cms||K R Rajeev
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Policewoman, her lover suspended||Palghar district SP Dattatraya Shinde on Friday suspended Vasai cops Snehal Patil (25) and Vikas Pashte (30), her paramour, who have been booked for the murder of her auto driver husband Pundalik (35). The duo had allegedly hired three men to kill Pundalik in Manor and cover up the murder by staging an accident on February 17. All five were arrested on March 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/policewoman-her-lover-suspended-in-mumbai/articleshow/81475175.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||Police to close double murder case||Kolkata: The death of the accused in the 2019 Bansdroni market double murder, dacoity and rape case on Thursday has led cops decide on closing the case. The accused — Md Hamruj Alam (38) — died after feeling breathlessness. He was initially suspected to be a Covid patient, but the confirmation never came. The police sources said the accused, Alam, had murdered the 78-year-old man who was on the first floor of the house on July 28, 2019, after raping and murdering his wife aged 71.  The mason-cum-painter was arrested from Katihar in Bihar by DD. “We will appeal to the court through the public prosecutor to close the case as he was the lone accused. We had even framed charges in the case and he was continuously in jail since his arrest,” said an officer. The case can also be closed later once it is certain that no one else was involved, said one officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-to-close-double-murder-case/articleshow/81473439.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Business||Ambuja Neotia, Phoenix Mills ink deal for 3 projects in Batanagar||Kolkata: Ambuja Neotia and The Phoenix Mills, through its wholly owned subsidiary Market City Resources have signed an agreement for three large projects that are likely to have a long-term impact on the development of the 262-acre township in Batanagar. While Ambuja Neotia will be involved in the development of two residential projects covering 4 million sq ft across two plots of land of 10 acres each, Calcutta Riverside will be coming up with a shopping centre spread across 4,96,000 sq ft. Market City has entered into property and development management agreements with Calcutta Riverside to assist the latter in supervising the construction, development and running operations of the proposed mall with the licenced use of the Phoenix’s trademark on a non-exclusive basis. According to the statement in the past two years, all connectivity issues of this evolving neighbourhood on the southern fringes of Kolkata were sorted after the completion of the new Majerhat and Sampriti flyovers. During the signing of the agreement, Ambuja Neotia group chairman Harshavardhan Neotia said, “Our association with Calcutta Riverside gives us the opportunity to enter a new and evolving area of Kolkata, which over the years has seen a significant transformation. We certainly hope that we can give the people of Kolkata a home, which they always dreamt of, at a price which is within everyone’s reach.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ambuja-neotia-phoenix-mills-ink-deal-for-3-projects-in-batanagar/articleshow/81474351.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Ludhiana||Punjab transporters, taxi operators honk at govt||Ludhiana: Transporters and taxi operators of Punjab associated with different unions organised a meeting here on Friday to discuss their problems. They issued a warning to the government not to go ahead with any kind of hike in charges or introduce any new kind of tax for vehicles. Their fears sprang from the unconfirmed reports that the Punjab government was proposing to increase the fees for registration of new and old vehicles. But the government on Friday cleared the air and denied that there was any such proposal. However, the wary taxi and truck operators said it was time the government decreased the registration charges, which were already among the highest in the country, and also addressed their issues of green tax and token tax that were hitting their business.Tempo, mini truck operators’ welfare association, Punjab, president Baldev Singh said, “There were reports that the state government will increase registration charges for new and old vehicles, but now it is claiming that there is no such proposal, which is a big relief for us. The government must urgently address our worries over the proposal to increase green tax to Rs 75,000, which currently is Rs 1,500. We challenge the government—if it can prove that even a single transporter in the state has made any profit in the past one year, we will happily pay double green tax than the amount proposed. The government must support us by offering special packages.”Harnek Singh, a transporter, said, “The biggest problem for the transport and taxi operators is the high vehicle registration cost in Punjab as compared with the neighbouring states. We are thankful to the government for assuring that there will be no further hike in registration charges, but this is not enough. The state cabinet should immediately decrease the existing registration charges for commercial and transport vehicles, especially old ones.”Gurdev Singh, another transporter, said, “We have to pay several types of recurring charges every year to the government, and above this there is renewal of the insurance policy. We also have to spend money on wear and tear of the vehicles. All this expenditure puts a huge burden on us, as there has been no increase in our incomes. We are forced to incur losses and do not have any other livelihood option. If the state government cannot do anything regarding frequent hike in insurance premiums, it can at least waive token tax and give us immediate relief.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-transporters-taxi-operators-honk-at-govt/articleshow/81473431.cms||Mohit Behl
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||Rajnath to open BJP state exec||Lucknow: The UP BJP went into an overdrive ahead of the state executive scheduled on March 15 by holding day-long deliberations at the party headquarters here on Friday. State cabinet ministers, party organisational leaders and corporators held separate meetings to assess the preparation for the executive which is expected to chart out a political roadmap for the party in the run-up to panchayat elections and for the UP assembly elections next year. The party decided to pay tributes to deceased leaders by offering flowers on their statues on Sunday. The decision was taken at a meeting attended by party general secretaries Govind Narain Shukla, Ashwini Tyagi, Amar Pal Maurya, Lucknow district president Mukesh Sharma and others. It was also decided that all entry points to the state capital will be dotted with banners, posters and saffron flags in a bid to ratchet up political temperatures. The executive will be inaugurated by defence minister Rajnath Singh, while the concluding session will be presided over by CM Yogi Adityanath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rajnath-to-open-bjp-state-exec/articleshow/81475140.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Goa||No setback, BJP will win in all municipalities: Tanavade||PANAJI: Reacting to the Supreme Court’s (SC) order, BJP’s state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said that it is not a setback for the state government and “in democracy we should accept the judgment of the court”. When asked how the Supreme Court order is not a setback to the government, Tanavade said, “A setback is when we lose elections, and I am confident that we will in all 12 municipalities, including in the Corporation of the City of Panaji.” Replying to a question on whether the government had erred in the reservation of wards, the state BJP chief said, “I don’t know that. Reservation of wards was done as per the procedure followed earlier, and I will not go into the details.” Defending the government, Tanavade said that the last time the reservation of wards was done in a similar manner, “but nobody went to court, and that is the reason elections were held without any hurdle”. When asked for the reason why the state government challenged the high court’s order in the Supreme Court, Tanavade said, “In law there are various stages and we have to appeal, and so the government did that.” Stating that the while BJP respects the Supreme Court verdict, he said it will, however, not have any impact on the party at the municipal polls. “Even if elections are held on March 20, 21 or on April 30, in Margao, Mapusa, Mormugao, Quepem and Sanguem municipalities, it is clear that BJP-supported candidates will get elected.” the state BJP chief said. With regards to the opposition’s demand that chief minister Pramod Sawant should step down, Tanavade said that “there is no need for the chief minister to step down”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-setback-bjp-will-win-in-all-municipalities-tanavade/articleshow/81475189.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||UPEIDA board’s nod for seeking Rs 7k cr bank loans||Lucknow: The board of UP Expressway and Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) on Friday gave its formal approval for taking bank loans to the tune of Rs 7,000 crore for the Bundelkhand expressway. At the board meeting, which was chaired by chief executive officer, UPEIDA, Awanish Awasthi, it was informed that banks have sanctioned Rs 6,900 crores for the Bundelkhand expressway. Of this amount, Rs 2,090 crores have already been utilized for conducting civil works. The amount sanctioned by the bank would be utilized in phases after all formalities are completed, UPEIDA officials said. The board was also informed that the 48% of the physical work on the Bundelkhand expressway has been completed. The board authorized the UPEIDA CEO to approve the cost of land which will have to be acquired for the laying of 594-km-long Ganga expressway connecting Meerut with Prayagraj. Around 693 hectares of land for the expressway has been acquired till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upeida-boards-nod-for-seeking-rs-7k-cr-bank-loans/articleshow/81475181.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||District 3rd highest in state in Covid vaccination of age-appropriate groups||NAGPUR: The number of people from age-appropriate groups vaccinated in the district is third highest among 35 districts in the state. To increase coverage further, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Zilla Parishad (ZP) plan to reach out to eligible 60+ senior citizens and 45+ people with specified comorbidities. NMC and ZP said 63,887 people from age-appropriate groups have taken Covid-19 vaccine from March 1 to March 11 in the district. Of these, 46,186 beneficiaries were from city and remaining 17,701 from rural. The state’s public health department said 2,13,816 people from age-appropriate groups have taken the jab in Mumbai, followed by 1,02,253 in Pune. The district stands at fifth position among 35 districts in population, after Mumbai, Pune, Thane and Nashik. In Thane, 54,906 people from age-appropriate groups were vaccinated, followed by 37,132 in Nashik district. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI, “Vaccination is going on in the city at 60 centres. We plan to begin inoculation at more ten urban primary health centres (UPHCs) and few other government hospitals. We will expedite registration of people at offices of ten zones. Also, we plan to hold special camps for registration of people by sending teams to residential areas. Plan is to link these people with NMC’s 10 UPHCs. They can also go and take a jab at other centres. We will also provide city buses to some residential areas where people have no means of transport to come up to the vaccination centres.” On vaccination of old and bed-ridden people at households, the civic chief said government order is awaited on this. In city, 18 centres are situated in NMC and government-run hospitals where vaccination is free of cost and 42 in private hospitals where beneficiaries have to pay Rs250. CEO of zilla parishad Yogesh Kumbhejkar increased number of vaccination centres to 77 in Nagpur Rural, with 68 giving free vaccines and nine paid centres. “Centres have been opened in 49 primary health centres (PHCs), 13 rural hospitals and six sub-district hospitals from Friday onwards. Two villages have been linked with each PHC for ensuring inoculation of all people,” Kumbhejkar told TOI. ZP has kept target to vaccinate around 2.5 lakh eligible people within two months. ASHA workers have started to visit houses in all villages and preparing list of eligible people. They will be linked with nearby PHC for vaccination. Sarpanch, gramsevak and anganwadi sevikas and teachers have also started to visit all households. They will encourage the people to go for vaccination and clear any doubts or apprehensions. On Friday, NMC’s worries of vaccine stock came to an end. The civic body had been left with little stock and had to take 10,000 doses from rural areas and Wardha a couple of days ago. NMC has now received 1,22,600 doses, of which 4,200 of Covaxin from Gadchiroli, and another 8,400 doses of Covaxin and 1,10,000 doses of Covishield from the government. The government has supplied 6,35,040 doses to 11 districts of Vidarbha. Six districts of Nagpur division got 3,93,760 dose, of which 2.76 lakh doses are of Covishield and 1,17,760 doses are of Covaxin. The office of deputy director of health services (DDHS) allotted 1,73,600 doses for Nagpur district. With more doses of Covaxin arriving, NMC plans to open second centre of Covaxin at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital, Indora. Till now, GMCH was the only centre in district. ZP will also launch Covaxin at a couple of centres in Nagpur rural. Chandrapur and Bhandara districts were also left with very few doses. Therefore, these two districts got second highest doses of 49,800 each. Gondia district got 43,000 followed by Wardha 35,000 and Gadchiroli 15,000. DDHS office has kept 27,560 doses of Covaxin in spare for allocation to needy districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/district-3rd-highest-in-state-in-covid-vaccination-of-age-appropriate-groups/articleshow/81473449.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 13, 2021||Business||New mobile app on poll stats, economic data unveiled||KOLKATA: Two Mumbai-based friends — both first generation entrepreneurs — have initiated a startup named Demokratika that launched a mobile app dedicated to poll statistics and data on the nation’s economic growth which can help make fact-based decisions about voting. “The app has all the economic and political information about all the constituencies in India for over 60 years on an average. This is a non-partisan mobile app platform that combines verifiable trustworthy data and microblogging capabilities. It has the strength to communicate with any candidate from the comfort of home and at the same time, multiple political parties can also share their manifestos and viewpoints over the platform in future,” said Sheshagiri, one of the directors of the firm. A former vice president and head of India technology (sales) with an American multinational for 16 years, Sheshagiri Angonda had first began a start-up named Rhythium Technologies — a software licence risk management firm with friend Ritesh Verma in 2016. On January this year, the friends formed Demokratika that rolled out their first mobile app — BolSubol – on Friday. A former vice president and head of India technology (sales) with an American multinational for 16 years, Sheshagiri Angonda had first began a start-up named Rhythium Technologies — a software licence risk management firm with friend Ritesh Verma in 2016. On January this year, the friends formed Demokratika that rolled out their first mobile app — BolSubol – on Friday. Verma, the other director opines: “The noise levels in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal are to be heard to be believed. Except the election commission’s efforts, not much seems to be done by political parties involved on voter empowerment. Hence, the need for this app that provides historical, economic, demographic, social and electoral data of the constituency which makes decision making process easier for a voter.” Available on Android as well as IOS platforms for free, the app also has a section for election knowledge game that allows prediction of winners and projection of seats for each party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/new-mobile-app-on-poll-stats-eco-data-unveiled/articleshow/81474367.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
March 13, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Positivity rate of school students & staff on rise||LUDHIANA: With Covid-19 cases being reported from Ludhiana schools after their reopening, the positivity rate among students and staff has increased. The case positivity rate (CPR) is the number of positive samples out of the total tested for a disease. As per the health department data, in January—after schools reopened—the positivity rate among students and staff, including teaching and non-teaching employees, was around 1.23%. In February, it rose to around 3.1%. The health department officials said in around 10 days of March, the rate further increased to 3.6%. State epidemiologist Dr Rajesh Bhaskar confirmed the rise. The data showed that from January to March 10, as many as 11,856 samples were collected from 126 schools of the district. Of these, 155 students and 104 staff members (teaching and non-teaching) tested positive. The overall positivity rate since the start of the schools to date has been 2.18%. A health department officer said, “The rate may go up as testing has been increased in schools. The recent figures include students and staff members of government and private schools. Majority of them are from government schools. The rate also indicates the spread of the disease in the district.” “With the government making it clear that schools will run as per the schedule, cases will continue to come from there. If we test people in banks and markets, the positivity rate may go up to 5% to 6%. Whoever visits crowded areas frequently and that too without taking precautions, like wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene, (s)he is at risk of contracting the disease,” the officer added. This has left parents worried. “As the cases are increasing and students are testing positive for Covid-19, the government should promote them to the next class instead of going for offline classes. Not only students, their parents too are being put at risk with the reopening of educational institutes,” said advocate K G Sharma, convener of Punjab Parents’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/positivity-rate-of-school-students-staff-on-rise/articleshow/81473443.cms||Shariq Majeed
March 13, 2021||Kochi||Two kids drown in pond||Kochi: Two children drowned in a pond at Elanjikulam near Kalamassery on Friday evening when they came to learn swimming along with four other friends. The deceased are Fardeez, son of Firoz, and Abdul Rehman (13), son of Mujeeb of Aluva. Police said the incident happened around 6.20pm. Muhammad Faizy, division councillor, said the pond remained unutilized for 30 years and it was cleaned only six months ago using corporate social responsibility funds. “We used to find many children coming here to learn swimming from faraway places without the knowledge of their parents. Many times we had dissuaded children from venturing into the pond as it is located in an isolated place,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/two-kids-drown-in-pond/articleshow/81472248.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Bhopal||Sudents play hooky: Covid risk at college, not in market?||BHOPAL: With Covid cases on the rise again, attendance in private colleges continues to be poor. Students could be seen hanging out in the market, but they don't have time to attend classes. The TOI team visited several places across the state capital where students gathered and were spotted in large numbers. At Boat Club, students were seen in large numbers. When asked why they were not attending classes, they said, “I am preparing for competitive exams. As other students were not coming, I had also stopped going there.” Several students even made excuses of Covid. “Covid is rising and attending classes in such a situation can affect me,” said a student, not wishing to be named. When told that he could get infected in the market too, he reacted, “Don’t teach me. I know what to do. It's none of your business.” Professors said that college students are hiding behind the facade of Covid. “When government opened the campuses, there was no reason for students not to attend classes. It is just to avoid coming to classes and roaming about at other places,” said a professor who preferred to remain anonymous. Private colleges are facing a major problem as students’ attendance there is poor. On the contrary, students in government colleges are attending classes in large numbers. The situation was the same even in engineering colleges, where strength was even less than 50%. “Students are not willing to attend classes. Current situation is very poor. We are hoping that students will start coming soon,” said an engineering college teaching faculty on condition of anonymity. There are around 90 engineering colleges in the state capital and a majority of the students are from outside Bhopal. Students, who have started attending classes, said that the atmosphere in colleges is still not like it was before Covid. Hence, students are not keen to attend classes at the moment. Their families are also against sending them to attend classes. Parents of students said that the Covid cases are on the rise and it was not worth sending them for classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sudents-play-hooky-covid-risk-at-college-not-in-mkt/articleshow/81473441.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Ludhiana||Employee of Sewa Kendra ends life||LUDHIANA: An employee of Sewa Kendra at mini secretariat allegedly committed suicide on Thursday night. Rakesh Kumar, 35, of Mandi, was found hanging from a ceiling fan with a wire at a storeroom in the kendra. No suicide note was recovered from the spot. Rakesh along with his colleagues, Dheeraj and Rishipal, lived in a one-room accommodation at the kendra. “On Thursday, the trio had gone to Jalandhar to attend a marriage function and returned in the evening. After dinner, when they went to their room, Rakesh told Dheeraj that he was upset and wanted to commit suicide. He did not tell him what was bothering him. Dheeraj then called up Rakesh’s family and talked to them about it,” said a cop. Minutes later, Rakesh went to the storeroom and hanged himself. When Dheeraj went to their room, Rakesh was not there. On finding the storeroom locked from inside, he called up the police. Division 5 SHO sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh said, “We have apprised his family in Himachal Pradesh of the incident. They are on the way to Ludhiana. The body has been kept at civil hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/employee-of-sewa-kendra-ends-life/articleshow/81473446.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||UP: A yatra to mark Gandhi Ashram’s centenary||LUCKNOW: To mark the centenary of the Gandhi Ashram in the country, an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat yatra’ will be taken out by Gandhians and socialists of the state from Barabanki on March 19 . Prof JB Kriplani, inspired by the Mahatma Gandhi’s appeal to make the nation and the rural India ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) by spinning cotton through the ‘charkha’ (spinning wheel), had resigned from the BHU’s history department to set up the first Khadi Ashram in Varannasi in November 1920 which later became a movement in itself with hundreds of khadi ashrams coming up in different parts of the country, providing a platform to the cottage industry products, mainly the khadi garments. Talking to TOI here on Friday, Rajnath Sharma, chairman of the Gandhi Jayanti Samaroh Trust and convenor of the Shree Gandhi Ashram Shatabdi Samiti, said that the year-long ‘yatra’, after passing through main centres of freedom struggle, including Barabanki, Kakori, Rampur, Meerut, Champaran, Sabarmati and Wardha, would culminate in Delhi with a conference on the relevance of khadi in modern era and its significance in the freedom struggle and the national unity. Sharma said that he has invited leaders of almost all political parties, including the BJP, Congress and Samajwadi Party, to join the khadi movement and revive it for making the country self-reliant. He said that he has also written to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, governor Anandiben Patel and national president of the Samajwadi Party Akhilesh Yadav for their support to the ‘yatra’. Sharma further said that during the freedom struggle Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Lal Bahadur Shastri had supported the khadi movement. Later, founder of the SP Mulayam Singh Yadav and Congress leader ND Tiwari also extended full support to the khadi industry, he said, laying stress on the need for promoting the khadi products in rural areas of the country. The septuagenarian Gandhian, Sharma, who on the call of the great socialist leader Ram Manohar Lohia, has been organising annual conferences for over three decades to press for the formation of a confederation of India, Pakistan and Bangladesh for better coordination among the three nations, emphasised that the khadi movement is more required now for making the rural India self-reliant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-yatra-to-mark-gandhi-ashrams-centenary/articleshow/81475203.cms||Subhash Mishra
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: 100-year-old sans Aadhaar denied jab by Nagpur private hospital||NAGPUR: In what could have been an inspiration for those hesitating to take the jab, 100-year-old Rangubai Ganjurde had gone to a private hospital for Covid vaccine, but was turned away as authorities there refused to accept voter I-card as identity proof and insisted on Aadhaar card, which the centenarian does not have. All the please by the centenarian and her grandson fell on deaf ears forcing the Chhatrapati Nagar resident Rangubai return home without inoculation from the vaccination centre of Arogyam Superspeciality Hospital, situated at Rajiv Nagar near Somalwada. The Centre and Nagpur Municipal Corporation have permitted six documents — Aadhaar, voter I-card, passport, driving licence, PAN card, NPR Smart Card or pension document with photo — for the vaccination. Rangubai’s grandson Tushar told TOI, “Apart from old age, my grandmother suffers from hyper tension and diabetes. I had registered her for the jab using voter I-card as she does not have Aadhaar and selected Arogyam centre, which is nearer to our residence.” “I took grandmother to the hospital at around 12.30pm. But the staffers insisted on her Aadhaar and refused to accept voter I-card as a valid document. Despite repeated pleas, the staff did not budge. After waiting there till 5pm, we returned home without inoculating the centenarian,” he said. A hospital representative told TOI, “We asked for Aadhaar as final authentication was not processed in Co-Win application with voter I-card. We are helpless in such situation.” NMC chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said, “It was a mistake on part of the hospital to send the 100-year-old woman back without vaccination. Voter I-card is permissible as identity proof document. Four options are available in Co-Win in case of problem in processing the final authentication. Those manning vaccination centres can use on-spot picture as web cameras have been made available with computer system. Also, the centres can take finger print if biometric device is available.” Dr Chilkar said he has directed concerned officials at Arogyam to vaccinate the centenarian. “During training to hospital staff, we had explained all procedures to be followed. We are also available in case any centre has any confusion,” he said. Tushar said he will try again for vaccination of his grandmother on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/100-yr-old-sans-aadhaar-denied-jab-by-pvt-hosp/articleshow/81473452.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||Lockdown evening has city roads chock-a-block: Friday||Nagpur: On Friday, the eve of a week-long lockdown, there was little scare about rising Covid cases among the public. During the day time, there appeared to be a tangible reduction in crowds, yet the numbers were enough to cause a concern of spreading of the virus. By evening, crowding was seen at certain places as distancing and masks were largely ignored throughout the day. There was no rush for last minute buying of essentials as businessmen complained of shopping in general coming down. Traders said the fear of getting Covid had kept the buyers away from shops. The consumers are also afraid that the lockdown may be extended further. “As it may have its economic impact too, consumers are holding on purchases to save money,” said businessmen. TOI went around market places in the city like Gandhibagh, Saraf Oli, Sitabuldi, Sadar and Jariptatka for a recce. Gendlal Miravi, a worker engaged at a site at Hudkeshwar, was leaving the city. “Others are joining too,” said Gendlal, who was spotted near the Sitabuldi police station. He said he was leaving due to the lockdown, otherwise may have stayed till Holi at least. “The contractor hasn’t paid our wages” he said. Saraf Oli, the jewellers’ market in Itwari, had empty shops. “There was some improvement in buying after gold rates were down but the news of lockdown has dampened the sentiment,” said a jeweller. “Consumers are preferring to hold on cash fearing that they may need the funds for treatment if they fall sick due to Covid. Even we have preferred to keep some extra cash at home for emergency during the coming days,” said another jeweller next door. “Lockdown has hit the business of consumer durables also. There is general sentiment among a section of buyers that the lockdown may worsen their financial situation. This has made many hold their buying plans,” said Ashok Kumar Gandhi, of M/s AK Gandhi Group, having dealership outlets in consumer durables and vehicles. “Vehicle purchases remain stable but the demand for consumer durables is certainly down especially from the segment that depends on finance schemes for buying. Purchases in this segment have been halved,” said Gandhi. Shopkeepers in other areas had similar stories. In the day time, no rush was seen in the grocery stores or departmental shops to buy essentials, though pictures of crowding in a shopping mall were doing rounds on the social media. By evening, the Sitabuldi market, which was empty with street vendors complaining of poor business, was crowded as ever. The West high court road was full of traffic, yet the shops on the sides were largely empty. Liquor shops saw people queuing up. At Jaripatka, which was a Covid hotspot last year, the market street remained empty in the afternoon. “There is a lull since at least a month. Stores vending consumer items other than essentials are hardly having any rush these days ,” said a footwear shop owner waiting for customers. Right opposite was a large store dealing in groceries with a handful of customers inside. Ramesh Umredkar, who sells ice-creams near Shukrawari lake, said a year ago his snack business had to wound up during the first lockdown. Now, he depends on the ice-cream stall but business was down since a couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fry-day-lockdown-eve-has-city-roads-chock-a-block/articleshow/81473468.cms||Shishir Arya
March 13, 2021||Chandigarh||21 students, 5 teachers among 1,414 +ve cases in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Twenty-one students and five teachers were among 1,414 people who tested Covid-19 positive in Punjab even as the state crossed the 6,000 deaths’ mark, with 34 more people succumbing to the virus on Friday, taking the number of fatalities to 6,030. Six deaths each were reported in Mohali and Jalandhar while the virus claimed five lives each in Amritsar and Hoshiarpur, three in Kapurthala, two in Gurdaspur, one each in Fazilka, Sangrur, Ludhiana, Nawanshahr and Sangrur. The highest of 194 cases surfaced in Mohali. As many as 188 cases were reported in Hoshiarpur, 152 in Patiala, 133 in Ludhiana, 124 in Jalandhar, 112 in Amritsar, 109 in Kapurthala, 66 in Nawahshahr, 54 in Gurdaspur, 48 in Ferozepur, 47 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 30 each in Faridkot and Tarn Taran, 29 in Bathinda, 27 in Fazilka, 20 in Sangrur, 17 in Moga, 12 in Muktsar, 11 in Pathankot, nine in Ropar and two in Barnala. In the ongoing vaccination drive, a total of 3,944 health workers received their first dose of Covid vaccine, taking the overall number of health workers vaccinated to 1,066,27. As many as 1,176 health workers were given their second dose. In the frontline workers’ category, 1,234 received their first dose and 2,602 got their second one. Across the state 11,577 people in the age group of 60-plus and 45-plus with co-morbidities were vaccinated with their first dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/21-students-5-teachers-among-1414-ve-cases-in-punjab-on-fri/articleshow/81474370.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Auto driver clicks pics of teen, held in Mumbai||MUMBAI: An autorickshaw driver was arrested for sexually harassing a 19-year-old college student at the ticket counter of Andheri railway station on Thursday. Police found some objectionable photos in his phone and will probe if he has harassed anyone else too. Around 11.15am, the 19-year-old was waiting at Andheri (West) ticket booking office with a male friend. The accused, Premchand Yadav, 27, surreptitiously shot photographs of her rear on his phone. But the girl’s friend saw him clicking the photos and confronted him. Yadav then claimed he had hit the camera button accidentally while trying to find a signal on his handset. But the girl and her friend were not convinced and asked him to delete the photos. “He hit the ‘delete’ button but the photos were transferred to the recycle bin on his handset and were not permanently deleted. This meant he could retrieve them back whenever he wanted,” a police official said. Soon, a crowd of bystanders gathered as the girl and her friend yelled at Yadav. The Andheri GRP was informed and Yadav was hauled to the GRP post in Andheri East. On checking his phone, police found the girl’s pictures in the recycle bin. They also found objectionable images of another woman who Yadav claimed was his family member. “The handset has been sent for analysis to the state forensic science laboratory at Kalina,” said Dattatreya Nikam, senior inspector, Andheri GRP. Yadav told the police he had parked his auto outside the railway station and had gone to the ticket booking window in Andheri (West) to purchase a ticket. He claimed he had given Rs 500 to a woman to book his ticket along with hers, and added that he was keeping a watch to ensure she did not flee with his money. Police are verifying the authenticity of his version. Yadav has been booked under section 354 of IPC for ‘outraging modesty of a woman.’ (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/auto-driver-clicks-pics-of-teen-held-in-mumbai/articleshow/81474376.cms||Nitasha Natu
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||Couple turns vaccine campaigner in tribal belt after taking jab||NAGPUR: The Ramtek Panchayat Samiti, which is striving to create public awareness for vaccination, found an unexpecting ally in Awari couple from remote Pauni village in the tribal belt of the Ramtek taluka. The couple has taken the onus of motivating the local population to take the vaccine for free under the government scheme. Ramesh Awari, 59, and his wife Mangala, 52, both having co-morbidities, took the jab on March 8 at Hiwarabazar primary health centre (PHC) after travelling 10km. They wanted to take the vaccine to ensure Covid remains away from the far-off village predominantly resided by the tribal population. In the 40 villages under Hiwarabazar PHC, around 75 have tested Covid positive so far and 66 recovered. Ramesh, who has high blood pressure and sugar, said he felt an inner urge to spread the message among his neighbours and also in the tribal families which lives in the vicinity. “After taking the jab and realizing it was safe, I wanted to encourage people to take the vaccination at the PHC where government is providing it free,” he said. “I motivated some of my neighbours and it was heartening to see a group was heading to the PHC for the vaccination on March 10. More were expected to go on Friday,” he said. Ramesh is working with the Madhya Pradesh power generating company at Totladoh. His wife Mangala too started meeting the neighbours and urging them to go for the jab. She had visited some families in Pauni to motivate them for taking the jab. “We wanted the tribal villagers to remain safe as any disease here is not easy to be treated, given the location of the place from where the nearest PHC is 10km away,” he said. Block development officer Pradeep Bamnote said 69-year-old Shakuntala Tembhurne too had travelled all the way from Pauni to take the jab. “We have already put up posters and banners to motivate people to take the vaccine,” he said. The efforts of the Awari couple was welcomed at the Hiwarabazar PHC given the fact that the centre is struggling to come anywhere close to the target, with only 13% beneficiaries taking the jab so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/couple-turns-vaccine-campaigner-in-tribal-belt-after-taking-jab/articleshow/81473478.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab declares preparatory leave in all schools||Chandigarh: Due to the swift rise in Covid-19 cases in Punjab and schools becoming hotspots of virus spread, the state school education department has declared preparatory leaves for all classes in government, government aided and private schools. However, teachers will continue to go to school, and students who need guidance from teachers on preparation of examinations can go to school. However, the final examinations in schools will be conducted offline while strictly adhering to Covid-19 guidelines. Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla said the schools have been directed to ensure that there is no crowding in schools during examinations. Detailed directions for conducting examinations while ensuring compliance of Covid-19 guidelines will be issued by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT). The minister said that they have also issued orders to schools to follow all guidelines issued by the Centre as well as the state government. About 1,000 students -- teaching and non-teaching staff -- have tested positive since Punjab re-opened schools for students of Class V- XII on January 7 after a break of over 10 months, and for primary and pre-primary classes on February 1. Majority of these cases are from Nawanshahr, Ludhiana, Bathinda and Muktsar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-declares-preparatory-leave-in-all-schools/articleshow/81474373.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||REPL Crusaders beat ASCA to storm into semi-finals||Lucknow: REPL Crusaders Club defeated ASCA by 16 runs to enter the semi-finals of the Babu Banarasi Das Prize Money Super Cricket League at Akhilesh Das Stadium on Friday. Making a solid start, REPL opener Manas Chaubey hit a half-century (53 off 66 balls) and was ably supported by Vijay Yadav who contributed 27 runs in 37 balls. Himanshu scored 39 runs in 43 balls to further consolidate his team's position. REPL players were all out for 176 runs in 34.1 overs. Vikas Gupta claimed four wickets giving away 38 runs in eight overs. In reply, ASCA could score 160 runs in the stipulated 40 overs at the loss of six wickets. Sumit scored highest 57 runs off 71 balls. Kshitiz claimed three wickets for REPL and was named the man of the match. Brief scores: REPL: 176 (Manas 53, Himanshu 39; Vikas 4-38); ASCA: 160/6 (Sumit 57; Kshitiz 3-23) Charminar, Global Stars shine: Global Stars and Charminar Club won their respective league matches in the ongoing Mumtaz Begum Khan Memorial Cricket tournament on Friday. In a thrilling match, Global Stars (102 all out) defeated FC Club (105/9) by one wicket. Shivam was named the man of the match. In another match, Charminar Club (285/9) beat Vision Cricket Club (154 all out) by 131 runs. Lakhan Kumar of Charminar won the man of the match award. NER defeat Central Cricket Club: North Eastern Railway defeated Central Cricket Club by 88 runs in a league match of Timber Trophy on Friday. NER's Ashwani hit 73 runs to emerge as the man of the match. RBN, Lucknow Cricketers win: RBN Global Club defeated Panther Academy by four wickets while Lucknow Cricketers beat Chauhan Sporting by 108 runs in the league matches of the Leela Ghosh Memorial Tournament on Friday. In the first match, Panthers were bundled out for 98 runs while RBN Global successfully chased the target at the loss of six wickets. In the second match, Lucknow Cricketers scored 228 for eight wickets while Chauhan Sporting could garner 120 runs for nine wickets in stipulated 35 overs. Utkarsh Raj Srivastava of Lucknow Cricketers Club (93 not out) and Rajdeep Singh of RBN Global (four wickets) were named man of the match in the two matches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/repl-crusaders-beat-asca-to-storm-into-semi-finals/articleshow/81475210.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||NMC says trees were cut sans nod: Ajni Van||NAGPUR: Over 24 trees have found to be felled at Ajni Van, the proposed site for inter-modal station (IMS). This has infuriated environment activists, who have been fighting hard to save the age-old trees in the heart of the city. A day back, TOI reported about activists spotting evidences of tree felling at the lush green area. Based on their complaint, a team of officials from the garden department of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) carried out a spot inspection on Friday. Their visit revealed that around 12 trees were fully chopped off while another 12 were heavily trimmed. Photographs shared by activist Kunal Mourya showed that the left-over tree base was hidden by covering it with heaps of trash. Since last few days, activists have been spotting open burning of garbage in the same premises, which is prohibited by the National Green Tribunal and Nagpur bench of Bombay high court. According to NMC officials, the trees were cut by Nagarjun Construction Company, a private agency hired by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to construct IMS. “It seems that the trees were cut for construction of the agency’s on-site office. No permission was taken from us. We have filed a panchnama and now will take official statement from the agency. Post this, we will issue showcause notices,” officials said. Activists have demanded filing of first information report (FIR). “What is shocking is the haste that the authorities are showing even when the plan is not finalized. The detailed project report is not ready. When tendering has been done for making a new report, is it pre-decided that the same agency will do the work? The entire process has now come under legal question” said environment activist Anasuya Kale Chhabrani. Moreover, NHAI doesn’t own the land. “As per the information received by us, the central railway is yet to hand over the land to NHAI,” added Chhabrani. As reported by TOI earlier, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has submitted a fresh proposal to Central Railway stating that schools, residential quarters, offices and other buildings will be rehabilitated at other site to save trees. In a proposal submitted to Central Railway, NHAI requested the latter to provide its CONCOR depot land at Ajni for constructing utilities including schools, hospitals, residential quarters etc that have to be relocated. However, the IMS is planned to come up at 44-acre lush green area at Ajni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ajni-van-nmc-says-trees-were-cut-sans-nod/articleshow/81473482.cms||Manka Behl
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||Bikers snatch gold chain from morning walker in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Three youths on a scooterette snatched a gold chain from a woman on Rawdon Street on Thursday morning. The 20-year-old victim, a second-year student at a private university in New Town, was headed for a morning walk at Rawdon Square when the incident happened around 8.25am. Following a complaint at the Shakespeare Sarani police station, cops identified the youths from CCTV footage and detained two persons on Friday. The chain weighing 30g was also recovered. According to Manmeet Kaur, a resident of Elliot Road, the snatching happened ahead of the parkomat next to the South Park Street cemetery. “The men on a two-wheeler yanked my gold chain off and sped away before I could react. My family contacted the police who acted immediately,” said Kaur. Police said the three men travelling along Park Street on a two-wheeler turned on to Rawdon Street and headed towards Shakespeare Sarani. They snatched the chain and then accelerated,” an officer said. Cops claimed they checked the CCTV footage and used source network to track down the youths and detain two of them. The gold chain was recovered, said the officer. Sources in the south division said the case was significant as it had happened in the heart of the city. “That three bikers could escape from such a spot in daylight is worrisome. All CCTV footage from the area were collected and analyzed to identify the accused and track them down,” said an officer. The city has witnessed over half a dozen snatching incidents since last November where scooterettes have been used. In most cases, the crime was committed by first-time criminals. Such “fresher gangs” targeted morning walkers in the Lake and Maidan areas as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bikers-snatch-gold-chain-from-morning-walker/articleshow/81473483.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Patients paying 250% more than bulk price for Remdesivir: FDA||MUMBAI: Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at private hospitals in the state are shelling out at least 250-400% more for each dose of Remdesivir than the wholesale price. As per the state Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) estimation, the inflated MRP of the antiviral drug is causing an additional burden of Rs 4.5 crore on patients in Maharashtra every day. After writing to the Centre to regulate the MRP of Remdesivir last week, the drug regulatory authority on Wednesday approached the state’s medical education department and public health department to find a way to get hospitals to charge less. Remdesivir is a part of standard treatment protocol for moderate to severe hospitalised Covid patients. About 20% of active cases are believed to need Remdesivir. Maharashtra currently has 1,06,070 active cases. In a market survey, FDA found that the drug is being sold at a higher MRP of Rs 4,000-Rs 5,400 per dose, even though hospitals and distributors are purchasing a single dose for Rs 800-Rs 1,200 from six pharmaceutical companies. “Effectively, hospitals are charging patients an average MRP of Rs 3,616 per dose, despite buying it for an average cost of Rs 1,040 per dose,” said FDA commissioner Abhimanyu Kale. If the difference between sticker price and base sale price is taken into consideration, patients are paying Rs 4.5 crore more every day, he said. A cost of Rs 24,000-Rs 32,000 for the entire course of six doses is prohibitive for many, one of the officials said. While none of the hospitals were charging more than the MRP, even trust-run hospitals were not passing the benefit of lower purchase price to patients. “We want the inflated MRP to be reduced. We have written to the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority to regulate it,” said Kale. However, with Maharashtra witnessing a surge in cases, Kale said an immediate solution may be needed. During multiple meetings, hospitals have said they cannot charge less than the MRP, FDA official said. In its proposal to the state, the FDA has said distributors and retailers can be allowed a profit margin ranging from 10%-30%. Doctors say Remdesivir is essential in the treatment kitty. Intensivist Dr Kedar Toraskar said when given within 7-8 days, it has helped save lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-patients-paying-250-more-than-bulk-price-for-remdesivir-fda/articleshow/81474380.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination: Haryana breaches half-million mark in 55 days||Chandigarh: Haryana completed administering the Covid-19 vaccine dose to 500,000 people in 55 days. The state’s overall vaccination count on Friday stood at 501,916, with Gurugram and Faridabad leading other districts in the states in all categories. As many as 40,220 people were the vaccine during the day, with 33,975 getting their first dose and 6,245 getting their second shot Meanwhile, the state reported 385 new Covid-19 cases, four deaths and 253 recoveries during the day. Two deaths were reported in Panipat district and one each in Jind and Ambala. Gurugram topped the daily count with 88 cases, followed by Kurushetra (63), Karnal (50), Ambala (40), Panchkula and Yamuanangar (29 each), Kaithal (23), Faridabad (19) and Panipat (14). The remaining 13 districts reported less than 10 cases, with Rewari, Jhajjar, Palwal and Nuh reporting none. Haryana had started vaccination drive on January 16 and rolled out the second phase on February 16 and third on March1. Gurugram has crossed the one lakh mark when it comes to overall coverage. Till Friday, 62,258 jabs were given to health care workers and frontline workers, of while 38,103 jabs were administered in the third phase. District civil surgeon Dr Virender Yadav said, “We have given proper publicity for the vaccination drive. A round the clock control room has been set up to clear the doubts (of people regarding vaccine). Moreover, all prominent persons of the area as well as senior health officials acted as main motivators.” Close behind, Faridababd has recorded 67,076 vaccinations, of which 44,294 health care and frontline workers got the jab, while 22,782 got the dose in the third phase. Charkhi Dadri and Mewat districts have been the worst performers with 6,552 and 7,891 jabs, respectively. The health officials have blamed poor campaigning and unwelcome attitude of social organisations and rural folk as reason for poor turn out. “The entire credit goes to rigorous planning and team work of medicos and para medicos down the line. We had been getting the vaccination stocks well in time and even the people have been forthcoming. There could have been some technical snags, but we overcame them day by day,” said a senior official of National Health Mission. ACS health Rajiv Arora too complemented the medicos and para medicos involved in vaccination drive for the achievement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vaccination-haryana-breaches-half-million-mark-in-55-days/articleshow/81474381.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||Kidney missing but diagnostic center’s sonography detects it||NAGPUR: A left kidney of a railway employee was removed last year by the doctors at Central Railway Hospital as it had a tumor, but a reputed private diagnostic center has come out with a new discovery that his both kidneys were functional and normal. According to papers in possession of TOI, Sushil Paserkar (48), was operated by Central Railway Hospital doctors for left nephrectomy (removal of left kidney) on March 17 last year after it was detected with a tumor. Paserkar, who works as a khalasi (helper) with carriage and wagons (C&W) department, encountered some abdomen problem and was admitted to the railway hospital on Wednesday. On Thursday, the railway doctors referred him to impanelled Dhande Diagnostic Centre, Midas Heights, for ultrasonography and doppler study of the scrotum. The report of ultrasonography of abdomen and pelvis submitted to the Central Railway Hospital by the diagnostic centre revealed the liver, gall bladder, spleen, pancreas, urinary bladder, prostate, etc were normal and no abnormalities were found. What was most shocking is that the report stated that “both the kidneys of the patient show normal size, shape, and position. The right kidney measures 9.8x4.6cm and left kidney measures 10.1x4.8cm.” Talking to TOI, radiologist Dr Atul Meshram, who signed the report, said, “After the Central Railway doctors talked to us informing us about the patient history, we revised the report and resent.” “Many times during sonography screening, we are unable to detect problems. It is likely the left kidney must not have detected. Sonography is not a confirmatory test and hence in such cases we suggest for CT scan or MRI,” said Dr Meshram. Dr Meshram further added, “The patient had not brought his previous medical history papers.” Dr Shirish Dhande said, “In ultrasonography, there can be 10% false positive and 10% false negative results. Sometimes, the body part which has been removed can be replaced by other organs. I agree that we erred but it is not a serious mistake. We did not harass or charged exhorbitantly from the patient.” He also shifted the blame on railway doctor for not giving patient’s past history. The National Railway Mazdoor Union (MU), which has raised the issue, has demanded blacklisting of Dhande Diagnostic Centre from the railway impanel list and cancel its registration. “Ultrasonography uses sound waves to produce pictures inside of the body. It is used to help diagnose the causes of pain, swelling, and infection in the body's internal organs. It can also detect small stones. It is really shocking that the radiologists failed to detect a missing kidney,” said Habib Khan, zonal working president of the NRMU. Central Railway spokesperson SG Rao said, “After seeing the tests report, our doctors called up radiologists and apprised them about the operated kidney following which the diagnostic centre sent a revised report correcting anomalies. It is the goof up on the part of the diagnostic centre. We had only referred the patient for problems.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kidney-missing-but-diagnostic-centers-sonography-detects-it/articleshow/81473487.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||Covid case rise defers Kolkata Metro token return||KOLKATA: Metro Railway has deferred its decision to issue tokens. Sources said the increase in the number of Covid cases has prompted the decision. For now, only smart-card users will continue to be allowed to board the trains. On Monday, the carrier had announced it would start issuing tokens from March 15. Since tokens would bring in more commuters, Metro increased services from 244 to 252 from Wednesday as well. Operation hours were also extended. On Friday, a notice was issued to all station superintendents saying, “Selling of tokens has been postponed. Future course of action in this regard will be intimated later on.” For more than a week, Bengal has been registering more than 200 cases every day. The sharpest spike was on last Saturday, with 259 new cases. Health experts said the trend is a matter of concern, especially apprehending spread of the new Covid strains. Some officials in Metro Railway admitted that with tokens, footfall would increase and maintaining distancing will become a challenge. “People have started behaving as if Covid has gone and nobody is wearing masks. This will surely lead to a spike in cases,” said Hiralal Konar of Health Service Association. Metro Railway had, from Wednesday, added more trains to daily operations. The first trains now leave Dakshineswar and Dum Dum stations at 6.50am instead of 7am. The last train from Dakshineswar leaves at 9.28pm instead of 9.18pm and leaves Dum Dum at 9.40pm instead of 9.30pm. The last train from Kavi Subhas leaves at 9.40pm instead of 9.30pm. On Saturdays, there will be 232 services instead of 228 and Sundays will have 104 trains instead of 102.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-case-rise-defers-metro-token-return/articleshow/81473491.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal gives Rs 1 crore to Covid warrior’s kin||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday provided financial assistance of Rs 1 crore to the family of Covid warrior late Rakesh Jain. He was a lab technician at Hindu Rao Hospital who got infected with Covid-19 while serving people. Delhi government will also provide job to his elder son, the CM announced. Kejriwal visited Shakarpur in east Delhi to meet Jain’s kin and said that there was no compensation for anyone’s life but hoped that the financial assistance would provide some relief to the family. “While on Covid-19 duty, Jain got infected with coronavirus and was shifted to Metro Hospital but later he lost his life due to Covid. The Delhi government salutes such frontline workers who have served the citizens of Delhi relentlessly. Today on behalf of the Delhi government, I have handed over a cheque of Rs 1 crore to the family members of Jain,” said Kejriwal. The elder son of Jain is doing his graduation and looking for a job. “The Delhi government will also provide a job to his son. I want to assure his family that the Delhi government will stand beside them in the future also whenever they need any help,” Kejriwal said. Hindu Rao Hospital was declared as a designated Covid hospital. After getting infected with Covid, Jain was admitted to the hospital on June 17, 2020 and he died the next day. He was a resident of Delhi and had joined the service in 1988. He was supposed to retire in 2022. Jain is survived by his mother, wife and two children. His wife is a homemaker and their younger son is pursuing BA. Meanwhile, health minister Satyendar Jain felicitated 80 Covid warriors from Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital and Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital at Delhi Assembly on Friday and lauded their efforts and undeterred spirit. “Lok Nayak Hospital, India’s largest Covid-19 treatment facility, has treated more than 10,000 patients. The ambulance response time had been reduced and it was ensured that it reached the patients’ home within 15 minutes of the call,” Jain said at the function. “Covid warriors have made Delhi proud with their efforts in fighting the coronavirus pandemic. Even after so much pressure, they worked so well. Delhi’s health force was the one that cooperated the most. They served the people with all their hard work and devotion. We can only thank them for their invaluable efforts,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-gives-rs-1-crore-to-covid-warriors-kin/articleshow/81488158.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||BMC purchasing drug vials sans tenders & at double rate: BJP||MUMBAI: With Covid-19 cases rising sharply, demand for life-saving drug Remdesivir is up once again. However, the BJP has alleged that the BMC is buying Remdesivir vials without floating tenders at almost double the price at which other state and Central government agencies are buying it. The BMC on March 9 placed an order with a private firm to supply 10,000 vials of Remdesivir at Rs 1,904 per vial. BMC officials said that with the sharp rise in cases, they would require 10,000 vials for use this month. Times ViewWith the surge in coronavirus cases, hospitalisations in the city and across the state may rise as well. It is important to ensure not just the availability but also the affordability of the key drugs that have shown promise in treating Covid-19. Till the national authorities regulate the price, the state departments must find a way to rein in all the profiteering elements who are using the pandemic to line their pockets. There must also be strict action against those inflating prices.However, in a letter to municipal commissioner Iqbal S Chahal, BJP MLA Ameet Satam has alleged that the vials are being supplied to the Haffkine Bio-Pharmaceutical Corporation (HBPCL) at around Rs 1,000 per vial. Similarly, Central government departments like the South Central Railways have bought Remdesivir at Rs 924 per vial, Satam has said. “The BMC’s Central Purchase Department (CPD) directly issued orders for 10,000 vials of Remdesivir injections at Rs 1,904 without any tender or following proper procurement procedures. During the same time other Central government organizations are buying Remdesivir at Rs 924. I demand that we should immediately stop payment to this vendor,” Satam said in his letter. BMC officials said the BMC on Friday floated tenders for buying 40,000 vials and the new rates would apply to the 10,000 vials already ordered. P Velrasu, AMC (projects), said, “Since cases are rising sharply, we ordered 10,000 vials this month. We have already floated tenders for another 40,000 vials. Once these tenders are opened, we will get the lowest rates. We will pay the existing supplier for the 10,000 vials at these new rates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bmc-purchasing-drug-vials-sans-tenders-at-double-rate-bjp/articleshow/81474388.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Actor Kangana Ranaut named in FIR over copyright infringement||MUMBAI: Following a magistrate court’s order on Friday, an FIR was registered against actor Kangana Ranaut at Khar police station on charges relating to copyright infringement. Others named in the FIR include her sister Rangoli Chandel, brother Akshat Ranaut and producer Kamal Kumar Jain. The FIR is registered under Indian Penal Code sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 415 (cheating by deceiving a person), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and under the Copyright Act. Earlier, the Bandra magistrate court directed cops to investigate the matter after a private complaint was submitted by Ashish Kaul, author of the book ‘Didda: The Warrior Queen of Kashmir’. It was submitted that Kaul is the sole copyright owner of the “unique story” and the biopic on the nationalist side of Queen Didda. Didda was the Princess of Lohar (Poonch). The police said it was alleged that Kaul had sent an e-mail containing the story of his book to Kangana. However, some portions were used by her in a tweet while announcing her movie. It was alleged that it was done without the author’s permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-actor-kangana-named-in-fir-over-copyright-infringement/articleshow/81475365.cms||---
March 13, 2021||India||ATS 'sure' Hiran was killed; Waze seeks pre-arrest bail||MUMBAI: Assistant police inspector Sachin Waze, who has been accused by the wife of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran of killing him, has moved the Thane sessions court seeking anticipatory bail. The court has kept the matter for hearing on March 19 and is likely to issue notice to the state Anti-Terror Squad (ATS), which is probing the murder case, to file its say. Hiran’s body was found in a Thane creek on March 5. His wife Vimla has alleged that the Scorpio car which was with him, and which was found with gelatin sticks outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25, had been with Waze for four months. Read AlsoThreat to Mukesh Ambani: Mumbai businessman Mansukh Hiran’s widow tells ATS she suspects cop killed himIn her three-page statement to the ATS, Mansukh Hiran’s wife Vimala has said Sachin Waze had been using the same SUV (found with explosives outside the Ambani residence) for the past four months. Waze and her husband knew each other, she claimed.Police sources said Waze has moved for anticipatory bail as he fears he could be made the fall guy in the political fight between the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and BJP. Read AlsoMansukh Hiren death case: Maharashtra govt announces Mumbai cop Sachin Waze's transferMaharashtra minister and Shiv Sena MLA Anil Parab on Wednesday announced that assistant police inspector Sachin Waze will be transferred from the crime intelligence unit. The BJP had demanded his transfer alleging that he was involved in the murder of Mansukh Hiren whose car was found with gelatinWaze was on Friday transferred from the crime intelligence unit (CIU) and transferred to the special branch (SB). He will be posted at the citizen facilitation centre (CFC) at the police headquarters at Crawford Market. Meanwhile, sources said the ATS has prima facie concluded Hiran was killed. Several teams of the ATS and NIA, which has taken over the explosives case, fanned out across Thane on Friday. An ATS officer said they have almost identified Hiran’s last location from where he disappeared mysteriously.  Investigators had found a face mask and a couple of handkerchiefs on Hiren’s face when his body was pulled out of the creek. “There is no water in the stomach, no trace of sand in the body. Injury marks on the left nostrils and shoulder reveal Hiren was killed and dumped in the creek thinking that during high tide, the body would be washed away in the Arabian Sea,” a police source said. Waze in his statement to ATS has denied he had used the Scorpio car. Sources said the technical analysis of Waze’s CDR and mobile locations shows him present in South Mumbai on the night Hiren went missing. Hiran’s brother and elder son were at the Thane ATS office for nine hours on Friday reportedly recording their statement. This was the second time Hiran’s kin were called by ATS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ats-sure-hiran-was-killed-waze-seeks-pre-arrest-bail/articleshow/81477348.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Parents, schools spar over offline prelims, practicals||MUMBAI: With board examinations only about two months away, parents and schools are at loggerheads over conducting offline prelim exams and practicals. Despite no directive from BMC, several schools are sending home consent forms and assuring parents that Covid-19 safety protocols will be in place. On Thursday, parents of a state board school in Bandra were sent a timetable for pre-boards in school premises. Soon, parents’ groups were abuzz with protest. “The school said all students would have to come for the prelims but not in uniform. Most parents didn’t want their children to go. After raising the issue with local authorities, the school decided to cancel the exam,” said Adil Khatri, an activist approached by parents. Times ViewWhile the safety of students and teachers is of utmost importance, the civic body must issue directives to ensure there isn’t confusion on the ground and schools and parents know what they can or cannot do. With the boards only over two months away, now is the time when schools want to organize last-minute practical, revision and preparatory sessions for students. The civic body must make provision for the same even if schools stay shut.The civic body on January 12 issued a circular which stated pre-board exams for classes IX to XII in Cambridge-affiliated schools and board exams for classes X and XII from other boards can be conducted. “As of now, our stand is the same. We have allowed only mandatory exams as and when their dates are declared. We have not yet decided for pre-board,” said Ashutosh Salil, joint municipal commissioner, BMC. Maharashtra board, CBSE or CISCE do not mandate pre-board exams. Another senior official from the civic education department, though, said prelims could be held as part of board exam process. Father Francis Swamy, principal, St Mary’s School, Mazgaon, said, “We sent out consent forms but there wasn’t a clear ‘yes’ from parents. So we have asked parents to collect answer sheets from school and will send the question paper online.” Several schools are using the circular and organising offline exams. “Last week, the school called Class X students to write physics pre-board exam,” said a parent of a Kandivli ICSE school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-parents-schools-spar-over-offline-prelims-practicals/articleshow/81473513.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
March 13, 2021||Goa||SC dismisses state plea to regulariseillegal notification on municipal polls||PANAJI: In a stinging rebuke to the Goa government for giving its law secretary additional charge of the state election commission, the Supreme Court on Friday upheld the Bombay high court’s order setting aside a notification for holding elections in five municipalities. A bench headed by Justice Rohinton Nariman directed the government to complete the reservation of wards within 10 days, and complete the election process for five municipalities including Mapusa, Margao, Mormugao, Sanguem and Quepem by April 30. The case pertained to the discrepancy in reservation of wards in those five councils. The top court’s order comes as a massive setback for the government, which has maintained that the courts can’t interfere with the election process. Even after this argument was rejected by the Bombay HC, the state took the same stance in the SC, which held that the election process has not been called into question, thus upholding the Bombay HC judgment delivered by Justice M S Sonak. “The SC has upheld the HC order and directed the state election commission to complete the election process in five municipalities by April 30, instead of the HC direction of April 15,” advocate general Devidas Pangam told TOI. Former AG Dattaprasad Lawande, one of the petitioners’ lawyers, said that the SC observed that the petitioners (before the HC) did not call in question the election, but only asked for setting aside the reservation of wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-dismisses-state-plea-to-regulariseillegal-notification-on-municipal-polls/articleshow/81475330.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||It’s ‘tareekh pe tareekh’ in bail plea of Bhandara fire case accused||NAGPUR: The anticipatory bail hearing of the three nurses of Bhandara district hospital in NICU fire case that claimed the lives of 10 infants was adjourned till March 15 by the Bhandara sessions court on Friday. In the last three weeks, the hearing was adjourned at least six times on some or the other grounds including twice prosecution seeking time. The three nurses were allegedly on duty in the wee hours of January 9 when the fire broke out. Justice seems to be not in sight as the pre-arrest bail plea is yet to decided. Sources from the court stated the latest adjournment was sought on the grounds that the three nurses Smita Ambilduke, Shubhangi Sathawane and Jyoti Choudhary had filed an affidavit stating there was no dereliction of duty on their part in the accident. Though the three nurses had filed the pre-arrest bail plea, Bhandara police made Ambilduke and Sathawane accused in the case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Choudhary has not been named in FIR. It is learnt the three nurses had filed anticipatory bail plea much before the police had filed an offence in the case. Bhandara police, initially registered an accidental death in the case. Thereafter, they took 40 days to register an offence against Ambilduke and Sathawane on February 18. When they did, the pre-arrest bail plea was already underway with the hearing and was scheduled for February 23. It was adjourned when police wanted more time to file their say even after more than 40 days of investigation. The hearing was scheduled on February 26 but again adjourned. On March 8, it was adjourned for March 10 which was again scheduled for Friday and now has been slated for March 15. District government pleader Vinod Bhole said court has adjourned the case to accommodate and allow time to furnish all the relevant evidence from both the sides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/its-tareekh-pe-tareekh-in-bail-plea-of-bhandara-fire-case-accused/articleshow/81473488.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||Rs 2,563 crore GST fraud detected||NAGPUR: The directorate general of GST intelligence (DGSTI) has booked the biggest ever case in Nagpur zone in terms of amount involved, on Friday. The Nagpur zone of DGGSTI covers Vidarbha, Marathwada and Khandesh regions of the state. Fake entries to the tune of Rs2,563 crore were found to have been recorded, through which fraudulent input tax credit (ITC) worth Rs461 crore has been allegedly availed by business entities located at Nashik and Dhule. This was a joint action of DGSTI units at Nagpur and national capital region (NCR). It was found that 11 dummy firms having addresses in NCR were engaged in providing entries for fake purchases in the books of Nashik and Dhule based firms. It was found that four of the 11 such allegedly dummy firms had the same permanent account number (PAN), said a press release by DGGSTI. The case has been divided into two set of transactions. In the first, six of the 11 fake entities had availed fraudulent ITC which was later passed on further to other firms. This involved an amount of Rs315 crore in the form of credit availed. In the other set, ITC to the tune of Rs145 crore was availed on fake purchases, the press release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs2563cr-gst-fraud-detected/articleshow/81473490.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Allahabad||Restrain from finalizing quota in panchayat polls: Allahabad HC||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on Friday restrained the state government and the State Election Commission from finalizing reservation for upcoming panchayat elections in UP, reports Ravi Singh Sisodiya. Hearing a PIL petition by one Ajay Kumar, a bench comprising justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and justice Manish Mathur directed the government and the SEC to furnish their response within 24 hours. The Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court court has fixed March 15 as the next date of hearing. The petitioner has challenged an order of the state government issued on February 11, 2021 regarding reservation in elections. Petitioner’s counsel Mohd Altaf Mansoor said the government had issued UP Panchayat Raj (Reservation and Allotment of Seats and Offices) Rules in 1994, whereby it had provided that the base year for applying reservation on seats by rotation would be 1995. Subsequently, the government issued another notification on September 16, 2015 providing that the base year would be considered as 2015. The government applied reservation in zila and kshetra panchayat elections on this basis in 2015 elections. “The said notification was issued considering the change in demographic conditions of the state and it is still in existence,” the petitioner’s counsel said. “However, the state government is applying 1995 as base year for rotation in reservation for seats in panchayat elections in the entire state in contravention of the September 16, 2015 notification,” the petitioner said. “Even otherwise, in view of changed demographic conditions, as noticed by the state government in 2015, it does not stand to reason that the base year for the purpose of reserving seats be taken as 1995,” the petitioner said. When the petitioner’s lawyer said the government was going to issue final reservation on March 17, 2021, the bench passed the interim order restraining the authorities from finalizing the reservation for panchayat elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-restrain-from-finalizing-quota-in-panchayat-polls/articleshow/81480863.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||Restrain from finalizing quota in panchayat polls: Allahabad HC||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on Friday restrained the state government and the State Election Commission from finalizing reservation for upcoming panchayat elections in UP, reports Ravi Singh Sisodiya. Hearing a PIL petition by one Ajay Kumar, a bench comprising justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and justice Manish Mathur directed the government and the SEC to furnish their response within 24 hours. The Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court court has fixed March 15 as the next date of hearing. The petitioner has challenged an order of the state government issued on February 11, 2021 regarding reservation in elections. Petitioner’s counsel Mohd Altaf Mansoor said the government had issued UP Panchayat Raj (Reservation and Allotment of Seats and Offices) Rules in 1994, whereby it had provided that the base year for applying reservation on seats by rotation would be 1995. Subsequently, the government issued another notification on September 16, 2015 providing that the base year would be considered as 2015. The government applied reservation in zila and kshetra panchayat elections on this basis in 2015 elections. “The said notification was issued considering the change in demographic conditions of the state and it is still in existence,” the petitioner’s counsel said. “However, the state government is applying 1995 as base year for rotation in reservation for seats in panchayat elections in the entire state in contravention of the September 16, 2015 notification,” the petitioner said. “Even otherwise, in view of changed demographic conditions, as noticed by the state government in 2015, it does not stand to reason that the base year for the purpose of reserving seats be taken as 1995,” the petitioner said. When the petitioner’s lawyer said the government was going to issue final reservation on March 17, 2021, the bench passed the interim order restraining the authorities from finalizing the reservation for panchayat elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-restrain-from-finalizing-quota-in-panchayat-polls/articleshow/81475277.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to remove all religious encroachments||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government, in compliance with a high court order, has ordered removal of all religious structures that encroach upon roads, lanes, footpaths or national and state highways, reports Pathikrit Chakraborty. As per a home department order issued on Tuesday evening, all such constructions which have taken place after January 1, 2011, should be removed immediately. Those structures which were constructed before January 1, 2011 have been given six-month time for a planned removal. "The management of such structures and the followers of the religion it belongs to should plan to shift them to their private land within six months," the order says. The home department officials said that all the divisional commissioners, police commissioners of Lucknow, Noida, district magistrates and superintendents of police, were issued an order on Tuesday night to identify and remove all religious constructions which are encroaching roads, lanes, footpaths or national and state highways. All district magistrates have been asked to send their compliance report after identifying and removing such structures to the principal secretary, home. He will submit a detailed report to the chief secretary in the next two months. The order also said that a plan should be made to ensure that there was no obstruction in traffic or public movement due to religious activities on public roads (including highways), streets, footpaths and lanes. It also stated in the instructions that if there is any deviation or disobedience then the officials concerned would be held responsible for it. "Flouting of these orders will be considered as contempt of the high court," said a home department official. In its 2016 order, the Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court had asked the state government 'to ensure that no religious structure in any form, whatsoever, shall be allowed or permitted to be raised on public roads including highways, streets, pathways and lanes and warned that any violation will be considered as criminal contempt by administration and police officials'.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-remove-all-religious-encroachments/articleshow/81475361.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Pune||42% engineering students prefer to learn in mother tongue||PUNE: A significant 42% students, from various engineering colleges in the country, said that they would have opted for education in their mother tongue if given the option. The information was revealed by Anil Sahasrabudhe, chairman of All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), during a news conference. The official quoted from a survey covering 5,000 students studying in second to final year of engineering courses. “42% existing students have declared that if they had the opportunity to study engineering in their mother tongue, they would have opted for it. The surprising factor is, despite the large Hindi-speaking population in the country, maximum number of students, opting for lessons in their mother tongue, were from Tamil Nadu. Maximum number of students from Tamil Nadu stated that if they got the opportunity to study engineering in Tamil, they would have opted for it. This was followed by Hindi, Telugu, Marathi, Kannada, and so on,” said Sahasrabudhe. The senior official added that colleges can apply to start a new division to impart education in the mother tongue. However, the vice-chancellor of a deemed university said, “This does not seem feasible now when communication skills are taken to be as important as domain knowledge. If we open a division for 60 students and only five turn up, then the course is not economically viable for the university. Finally, the most important point is that parents will never agree to this idea. Every parent in India wants their son or daughter to speak in English, as it is an aspirational language that opens more doors for their child.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/42-engg-students-prefer-to-learn-in-mother-tongue/articleshow/81473507.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata police conduct fire audit of their buildings||KOLKATA: The loss of nine lives — including that of an assistant sub-inspector of Hare Street police and four firefighters — in the 13th floor fire on Strand Road last Monday has led Kolkata Police to take stock of fire-fighting mechanism available on all its premises. Once this audit is over, the cops are likely to write to the fire brigade and seek their cooperation in ascertaining fire safety at all spots where voting for Assembly elections is going to take place. This will include all places where central observers, micro observers and CAPF will be put up. Police said that though these are routine exercises, the plan is to be ready for any eventuality. “To lose so many people in a fire that actually spread to one floor has taught us to adopt safety first,” said an officer. All police stations have been asked to provide answers to five specific fire-related queries by Thursday evening. The email on the queries, sources said, came from the police commissioner’s office. “ The audit wanted to know the quantity of fire extinguishers in stock and the types of extinguishers available at each police station, traffic guard or specialized units and barracks. It also wanted to know the date of installation and expiry of these extinguishers,” said an officer. Sources at Lalbazar said that once the audit is completed, necessary measures to ensure fire safety will be initiated. “There was a recent fire at Kalighat police station due to the carelessness of storing a seized gas cylinder. These are instances which we can avoid in future,” said a senior officer. A few police stations with a high concentration of high-rises in their areas are mulling an audit in consultation with the fire department. “Two years ago, we had conducted a survey in Tangra and Tiljala. A similar exercise can be conducted,” said an officer. “Residents’ safety is paramount. We have the mandate along with the fire department — to carry out spot checks. We are considering a safety audit of high-rises and will ascertain that basic firefighting equipment is in place even during construction,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-conduct-fire-audit-of-their-bldgs/articleshow/81473519.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Municipal doctors decide to go on indefinite strike||New Delhi: Not having received their salaries for three to four months, doctors of Hindu Rao Hospital held a general body meeting of their association on Friday, where it was unanimously decided to go on an indefinite strike from March 22. Resident doctors’ association (RDA) of Kasturba Hospital has already called for a strike Saturday onwards. Dr RR Gautam, who heads the municipal corporation doctors’ association, said that doctors from dispensaries and polyclinics will also take part in the strike. “We will all go on mass leave on March 19 and then we will wait for one day to see if the administration shows any willingness to find a solution. From March 22, we will go on total strike,” he added. Dr Abhimanyu Sardana, who is president of the RDA at Hindu Rao Hospital confirmed that both senior doctors as well as junior residents will take part in the strike. Salaries of healthcare workers have been pending from three-four months and now doctors allege that attempts are being made to create divisions between them. “Some senior doctors who work in hospitals have received one month salary today, but what about those who are working in far-flung areas in dispensaries and clinics. The administration should try to find a permanent solution to the salary crisis instead of categorising the doctors,” Dr Gautam said. He added that after the last strike in October the civic authorities had assured them in written that no pendency of salary will take place. “We had spent Diwali without salary and now the financial year is ending and still we can’t meet our obligations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/municipal-doctors-decide-to-go-on-indefinite-strike/articleshow/81474397.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Goa||Experts slam ‘sycophant babus’ for debacle in SC||PANAJI: Legal experts roundly criticised the state government’s “move to subvert Constitutional norms”, and said that if bureaucrats had resisted the government’s attempts to do so, the state wouldn’t have incurred the Supreme Court’s wrath. While most legal experts chose not to directly attribute malicious intentions to the political class, they did come down heavily on IAS officers, questioning the role played by chief secretary Parimal Rai while advising the government on electoral norms. Former chief justice of the Allahabad HC Ferdino Rebello said that while the ministers and the cabinet may formulate a policy, execution is done by the bureaucrats who are supposed to know and adhere to Constitutional norms. “Those who advised the government are at fault,” he said. “It is the duty of the bureaucracy to correctly advise the government.” He said that the appointment of Garg as state election commissioner was a clear violation of statutory norms as the SEC is supposed to be an independent authority that does not report to the state government. “It is unheard of that you are holding elections under an officer who is part of the serving government. It is contrary to the Constitution and that is why the Supreme Court has come down heavily,” he added. Former state election commissioner Prabhakar Timble also slammed the bureaucrats. “The chief secretary has a duty to guide the government. How could he allow a fellow IAS officer to hold charge, which as per statutory norms he cannot hold?” he asked. Stating that the government tried to out-manoeuvre the judiciary, Timble said that the directorate of municipal administration and SEC Chokha Ram Garg should both be held accountable for the fiasco, as they reduced Goa’s local body elections to “a joke”. Timble also decried the role of governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. “I express my gross displeasure on the total silence of the governor, whose duty it is to ensure governance as per the norms of the Constitution. When things are going on such a path, it does not behove to be deaf and dumb,” he said. Former assistant solicitor general of India Carlos Alvares Ferreira said that legally, the fault lies with senior bureaucrats, adding that Garg’s actions suggested that he “not just bent but crawled” before the government, which is “disturbing”. He also pointed out that IAS officers are under the Union home ministry and not state government. “There is no doubt that the appointment process is a total breakdown of the constitutional mandate. It is definitely government overreach,” said Ferreira. “The urban development minister should also be sacked because the municipal department is under the minister.” Ferreira, meanwhile, directly charged the BJP government for trying to violate Constitutional norms. “The law secretary is the highest law officer in the government, and if he violates the norms, then the question is whether this man is fit to be an IAS officer and law secretary,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/experts-slam-sycophant-babus-for-debacle-in-sc/articleshow/81475363.cms||Newton Sequeira
March 13, 2021||Pune||Duo in the net for stealing ornaments||Pune: Police arrested two domestic helps and recovered ornaments collectively worth Rs10.91lakh stolen from the Model Colony flat of a 63-year-old business consultant on February 26. The complainant, Milind Varde from Ashit apartment at Modibaug here, registered an first information report with Shivajinagar police stating that unidentified persons had stolen cash and ornaments from his residence between February 26 and March 1. Senior inspector Neelima Pawar said on Friday, “A CCTV camera captured images of a domestic help walking out of Varde’s residence in a suspicious manner on February 26. We conducted searches at her residence at Mohannagar in Pimpri, recovered stolen ornaments, and arrested her on March 9.” Pawar said, “The woman admitted her involvement in the crime and revealed the name of a former domestic help who tipped her about cash and ornaments kept in Varde’s flat. We later arrested her.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-in-the-net-for-stealing-ornaments/articleshow/81473520.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Pune||State CET cell may include no PCM mandate in future||Pune: The state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell and deemed universities in the city said that they will consider adopting the changes introduced by AICTE in the Approval Process Handbook 2021. Based on the changes, physics, chemistry and mathematics (PCM) will not be mandatory at the school-level to pursue a course in engineering.When asked whether there can be changes in CET as well as Centralised Admission Process rules, as per changes suggested in the handbook, chairman of State CET Cell Chintamani Joshi said, “We have to understand what their (AICTE’s) approach is. The minister (Uday Samant) has already mentioned that there will be only one CET in the coming years.”Vidya Yeravdekar, principal director of Symbiosis Society, said that they would they would be able to implement the changes in the next academic year itself. “It is no longer the time of only core branches. We want students to do innovative things. We have changed specialisations. We have BTech in AI or people want Robotics instead of mechanical engineering. For these areas, you can have a combination of different subjects. Secondly, we are also looking at students from different disciplines as it will bring various perspectives to the course. Hence, such flexibility is a welcome move.”MM Salunkhe, vice-chancellor of Bharati Vidyapeeth University also said that this can be a good initiative and he will discuss it in the academic council which will take a decision on it.Meanwhile, AICTE chairman Anil Sahasrabudhe explained that there will be no changes in JEE or CET as of now, hence PCM will remain important subjects. However, if any institute, state or university wants to change it, they can do so. The new handbook gives students flexibility to pursue an engineering degree after passing the 10+2 examination by choosing any three subjects from a list of 14. But it is the prerogative of the university or the state to decide what courses are mandatory for admissions and students must check the specific institute/state/university guidelines before preparing. Apart from this, 45% marks in any of the three subjects combined (40% in case of reserved category students) are also mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-cet-cell-may-include-no-pcm-mandate-in-future/articleshow/81473516.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Three wards lead the surge as Mumbai looks to resume its routine||MUMBAI: An ageing population, group outings and poor adherence to Covid norms are the main reasons for a spurt in some wards here. Mumbai's overall case growth rate is 0.34% today, with incidence higher in T ward (Mulund) at 0.51%, K (West) at 0.47% and F North (Sion, Matunga) at 0.44%. In comparison, on March 3, Mumbai’s average growth rate was 0.29%, while T ward had a growth rate of 0.41%, K west 0.39% and F North 0.36%. TOI spoke to locals and officials to trace issues leading to the rise in numbers. Authorities said all three wards have many residential highrises and K west has Juhu beach, which attracts crowds. T ward, despite being smaller, has many senior citizens. Civic data has shown that almost 90% recent cases are from residential pockets and 10% from slums. Ward officials said the spike was for the past few days. “Positive cases are almost at par with what they were in the initial days of the pandemic. But back then there were restrictions in place, so we ensured case numbers could be controlled. Now, with everything open, from markets to malls, people are crowding,” said a senior official. “Cases had gone down to 30-40 a day and then over the past fortnight they kept rising, and on Thursday surpassed 100, which is a concern,” said corporator Renu Hansraj, whose area covers Juhu beach. She said looking at crowds the beach draws almost everyday, it is time curbs are brought in, at least in timings. In T ward, which has the highest case growth rate, MLA Mihir Kotecha said restrictions were need on hawkers and eateries. “People are stepping out to eat in restaurants and on the roadside, where putting on face masks is out of question. Many places are crowded and the chance of infection spreading is faster. Few restaurants are following social distancing measures,” he said, adding that Mulund (E) alone has 35,000 senior citizens and has more cases than west. In F-North ward, corporator Nehal Shah said cases are dispersed across residential localities. “The ward is conducting camps where several cases are being traced,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-three-wards-lead-the-surge-as-city-looks-to-resume-its-routine/articleshow/81474394.cms||Richa Pinto
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Four held for thrashing man to death in Delhi over use of lift||NEW DELHI: Four people, including three senior citizens, have been arrested for allegedly thrashing their 60-year-old neighbour to death in central Delhi’s Chandni Mahal on Thursday. Police said that the man was killed during a fight over the use of the lift in a four-storey building where the accused and the deceased lived. The deceased has been identified as Mohd Shakeel, who lived on the fourth floor of a building in Haveli Azam Khan in Chitli Qabar. Accused Mukhtar Hussain (61) and Mustaq Hussain (60) are residents of ground floor and Mohammad Saleem (60) and Mohammad Salmaan (30) residents of the first floor. Around 7.30pm on Thursday, police received a call regarding a quarrel. A police team found that Shakeel had been beaten up and was rushed to a hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. A police officer said that the quarrel was over a lift installed in the building that was used by the residents of fourth floors. “The residents of first and the ground floor wanted to grab the space occupied by the lift for their personal use, sparking an argument,” the officer said. Recently, a 32-year old man was thrashed to death by around a dozen men after his brother objected to a couple fighting loudly in the neighbourhood in Raghubir Nagar on Monday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4-held-for-thrashing-man-to-death-over-use-of-lift/articleshow/81475362.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||EDII starts courses on entrepreneurship development||Lucknow: The Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII), Ahmedabad, has launched two new postgraduate (PG) courses on entrepreneurship development. Detailing about the two courses at a press conference on Friday, in charge of EDII Lucknow regional office Amit Kumar Dwivedi said the courses are PG diploma in management - entrepreneurship (PGDM-E) and PGDM in innovation, entrepreneurship & venture development (IEV). Both courses are of two-year duration and approved by AICTE. Dwivedi said, “PGDM-E offers specializations in new venture creation and family business management. The highlights of this course include space for student entrepreneurs to work individually or in a team to gain entrepreneurial experience, mentoring and networking support to those wanting to start ventures and milestone-based learning to enable students to achieve stepping stones in their entrepreneurial journey.”. On PGDM (IEV), Dwivedi said it is aimed at innovative leadership, financial skills for entrepreneurs and business innovation planning. “It will develop financial skills of entrepreneurs and help them in applying their entrepreneurial skills in real life. It includes a residency learning module as well as a venture establishment phase at the institute’s technology business incubator, the Centre for Advancing & Launching Enterprises (CrAdLE),” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/edii-starts-courses-on-entrepreneurship-development/articleshow/81475383.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Sewer lines to be laid in 26 cities: Dhariwal||Jaipur: UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal on Friday informed assembly that the government has introduced unique initiatives this year.Dhariwal said in Gangori market in Jaipur, a hospital will be established along with an investment on sewerage lines in Walled City. “Sewer lines will be laid in 26 cities at Rs 1,477 crore. I want to tell it to the opposition that at the time of BJP rule, Rs 18 was the price of food served in Annapurna rasoi but in Indira Rasoi we are serving better food for just Rs 12. We have proposed to put CCTV cameras and a system to get online feedback from citizens about the rasoi,” said Dhariwal.He further said that to facilitate the people this time government has decided to give unconditional lease deeds to the people. “With the unconditional lease deeds, people will be able to get bank loan on these lands. Moreover, we have even proposed to give proper license to all the properties that have residential and commercial both. These are some proposal that will be put in front of the cabinet,” said Dhariwal.Reacting to this, opposition leaders said that when the proposals are being accepted then why is Dhariwal wasting the time of the assembly. BJP leader Gulab Chand Kataria said that these announcement in the assembly is just a way to waste time and show off in front of the public.Dhariwal replied that he is merely stating facts and opposition shouldn’t be worried about the good work their party is doing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sewer-lines-to-be-laid-in-26-cities-dhariwal/articleshow/81474399.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||Over 4000 cases for 2nd day in a row despite less number of tests, 37 deaths||NAGPUR: For the second day in a row, 11 districts in Vidarbha region together reported more than 4,000 Covid-19 cases on Friday. More alarming was that the 21,569 tests were done in last 24 hours, remarkably less than Thursday’s 29,892. The number of tests reduced in last 24 hours because it was public holiday on Thursday due to Mahashivaratri, and mass testing camps, mobile van testing etc. could not be conducted to the optimum level. Still, 4,235 new cases were reported on Friday. On the other hand, 3,214 patients recovered in a day, highest ever in March. Now, out of 3.62 lakh cases reported in Vidarbha till date, 3.19 lakh have recovered, which means 88.4% recovery rate. The recovery rate is going down daily because the new cases are more and recoveries are less. On Friday, 37 deaths were reported in the region, which is another alarming development as it’s the highest daily death toll for the region in the last four months. Total 15 deaths were reported in Nagpur district alone. These include 11 from Nagpur city alone, 1 from Nagpur district and 3 of the patients referred from other state/divisions to Nagpur. Buldhana district reported 7 deaths in a day, a sudden spike. Akola and Wardha reported 4 deaths each, Yavatmal 3, Amravati 2, while Washim and Chandrapur reported 1 death each due to Covid-19. Yavatmal has reported 14 deaths in last three days due to Covid-19. As cases are more in numbers, Vidarbha’s case fatality rate is still going down and it was 2.12% on Friday. But, the death toll is rising. In March, 315 deaths have been reported in just 12 days which means more than 26 deaths per day on an average. This is higher than the last four months’ average. Number of patients under treatment is now heading towards the 35k mark, which is highest ever since the outbreak of the pandemic. As on March 12, total 34,153 patients are under treatment. However, a majority of these patients are in home isolation, so hospitals are still not burdened. Meanwhile, Akola, Buldhana and Yavatmal – three of the worst-hit districts due to the present surge of Covid-19 have revoked the weekend shut-down which was scheduled on Saturday and Sunday. District collectors announced that there will be no additional restrictions on weekends. Akola: The district reported 4 deaths on Friday. An 82-year old woman, 62-year-old woman, 73-year-old man and a 55-year-old man died during treatment. Total 2877 tests were conducted in Akola in last 24 hours. Out of them, 353 tested positive. Total 299 patients recovered. Now, the district has 4,899 patients under treatment. Washim: A 72-year-old man from Karanja died during treatment in Washim on Friday. This took the toll to 164. With 192 new cases and 190 recoveries in a day on Friday, Washim now has 10,904 cases, 9,512 recoveries and 1,227 patients under treatment. Buldhana: Seven deaths were reported in the district on Friday. They include 5 men (75, 83, 67, 74, and 73 years of age) and two women (76 and 65 yrs). This took Covid-19 toll of Buldhana to 215. The district conducted 1,760 tests in the last 24 hours. Out of them, 567 tested positive. Total 561 patients recovered in a day. Now, 3,469 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: Out of 621 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, 75 tested positive in Bhandara. Total case load reached 14,193. With 46 recoveries in a day, total 13,419 of them have recovered. Now, 446 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 26 new cases, 13 recoveries and no death on Friday. Now, 14,398 total cases of Covid-19 have been reported in Gondia which include 14,266 recoveries, 187 deaths and 197 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 21 new cases, 18 recoveries and no deaths on Friday. Total 9,817 cases, 9,503 recoveries and 108 deaths have been reported till date. 206 patients are still under treatment. Amravati: A spike of 448 cases and two deaths took the caseload to 41,731 and toll to 586 respectively. As many as 669 staged a recovery to take the total to 35,813. Chandrapur: Covid spurt remained under check with just 75 new detections on Friday. While 51 were discharged, one death took the toll to 402. Yavatmal: Three deaths took the toll to 501. Out of 1,597 reports, 365 were found positive. Active positive patients are now 2,358. Total positive patients till date are 20,919. Wardha: The district witnessed four deaths, 156 new cases and 198 recoveries on Friday. While the total number of cases reached 14,398, recoveries were 12,988. The active positive amounted to 1,033.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-4k-cases-for-2nd-day-in-a-row-despite-less-no-of-tests-37-deaths/articleshow/81474402.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Businessman murder: Plan hatched in Tihar, 1 held||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Friday claimed to have arrested a shooter who had allegedly gunned down a property dealer in Dwarka last Sunday. Police said that the man was killed for opposing some goons over collection of money from a local market. The murder conspiracy was allegedly hatched inside Tihar Jail by two jailed gangsters. The arrested accused has been identified as 28-year-old Manoj Rathi, a resident of Bahadurgarh in Haryana. Police said that Rathi is a sharp-shooter and a member of Jyoti Baba and Nandu gang. The property dealer’s murder took place when some unidentified bike-borne men opened fire at him in front of the Najafgarh police station. Police found that the motorcycle used in the crime did not have any registration numberplate. DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said that information was received on Thursday that a member of Nandu Gang, carrying illegal weapons, was roaming in the area of Jharoda Kalan. “A team acted on the input and a man, later identified as Manoj Rathi, was arrested from Bahadurgarh-Najafgarh Road. A pistol and three live cartridges were recovered from him,” the DCP said. Rathi told the cops that he was friends with jailed criminals Amit Guliya and Nandu. “He said, two months ago, Guliya and Ankush gave him the offer to collect money from the weekly market. On their direction, he met one Dharmendera to collect the money. But when they tried to collect the money from the flea market, Sushil, the property dealer, objected to the collection,” Meena said. Police said, on Sunday, Ankush called Dharmender Rana and shared with him a photo of Sushil’s vehicle through WhatsApp. Ankush also provided them with weapons through one of his contacts. Later, on his directions, Rathi and Dharmendra reached Najafgarh and followed Sushil’s Fortuner car. Immediately after Sushil stopped his car near the police station, they opened fire on him and fled the spot. Rathi also told police that at the time of murder, Dharmendra was on video call with Guliya. “He said, after the murder, they reached Gurgaon and then went towards Mahipalpur. They changed clothes and took a cab to reach the spot of crime in Najafgarh to confirm if Sushil was dead. After confirming his death, they fled to Bahadurgarh in Haryana and informed Guliya about it,” the DCP said. Meena said efforts were being made to check past involvements of Rathi and to arrest his associates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bizman-murder-plan-hatched-in-tihar-1-held/articleshow/81475384.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Pune||No means to stop private vehicles from entering BRTS corridor: PMPML||Pune: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has said that it had no means of stopping private vehicles from entering the bus rapid transit system (BRTS) corridor.Satish Gavhane, BRTS manager, PMPML, said all the marshals, who earlier used to monitor the corridors, were removed last year.Rajendra Jagtap, chairman-cum-managing director, PMPML, told TOI that it was not possible for the transport body to man all the corridors. “The support from the Pune traffic police is primary. People should follow the regulations and keep away from the corridors,” he said.He added that the boom barriers, which were on trial at the Swargate depot, will be procured and installed next month.Daily commuters and activists said that both the PMPML and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) were least interested in taking care of the corridors. “Why should the police look after the corridors when the PMPML and the PMC are not at all bothered? They have spent a fortune constructing the corridors and don’t care about their maintenance or vehicles freely entering them. Even when the marshals were present, no one listened to them,” PMP Pravasi Manch’s Sanjay Shitole, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-means-to-stop-private-vehicles-from-entering-brts-corridor-pmpml/articleshow/81473580.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 13, 2021||Pune||Some institutes deny report cards over unpaid fees||Pune: Parents from a few schools in the city have approached the education office with complaints of schools denying report cards to students, who have failed to pay up the fees. They said that it was unfair for their children to not receive the performance cards while other students did. On the other hand, school authorities said that they had given parents time until the entire academic year to pay the fee. When the fee remained pending, the school administrations had to take the step. Parents of students studying at a school on BT Kawade road, were in for a shock when they were called to collect their report cards. Upon reaching the school premises, the parents were asked to pay the fees at first and then go on to collect the student’s report card. A parent from this school said, “When we went there, other parents were getting the report cards but the coordinators at the schools asked us to pay the fees. My argument was to offer concession in fees as the entire year classes were held online. I also offered to pay the fees the following day, but the school authorities denied us the report card.” A representative from a school that had held back report cards said, “We have ended the academic year, yet there are many parents who have not paid the dues. How long can we sustain if parents do not pay the fees? We have also offered various options, such as instalment slabs, yet parents have kept the fees pending until the end of the year.” Commissioner of education, Vishal Solanki, stated, “The schools cannot mix the issues related to fees with the education of the child. This was also instructed to the school management when many had stopped online classes for children over non-payment of fees. The school fee is a different issue and the education of children and sharing progress cards is a different aspect altogether.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/some-institutes-deny-report-cards-over-unpaid-fees/articleshow/81473545.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||Cabby assaulted for molest protest||Kolkata: A taxi driver waiting for a passenger at Tangra became a local hero after he tried to save a woman from being molested by a local youth in the middle of the night. Prabhunath Shaw was assaulted with an iron rod, but managed to hold his ground till help arrived for the 21-year-old woman. The incident took place on Mathurbabu Lane around 2am on Wednesday. The Tangra police arrested the accused — Suraj Kumar Bhuiya — hours after receiving the complaint on Thursday and charged him under IPC sections pertaining to molestation and serious hurt. “The 21-year-old had come out of her residence and hired a taxi. She was waiting for two of her friends to join her when the accused came up to her. The circumstances are being verified. The accused — who was under the influence of alcohol — passed certain objectionable remarks, to which Shaw raised an objection. Bhuiya, though, did not stop and made further comments and even tried to touch the woman. Shaw then stepped out and wanted to know why she was being harassed. The accused then started assaulting the taxi driver,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cabby-assaulted-for-molest-protest/articleshow/81473583.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 13, 2021||Goa||SOTTO to notify brain deaths in GMC to boost cadaveric transplants||PANAJI: The State Organ Tissue and Transplant Organisation (SOTTO) has decided that every brain death in the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, will be notified irrespective of whether or not the family of the deceased wants to donate organs. SOTTO chairperson and GMC dean, Dr S M Bandekar, said this is part of the standard operating procedures that have been framed to promote cadaveric transplants as people are yet to warm up to the concept of organ donation. “When a brain death is notified, the SOTTO team will get in touch with the deceased’s family members and explain to them what brain death is. The decision will be then left to the family, if it wants to donate organs of a member declared brain dead,” Bandekar said. The measure, he said, has been taken in a bid to boost the deceased donor programme by raising awareness about the concept of brain death. The GMC reports one brain death per month on an average, with most being caused by road accidents. Since SOTTO was launched a few months ago, there has been only one case of a family coming forward to donate organs of their son who had suffered head injuries in an accident and was declared brain dead. Cadaveric transplant, Bandekar said, works on the concept of “brain death” but said that people were ignorant about it. “Till the heart and lungs are functioning, lay people believe a person is alive and hence, refuse organ donation. This is the biggest problem. Even when a person is brain dead, relatives beg us to save him as they believe that only when the brain stops functioning is that person dead. People don’t understand that when a person is brain dead, he is as good as dead,” he said. Since the GMC started a live kidney transplantation programme a decade ago, it has successfully conducted about 32 transplants, while a private hospital has eight on its list. This number barely meets the demand of those in need of such an intervention. It is estimated that at least 1,200 people in Goa are on dialysis owing to kidney failure. Many of these are either not able to get a donor from within the family or do not meet the criteria to undergo a transplant, and will probably have to continue to be on dialysis for the rest of their lives. Dr Madhumohan Prabhudesai, head of the GMC’s urology department, said having a robust cadaveric transplant system in the state is the answer to the problem but will require much more community support and state aid. “A live kidney donation becomes a problem as not many family members are willing to be donors due to varied reasons. The only solution is a good cadaveric kidney transplant programme, not just for Goa but for the whole country,” he said. “Unlike in European and other foreign nations, live kidney transplants supersede cadaveric transplant in India,” Prabhudesai said. He added that the state would also require good ICUs to monitor brain dead patients. x-x-x-x-x WHAT IS BRAIN DEATH * Permanent loss of function of the entire brain, but the heart still beats because of machines and medications used * Breathing machines are not considered life support in a brain-dead patient because the patient’s death has already been certified * An apnea test is done to certify brain death. Such a test proves the absence of respiratory control system reflexes in the brainstem when intense physiologic stimulation to breathe takes place||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sotto-to-notify-brain-deaths-in-gmc-to-boost-cadaveric-transplants/articleshow/81475382.cms||Bindiya Chari
March 13, 2021||Pune||Externed criminal held for abusing constable||Pune: The Dehu Road police on Thursday arrested a 27-year-old criminal on police record for violating an externment order and abusing a police constable who had gone to arrest him. The incident occurred at Ravet on Thursday afternoon. The criminal, Nikhil Sathe (27) of Nigdi, has been arrested under various sections of the Maharashtra Police Act. An officer from the Dehu Road police told TOI that on Thursday the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch received a tip-off that Sathe, who was externed on December 31 from the limits of Pune district for two years, had violated the order and was in Ravet. “Police constable Jayant Raut of the crime branch reached the spot to take Sathe into custody. Sathe put up a resistance and abused Raut,” the officer said.  Sathe was later handed him over to the Dehu Road police. In another case, Dehu Road police arrested three brothers for abusing an MSEDCL technician for disconnecting their electricity supply for non-payment of bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/externed-criminal-held-for-abusing-constable/articleshow/81473589.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Pune||Three vandalise six bikes, cops cuff two||Pune: Three men — including two criminals on police record — went on a rampage with sharp weapons and vandalised six motorcycles, and torched a tyre in Gultekdi around 4.30pm on Thursday. The Swargate police arrested the two criminals later in the night and booked their absconding aide on the charge of vandalising vehicles and throwing a torched tyre at the door of a businessman’s residence. Inspector Somnath Jadhav (crime) said on Friday, “The incident was the fallout of an old dispute between businessman Umesh Rajam (40) and his cousin, Adesh Udbale (23), who is one of the suspects arrested in the case.” Jadhav said, “Udable, a criminal on record, and two others vandalised the vehicles parked outside Rajam’s shop with sickle/iron rods.” “The absconding suspect torched a tyre outside Rajam’s shop and threw it at the door of his house,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-vandalise-six-bikes-cops-cuff-two/articleshow/81473588.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Court: How will cops protect client data of NE riots lawyer during raid||New Delhi: A city court on Friday directed Delhi Police to file a reply stating how it proposed to receive data, for which searches were conducted, from the pen drive of advocate Mehmood Pracha without interference or revealing the information of his clients. The matter will be heard again on March 19. Chief metropolitan magistrate Pankaj Sharma noted that Pracha’s concerns relating to the protection of privileged communication with his clients had to be addressed. The court further observed that under Section 126 of Indian Evidence Act, it was imperative to protect data or files pertaining to communication between Pracha and his clients stored in the hard disk while police collected the “target data” for which they had obtained the search warrant. It was noted that the hard disk also contained data pertaining to other clients. Maintaining confidentiality of communication passed to and from the lawyer and his clients that was stored in the form of complaints, legal advice or affidavits was important and warranted foremost consideration. The data had advocate-client privilege relationship, was confidential and formed a part of privileged communication under Section 126 of Indian Evidence Act. “In this scenario, retrieval of target data without interference with the other data stored in the hard disk has to be meticulously looked upon. At the same time, obtaining target data without creating any evidential vulnerabilities for future purpose has to be considered because it is important for the investigating officer to maintain authenticity and integrity of the target data,” the court said. Given that Pracha had given consent for furnishing data through pen drive or computer, the court asked how the prosecution proposed to “receive target data without creating any evidential vulnerabilities and without alternation to metadata associated with the target data to prevent further evidential vulnerabilities without any disruption/interference/disclosure of the other files/data stored in the hard disk”. Pracha had moved the court seeking modification of an order through which police had obtained the search warrant. Through his plea, he volunteered to present the identified computers before the court and let the IO obtain whatever he wished to and whatever was permitted by the court. In this manner, police won’t be able to play any mischief and it will also ensure that the object of the search warrant was satisfied. In August 2020, a court had ordered Delhi Police’s Crime Branch or Special Cell to investigate allegations of forgery and false deposition by a complainant apparently on the “instigation by a senior member of the bar”. In December, Pracha’s premises were raided in this connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-how-will-cops-protect-client-data-of-ne-riots-lawyer-during-raid/articleshow/81475387.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi cops seek court nod to quiz accused||NEW DELHI: A day after the recovery of a mobile phone from Indian Mujahideen terrorist Tehsin Akhtar lodged in Tihar Jail was reported by TOI in the Antilia case, Delhi Police’s Special Cell is learnt to have approached court seeking permission to interrogate him. Akhtar is likely to be taken on remand on Saturday for questioning. Police suspect he was behind the creation of Jaish-ul-Hind. Tihar Jail sources confirmed that police had informally conveyed to them that they wanted to quiz Akhtar. The mobile handset recovered from him was the one from which the Telegram account “Jaishulhind” was reportedly created. It was from this account that responsibility was claimed for the explosive-laden SUV found abandoned near Antilia and cryptocurrency was demanded through a Monero link. Jail officials also recovered another phone from Akhtar’s barrack in jail number 8 on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. Both phones will be sent for forensic examination. The Telegram channel was created on February 26. The message claiming responsibility for placing the vehicle outside Mukesh Ambani’s residence was posted on Telegram on February 27. The SIM was registered in the name of Jayadip Lodhiya from Raghubar Pura in east Delhi, activated in July 2020 and later smuggled inside Tihar. Police found another number that was used to activate the main number. It was found switched off since September last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-seek-court-nod-to-quiz-accused/articleshow/81475397.cms||Raj Shekhar
March 13, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan witnesses spike in fresh Covid cases||JAIPUR: Some of the districts like Dungarpur, Kota, Jaipur and Jodhpur continued to witness rise in fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday where continuous migration from other parts of the country is being witnessed. The state has witnessed continuous rise in active cases that have reached 2,242. Only sigh of relief is that no deaths were reported. As the state witnessed 237 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, Jaipur got 31cases, Jodhpur 27 and Kota and Dungarpur got 26 cases each. As the spike in the Covid-19 cases continue, the state also witnessed the increase in the active cases. “In last week, the state had 1,584 active cases, while number of active cases are now 2,242. Out of 2,242, Jaipur has got the maximum active cases at 459,” said an officer with the health department. A fortnight ago, Kota had suddenly witnessed 60 cases in a single day when health department attributed it to the migration of the students from various parts of the country to Kota. Authorities of the health department urged on the need of strict checking at the airports, bus stands and railway stations across the state. “I think railway stations, airports and bus stands will have to be more vigilant in checking the arrivals and departures from various cities,” an official said. In Jaipur, 31 cases were reported which included four cases from Jhotwara and Govindgarh, three cases each from Mansarover and Lal Kothi, two cases each from Jagatpura, Jamwaramgarh, Jawahar Nagar, Pratap Nagar, Sodala and Vaishali Nagar. Likewise, one case each was reported from Brahmpuri and Triveni Nagar. “Also a big matter of concern is the rising number of active cases which are now 459 in Jaipur,” an officer added. However, districts including Bundi, Dausa, Dholpur, Jaisalmer, Karauli, Pali, Sirohi and Tonk witnessed no cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-witnesses-spike-in-fresh-covid-cases/articleshow/81478231.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan witnesses spike in fresh Covid cases||JAIPUR: Some of the districts like Dungarpur, Kota, Jaipur and Jodhpur continued to witness rise in fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday where continuous migration from other parts of the country is being witnessed. The state has witnessed continuous rise in active cases that have reached 2,242. Only sigh of relief is that no deaths were reported. As the state witnessed 237 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, Jaipur got 31cases, Jodhpur 27 and Kota and Dungarpur got 26 cases each. As the spike in the Covid-19 cases continue, the state also witnessed the increase in the active cases. “In last week, the state had 1,584 active cases, while number of active cases are now 2,242. Out of 2,242, Jaipur has got the maximum active cases at 459,” said an officer with the health department. A fortnight ago, Kota had suddenly witnessed 60 cases in a single day when health department attributed it to the migration of the students from various parts of the country to Kota. Authorities of the health department urged on the need of strict checking at the airports, bus stands and railway stations across the state. “I think railway stations, airports and bus stands will have to be more vigilant in checking the arrivals and departures from various cities,” an official said. In Jaipur, 31 cases were reported which included four cases from Jhotwara and Govindgarh, three cases each from Mansarover and Lal Kothi, two cases each from Jagatpura, Jamwaramgarh, Jawahar Nagar, Pratap Nagar, Sodala and Vaishali Nagar. Likewise, one case each was reported from Brahmpuri and Triveni Nagar. “Also a big matter of concern is the rising number of active cases which are now 459 in Jaipur,” an officer added. However, districts including Bundi, Dausa, Dholpur, Jaisalmer, Karauli, Pali, Sirohi and Tonk witnessed no cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-witnesses-spike-in-fresh-covid-cases/articleshow/81478229.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Third survey on: Virus exposure 18% in highrises, 45% in slums||MUMBAI: Results of the first week of the ongoing third sero survey in Mumbai indicate that levels of Covid-19 antibodies in the population is rising compared to the last year. “We have only analysed the first week samples and found that 46% of the samples from public laboratories and 22% from private laboratories have antibodies,’’ said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. Sero surveys are conducted to assess level of exposure in the community to a pandemic virus. In July 2020, first survey found that 57% of people from slums and 16% from buildings had developed antibodies. The second survey in August 2020 showed that 45% of those living in slums and 18% of building residents were exposed to SARS-CoV-2 virus. Both surveys were conducted in three civic wards. For the third survey, BMC decided to take 500 samples from each of the 24 civic wards. Samples are marked in two categories: from private laboratories that charge patients for the test and those from collection centres in BMC dispensaries and hospitals offering free tests. “It is presumed that economically weaker sections will go to free labs, while private labs will mainly cater to well-to-do patients,’’ said a BMC official. The finding could explain the current surge in cases in buildings. “People in buildings have lower exposure levels. As lockdown ended, they stepped out for the first time in months and got infected,’’ said the official. The third survey will continue for another week and study 12,000 samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-3rd-survey-on-virus-exposure-18-in-highrises-45-in-slums/articleshow/81474417.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan witnesses spike in fresh Covid cases||JAIPUR: Some of the districts like Dungarpur, Kota, Jaipur and Jodhpur continued to witness rise in fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday where continuous migration from other parts of the country is being witnessed. The state has witnessed continuous rise in active cases that have reached 2,242. Only sigh of relief is that no deaths were reported. As the state witnessed 237 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, Jaipur got 31cases, Jodhpur 27 and Kota and Dungarpur got 26 cases each. As the spike in the Covid-19 cases continue, the state also witnessed the increase in the active cases. “In last week, the state had 1,584 active cases, while number of active cases are now 2,242. Out of 2,242, Jaipur has got the maximum active cases at 459,” said an officer with the health department. A fortnight ago, Kota had suddenly witnessed 60 cases in a single day when health department attributed it to the migration of the students from various parts of the country to Kota. Authorities of the health department urged on the need of strict checking at the airports, bus stands and railway stations across the state. “I think railway stations, airports and bus stands will have to be more vigilant in checking the arrivals and departures from various cities,” an official said. In Jaipur, 31 cases were reported which included four cases from Jhotwara and Govindgarh, three cases each from Mansarover and Lal Kothi, two cases each from Jagatpura, Jamwaramgarh, Jawahar Nagar, Pratap Nagar, Sodala and Vaishali Nagar. Likewise, one case each was reported from Brahmpuri and Triveni Nagar. “Also a big matter of concern is the rising number of active cases which are now 459 in Jaipur,” an officer added. However, districts including Bundi, Dausa, Dholpur, Jaisalmer, Karauli, Pali, Sirohi and Tonk witnessed no cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-witnesses-spike-in-fresh-covid-cases/articleshow/81474406.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Pune||Haj House case: Interim pre-arrest bail for Milind Ekbote||PUNE: A sessions court in Pune on Friday granted ad interim anticipatory bail to Hindutva leader Milind Ekbote in a case registered on March 5 by the Pune police over his alleged objectionable comments on March 2 while opposing the Haj House project on civic land in Kondhwa. Additional sessions judge G P Agrawal, referring to the FIR, said, “It transpires that there is delay in lodging the FIR. The applicant (Ekbote) has only brought to the notice of the fact about construction of Haj House under the name of civic and cultural centre upon the land which is in the possession of Pune Municipal Corporation and which cannot be carried out as per the verdict of …High Court, Bombay and the…apex court as per GR dated November6, 2016.” “All the alleged offences are triable by a court of magistrate. Applicant is ready to cooperate with the investigation machinery. In the alleged set of facts narrated in the complaint, the custodial interrogation of the applicant is not necessary at this stage,” he added. Sambhaji Brigade activist Bhaskar Kale had lodged the FIR against Ekbote alleging that the his comments hurt the sentiments of the community and were intended to disturbed peace in society and there was a possibility of riots between two groups. Lawyers S K Jain and Amol Dange, representing Ekbote, argued that the contents of the FIR were “false and fabricated” and there was delay in lodging it. That, the comments only intimated the fact about illegal construction, amenity space, should not be allotted to any religious place, they argued. The court ordered that in the event of his arrest, Ekbote shall be released on executing a personal release bond of Rs15,000 and surety of like amount and he shall not tamper with the prosecution’s evidence and shall cooperate with the investigating agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/haj-house-case-interim-pre-arrest-bail-for-ekbote/articleshow/81473593.cms||Vishwas Kothari
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||In 127th trap by Mumbai businessman, civic staffer held with Rs 35,000||MUMBAI: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Friday caught an employee of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s A ward for allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 35,000 from businessman Ashok Patel. This is the 127th trap laid by Patel, president of the Fort Merchant Welfare Association, in 10 years. Despite having a wide interest in the business of gifts, a shopping arcade, groceries and a wine shop, it has not deterred him from laying traps for public servants. On Friday, ACB laid a trap and caught Sandeep Panhalkar (39) red-handed while accepting the bribe. ACB is probing if any higher-ups were involved in the demand. Patel said that he had a shop at Maker Arcade at Cuffe Parade. On March 9, Panhalkar walked into the shopping arcade and said he was informed that one of the shops had a faulty water meter. “He said that due to the faulty meter, the bill of the shop could be around Rs 2 lakh. He said if I wanted to avoid paying a hefty sum, I should pay only Rs 1 lakh as a bribe,’’ said Patel. Patel approached the ACB and lodged a complaint. ACB equipped Patel’s manager with a secret audio-recorder and recorded Panhalkar’s demand. After bargaining, Panhalkar brought down the amount and accepted Rs 35,000, when ACB caught him red-handed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaiin-127th-trap-by-city-bizman-civic-staffer-held-with-rs-35k/articleshow/81475393.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 13, 2021||Chennai||Row over math, physics options for engg: AICTE withdraws its handbook||Chennai: A day after TOI reported that mathematics and physics at Class XII-level had been made optional for admission to engineering courses, the All-India Council for Technical Education chairperson on Friday clarified that the changes were not binding on institutions. Hours later, the AICTE withdrew its approval process handbook (APH) for 2021-22, which had the new eligibility criteria. AICTE chairperson Anil Sahasrabudhe said the new guidelines were futuristic and in keeping with the vision of the National Education Policy-2020. Physics, chemistry and maths would continue to be important subjects in engineering courses, but students would have the option to study biotechnology, textile or agriculture engineering through bridge courses. These guidelines were not compulsory and states and institutions would be free to continue with the existing policy, Sahasrabudhe said. By afternoon, the AICTE website carried a ticker: “It is to inform all concerned that APH 2021-22 has been withdrawn for a short period and to be placed again on the AICTE website within a day or two.” It also removed the APH released on its website. By nighttime, the announcement read: “It is to inform all concerned that APH 2021-22 has been withdrawn for a typographical corrections and it will be placed again on the AICTE website within a day or two.” The AICTE move had drawn wide protests, and a few voices in support. Many academicians said students will struggle in engineering programmes without knowing foundational mathematics. Welcoming the AICTE’s decision to withdraw the new criteria, Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa said maths is very critical to engineering. “Engineering itself is becoming more and more complex and requires creative solutions and analytical skills. Maths plays a very critical and advanced role in effectiveness of engineering,” he said. However, Sandeep Sancheti, former vice-chancellor of SRM Institute of Science and Technology in Chennai, said, “In principle, making Class XII-level maths and physics optional for engineering admissions is a good move. It will keep the entry open for someone who wants to correct his or her path. However, it needs more finer details on the implementation.”  Earlier, explaining the rationale for the AICTE move, Sahasrabudhe said, “There was a very classic case which came up this year during admission into an agricultural engineering or agricultural technology course where mathematics, physics and chemistry are mandatory. Now in open schooling and CBSE, there are subjects like agricultural chemistry. However, these institutes are only accepting pure chemistry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/row-over-math-physics-options-for-engg-aicte-withdraws-its-handbook/articleshow/81474412.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||T governor hails India’s self-reliance||Warangal: Telangana governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan inaugurated the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahostav’ at Police Parade Grounds, in Warangal on Friday. Addressing the gathering, she said that in the past seven and half decades, the country had made rapid strides in every field, and added that it was time redeem our pledge to take our country into newer heights and make it a strong and self-reliant super power in the world. “When several countries across the world, including developed nations, are still struggling to overcome the pandemic-induced in the past year, our country has not only endured but also showed a new direction to the world by developing producing and supplying indigenous vaccines to combat the virus. Proud that our country is supplying our indigenous Covid vaccines to more than 50 countries, including many developed nations. India also gifted our vaccine to our neighbours and many other nations. This truly signifies the new and Atma Nirbhar Bharat. Our country is currently witnessing the world's largest vaccination drive, with more than 2.5 crore doses having already been administered, so far,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-governor-hails-indias-self-reliance/articleshow/81474407.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||Senior RKM monk passes away||Kolkata: The senior-most vice-president of Ramakrishna Mission, Swami Vagishananda, passed away due to a massive cardiac arrest at 7.10pm on Friday. He was 91. Born in Chittagong on January 12, 1930, Swami Vagishananda was initiated into RKM in 1954 and attained sanyas in 1962. He served as the assistant secretary of Golpark Institute of Culture and then at the RKM centres at Malda, Kamarpukur, Cossipore and Mumbai. In 1970, he worked to bring relief to the migrants in Taki. In 1990, he became a member of the RKM trust and governing body. From 2011, he started giving mantra diksha to devotees and became the VP in 2014. His mortal remains will be at RKM Cossipore till 8.30am and at Belurmath from 9am to 8pm. The cremation will be at 9.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/senior-rkm-monk-passes-away/articleshow/81473598.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kolhapur||MSEDCL starts snapping connection of defaulters||Kolhapur: The MSEDCL has started disconnecting power supply of ALL those who have not cleared their power dues since the last one year a day after state power minister Nitin Raut announced that the defaulters, who owe dues to the state power utiliity, would face action. Around 33 domestic, 261 commercial and 41 industrial connections in Kolhapur district have been snapped in the last two days. Consumers of all categories have not cleared power dues to the tune of Rs 270 crore since the last one year. The activists and leaders had appealed to citizensto hold payment as they were demanding waiver on the power consumed during the lockdown. The Maharashtra State Electricty Distribution Company Limited (MSDECL) is reporting instances where in citizens are getting into brawls with the local staff when their power supply is being disconnected. Citizens are opposing the disconnection drive stating that they are still expecting some waiver in the power bills. Pratap Hogade, power consumers activist said, “The government has fooled them by taking a U-turn on it’s first declaration that no power supply connection in the state will be disconnected. While many other states have waived the power bills of poor consumers, Maharashtra may be the only state which is adopting coercive measures to recover the dues. Soon, we will declare the plan to protest against the unfair treatment being meted out to the poor consumers.” The MSEDCL officials said a large number of farmers are availing concession scheme. The government has allowed a 50% waiver in the power bills of the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/msedcl-starts-snapping-connection-of-defaulters/articleshow/81475388.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan witnesses spike in fresh Covid cases||JAIPUR: Some of the districts like Dungarpur, Kota, Jaipur and Jodhpur continued to witness rise in fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday where continuous migration from other parts of the country is being witnessed. The state has witnessed continuous rise in active cases that have reached 2,242. Only sigh of relief is that no deaths were reported. As the state witnessed 237 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, Jaipur got 31cases, Jodhpur 27 and Kota and Dungarpur got 26 cases each. As the spike in the Covid-19 cases continue, the state also witnessed the increase in the active cases. “In last week, the state had 1,584 active cases, while number of active cases are now 2,242. Out of 2,242, Jaipur has got the maximum active cases at 459,” said an officer with the health department. A fortnight ago, Kota had suddenly witnessed 60 cases in a single day when health department attributed it to the migration of the students from various parts of the country to Kota. Authorities of the health department urged on the need of strict checking at the airports, bus stands and railway stations across the state. “I think railway stations, airports and bus stands will have to be more vigilant in checking the arrivals and departures from various cities,” an official said. In Jaipur, 31 cases were reported which included four cases from Jhotwara and Govindgarh, three cases each from Mansarover and Lal Kothi, two cases each from Jagatpura, Jamwaramgarh, Jawahar Nagar, Pratap Nagar, Sodala and Vaishali Nagar. Likewise, one case each was reported from Brahmpuri and Triveni Nagar. “Also a big matter of concern is the rising number of active cases which are now 459 in Jaipur,” an officer added. However, districts including Bundi, Dausa, Dholpur, Jaisalmer, Karauli, Pali, Sirohi and Tonk witnessed no cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-witnesses-spike-in-fresh-covid-cases/articleshow/81478226.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana CM wants Yadadri queue line work completed by April 15||HYDERABAD: After indicating that Yadadri temple could be thrown open to the public in May, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday directed officials to complete the renovation works on Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple complex before the scheduled period. Taking stock of the ongoing temple works at a meeting in Pragathi Bhavan, the CM said queue lines with 350 ft width should be set up for the benefit of pilgrims. When the officials showed him four model designs of kalashams (metal pots) which would be placed on top of the queue line rods, the CM selected one design. The CM set April 15 as deadline for completion of work on queue lines. He said the compound wall on the north side of the temple should be demolished to pave way for a queue line there. He asked the officials to use brass designs for deepa sthambham (light Pole), compound wall and pedestal of the light pole. While inquiring about Siva temple inside the premises, KCR said brass tridents should be placed on the compound walls. “After the refurbishment, Yadadri shrine should show its exclusivity among all the temples in the world. The entire Yadadri temple complex being reconstructed with ‘Krishna sila’ (black stone) will stand out for its unique architecture and design,” he said. He said devotees in lakhs from all parts of the country would be visiting the temple. “Measures should be taken to see that devotees are not put to any difficulties during their holy visit,” he said. He also discussed with the temple authorities on the precautions to be taken and action plan for the ornamental look of the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-wants-yadadri-queue-line-work-completed-by-april-15/articleshow/81474405.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||AAP slams corpns over salary dues, cites court order||New Delhi: Aam Aadmi Party(AAP) spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Friday lashed out at the municipal corporations for pending salaries of the civic employees. Referring to a Delhi High Court order dated March 9 over the non-payment of salaries to teachers, doctors, nurses and other workers, Bharadwaj said the court had ordered payment of pensions and salaries to retired and current employees of the three BJP-led corporations by April 5. “The commissioners of the corporations have been directed to make these payments with respect to salaries and pensions by April 5. It must be noted that the civic bodies’ lawyers have made attempts to accuse Delhi government, but there are no arrears due from our end. Delhi High Court had issued these directions directly to the municipal commissioners,” Bharadwaj said in a press conference. The corporations have not paid teachers, doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, retired employees for a long time, yet the corporations took no concrete action and no solution was brought forth, it was alleged. “The situation of the corporations is absolutely abysmal. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta thought that the corruption in the corporations can be washed away with the help of mere excuses, but this didn’t happen. Delhiites saw through these excuses, which is why in the recent by-elections, BJP won zero out of five seats,” the spokesperson said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the AAP government is directly responsible for the financial crisis of the municipal corporations due to which they are unable to pay salaries to their employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-slams-corpns-over-salary-dues-cites-court-order/articleshow/81475398.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Pune||Yoga in the evening for Hinjewadi residents||Pune: The ‘Times Yoga at Your Doorstep’ session will be conducted in the evening this time. The yoga session on Saturday will be held from 6pm to 7pm at Unit B Tower 9 to 14, Blue Ridge Township in Hinjewadi area. The yoga session will be conducted at the T9 Cricket Ground at Podium Level. The campaign is organized by The Times of India in association with The Yoga Institute. Residents can either register online on www.yogaatyourdoorstep.com or register offline at the kiosk. A letter has been put up on the notice board of the society urging residents to register and participate in the session. WhatsApp messages in the society groups are also being circulated along with the society app notifications. This week, the initiative has gotten more interesting as a competition is being held for residents of the Unit B society. The contest, ‘Guess this Asan,’ will have images of some ‘asan,’ which the residents will have to guess and WhatsApp their name and answer on 7263929157. Winners of the contest will be announced by Saturday noon and will receive their gift vouchers during the yoga session in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/yoga-in-the-evening-for-hinjewadi-residents/articleshow/81473597.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh set a single-day record of 3.36 lakh jabs||LUCKNOW: Even as the number of Covid-19 positive cases saw a rising trend in several states, UP set a new record of vaccinating more than 3.36 lakh persons across 4,384 sites in a single day on Friday. According to an official statement from the state government, the turnout in absolute numbers was a single-day highest for any state. Officials in the health department revealed that the turnout was nearly 77% of the target which was encouraging. Prior to this, the single-day record had been set in February when 1.78 lakh persons had been inoculated. “Those vaccinated included elderly and persons in the 45 to 59 years age group with comorbid conditions. The list also included health and frontline workers who took their second dose,” officials said. Data from the CoWIN portal showed that vaccination exercise continued till 9 pm in many places. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that so far the turnout has been encouraging, but more people in the eligible category must come forward to take their jab in individual and public interest. Health officials said that both Covishield and Covaxin were administered to people. No serious adverse event, or hospitalisation was reported after immunisation. They also said those facing any difficulty must contact the state or national helpline numbers 104 and 1075. Officials reminded that those who have got both the doses can download their vaccination certificate from the CoWIN portal. Meanwhile, 167 new cases took the state’s tally to 6,04,958 on Friday. Of the total, 5,94,396 have recovered, while 8,743 have died. Health officials urged people to follow Covid-19 prevention protocol in letter and spirit as Covid-19 cases were steadily increasing. “From being under 100 in the last week of February, more than 100 new cases are being reported in the state these days. The rising trend calls for extra caution and committed adherence to the prevention protocol so that the virus is not able to spread in the state,” Prasad said, reiterating that many Indian states and countries of the world had recorded an upward trend in Covid-19 cases. Earlier, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had instructed that additional surveillance measures must be initiated in districts where an upward trend has been recorded. He also directed officials to ensure that focused testing activity is carried out in all the districts of UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-set-a-single-day-record-of-3-36l-jabs/articleshow/81475395.cms||Shailvee Sharda
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Poaching cases falling: Min||Jaipur: Minister of state for forests Sukharam Vishnoi informed the assembly on Friday that the incidents of wildlife hunting in Rajasthan has reported steady decline. He said that in Ranthambore and Sariska, intensive camera monitoring is done to protect tigers and prevent poaching. “Wherever there is human population presence, proper arrangements are made by constructing walls and fencing. In both the places, more personnel have been appointed than the posts sanctioned under extra vigilance.”Vishnoi was replying to questions during the Question Hour. He informed that a high level inter-agency co-ordination committee has also been formed by the state government for the conservation of wildlife. Three hundred seventy one personnel have been appointed against a total of 345 in Ranthambore Tiger Project, out of which 175 are forest department staff, 64 STPF staff, 110 home guards and 22 Border Home Guards, he said.He said, 346 personnel are working against 281 posts in Sariska. There has been a steady decrease in hunting cases in the last three years. In Bharatpur, Sawai Madhopur, Alwar and Kota, 55 cases of poaching were reported in 2017-18, while there were 48 cases in 2018-19 and 41 incidents of poaching in 2019-20, he said. Earlier, in a written reply to the original question of Satish Poonia, MLA, Vishnoi further said that there has not been an increase in the incidence of poaching in the last two years in the national parks and tiger projects of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poaching-cases-falling-min/articleshow/81474415.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Delhi||How tech foiled MBBS’ cheating bid||NEW DELHI: After failing to clear the examination to enrol as a doctor in India six times in a row, 35-year-old Manohar Singh decided to use a proxy candidate to pass the test. He almost got away with it, but got caught when the face detection system flagged the difference in the photograph of the exam writer and Singh. DCP (Southeast) RP Meena said the accused has been arrested and his degree seized. The paper writer has been identified, but is absconding. A manhunt is on to arrest him. Singh had completed MBBS from Tajik State Medical University in Tajikistan. A probe revealed that he had hired a doctor for Rs 4 lakh to appear on his behalf for the exam. While the doctor successfully wrote the paper, Singh’s result was frozen due to mismatch of his face ID captured on the examination day with the photo in the application form. He was later called in for verification in person and the mismatch persisted. The board then asked him questions from the exam paper, which he failed to answer. National Board of Examinations (NBE), an autonomous body under Union ministry of health, was formed to standardise postgraduate medical education and examination in India. The board conducts Foreign Medical Examination (FME), which is a licentiate examination for Indian or overseas citizens who have completed primary medical qualification from other countries. Foreign medical graduates need to qualify FMGE to get registered with Indian Medical Council. On March 11, two officials from the board approached police with a complaint regarding Singh’s alleged impersonation. “The FMGE screening test was conducted on December 4, 2020. Singh’s centre was at Mathura Road. After the mismatch was detected, he was called for verification of the face ID on February 3, but he did not come. On March 10, he finally visited and the board caught him,” stated their police complaint. The accused was arrested and his admit card, MBBS degree and application form were seized. During interrogation, he confessed to hiring a doctor to take the exam in his place for a fee. A chargesheet will soon be filed against Singh, said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-tech-foiled-mbbs-cheating-bid/articleshow/81474436.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||‘Decision soon on upkeep of Maharana sites’||JAIPUR: Minister of state for tourism Govind Singh Dotasra assured the assembly on Friday that decisions will be taken soon to find a permanent solution to the maintenance and upkeep of sites related to legendary Maharana Pratap. He said that chief minister has recently authorised him for tourism development and he will himself hold a meeting with the officials on March 15 and discuss a permanent solution for it. Dotasara responding to a question on Mewar complex said that the matter of maintenance of the site at Gogunda will not be left to the sub divisional officer (SDO) and will find a permanent solution. The CM has also made several announcements for tourism development and the state government is committed to tourism development, he said. Dotasra informed that the sub-division level committee for the management of the site met several times. However, meetings are not enough for the management. Currently a local committee under SDO is in charge of the maintenance, but it is not enough, he said. Earlier, in a written reply to the original question of Pratap Lal Bhil, he said that from 2005-06 to 2018-19, tourism development works worth Rs 274.60 lakh were done in Gogunda where Maharana Pratap was coronated through the executive agency Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation. Under this scheme, a subdivision level tourism development committee has been constituted under the chairmanship of sub-divisional officer Gogunda for the maintenance and operation of the assets built in Gogunda. The site is being maintained by this committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/decision-soon-on-upkeep-of-maharana-sites/articleshow/81474413.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Hyderabad||IAF expedition marks Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav||Hyderabad: A cycling expedition was organised with 75 air warriors as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ being celebrated by the nation to commemorate India’s 75 years of independence. The expedition was undertaken by the air warriors from the Air Force Academy (AFA), Dundigal, Hyderabad, and the Air Force Stations at Begumpet and Hakimpet.  Group Captain Sunil Tomar, Station Commander flagged off the expedition at AFS Begumpet and later at Air the force Academy by Air Marshal IP Vipin, Commandant, AFA Dundigal. Defence officials said the expedition showcased a spirit of adventure and laid emphasis on physical fitness of the air warriors. It also aimed to promote ‘Go Green’ idea of the Indian Air Force. DRDO chairman G Satheesh Reddy, launched the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ virtually from Delhi. Director generals, DRDO scientists and other officers attended the event virtually from all major centres including Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Pune, Tejpur and Visakhapatnam. Satheesh Reddy called upon the DRDO fraternity to achieve the goals of Mahotsav in various ways. DRDO plans to enhance hand-holding of start-ups through incubation centres for technology development. Technology proposals from various industries will be processed under the Technology Development Fund (TDF) scheme in larger numbers. The number of licensing agreements for transfer of technologies (LAToTs) will be increased to more than 100. ToT will be done to local industry for facilitating potable water in north eastern regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iaf-expedition-marks-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav/articleshow/81474426.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Tallah tank renovation deadline pushed to October||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation has set an October 2021 deadline for restoration and renovation of Tallah tank, world’s largest overhead water tank. While the Rs 100-crore restoration project was taken up in 2017 with a deadline set for 2020, the civic brass decided to take a break after experts advised the KMC’s water supply department to check the structural stability of the 110-year-old mild-steel heritage water tank and examine the impact Cyclone Amphan left on it in May last year. The experts also suggested to assess the effect of the repairs of three gigantic chambers of the tank six months ago that added 3,600 tonnes of weight. The work was carried out to make the chambers rust-free. Now, engineers of the construction firm hired for the project are waiting to repair a fourth water chamber. “The remaining work includes repair and restoration of the chambers that store potable water as well as that of the superstructure and adding a fresh coat of paint to the entire tank. But we needed a three to four months’ break after experts wanted to check the structural stability to assess the effect of Amphan and that of the load added to three chambers that were repaired and renovated,” said an official from the water supply department of the civic body. Another official pointed out that timely measures taken during the restoration process and supervision by the civic body’s engineers, as suggested by Jadavpur University experts a few days before Amphan, had saved Tallah tank. “Considering the vulnerability of the 110-year old gigantic tank, Gokul Mondal and Biswajit Som from construction engineering department of JU had alerted the civic body and suggested steps to safeguard it from cyclonic effects, way ahead Amphan hit the city,” the civic official said. However, some experts associated with the restoration work expressed worries over “extra load” that the repairs of the three chambers had added. A KMC official said experts had advised the civic brass to take a relook at the welding of the three chambers that store water to large parts of north and central Kolkata. “We may need to examine the welding and take corrective measures to offer stability to the tank structure and wrap up the restoration project by the end of this year,” a civic official said. According to a KMC official, 80% of the restoration work was over and the construction firm was now waiting for a green signal to take up the fourth water chamber for renovation. “After the fourth chamber is repaired, we will paint the tank. This work is also time consuming and we may need to take a break during monsoon,” said a KMC water supply department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tallah-tank-renovation-deadline-pushed-to-oct/articleshow/81473642.cms||Saikat Ray
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot accuses BJP of pursuing divisive politics||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday accused the BJP of pursuing a divisive agenda on the basis of religion and caste. “Hindu-Muslim is being talked about now, when their agenda of Hindu-Muslim will be over, they will try to divide Hindus itself - dalits, general, OBCs,” said Gehlot while speaking on the culmination of a padayatra commemorating the 91 anniversary of the Dandi March here. The "Amrit Mahotsav" being celebrated to mark the 75th anniversary of Independence is a welcome step as the country has gained independence through a lot of struggles and sacrifices. But he said BJP has always tried to show history one-sided. “I hope the NDA government will not try to undermine the contribution of freedom fighters associated with Congress in the "Amrit Mahotsav". The freedom fighters have sacrificed for the country, their contribution must always be paramount. He said the Congress party will always remember the contributions of thousands of known and unknown fighters including Gandhiji, Nehruji, Sardar Patel, Maulana Azad, Babasaheb Ambedkar, Subhash Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh. On lack of communication of the ruling party at the centre with the opposition, the chief minister said, “I would like to say, at least Modi ji talk to Mohan Bhagwat ji of RSS, consult at home, if the country has to keep its integrity, come on the right path, otherwise the public will take him on the right way.” Gehlot hoped that Mahatma Gandhi's message would "shake the conscience" of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and he would take a decision over the three farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-gehlot-accuses-bjp-of-pursuing-divisive-politics/articleshow/81474418.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Chennai||Madras HC on sexual harassment: Why was DGP not suspended?||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Friday asked the state government why it had not suspended a DGP-rank officer accused of sexually harassing a woman IPS officer, when it had suspended an SP for allegedly blocking the victim’s car while she was rushing to Chennai to file a complaint. The court has sought a status report by March 16. “The SP was only an arrow, the (then) special DGP was the bow. But the arrow has been suspended, not the bow. Is the special DGP so powerful that the state cannot suspend him?” Justice N Anand Venkatesh asked public prosecutor A Natarajan on Friday. The judge made the observation while hearing a suo motu case initiated by him. HC refuses to vacate prohibition against publicising accused’s nameThe case was initiated on the basis of the woman SP’s complaint of sexual harassment by the then special DGP who was later removed from the post and has not been assigned any responsibility yet. Noting that the court would ensure that the probe was closely monitored, Justice Anand Venkatesh directed the prosecutor to file a status report on the investigation by March 16. The court also refused to vacate the prohibition against publicising the name of the accused in addition to the victim. “The court did not want a parallel media trial to happen in this case,” the judge said. Advocate Abdul Saleem, representing the DGP, submitted that while the accused officer was cooperating with the investigation and had filed his submission before the internal complaints committee (ICC), a committee member had openly commented on WhatsApp that the accused should be hanged without trial. The comment was made even before the proceedings started, he said. “And, another person, whom I have cited as a witness to my case, is sitting as a committee member,” he said, adding that he be permitted to put certain things to the court explaining the manner in which the inquiry is going on, in a sealed cover. To this, Justice Anand Venkatesh said, “I would appreciate it if you keep watching as to what is happening here rather than making submissions in this case. The more submissions you make the more the court has a problem. Whatever protest you want to make, give it in writing and let it be part of the case file.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-on-sexual-harassment-why-was-dgp-not-suspended/articleshow/81474424.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kolhapur||Water tax: KMC offers 40% off on fines to govt offices||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has decided to offer a concession of around 40% to city-based government establishments on the fine amount imposed on water tax dues if the principle amount is paid in one go.The decision has been taken to increased the civic body’s revenue collection for the current financial year. So far, the concession scheme was applicable only for domestic and commercial consumers. Now, since the amount of water tax dues is around Rs 20 crore, the KMC has come up with the scheme for government establishments as well. The scheme will be applicable only if the payment of dues is made before March 31.Prashant Pandat, KMC’s water tax superintendent, said, “We have a revenue target of Rs 78 crore from water tax. So far, only Rs 38 crore have been collected. Of the Rs 40 crore shortfall, the government offices owe Rs 20 crore and the rest is by domestic and commercial customers. There is good reponse for the concession scheme related to property tax, but not for water tax. We have not changed the water tax rates for the last six years still many are reluctant to pay the tax on time.”Every year the KMC issues notices to the government institutes requesting them to clear their dues. “I am visiting each of these offices regularly and requesting the department head there to clear the dues. However, I am always told that they provide service to citizens and not have enough grants for paying the water tax. As per law, these government establishments should pay for every civic service they avail from the local body,” Pandat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/water-tax-kmc-offers-40-off-on-fines-to-govt-offices/articleshow/81475401.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kolkata||21-yr-old killed in accident, 1 held||Kolkata: A 21-year-old man was killed after a truck hit him while he was crossing the road on Jadulal Mullick Street in Jorabagan around 10.50am on Friday. Dilip Kumar Das of M D Road was declared dead at RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. The truck driver was arrested and vehicle seized. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/21-yr-old-killed-in-accident-1-held/articleshow/81473609.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Kochi||UDF to make Idukki construction ban a poll issue||Idukki: After a hiatus, ban on construction has resurfaced as a political issue in Idukki. Last week, the district administration refused to issue an NOC for constructing a tent camp in a title deed land in Kallarkutty under Udumbanchola taluk. Myladyoor Manju Santhosh, a resident of Kallarkutty, had filed an application seeking an NOC for erecting a tent in her title deed land. But the collector refused to issue the NOC. In the reply letter, he stated that the title deed issued under 1964 rule specifies that it could only be used for farming and house construction purposes. Collector H Dineshan told TOI that the government can only amend the rule and the district administration cannot do anything about it. “It’s an old rule. But in the wake of recent court orders we can’t issue permits for construction activities in the 1964 rule title deed lands,” he said. Meanwhile, UDF has called for a hartal in Idukki on March 26 to protest the construction ban in the district. Idukki DCC president Ibrahimkutty Kallar told TOI that an all-party meeting called by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in 2019 decided to amend the 1964 land rule. But the government is yet to amend it. “Now, farmers can’t construct even a shop in their title deed lands. We received information that the district administration refused NOC for such constructions,” said Kallar. “We want the government to withdraw Section 5 of 1964 titles. The government should allow commercial construction in the 1964 title deeds.” Kallar added. Meanwhile, highrange samrakshana samithy general convener Fr Sebastian Kochupurakal said, “The 1964 rule should be amended with retrospective effect. The construction ban has adversely affected people and it should be raised as a poll issue in the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/udf-to-make-idukki-construction-ban-a-poll-issue/articleshow/81474425.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||‘Past govts spoke of rail projects, did not execute’||Union railway minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday blamed past governments for delay in completion of railway projects, saying the projects were announced “without allocating funds”. He also blamed Maharashtra government for no progress of Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project in the state.Participating in Question Hour proceedings in the Lok Sabha, Goyal said governments before 2014 announced railway projects without allocating funds for execution. “Our government is working to complete all pending railway projects,” he said, adding that the railways was not getting support from many state governments.During Question Hour, BJP and Shiv Sena also sparred in the Lower House, accusing each other of non-cooperation over major infrastructure initiatives like the bullet train and Mumbai Metro project.While Goyal charged MVAof stalling the bullet train project, Sena accused the Centre of not cooperating with the state dispensation over Metro car shed project. Goyal said it was because of the “ego” of the state government that the Metro car shed issue is unsolved. After formation of MVA government, Sena changed the Metro car shed site from Aarey to Kanjur. The Kanjur land belongs to the Centre. The verbal duel began when Sena MP Prataprao Jadhav asked if there is any plan to run a bullet train between Mumbai and Nagpur. Goyal, in response, said the government desires the country to get advanced technology, run trains at faster speed and people get world class facilities. He said the Centre began work on a high-speed rail line between Mumbai and Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/past-govts-spoke-of-rail-projects-did-not-execute/articleshow/81474429.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Jaipur||Ensure proper supply of oxygen: Raj govt to hospitals||JAIPUR: As there has been continuous rise in the number of Covid-19 fresh and active cases, the hospitals have been asked to maintain their infrastructure and also refurbish and restore their oxygen supply. As the active cases have crossed 2,100, various hospitals across the state have been asked to check the stock of the injections, including Remdesivir and others like Dexona. TOI on Friday spoke to the health authorities, doctors and para medical staff to know about their strategy to deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases. “Though we had relieved many of our doctors and para medical staff as we presently have 25 to 30 patients, we have checked our oxygen plant and its supply. Also to meet with any further contingency ahead, the stock of the injections, including Remdesivir and Dexona, are being checked properly. Thankfully, we have not been witnessing patients coming for taking Remdesivir as we had witnessed till December 2020,” said Doctor Ajeet Singh, superintendent and controller, Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS). Authorities of the health department have also urged various district hospitals and Covid care centres to ensure proper supply of oxygen and see if the plants are properly functioning. “As the cases are increasing no wonder if we see patients coming for oxygen requirement. Thus, it is very necessary to have full resources functioning,” said an officer with the health department. Some of the private hospitals have started witnessing patients coming with oxygen requirement. “There has been instances when we witnessed patients requiring oxygen, thus supply has been properly maintained,” said a senior doctor of Jaipur-based private hospital. Other things including availability of ventilators, medicines and surgical items have been checked. “Staff are already on standby mode,” said an officer with the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ensure-proper-supply-of-oxygen-govt-to-hosps/articleshow/81474423.cms||Ashish Mehta
March 13, 2021||Ranchi||Khunti village seeks mobile towers as pupils miss e-classes||Ranchi: With mobile connectivity playing a crucial role in online education of students, a gram sabha in Birbanki revenue village of Khunti district urged major mobile operators to set up their towers in the area. The villagers also decided to stage an agitation if the demand is not met. During the meeting held on Thursday, villagers expressed disappointment with the poor internet connectivity while pointing out that one BSNL tower in the area is inadequate. It may be stated here that the BSNL tower was blown up by the extremists about five years ago but reinstalled by the administration later. Mukhiya of Birbanki Jowra Pahan said, “Around 200 persons had gathered at a local market on Thursday to discuss the issue and all of them raised concerns over poor internet connectivity. With schools sending their study materials and notices through WhatsApp, students of Birbanki have to move to places about four to five kilometre from their residence to see them.” He also mentioned that thousands of students were deprived of education when schools started online education, putting them at a disadvantage in comparison to urban students. Pahan said many well-off residents have shifted to homes near the Khunti district headquarters to ensure improved communication. Those gathered also said poor connectivity leads them to miss important information given on social media and added even talking on mobile phone is difficult. Locals said that apart from Birbanki, many other panchayats of the district, including Bondo, Kochang and Mantau, face the issue of poor connectivity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/khunti-village-seeks-mobile-towers-as-pupils-miss-e-classes/articleshow/81473400.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Ranchi||Seraikela admin to air messages on radio to push up vax turnout||Jamshedpur: The Seraikela-Kharsawan administration will approach All India Radio and private FM channels to encourage people, particularly those between 45 and 59 years of age with co-morbidities, to take the Covid-19 vaccine as the turnout in phase II of the inoculation drive is low. Besides airing public messages, the district officials are planning to reach out to the industrial units in and around Adityapur for raising awareness among the employees. The small and medium enterprises in Adityapur employ around 50,000 people and a large chunk of that are within the 45-59 years age group with co-morbidities. The district’s surveillance officer, Dr Jhujhar Manjhi, said that while awareness among that age group remains low, there is a large group of beneficiaries that are being denied the shot for not bringing a doctor’s certificate detailing their underlying conditions. “For beneficiaries with co-morbidities, a doctor’s certificate is mandatory. We have roped in the sahiyas who will work in the rural areas and create awareness regarding the dos and don’ts of the inoculation drive,” he added. He said that the number of vaccination sites are also being increased so that it is easier for the beneficiaries living in rural areas to take the shots. Besides eight community and primary health centres, 22 private hospitals across the district have been empanelled to provide the vaccine. Ever since phase-2 began from March 1, only 200 beneficiaries in the 45-59 years age group with co-morbidities have taken the first dose against the target of 17,773. On the other hand, nearly 80% of the 10,000 health and frontline workers have taken both the first and second doses till date from the time phase-1 begun on January 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/seraikela-admin-to-air-messages-on-radio-to-push-up-vax-turnout/articleshow/81473444.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Vadodara||Heavy rush at Shivji Ki Savari raises eyebrows||Vadodara: Not withstanding the shorter route and significant reduction in its scale, a heavy rush was witnessed at Shivji Ki Savari procession on Thursday evening. The visuals of the crowd at the event have raised many eyebrows in the city. In wake of the pandemic, the organisers led by minister of state for Narmada and urban housing, Yogesh Patel, decided to shorten the route of the procession held on the occasion of Mahashivratri. Also, it was decided that no floats, performers or other attractions would accompany the magnanimous idol of the Shiv Parivar. With some music, the yatra traversed through the heart of the city and culminated at Sursagar lake. But despite being devoid of the usual fanfare, a massive crowd accompanied the procession prompting sharp reactions. “We did not give any invitations and only VIPs were invited. The procession had only the idol on a truck and a music system with it. Even we had not expected such a huge crowd to accompany the idol,” said Patel. Activist Shwejal Vyas who had contested the recent Vadodara Municipal Corporation polls as an independent said, “I am consulting lawyers and examining the possibility of raising the issue in the court.” Many in the walled city were pained because the annual Narsinhji’s marriage procession held since over 280 years was not given permission this time around. “The issue is being widely discussed in the old city,” said Kirti Parikh a retired M S University employee involved with various groups working for heritage and the walled city. Prominent ophthalmologist Dr Ashok Mehta said that guidelines were conveniently being ignored for some events be it political, religious or sports. “Those at the helm of affairs are themselves participating in such events even as people are being penalised for the slightest violation of guidelines. Even if the event was being held, the dignitaries should have stayed away from it,” said Mehta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/heavy-rush-at-shivji-ki-savari-raises-eyebrows/articleshow/81474021.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Rajkot||Elections over, water cuts back in Rajkot||Rajkot: With the elections done and dusted, the water supply cuts are back in Rajkot. The Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) did not distribute water in several wards on March 6 and 8 and there are several other wards that will face water cuts from March 12 to 14. As per the official release of RMC there was a water supply cut in parts of ward number 2, 7, 8, 10 and 11 on March 6 and 8. The civic body did not distribute water in ward 1, 2, 8, 9 and 10 on Friday and the water cut was announced in ward number 8, 11 and 13 for March 13 and in ward number 1, 2, 8, 9 and 10 for March 14. The reason being given by the officials is the shutdown at the GWIL (Gujarat water infrastructure limited). Before elections, even if the civic body announced water cuts, ruling BJP members pressurized the officials for regular supply at any cost, informed sources. “The city requires 260 MLD water and the civic body is highly dependent on Narmada water during the peak of summer. We have witnessed good rains in the last few years but the water storage capacity hasn’t been increased,” Congress leader Vashram Sagathiya said. RMC meets 60% of its water requirement from Aji-1. The reservoir gets around 900 mcft water under SAUNI scheme every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/elections-over-water-cuts-back-in-rajkot/articleshow/81472311.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Ranchi||57 cases, 59 recoveries in Jharkhand||RANCHI: The state on Friday recorded 57 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 59 recoveries while the number active cases stood at 509. No casualties were witnessed for the second consecutive day in Jharkhand and the death toll remained at 1,093. As many as 10 districts reported fresh cases with maximum coming from Ranchi which recorded 30 fresh cases followed by East Singhbhum and Ramgarh with six cases each. Bokaro and Dhanbad reported four cases each while Latehar and Simdega reported two cases each. Meanwhile, a total of 17,371 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Friday, which included 3,884 healthcare workers and frontline staff, 1,666 people aged 45 and above with co-morbidities and 11,821 senior citizens. As per health department data, 41,82,84 have been administered their first dose of the vaccine while 1,24,729 beneficiaries have received their second dose till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/57cases-59-recoveries-in-jharkhand/articleshow/81473680.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Ranchi||All 1st yr IIM-Ranchi students bag internships||Ranchi: All 326 first-year students of IIM-Ranchi have acquired summer-internship assignments through campus offers barring two who got their offers off-campus. Around 134 companies, including Aditya Birla Paints, Britannia, Capgemini, Cognizant, Cummins, DE Shaw, Deloitte, Emami Agrotech, Flipkart, Google, ICICI Bank and JP Morgan — participated in the online internship placement drive organised by the institute. The IIM also said, “The average stipend for the MBA batch has been increased by 2% and stands at Rs 97,502 for the two-month-long internship. Average stipend for MBA HR students is 1,00,694, which is again higher than last year.” The management said that despite the uncertainties posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the entire summer internship assignment was conducted smoothly online under the supervision of the IIM’s placement cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/all-1st-yr-iim-ranchi-students-bag-internships/articleshow/81473784.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Ranchi||‘90% work complete, Bokaro airport to be ready by May this yr’||Bokaro: As much as 90% of the expansion work in Bokaro airport is done and the rest will be completed within the next two months, officials said on Friday. “We have set a target of completing the expansion work by May this year. The work is going on at a good pace and construction of the boundary wall is in its final stage with about 500m left, which will be completed soon,” Ranchi airport Vinod Kumar Sharma, who on Friday took a tour of the new airport complex, said. He added, “Now all that we are left with is levelling work and setting up of a dedicated fire station and they will be completed within the next 60 days.” On Friday, Sharma met deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh and other senior district officials to deliberate upon the smooth execution of the remaining work. He also met chief general manager (aviation) Laxmi of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), which owns the airport, in this regard. Incidentally, BSL has applied for an aerodrome license at the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). Sharma said that once the license is obtained on time, the airport can start operating as soon as the expansion work is done. Sources said that for the past two months, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) had been asking BSL to initiate the process of obtaining the aerodrome license. However, in the alleged absence of expertise in application of such official documents, the BSL officials could not apply for the license. The sources said that the steel giant has urged AAI to coordinate with it in filling up the necessary documents and in sending it to DGCA to obtain the license.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/90-work-complete-bokaro-airport-to-be-ready-by-may-this-yr/articleshow/81473457.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Ranchi||Hemant, 4 ex-CMs to campaign for rival parties in poll-bound Bengal||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren and four former CMs will canvass for BJP and Trinamool Congress in the poll-bound West Bengal in the coming weeks. Union tribal affairs minister and ex-CM Arjun Munda on Friday began his three-day electioneering trip in West Bengal, campaigning for Gouri Singh Sardar, BJP’s candidate in the Manbazar (ST) assembly constituency under Purulia district. He is expected to tour a few more ST assembly seats in the region that will go to the hustings on March 27. While Munda is already on the campaign trail, former CM Raghubar Das is expected to begin canvassing on Monday. Das, the only CM in Jharkhand to complete five years in office, was appointed BJP’s national vice-president last year. It has not been decided where Das will campaign in the first phase. Jharkhand’s first CM Babulal Marandi will also be campaigning for the saffron party in the tribal-dominated assembly constituencies in West Bengal, which shares a long border with Jharkhand. Like Das, the first spot for Marandi’s campaign is yet to be picked by BJP’s national high command. “The three former CMs have been drafted into the party’s list of star campaigners for Bengal polls. Their schedule is being determined and coordinated by the party’s national leadership as per the requisitions being made by the party’s Bengal unit,” BJP spokesperson Pradeep Sinha told TOI. PM Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath and a few ministers in the Modi cabinet have also been named as star campaigners. Meanwhile, incumbent chief minister Hemant Soren will canvass for the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress in the neighbouring state. Soren on Friday officially announced that JMM will not contest the polls and back Banerjee. “The TMC president had called me and even had written a letter seeking our support. After several rounds of consultations, our party president (Shibu Soren) agreed to support Trinamool,” Soren told reporters at his Kanke Road residence. “We will not fight the elections this year. Instead, we will support Didi and help her win,” he added. When asked what led to JMM’s decision to support TMC, Soren, without naming BJP, said: “Such is the condition of the country at present that we do not want to be a reason behind the establishment of such a power in West Bengal.” While Hemant is expected to start canvassing in coming days, his itinerary is yet to be worked out by JMM and TMC leaderships, JMM sources in Ranchi said. There are, however, speculations over the participation of Shibu in the canvassing for Banerjee. While JMM sources said Shibu is unwilling to canvass owing to his frail health and risk of being infected by Covid, efforts are underway to persuade him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-4-ex-cms-to-campaign-for-rival-parties-in-poll-bound-bengal/articleshow/81473430.cms||Dhritiman Ray
March 13, 2021||Ranchi||3 kids drown and die while bathing in Bokaro pond||Bokaro: Three children died while bathing in Thakurband pond of Ramdih in Sector-9 of Bokaro on Thursday. While bodies of two of them were fished out on Thursday evening, the third was found on Friday morning. Piyush (11), whose body was fished out on Friday, was a Class III student of a public school while the two others, Shivam Kumar alias Shibu (13) was a Class IV student of Divyansh School and Gaurango (14) studied in Class V of Bokaro Ispat Vidyalaya. All the three were residents of Sector-9. Harla police station in-charge Jai Gobind Gupta said, “Around 2.30pm on Thursday, we received information that two bicycles, clothes and slippers were lying beside the pond. The locals feared something untoward must have happened in the pond.” During investigation, the local mukhiya arranged for a diver and two dead bodies were found. As nobody had seen the boys descend into the water, none could tell how many children were there, but police had found three sets of clothes. At night, a missing report was received from Piyush’s parents who confirmed that one of the pair of clothes belonged to him. A search operation was launched on Friday and Piyush’s body was fished out from the pond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-kids-drown-and-die-while-bathing-in-bokaro-pond/articleshow/81473748.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 13, 2021||Ranchi||More than 95% patients happy with food served at Rims||RANCHI: More than 95% of the patients at the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) are satisfied with the hygiene level and the quantity of food being given to them at the hospital, according to a recent survey conducted by the hospital’s quality improvement committee.The survey, which was conducted on March 10, is a part of a slew of reforms planned by the recently constituted quality improvement committee which aims to better patient care. Dr Pradeep Kumar Bhattacharya, who is the convenor of the committee, said, “We had roped in students from the home science department of Ranchi University to conduct the survey. Two students each had visited 32 wards and randomly asked the patients about the quality, quantity and nutritional value of the food being served to them and the timings of the meals. We are happy with the patients’ positive feedback.” As per the survey, a copy of which is with TOI, the patients were asked a total of nine questions and more than 95% of them said that they receive all the three meals — breakfast, lunch and dinner — on time. Eighty-seven percent found the food to be tasty and said that it is always served hot. A total of 96% of the patients mentioned that they are happy with the nutritional value of the food as they are provided eggs, milk and fruits. More than 60% of the patients, however, said that every day they are served the same food. The patients also mentioned that they were satisfied with the catering arrangement and would often ask their attendants to have the hospital food during their stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/more-than-95-patients-happy-with-food-served-at-rims/articleshow/81473552.cms||---
March 13, 2021||India||Active cases cross 2 lakh after 53 days, Friday’s count close to 25k||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 infections continued to surge in the country with the daily case count at nearly 25,000 on Friday, even as India's active cases crossed the 2-lakh mark after 53 days. Active cases have risen by nearly 48% since hitting a low of 1.35 lakh exactly a month ago (February 14). Since then, active cases have increased in 21 out of 36 states/Union Territories, with 10 showing higher growth than the national average. India recorded 24,866 new cases on Friday, the highest count since December 23 last year, with Maharashtra alone accounting for 15,817. This was the highest single-day case count in the state since October 1 last year. Deaths from the virus were also inching up, with 140 recorded in the country in the past 24 hours, the highest daily tally since January 28. 505% rise in active Covid cases in Chandigarh, 220% in HaryanaWhile Maharashtra reported 56 fatalities, Punjab saw a big increase in mortalities with 34 deaths recorded on Friday. The state had reported 18 fatalities on the previous day. Kerala recorded 14 deaths. India had last recorded higher than 2 lakh active cases on January18, when cases were falling steadily. The count has been rising since February 12, in sync with the surge in cases. From February 12 to March 11, Maharashtra added more than 74,000 active cases, registering a growth of 229%. In Punjab, active cases grew by 7,783 during this period, a rise of 338%. Chandigarh logged a rise of 505%, Haryana 220%, Madhya Pradesh 120%, Gujarat 114%, Delhi 92% and Rajasthan 52%. On the other hand, active cases declined by 46% in Kerala, 53% in Bihar, 45% in Uttar Pradesh and 27% in Bengal during this period. The rise in fresh cases has been particularly sharp this week. While Friday’s tally was 24,866, there were 23,280 new cases on Thursday, 22,885 on Wednesday and 17,879 on Tuesday. The seven-day rolling average of daily cases crossed 20,000 on Friday, up from 19,302 on the previous day. On Friday, Karnataka recorded 833 new cases. The day’s count in Gujarat was 715, while Madhya Pradesh recorded 603, Delhi 431, Bengal 277 and Andhra Pradesh 210 — all highest tallies in the respective states since January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/active-cases-cross-2-lakh-after-53-days-fridays-count-close-to-25k/articleshow/81477355.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||COSIA for upgrade of Hingna & Butibori MIDC fire stations||Nagpur: The Chamber of Small Industry Associations (COSIA) has approached Maharashtra industries minister Subhash Desai, demanding an upgrade of fire stations in Hingna and Butibori MIDC areas. Industries in these areas have suffered a huge loss because of instances of devastating fire in the recent past. The insufficient firefighting arrangement at the Butibori and Hingna MIDC fire stations has caused a huge loss to these units. “It will take a long time for these industries to recover,” Mayank Shukla, COSIA Vidarbha chapter chairman, stated in a letter to Desai.A number of fire incidents were reported from Hingna and Butibori MIDC industrial units in the past few months, including those at Spacewood, Snehal Pharma and Surgicals, and the recent one in Vicco Laboratories. These top units provide large-scale employment and are revenue generators. The huge loss caused due to fire at these units has driven these units to start from scratch again.The safety of industries in MIDC areas is totally dependent on MIDC administration. “We therefore request you to protect these industries from devastating fire incidents by augmenting the existing fire stations in these areas and upgrade them to the extent that they provide safety to the industrial units in these areas,” Shukla wrote. COSIA has also submitted a list of long-pending demands of Hingna industrial area, which includes construction of a bypass road from Hingna industrial area to Wadi to ease traffic congestion. According to COSIA’s vice-president Sandeep Parikh, there is a major issue of traffic congestion on main Hingna Road. The increasing traffic is because of the presence of hospitals, schools, colleges, as well as those visiting the MIDC industrial area. The traffic problem has been aggravated due to the construction work of Metro. This heavy congestion has not only inconvenienced motorists, but has also posed a safety problem.The association said that this congestion can be resolved to a great extent if a particular piece of land measuring around 3,600sqm, which is in the possession of Ambajhari Ordnance Factory (OFAJ), is acquired by MIDC as the same is of no use to them (railway siding to OFAJ is removed). A major portion of the land earlier possessed by the defence ministry had a railway line from Ajni to Ambajhari Ordnance Factory, which is no longer required and has been handed over to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (long stretch from Wardha Road to Hingna Road, known as London Street), COSIA added. “But MIDC is unable to take possession of this small piece of land. Acquiring this small piece of land will enable MIDC to make a bypass road for motorists coming to Hingna industrial area from Wadi side. This will reduce the traffic volume on main Hingna Road,” the association representatives further stated.COSIA claimed that in the last more than 50 years, Hingna industrial area has fetched hundreds of crores of rupees to MIDC by way of allotment of plots and transfer of leasehold rights. But, the association added, MIDC has not spent “even a single rupee” in adding any infrastructural facility in this area in five decades. “We appeal to MIDC to provide a Common Effluent Treatment Plant for waste water in this area as an infrastructure facility,” Shukla urged the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cosia-for-upgrade-of-hingna-butibori-midc-fire-stations/articleshow/81474489.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur district has second highest number of active covid cases in country||NAGPUR: The recent surge has meant the number of Covid-19 active cases in the district is second highest after Pune in the country. Swab samples of 74 positive patients from the district have been sent to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi, for studying whether virus has undergone any mutation making it more contagious. Union Ministry of Health and Family Affairs (MoHFW) on Friday released list of ten districts with highest number of active cases as on Thursday. Pune was at the top with 18,474 active cases while Nagpur had 12,724 cases. They were followed by Thane (10,460), Mumbai (9,973), Bengaluru Urban (5,526), Ernakulam (5,430), Amravati (5,259), Jalgaon (5,029), Nashik (4,525) and Aurangabad (4,354). State’s public health department figures revealed active cases in the district increased to 15,011 on Friday. The district registered 1,957 cases on Friday. Cases are above 1,950 for second consecutive day and have been above 1,000 on 13 of last 17 days. In 12 days of March, the district has recorded 16,201 cases which are more than those registered in entire February (15,514). A day ago, the cases in March crossed that registered in November last year (8,979), December (12,002) and January (10,507). September 2020 saw highest number of 48,457 cases in dist. Ominously on Friday, deaths in district increased to 15 from around 10 in last several days. Guardian minister Nitin Raut told TOI on Friday, “Swab samples have been sent for genome sequencing to check whether there is any mutation in coronavirus in the district. I also asked District Task Force to study reasons behind sudden spike in cases.” CEO of Zilla Parishad Yogesh Kumbhejkar said reports from NCDC were awaited. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said more swab samples would be sent to NCDC in coming days. It is for the first time active cases in the district are higher than in Mumbai and Thane that are mass urban areas having much more population compared to Nagpur district. As per figures from district civil surgeon, 71.96% positive patients are in home isolation and 14.25% in hospitals and Covid Care Centres (CCCs). Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte reviewed situaiton in all districts of the state and directed officials to effectively implement containment zone system. “Stringent action should be taken against violators of home isolation and those not wearing mask in public places or otherwise violating Covid-19 guidelines,” he said. Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari and Radhakrishnan review the situation with NMC officials. Radhakrishnan said, “Mobile testing centres have been increased to 40 in the city. Number of tests being done in the district is second highest in the state. We will increase them even more.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dist-has-2nd-highest-no-of-covid-cases-in-country/articleshow/81474538.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 13, 2021||India||SC seeks govt’s response on Places of Worship Act validity||NEW DELHI: Sixteen months after deciding the Ayodhya land dispute, the Supreme Court on Friday sought the Centre’s response to a PIL challenging the validity of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 which barred courts from entertaining civil suits for changing the character of religious places from what it was at the time of Independence. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, who was part of the five-judge bench that decided the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi dispute in favour of Hindus on November 9, 2019, and Justice A S Bopanna issued notices to the ministries of home, law and culture on the PIL filed by Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. The PIL said the Centre had created arbitrary and irrational retrospective cutoff date of August 15, 1947 for maintaining the character of religious places and barred filing of any suit in courts in respect of “disputes against encroachment done by fundamentalist, barbaric invaders and law-breakers” and all pending suits in this regard shall stand abated. Rao govt brought in Act in face of Babri campaignThe Act had made a lone exception for the Ayodhya case as the dispute had been festering for centuries. “The Centre has barred remedies against illegal encroachment on places of worship and pilgrimage and now Hindus, Jains, Buddhists and Sikhs can’t file suit or approach a high court under Article 226. Therefore, they won’t be able to restore their places of worship and pilgrimage as guaranteed under Articles 25-26 of the Constitution and illegal barbarian acts of invaders will continue in perpetuity,” he said. The Places of Worship Act was enacted by the Narasimha Rao government in the face of a campaign started by VHP for control of Babri Masjid in Ayodhya, Gyanvapi Mosque in Varanasi and Shahi Idgah in Mathura. VHP has argued that the mosques at the sites in question were built after demolishing Hindu temples and should be handed back to the majority community. The Rao government brought the law to freeze and maintain the denominational character of all places of worship, barring the Babri-Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi complex in Ayodhya, as it existed on August 15, 1947. A similar PIL filed by an association of priests through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain is also pending with the court. This PIL has sought scrapping of the 1991 law, ostensibly to revive litigation on disputed religious sites in Mathura (Krishna Janmasthan) and Varanasi (Kashi Vishwanath temple-mosque). This plea had evoked sharp reactions from Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, which had moved the SC terming this a surreptitious attempt to correct historical wrongs and warning that it was fraught with the risk of unleashing a barrage of litigations. In its 1,045 page Ayodhya judgment, the SC had referred to the1991 Act and said, “In providing a guarantee for preservation of the religious character of places of public worship as they existed on August 15, 1947, and against the conversion of places of public worship, Parliament determined that independence from colonial rule furnishes a constitutional basis for healing the injustices of the past by providing the confidence to every religious community that their places of worship will be preserved and that their character will not be altered. “ The Places of Worship Act is a legislative intervention which preserves non-retrogression as an essential feature of our secular values.” Upadhyay’s petition made a strong pitch for the court to revisit its stand. “Hindus are fighting for restoration of the birthplace of Lord Krishna from hundreds of years and peaceful agitation continues but while enacting the Act, the Centre excluded the birthplace of Lord Ram in Ayodhya but not the birthplace of Krishna, though both are incarnations of Vishnu,” he said. Upadhyay said Islamic rule was established in India after 1192 when Muhammad Ghori defeated Prithviraj Chauhan and that foreigners ruled India till it gained independence in 1947. Therefore, if any cut-off date was to be fixed for maintaining the character of religious places, then it should be 1192 as after that, thousands of temples and shrines of Hindus, Buddhists and Jains were damaged and converted to mosques by Muslim rulers, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-seeks-govts-response-on-places-of-worship-act-validity/articleshow/81477369.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 13, 2021||Nagpur||2 Police inspectors among 3 city cops booked for extortion, abetment||NAGPUR: Senior inspector of Yashodhara Nagar police station Ashok Meshram, his predecessor Ramakant Durge, PSI Deepak Chavan, along with Neeta Khedkar, an officer of the Women and Child Development department, have been booked for extortion and abetment to suicide at Shivaji Nagar police station of Thane on March 10. Khedkar’s mother and brother too have been made co-accused. The deceased had mentioned in a mail sent to self that the three cops were threatening to implicate him in a criminal case and were also demanding Rs 9.50 lakh. Thane police have arrested PSI Chavan who has just completed his probation. Nagpur CP Amitesh Kumar said Chavan would be suspended and inquiries against the other two officers would be duly conducted. The offence was registered against the six following a complaint of the kin of child development project officer, Mumbai, Sachin Sable, who ended life at his residence at Ambernath on February 18. Initially, police had registered a case of accidental death. Sable’s family members had handed over a mail, sent to self by Sable, to police in which the deceased is learnt to have narrated his plight stating torture by the three police officers and Neeta compelling him to take the drastic step. Neeta was allegedly pressuring Sable to marry her or else she would jeopardize his career by having an offence registered against him. It’s learnt Neeta husband, Arun Khedkar, who too was child development project officer of Bhandara working under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS), had died by suicide in December last year within the limits of the Yashodhara Nagar police station. Yashodhara Nagar police had registered a case of accidental death after Arun’s suicide. PSI Chavan was the investigation officer of the case which was initially supervised by Senior PI Durge and later Sr PI Meshram after the transfer of the former. Neeta and her family had been holding him responsible for the suicide of Arun in Nagpur last year. The cops of Yashodhara Nagar police too had been regularly harassing him and demanding the amount from him for not booking him for abetment of Arun’s suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-pis-among-3-city-cops-booked-for-extortion-abetment/articleshow/81474561.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Polls for 2 teachers’ quota MLC seats tomorrow||VIJAYAWADA: The campaign for the two MLC seats under teachers’ quota came to an end on Friday. The  is being held for the two seats in the two Godavari districts and Krishna-Guntur districts. Polling will be held on Sunday. Sitting MLCs Ramu Surya Rao (East and West Godavari districts) and AS Rama Krishna (Krishna-Guntur) are scheduled to retire on March 29. While Surya Rao is out of the race, Rama Krishna is contesting again in Krishna-Guntur constituency. Left-sponsored Progressive Democratic Front has fielded Shaik Sabjee in Godavari districts and former MLC Boddu Nageswara Rao in Krishna-Guntur. Rao was elected in the past in the Graduates constituency of Krishna-Guntur and is contesting in teachers’ constituency this time. Rama Krishna is being backed by opposition TDP, which is also backing the candidature of Subhash Chandra Bose in Godavari districts. The ruling YSRC, which did not fielded any candidates, is unofficially backing the two PDF nominees. The counting will be held on March 17 and results will be declared the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/polls-for-2-teachers-quota-mlc-seats-tomorrow/articleshow/81472838.cms||Gopi Dara
March 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Teacher held for distributing money in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: A private teacher was arrested for allegedly distributing money for a candidate in the upcoming MLC elections in Machilipatnam town in Krishna district on Friday. According to Bandar police, they received credible information that a man identified as Bommasani Veeranjaneyulu, a private teacher, was allegedly distributing cash among voters near St Francis High School. Upon reaching the spot, police caught Veeranjaneyulu red-handed and seized Rs 1 lakh unaccounted cash from his possession along with pamphlets seeking support for Chandu Rama Rao, a candidate from Krishna-Guntur constituency. Police said they have booked a case against Veeranjaneyulu and further investigation is underway to ascertain the role of others involved in the operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/teacher-held-for-distributing-money/articleshow/81472864.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Most businesses in Andhra Pradesh don’t have ICC: Police||VIJAYAWADA: Eight years after the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act (commonly referred to as POSH) came into force, Andhra Pradesh police have found that most businesses, educational institutions and even government offices have failed to comply. In fact, the chief minister himself had to advise chief secretary Adityanath Das to set up and internal complaints committee (ICC) at the secretariat when he learnt that it did not exist. When the woman and child welfare department too stock of the implementation of the act back in 2017, Vijayawada alone saw close to 500 business establishments get notices from the police to set up ICCs. Police point out that while these 500 places were part of the organised sector, such as private travels, hotels and IT companies. “If one looks at the unorganised sector, the situation is much more pathetic,” a senior Disha police official said. According to 2019 NCRB (National Crime Records Bureau) data, only 22 complaints were registered in ICCs across state. However, the same NCRB data show that 42 people committed suicide in AP due to work-related issues. “There were more unverified complaints that surfaced on social media during the #metoo campaign compares to data from the crime records bureau on workplace harassment,” said K Shailaja, a Vijayawada-based woman rights activist. In 2018, a total of nine complaints were registered across the state. The woman and child welfare department pointed out that businesses under the informal sector have failed to implement the law. According to the law, it is mandatory for a workplace to have an internal complaints committee if there are 10 or more women working at the business. If the number of women employees is less than 10, complainants can register their complaints to the local complaint cell set up by the district administration of the particular district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/most-businesses-in-ap-dont-have-icc-police/articleshow/81472874.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
March 13, 2021||Visakhapatnam||IIM-Visakhapatnam achieves 100% summer placements||VISAKHAPATNAM: Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam has achieved 100% summer placements for its MBA batch of 2020-2022. With a highest stipend at Rs 2 lakh, the stipend for the top quartile stood at Rs 1.17 lakh and the top 10 percentile at Rs 1.46 lakh. This represents a 20.4% increase in the average stipend offered last year at Rs 62,264. Held on a rolling basis, the summer placement season witnessed more than 50 companies participate in the process and making multiple offers. According to IIM-V officials, these figures broke all their previous records and set new benchmarks. IIM-V director Prof M Chandrasekhar said that it is a fitting recognition of the talent of the students of the institute. “The record-breaking performance does not come as a surprise as the students of IIM-V have been regularly winning several pan-India competitions held by reputed business schools. We, at IIM-V, are very confident that the recruiters would find immense value in the contribution by the interns of the institute,” said Prof Chandrasekhar. Chairperson-CDS, Professor Saroj Kumar Pani, said that despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, IIM-V has increased the breadth of recruiters as well as depth of roles for its summer internship programme. “This was made possible as we give importance to matching a student’s abilities and interests to recruiters’ requirements. Ultimately, it would be a win-win situation for our students as well as recruiters,” said Prof Saroj Kumar. The season witnessed participation from companies from high-growth sectors like information technology, banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI), EdTEch, manufacturing, fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG), hospitality, and infrastructure to name a few.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/iim-v-achieves-100-summer-placements/articleshow/81472934.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Police close in on boy’s kidnapper||Tirupati: Police have managed to close in on the man who is accused of kidnapping a six-year-old boy from Alipiri link bus station in Tirupati on Feb 27. Sivam Kumar Sahoo and his parents were about to board a bus to Tirumala when the boy suddenly vanished. CCTV footage later showed a middle-aged man walking away with Sivam. After the suspect’s sketches were released, a bus conductor informed cops that he has seen the abductor and the boy get down at Gandharamakulapalle village in V Kota mandal on Feb 28. Police sources said they have located the suspect’s residence near Karnataka border and are hopeful of reuniting the boy with his family soon. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/police-close-in-on-boys-kidnapper/articleshow/81472950.cms||---
March 13, 2021||India||From charkha to vaccine, PM Modi talks atmanirbharta||AHMEDABAD: On the occasion of the 91st anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi’s Dandi March, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday highlighted India’s journey towards “atmanirbharta (self-reliance)” from the charkha to the vaccine as he launched the “Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav”, the government’s initiative to mark 75 years of the country’s Independence. The mahostav will continue till August 15, 2023, he said. The PM also flagged off a padyatra by 81 marchers from Sabarmati Ashram. Modi remembered contributions made by freedom fighters from every corner of the country. “The Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav is about a resolve to work for the country. It is about taking inspiration from our freedom fighters. It is about attaining self-reliance,” he said. Reminiscing that Subhash Chandra Bose had said India’s freedom was important for all humanity, he said, “Even today, our achievements are not only ours. During the pandemic, the world is getting the benefit of India’s self-reliance in vaccines.” Modi said five pillars — freedom struggle, Ideas at 75, Achievements at 75, Actions at 75, and Resolves at 75 — are the guiding force for moving forward. Commenting on Gandhi’s salt satyagraha, the PM said salt was never measured by its price in the country. “In India, salt is a symbol of honesty, faith and loyalty. Hum aaj bhi kehte hain, humne desh ka namak khaya (we use salt as a symbol of loyalty). We say this not because salt is a costly commodity, but because it symbolises work and equality. Before Independence, salt was a symbol of atmanirbharta,” the PM said. Modi did not hold back words in showering praise on all leaders who shaped India since Independence. He mentioned the contributions of Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel, Babasaheb Ambedkar, Subhash Chandra Bose, Maulana Azad, Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan, Veer Savarkar and others. “India derives inspiration from the contribution of all these leaders as we resolve to move forward with higher goals in mind,” he said. “Many ideas will emerge from this 75-week programme. Why should schools and colleges not have competitions on instances of our freedom struggle. Law schools can document the legal cases leading to Independence,” he said. After landing at Ahmedabad airport, Modi drove to Sabarmati Ashram. He also visited Hriday Kunj, the house in the ashram where Gandhi stayed with his wife Kasturba from 1918 to 1930. Modi wrote in the visitors’ book that the mahotsav is a tribute to the freedom fighters and freedom struggle. “By coming to the Sabarmati Ashram and with the inspiration of Bapu, my determination for nation-building is strengthened. Mahatma Gandhi gave the message of atmanirbharta (self-reliance) and atmavishwas (self-confidence) from here,” he wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/from-charkha-to-vax-pm-modi-talks-atmanirbharta/articleshow/81477381.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Vijayawada||PD Act slapped on 2 smugglers||Tirupati: Two red sanders smugglers, identified as B Srinivasulu and Shaik Simpathi Fakruddin, were booked by Kadapa police under Preventive Detection Act on Friday. Police said B Srinivasulu (36), a resident of Patrapalli village in Vontimitta mandal, is an accused in 26 red sanders smuggling cases while Fakruddin (30), from Khadarapalli village in Chapadu mandal, is an accused in 64 cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pd-act-slapped-on-2-smugglers/articleshow/81472963.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Vijayawada||2 electrocuted at chariot procession||Tirupati: Two persons were electrocuted to death while four others sustained injuries during the chariot procession at Panduranga Swamy temple at Arikere in Alur mandal of Kurnool district on Friday. Aluru SI T Srinivasulu said the festivities at the ancient temple turned tragic when the chariot in procession around the temple came in contact with electric cables and two of the devotees dragging the chariot forward were electrocuted to death on the spot while four others sustained injuries. The deceased were identified as Lakshmanna (28) and Siva (25), both residents of Arikere village.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2-electrocuted-at-chariot-procession/articleshow/81472977.cms||---
March 13, 2021||India||Independence of state ECs sacrosanct: SC||NEW DELHI: At a time when non-BJP-governed states are routinely alleging bias against state election commissions, the SC on Friday ruled that independence of ECs was sacrosanct under the Constitution and ordered that no serving bureaucrat could be given additional charge of state election commissioner. The court rapped the Goa government for giving additional charge of SEC to its law secretary and said the decision “made a mockery of the constitutional mandate that state ECs must be truly independent bodies”. ‘Ad hoc appointments impinge on EC’s independence’Slamming the Goa government for issuing a notification on February 4 at “lighting speed” just ahead of the hearing of petitions “in a clear attempt to overreach” the Goa bench of the Bombay HC in Panaji, a bench of Justices RF Nariman, BR Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy invoked SC’s omnibus power under Article 142 to bar all state governments from appointing any serving bureaucrat as ad hoc state election commissioner, holding that such appointments impinged on the independence of the body, which is essential for democratic governance. Writing the judgment for the bench, Justice Nariman said no person holding any office under the state government could be appointed as state election commissioner as the Constitution attached sanctity to their appointment and removal. Only truly independent people, having no links with the government, could hold such high offices in ECs, the SC said. “The disturbing feature of this case is the ad hoc charge of the state election commissioner given to the law secretary,” the bench said. On Friday, the SC upheld quashing of the notification and directed that a fresh notification reserving seats/wards for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, OBC and women be issued within 10 days and poll process be completed by April 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/independence-of-state-ecs-sacrosanct-sc/articleshow/81477408.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 13, 2021||Vadodara||City girl wins 2021 Ohio University ART prize||Vadodara: City lad Nivedita Chawda has won the 2021 Ohio Art Prize - the high school visual arts and design competition conducted by the College of Fine Arts of US-based Ohio University. The visual arts and design contest is open for all students from grade nine to grade 12. It carries emerging artists and promising designer scholarship awards, summer studio scholarships, one-on-one portfolio review sessions and opportunity to exhibit at Ohio University. Nivedita, a class 12 student of humanities, had submitted a couple of artworks titled ‘Be your own biggest fan’, ‘self love’, ‘choose better’ and ‘indoctrination’. “Art is my passion and my purpose. I am constantly inspired by my surroundings and I believe as a privileged eighteen-year-old, my art should amplify the struggles and voices of many who do not have access to resources or even basic human rights like I do,” said Nivedita. “I create art about climate change, racism, LGBTQIA and rights, mental health, feminism among others,” she added. “The screening jury was greatly impressed with the overall exceptional level of work submitted. To be named a winner among the competitive field of applicants is a distinct honor that recognizes your incredible achievement. Congratulations!” an email that Nivedita has received from director of the School of Art+Design states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/city-girl-wins-2021-ohio-university-art-prize/articleshow/81474091.cms||---
March 13, 2021||India||UP to remove all religious encroachments||The UP government, in compliance with an HC order, has ordered removal of all religious structures that encroach on roads, lanes, footpaths or national and state highways. As per a home department order issued on Tuesday, all such constructions which have taken place after January 1, 2011 should be removed immediately. Those constructed before the date have been given six months for a planned removal. “The management of such structures and the followers of the religion they belong to should plan to shift them to their private land within six months,” the order says. UP order says ensure religious activities don’t disrupt trafficThe home department officials said that all the divisional commissioners, police commissioners of Lucknow, Noida, district magistrates and superintendents of police were issued an order on Tuesday night to identify and remove all encroachments. The order also said that a plan should be made to ensure that there was no obstruction in traffic or public movement due to religious activities on public roads (including highways), streets, footpaths and lanes. It also stated in the instructions that if there was any deviation or disobedience then the officials concerned would be held responsible for it. “Flouting of these orders will be considered as contempt of the high court,” said a home department official. In its 2016 order, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court had asked the state government “to ensure that no religious structure in any form whatsoever shall be allowed or permitted to be raised on public roads, including highways, streets, pathways and lanes, and warned that any violation will be considered as criminal contempt by administration and police officials”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-to-remove-all-religious-encroachments/articleshow/81477411.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
March 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||From charkha to vaccine, PM talks ‘atmanirbharta’ on Dandi anniversary||AHMEDABAD: On the occasion of the 91st anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi’s Dandi March, PM Narendra Modi on Thursday highlighted India’s journey towards “atmanirbharta (self-reliance)” from the charkha to vaccine as he launched the “Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav", the government’s initiative to mark 75 years of Independence. The mahostav will continue till August 15, 2023, he said. The PM also flagged off a padyatra (foot march) by 81 marchers from Sabarmati Ashram to commemorate Dandi March. In his speech, Modi remembered contributions made by freedom fighters from every corner of the country. "The Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav is about a resolve to work for the country. It is about taking inspiration from our freedom fighters. It is about attaining self-reliance," he said. Reminiscing that Subhash Chandra Bose had said India’s freedom was important for all humanity, he said, "Even today, our achievements are not only ours. During the pandemic, the world is getting the benefit of India’s self-reliance in vaccines." PM Modi: Salt a symbol of atmanirbhartaModi said five pillars — freedom struggle, Ideas at 75, Achievements at 75, Actions at 75, and Resolves at 75 — are the guiding force for moving forward. Commenting on Gandhi’s salt satyagraha, the PM said salt was never measured by its price in the country. "In India, salt is a symbol of honesty, faith and loyalty. Hum aaj bhi kehte hain, humne desh ka namak khaya (we use salt as a symbol of loyalty). We say this not because salt is a costly commodity, but because it symbolises work and equality. Before Independence, salt was a symbol of atmanirbharta," the PM said. Modi did not hold back words in showering praise on all leaders who shaped India since Independence. He mentioned the contributions of Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel, Babasaheb Ambedkar, Subhash Chandra Bose, Maulana Azad, Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan, Veer Savarkar and others. "India derives inspiration from the contribution of all these leaders as we resolve to move forward with higher goals in mind," he said. "Many ideas will emerge from this 75-week programme. Why should schools and colleges not have competitions on instances of our freedom struggle. Law schools can document the legal cases leading to Independence. Those in the field of arts can contribute as well," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/from-charkha-to-vax-pm-talks-atmanirbharta-on-dandi-anniversary/articleshow/81477412.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Business||Retail inflation rises to 3-month high in February, IIP dips 1.6% in January||NEW DELHI: Retail inflation rose to a three-month high in February on the back of hardening food and fuel prices while industrial output contracted in January, raising fresh concerns about the health of the economy. Official data released on Friday showed inflation, as measured by the consumer price index, rose an annual 5% in February, from 4.1% in January. The food price index rose 3.9% during the month from nearly 2% in the previous month. Urban inflation rose to 6%, widening the gap with rural inflation which was at 4.2%. The swift return of price pressures after two months of easing has once again raised fresh worries about the trajectory of inflation against the backdrop of global commodity prices. The impact of strengthening prices was evident across segments. Oils and fats rose an annual 20.8% in January, due to a combination of factors such as rising domestic demand, lower supplies and increase in global prices. Interest rates cannot be lowered unless fuel taxes are cut: ExpertsPrices of pulses and products shot up by nearly 13%. The increase has been attributed to lower output and supply constraints, both locally and globally. Transport and communication prices rose 11.4% largely due to increase in fuel and transport prices. Meat and fish prices went up by 11.3%, while egg prices shot up an annual 11.1%. Vegetables prices contracted by 6.3% due to fresh arrivals. Core inflation, excluding food and fuel, shot up to a 28-month high of 5.8% during the month, highlighting the price pressure. Economists said unless fuel taxes are cut sharply, lurking prices are likely to rule out any cut in interest rates for now. The RBI has paused its rating cutting cycle in the face of rising price pressures but has vowed to maintain an accommodative stance to help the recovery. “With crude prices increasing, all eyes are on the government’s taxation policy, which will have implications not only for inflation but also on the fiscal deficit and current account,” Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist at India Ratings said in a note. Separate data showed surprise deterioration for the industrial sector. Industrial production contracted 1.6% in January dragged down by decline in manufacturing, mining, capital goods, consumer durables and non-durables sectors. The surprise contraction came after the sector posted a upwardly revised growth of 1.6% in December. The manufacturing sector contracted 2% during the months while the capital goods segments fell 9.6% in January compared to a contraction of 4.4% in the year earlier period. After the rapid recovery seen till October 2020, the trend in the IIP has turned volatile in the last three months, suggesting that the economy has entered into a consolidation phase with an underlying momentum that is relatively subdued. Economists said they expect weakness to persist in the crucial sector. Some economists said the rollout of vaccinations may add to confidence in the months ahead. “The trend in the IIP has turned volatile in the last three months, suggesting that the economy has entered into a consolidation phase with an underlying momentum that is relatively subdued, said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at ratings agency ICRA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/retail-inflation-rises-to-3-month-high-in-feb-iip-dips-1-6-in-jan/articleshow/81477431.cms||---
March 13, 2021||---||Kerala assembly polls: Waiting for BJP candidates? Congress list delayed again||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Congress appears to be deliberately delaying its candidates' list in Kerala. If sources are to be believed, the party is waiting for the BJP to announce its candidates first. The party leadership reportedly took the decision to delay its announcement till Sunday as it fears there will be severe unrest once it is done. The leaders fear that the party will have to face a serious rebel menace this time, the signs of which have already begun in many constituencies, and they don't want the BJP to capitalise on it and field these rebels as its candidates. The BJP candidates' list is expected on Saturday. The Congress list was not announced even after its central election committee meeting on Friday, chaired by AICC president Sonia Gandhi, claiming that there are differences of opinion over a few seats. "A consensus has been reached in 81 seats and the candidates have been finalized. The decision has to be taken only in 10 more seats. A final announcement on names in all 91 seats will be made on Sunday," KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said after the meeting. The party leadership has, however, asked all MLAs other than K C Joseph to begin campaigning in their respective seats. Sources said the undecided seats include Nemom also, where BJP's O Rajagopal won last time. Ramachandran said none of the party MPs will be contesting the assembly election. There were reports that Shashi Tharoor is being considered for Nemom seat. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said it would be a big surprise in Nemom. "The party will be fielding a popular candidate there," he said. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy also denied reports that he might contest in Nemom. Sources said Ramesh and Chandy will contest from Harippad and Puthupally respectively. It is learnt that Chandy's adamant stand on seats for K Babu and K C Joseph had also contributed to the delay in finalising the candidates. Ramesh had also reportedly insisted on a seat for his trusted lieutenant Joseph Vazhakkan. Chandy, Ramesh oppose Venugopal’s proposalThe party high command and AICC leader K C Venugopal, however, opposed the claim, saying they have only a remote chance of winning. Venugopal reportedly wanted them to give way to fresh faces. Sources said it was Venugopal’s plan to field Chandy in Nemom. Both Chandy and Ramesh had serious differences of opinion with Venugopal and that was a reason for the delay even after five days of discussions, sources said. A decision is pending on Vattiyoorkavu seat also. K Muraleedharan had claimed that he could wrest the seat back from the CPM, but it was decided that no MPs should contest the assembly election. Ramesh, meanwhile, announced the final seat sharing in the UDF -- IUML 27 seats, Kerala Congress (Joseph) 10, RSP 5, Nationalist Congress Party (Kerala) led by Mani C Kappen 2, Kerala Congress (Jacob), Bharatiya National Janata Dal and Communist Marxist Party (CMP) led by C P John one each. He said the front would support Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) leader K K Rema if she contests from Vadakara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/kerala/kerala-assembly-polls-waiting-for-bjp-candidates-congress-list-delayed-again/articleshow/81477430.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala assembly polls: Waiting for BJP candidates? Congress list delayed again||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Congress appears to be deliberately delaying its candidates' list in Kerala. If sources are to be believed, the party is waiting for the BJP to announce its candidates first. The party leadership reportedly took the decision to delay its announcement till Sunday as it fears there will be severe unrest once it is done. The leaders fear that the party will have to face a serious rebel menace this time, the signs of which have already begun in many constituencies, and they don't want the BJP to capitalise on it and field these rebels as its candidates. The BJP candidates' list is expected on Saturday. The Congress list was not announced even after its central election committee meeting on Friday, chaired by AICC president Sonia Gandhi, claiming that there are differences of opinion over a few seats. "A consensus has been reached in 81 seats and the candidates have been finalized. The decision has to be taken only in 10 more seats. A final announcement on names in all 91 seats will be made on Sunday," KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said after the meeting. The party leadership has, however, asked all MLAs other than K C Joseph to begin campaigning in their respective seats. Sources said the undecided seats include Nemom also, where BJP's O Rajagopal won last time. Ramachandran said none of the party MPs will be contesting the assembly election. There were reports that Shashi Tharoor is being considered for Nemom seat. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said it would be a big surprise in Nemom. "The party will be fielding a popular candidate there," he said. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy also denied reports that he might contest in Nemom. Sources said Ramesh and Chandy will contest from Harippad and Puthupally respectively. It is learnt that Chandy's adamant stand on seats for K Babu and K C Joseph had also contributed to the delay in finalising the candidates. Ramesh had also reportedly insisted on a seat for his trusted lieutenant Joseph Vazhakkan. Chandy, Ramesh oppose Venugopal’s proposalThe party high command and AICC leader K C Venugopal, however, opposed the claim, saying they have only a remote chance of winning. Venugopal reportedly wanted them to give way to fresh faces. Sources said it was Venugopal’s plan to field Chandy in Nemom. Both Chandy and Ramesh had serious differences of opinion with Venugopal and that was a reason for the delay even after five days of discussions, sources said. A decision is pending on Vattiyoorkavu seat also. K Muraleedharan had claimed that he could wrest the seat back from the CPM, but it was decided that no MPs should contest the assembly election. Ramesh, meanwhile, announced the final seat sharing in the UDF -- IUML 27 seats, Kerala Congress (Joseph) 10, RSP 5, Nationalist Congress Party (Kerala) led by Mani C Kappen 2, Kerala Congress (Jacob), Bharatiya National Janata Dal and Communist Marxist Party (CMP) led by C P John one each. He said the front would support Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) leader K K Rema if she contests from Vadakara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-assembly-polls-waiting-for-bjp-candidates-congress-list-delayed-again/articleshow/81477434.cms||---
March 13, 2021||---||EC, govt probes blame ‘lack of coordination’||KOLKATA: “Lack of coordination” between the East Midnapore district police and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s security teams had led to “huge crowds”, which led to the CM getting injured, while absence of clear footage has made it difficult to “conclusively ascertain” exactly how the injury happened. This was indicated on Friday in separate reports prepared by the Bengal government and Election Commission’s special observers. The reports have also indicated that there was no pilot car assigned with the chief minister’s convoy. EC’s observers have recommended that all VVIP travel schedules in Bengal be sent to the EC and the state DGP, in order to ensure there are no gaps. EC is examining a number of video clips, most of which show people milling around Mamata’s car. Sources indicated that the reports may not be sufficient to act on, and that the EC will seek a “more detailed report”. “There was evidently a security breach,” an officer said. “A VVIP has been physically injured.” EC’s special observers interacted with East Midnapore SP Praween Prakash and DM Vibhu Goyal earlier in the morning, came back to Kolkata from Midnapore to hold meetings with EC officials in New Delhi later in the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/ec-govt-probes-blame-lack-of-coordination/articleshow/81477437.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Goa||In South Goa, pall of gloom descends over BJP camp while oppn jubilates||Margao: Three days ago, when three of the candidates supported by Quepem BJP MLA Chandrakant Kavlekar won the elections to the Quepem municipal council (QMC) unopposed, the mood in the BJP camp was upbeat even as the Congress camp fumed and fussed accusing BJP of resorting to undemocratic means. The situation played out in reverse on Friday, after the Supreme Court upheld the high court order. The BJP camp in Quepem went unusually silent, while the Congress camp expressed delight over the development. Outgoing QMC chairperson Dayesh Naik and vice-chairperson Chetan Haldankar, who had claimed unopposed victory after a dramatic turn of events after their rival candidates withdrew from the fray, went incommunicado, indicating an overwhelming sense of disappointment in the BJP camp. High drama was witnessed right outside the office of the QMC returning officer (RO) last week. BJP supporters had forcibly tried to prevented a Congress-backed candidate Ramesh Naik from filing his nominations. The RO had to intervene to restore order. Two days later, Ramesh withdrew his nomination leading to Haldankar’s unopposed victory. Chaturanand Shetkar withdrawing his candidature paved the way for an unchallenged victory for Dayesh. Speaking to TOI, Suchita Shirwaikar, the third candidate from Kavlekar’s panel who had won unopposed, said that the postponement of elections following the SC verdict wouldn’t alter her prospects as “the people of my ward had decided long back to get me elected unopposed”. Former QMC chairperson, Manuel Colaco, who was among those who had filed a petition in the HC over the matter was acerbic in his comments. “After the HC gave its order, we were expecting that the government would amend its mistakes. However, they went in appeal. I now suggest that the government, instead of holding elections to the civic bodies, appoint their favoured people in all the wards as councillors, as was being done during the Portuguese rule,” Colaco said. Similarly, in Mormugao assembly constituency the mood was upbeat in the opposition camp. Ex-councillor Shraddha Amonkar said that women have got justice. Ex-MMC councillor Yatin Kamurlekar said some candidates could be in trouble because of the reservation mess for which the DMA should be held responsible. Candidates have put in lot of efforts for campaigning but what will be their fate if the wards change, he said. In Margao, the opposition camp was equally jubilant with both leader of opposition Digambar Kamat and GFP president Vijai Sardesai rejoicing over the development. The election fever that had just begun to grip Margao with all political bigwigs descending on the battlefield has now subsided. Political observers feel that the interval will help parties to regroup and revise their strategies .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-south-goa-pall-of-gloom-descends-over-bjp-camp-while-oppn-jubilates/articleshow/81474988.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
March 13, 2021||India||With Nandigram voter card, Suvendu now ‘son of the soil’||NANDIGRAM: BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari changed his voter address from Haldia to Nandigram to project himself as a “bhumiputra” (son of the soil) pitted against “outsider” Mamata Banerjee, who left her home turf Bhowanipore to contest from Nandigram. Suvendu showed his new voter card before filing nomination papers on Friday. Union ministers Smriti Irani and Dharmendra Pradhan accompanied him to the DM’s office to throw their weight behind Suvendu. Throwing a challenge at the CM, Suvendu said: “My relationship with them (people of Nandigram) is very old. Mamata Banerjee remembers them every five years during the election. People will defeat her this time. I am challenging Mamata Banerjee as a voter of Nandigram by filing my nomination today.” He then entered the district magistrate’s office to file his papers. But this was not all. Strumming the chords of localism, Suvendu craftily blended it with the ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogan to send out signals of Hindu assertion even at the cost of losing the minorities he had worked with when he was in Trinamool. Suvendu began the day by offering prayers at Janakinath temple and Ram-Sita temple and later paid tribute to the Nandigram martyrs’ column before setting out on a roadshow that ended at the DM’s office amid loud chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram’. “We will fight the elections on the development plank. That is my offering at the temple,” he said. Irani spoke on similar lines at Kshudiram More, on the way to the DM’s office. Challenging the Trinamool slogan, ‘Bangla Nijer Meyekei Chay’, the Union minister said: “Which daughter does Bengal want? The one who unleashes violence on an 80-year-old woman? The one who didn’t allow Durga idol immersion?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-nandigram-voter-card-suvendu-now-son-of-the-soil/articleshow/81477440.cms||Suman Mandal
March 13, 2021||Goa||Dhavalikar: Govt got the whipping it deserved from SC||PANAJI: After the Supreme Court on Friday upheld the ruling of the high court of Bombay at Goa on reservation of seats to five municipalities for polls, MGP’s Ramkrishna Dhavalikar said the chief minister should tender his resignation with immediate effect. “This is a welcome judgment. This government deserved to receive the whipping even earlier. They have received the whipping when they carried out the Zilla Panchayat polls,” said Dhavalikar. The senior MGP leader said that following the Supreme Court ruling it has been confirmed that the reservations were manipulated to favour the ruling disposition in Goa. “This is not democracy. This is dictatorship. They are doing this only to hang on to their chairs. This has been proven now beyond doubt. This is not the only manipulation, they will lose in the disqualification petitions filed against their MLAs for jumping parties, too. There are a lot of things being done by them which are not right,” said Dhavalikar. He said citizens should take note of the SC ruling and realise the antics chief minister Pramod Sawant’s government is up to. “The manner in which the reservation of seats was manipulated, this has happened for the first time in India. This is a matter of shame for Goa. The chief minister should resign. And the governor should intervene and take action against the election commission for his misdeeds,” said Dhavalikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dhavalikar-govt-got-the-whipping-it-deserved-from-sc/articleshow/81475021.cms||---
March 13, 2021||---||TMC team meets EC full bench, says probe ‘conspiracy’||NEW DELHI/KOLKATA: A six member Trinamool MPs’ delegation met the Election Commission’s full-bench for 75 minutes on Friday, demanding a high-level probe into the “attack” on West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, alleging it was “preplanned” and “part of a deep-rooted conspiracy”. While Trinamool raised concerns on the lines expressed by it in its letter submitted to the chief electoral officer on Thursday, EC too reiterated its response and underlined the constitutional position, as per which Article 324 vests in it the superintendence, direction and control of elections. EC also repeated that the state DGP’s transfer was a well-considered decision based on adverse report of special observers. Senior Trinamool MP Saugata Roy did most of the talking on behalf of the party, with the discussions becoming contested at times. The meeting took place even as West Bengal chief secretary is understood to have sent his report on the Nandigram incident to the EC. The special observers have, however, sought more time and may submit their findings to EC by Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/tmc-team-meets-ec-full-bench-says-probe-conspiracy/articleshow/81477444.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Goa||SC verdict a tight slap for BJP govt, says AAP||PANAJI: The Supreme Court’s (SC) order on the municipal elections in Goa is a lesson for chief minister Pramod Sawant and a tight slap on the BJP government, which should henceforth stop resorting to rigging elections, said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday while hailing the apex court’s verdict. AAP’s Goa convener Rahul Mhambre said the order very clearly indicates that the BJP was trying to rig the municipal elections to favour its supporters and well wishers, as not only reservation of wards but even delimitation of wards was done without following the constitutional requirements. He pointed out that the high court had already asked the government to set a new elections schedule in five municipal councils and the government re-scheduled elections in these five councils even when the matter was pending in the court. “The hurry with which the government rescheduled the elections in the five councils just shows how desperate they were to rig the polls to enable their supporters to win, even though the courts had not disposed off the petition pending before it,” he said. He also asked Sawant to stop using the state election commissioner (SEC) as a tool to play his games, and added that it was indeed quite shameful that the SC had to direct the chief minister to appoint an independent SEC to conduct a free and fair elections. “Sawant was using the SEC, who is a government servant, to play his dirty games, and by right the SEC should be suspended from service,” Mhambre said. Mhambre also asked Sawant to stop using the SEC as a tool to play his games, and added that it was indeed quite shameful that the SC had to direct the chief minister to appoint an independent SEC to conduct a free and fair elections||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-verdict-a-tight-slap-for-bjp-govt-says-aap/articleshow/81475056.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Goa||Congress, GFP demand chief minister’s ouster, seek action against govt officers||PANAJI: In light of the Supreme Court’s sharp criticism on the Goa municipal election process, Congress and GFP on Friday demanded that chief minister Pramod Sawant accept responsibility and resign immediately. The two parties, who had challenged the reservation and delimitation process before the high court of Bombay at Goa, have also called for action against government officers who subverted Constitutional norms while going about the election process. GFP president Vijai Sardesai and opposition leader Digambar Kamat said that Sawant’s ego has caused financial loss and mental stress for all the candidates who had completed the nomination process and who had begun campaigning. “Why is Pramod Sawant still the chief minister of Goa? The Supreme Court has rejected and shattered your illegal attempts to cheat the people, manipulate the elections and derail democracy. If you’ve any sense of propriety or respect for the rule of law, resign,” said Sardesai. Though Sardesai, Kamat and state Congress president Girish Chodankar described the judgment as “restoration of democracy” the three were visibly livid with the government and made no attempts to mask their anger. “If he has any shame and self-respect, he should step down from the post immediately,” said Chodankar, while addressing reporters outside the assembly complex.“When strictures are passed against the state, the chief minister and the minister should be removed. Even the officers involved in the manipulation should have action taken against them.” Chodankar and Sardesai even challenged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to remove Sawant from the post for bringing disrepute to the chief minister’s post. On March 1, the HC had quashed the directorate of municipal administration’s (DMA) reservation process and had called for the entire election process in five municipal councils to begin afresh. Instead of complying, the state government challenged the order in the apex court. “I warn all government officers to study this order of the Supreme Court and resist all attempts to do illegalities. This judgment has shown Goa what is democracy. This mischievous government, which is arrogant, should come down,” said Kamat. Congress has demanded that the government should take a cue from the SC order and restart the election process in all the municipalities and not just the five councils for which the verdict has come. “Congress demands that all the municipal elections in 11 towns should be scrapped as the process was flawed in all the municipal bodies. Just because nobody has challenged the election process in those civic bodies, it does not mean that the elections should go ahead. I have already moved an application to the SEC, chief secretary and DMA saying that illegalities are there in Cuncolim, Pernem and Valpoi and that, actually speaking, the process should be scrapped and restarted,” said Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-gfp-demand-chief-ministers-ouster-seek-action-against-govt-officers/articleshow/81475096.cms||---
March 13, 2021||India||Vaccinate all above 18 in Pune: Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar||PUNE: Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday the state would approach the Union government to ask for mass vaccinations of people above 18 years of age in the district in view of recent increase in Covid-19 cases and the daily positivity rate. Stating that medical experts had suggested this move, he urged Pune MPs Girish Bapat, Supriya Sule, Shrirang Barne and Amol Kolhe to submit this proposal to Union health ministry officials in Parliament itself. “A change in policy is required for Pune in Maharashtra as well as all other districts in different states having high positivity rates. A mass vaccination drive for those above 18 years will have to be allowed immediately. For this, more vaccine doses have to be allotted to these states,” Ajit Pawar told TOI, adding that the Niti Aayog member (health) and other health officials had also prescribed greater focus on such districts. Maharashtra reported 15,817 cases and 56 fatalities on Friday, the highest since October 1. The Pune region accounted for the maximum numbers (3,580). District administrations and municipal corporations across the state have started imposing curbs on commercial and social activity since the beginning of the week. Panvel has imposed a night curfew starting Friday, Pune has curtailed working hours of restaurants and hotels, Aurangabad has decided on a “lockdown” over the weekend which will spare no sector barring essential services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccinate-all-above-18-in-pune-maharashtra-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar/articleshow/81477447.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 13, 2021||Goa||No setback, BJP will win in all municipalities: Tanavade||PANAJI: Reacting to the Supreme Court’s (SC) order, BJP’s state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said that it is not a setback for the state government and “in democracy we should accept the judgment of the court”. When asked how the Supreme Court order is not a setback to the government, Tanavade said, “A setback is when we lose elections, and I am confident that we will in all 12 municipalities, including in the Corporation of the City of Panaji.” Replying to a question on whether the government had erred in the reservation of wards, the state BJP chief said, “I don’t know that. Reservation of wards was done as per the procedure followed earlier, and I will not go into the details.” Defending the government, Tanavade said that the last time the reservation of wards was done in a similar manner, “but nobody went to court, and that is the reason elections were held without any hurdle”. When asked for the reason why the state government challenged the high court’s order in the Supreme Court, Tanavade said, “In law there are various stages and we have to appeal, and so the government did that.” Stating that the while BJP respects the Supreme Court verdict, he said it will, however, not have any impact on the party at the municipal polls. “Even if elections are held on March 20, 21 or on April 30, in Margao, Mapusa, Mormugao, Quepem and Sanguem municipalities, it is clear that BJP-supported candidates will get elected.” the state BJP chief said. With regards to the opposition’s demand that chief minister Pramod Sawant should step down, Tanavade said that “there is no need for the chief minister to step down”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-setback-bjp-will-win-in-all-municipalities-tanavade/articleshow/81475168.cms||---
March 13, 2021||India||Top court sends notice to govt on PIL seeking regular CBI chief||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre seeking its response on a plea for appointment of a regular CBI director. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat agreed to hear a PIL filed by NGO ‘Common Cause’, pleading the court to direct the Centre to appoint a regular CBI director. It alleged that the government failed to appoint a regular director on the expiry of Rishi Kumar Shukla’s term on February 2. It said the government has instead appointed Praveen Sinha as its interim director. The petition, filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, sought a direction to complete the process of selecting the CBI director at least one to two months before the date on which the vacancy is about to occur. “The director of CBI is the final authority in the organisation. Hence, this court and later even Parliament have made determined efforts to enhance the functional autonomy of the CBI director and limit the extent of executive discretion in the matter of appointment of this functionary,” the petition said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/top-court-sends-notice-to-govt-on-pil-seeking-regular-cbi-chief/articleshow/81477449.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Gurgaon||Will develop Global City as NCR’s central business district, says Haryana government||GURUGRAM: In the state budget presented just two days after the BJP-JJP regime sailed through the no-confidence motion in the assembly, the Haryana government announced it would build a new business district in the city on land that had originally been allotted for a special economic zone but is back with the state now because the project never took off. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar also announced that the government would develop two film cities in Gurugram and Pinjore (Panchkula). This is the second Film City venture to be announced in the national capital region in recent months. The UP government has proposed setting up a giant Film City in Greater Noida, off the Yamuna Expressway. The new business district will be developed at Global City near Manesar over 1,000 acres of land adjoining the Dwarka Expressway. It will have a convention centre and residential and industrial zones. A connection with a proposed mass rapid transit system connecting Gurugram, Manesar and Bawal is also proposed. The project is planned under the Gurugram-Manesar Urban Complex Plan 2031. The government said it aims to build it as the central business district not just for the city but all of Delhi-NCR. Officials said that the Film City in Gurugram will be more of a technology hub, unlike a conventional Film City. The land for it has not been earmarked yet, officials said, adding 50 acres had been identified for the Film City to be set up in Pinjore. “Gurugram will come in the second phase. Pinjore will take priority since land is available,” said V Umashankar, principal secretary to the CM. “The issue in Gurugram is availability of land. However, there is interest (in the project), and on the basis of that interest, the land identification process will start in Gurugram. It could be anywhere along the KMP expressway as well, since it gives the transit possibility and makes movement clear. We will probably look for a piece of land that comes along the KMP.” The announcement of a Film City in Gurugram has made it the second venture of its kind to be proposed in the national capital region after the UP government’s Film City project. However, the Film City in Noida will be a conventional Film City with studios and other structures, however, officials said that the Film City in Gurugram will leverage the technological strengths of the Millennium City. “The Film City in Gurugram is essentially leveraging the technological strengths of Gurugram. A lot of film making and film techniques are now heavily dependent on technology. The one in Gurugram will leverage the technological strengths that Gurugram already possesses in comparison to Noida. The one in UP is more comprehensive since it will be the conventional film city with studios, residential areas and other things,” added Umashankar. Officials said depending on the venture’s success, the Pinjore Film City could be expanded to 200 acres. Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg said, “I welcome the announcement of setting up a Film City here. It is a great decision since it will add something new to Gurugram. Global City too is an ambitious project. It will completely change the economy of the area,” added Garg. Global City will come up on land acquired by the HSIIDC in Harsaru, Gadholi Khurd, Mohammadpur Jharsa and Khandsa, which are in sectors 36, 36B, 37 and 37B off the Dwarka expressway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/will-develop-global-city-as-ncrs-central-business-district-says-haryana-government/articleshow/81475256.cms||Vishakha Chaman
March 13, 2021||India||Remove 26 verses from Quran, says PIL, draws backlash||MUMBAI: A day after former chairman of the Shia Central Wakf Board in Uttar Pradesh Wasim Rizvi filed a PIL in Supreme Court seeking removal of 26 verses from the Quran, the Mumbai-based Raza Academy reached the apex court on Friday with a petition seeking dismissal of the PIL. The academy has also requested the court to pass strictures against Rizvi for hurting people’s sentiments. Rizvi in his petition has said that these 26 verses were allegedly inserted by three Caliphs (Abu Bakr, Umar and Usman) to enlarge their power and that these verses provoke violence and incite people to jihad. The SC is yet to admit the petition. The All-India Shia Personal Law Board and many other Muslim organisations have condemned Rizvi’s action and appealed to SC to dismiss the PIL as “Muslims will not accept any debate on authenticity and truthfulness of the Quranic verses.” “Nobody from Hazrat Imam Ali, the first imam of the Shias, to Imam Hussain or any other imam ever raised doubts over the veracity of the Quranic verses. “He is quoting out of context and trying to spread discord. The Supreme Court should throw out the PIL immediately,” said Shia Personal Law Board’s general secretary and spokesperson Maulana Yasoob Abbas. General secretary of All India Muslim Personal Law Board Maulana Mahmood Daryabadi said not a single word of the Quran has been changed over the last 14 centuries. “The Supreme Court should dismiss the PIL immediately. No verse of the Quran provokes people to violence. Wasim Rizvi is quoting the verses out of context,” said Daryabadi. Activist Abbas Kazmi said Wasim Rizvi has done it to create a rift between the Shias and Sunnis. “No Shia has ever said that there was any interpolation in the Quran. We believe it is a revealed book,” said Kazmi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/remove-26-verses-from-quran-says-pil-draws-backlash/articleshow/81477452.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
