March 14, 2021||India||Sachin Waze arrested by NIA for 'role in placing explosives-laden car' near Mukesh Ambani's house||MUMBAI: The National Investigation Agency (NIA), probing the last month's recovery of an explosives- laden vehicle from outside the south Mumbai home of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, arrested Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze after quizzing him for over 12 hours on Saturday night, a spokesperson said. Waze reached the agency's office at Cumballa Hill in south Mumbai around 11.30 am to record his statement. "Sachin Waze arrested at 2350 hrs in NIA Case RC/1/2021/NIA/MUM," the NIA spokesperson said. The NIA said Sachin Waze has been arrested for his role and involvement in placing explosives-laden vehicle near Carmichael Road on February 25. The Scorpio found parked near Ambani's house on Carmichael Road on February 25 contained some gelatin sticks and a threat letter. Waze, an "encounter specialist", has also been facing heat in the murder case of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran who was in possession of this Scorpio. Hiran was found dead in a creek in Thane district on March 5. The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) is investigating the Hiran murder case. It had registered an FIR against unidentified persons days after Hiran's body was found. While recording Waze's statement on Saturday, the NIA called crime branch ACP Nitin Alaknure and ATS ACP Shripad Kale to share information about the investigation done so far in the cases of recovery of the SUV and the alleged murder of Hiran. Alaknure and Kale left the NIA office after over four hours. Waze, accused by Hiran's wife of involvement in her husband's suspicious death, was shunted out of the Mumbai crime branch earlier this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ambani-security-scare-nia-arrests-police-officer-waze-after-12-hour-quizzing/articleshow/81487886.cms||---
March 13, 2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: New curbs coming for Mumbai, parts of Maharashtra||NEW DELHI: New restrictions are likely to be imposed in Mumbai and parts of the state on Tuesday as the second wave of Covid-19 infections shows no signs of ebbing. The curbs could include new attendance norms for offices and businesses, some control over crowds at temples and shrines, and fresh bars on social events – private and public. Mumbai on Saturday recorded its biggest single-day spike of this year with 1,709 new cases. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in an attempt to tell residents where the city was headed, tweeted that on January 11 this year, the city had recorded only 239 new cases. The figures for the state were no less worrying with 15,602 new cases and 88 deaths. Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Thane are currently the worst-affected districts in the state. The state contributed more than half of all cases recorded in the country. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was scheduled to spend the weekend meeting business heads; restaurant and hotel owners; and heads of big temples, churches and mosques. On Tuesday, he will hold consultations with key members of the state’s Covid-19 Task Force, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Health Minister Rajesh Tope and Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte. Thackeray, on more than one occasion in the past couple of weeks, has threatened to re-impose restrictions on movement of people and large gatherings if people refused to follow simple instructions like wearing masks in public and following social distancing. The BMC, meanwhile, has decided to increase the number of private hospitals involved in vaccination from 50 to 88 with the target to inoculate 100,000 people every day. A policy decision has been taken to eventually allow every hospital which has more than 50 beds to undertake vaccination. Top doctors and administrators on Saturday said reports of a new strain of Covid-19 being responsible for the spike are not true and it is only people’s callous approach to social distancing, wearing of masks and maintaining general hygiene that is contributing to the rampaging numbers. While lockdowns and curfews have been declared in some cities, including Nagpur, Amravati, and Parbhani, Thackeray on Tuesday is likely to announce new norms for micro lockdown and declaration of containment zones. The State Task Force head Dr Sanjay Oak said in terms of precautions Mumbai and other cities will have to go back to the discipline of last summer. “There is no question of a new strain. No evidence has been placed before the Task Force to indicate the rising numbers are attributable to a Covid-19 mutation,” he said. While the focus at this point is to ramp up vaccination, the advantage accrued due to this is being lost to the rapid increase in infections because of people rushing to resume their social lives. “Our estimate is that only when 80% of the state’s population is inoculated can we assume some sort of control over the situation, but we are nowhere near that,” he said. The Task Force has requested the state government to increase the number of vaccination centres. “New centres can set up in residential society complexes. We have also asked for mobile vans to provide door-to-door vaccination services,” Dr Oak said, adding that “people must understand that one infected person can infect 400 others. So, the virus is capable of beating our best efforts.” Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the Task Force, said while Maharashtra is undeniably in the grip of a second wave, detection of such large number of infections is also linked to the state’s capacity to test. Mumbai and the Metropolitan Region carry out over 20,000 tests every day, the highest of the country’s big cities. The ratio of RTPCT tests vis-à-vis antigen tests is also highest in Mumbai at 70:30. Another Task Force member Dr Shashank Joshi said the positivity rate has worryingly gone up from 2% to 7% in Mumbai and MMR region. “While earlier the norm was to trace 20 people for every primary infection, we have suggested this should be increased to 30 people for every primary infection. If more than 15 people are found to be positive in an area, that area should be sealed.” Dr Joshi said the Task Force has also asked BMC to enforce use of double masks in local trains and crowded places like markets. The silver lining, Dr Joshi said, is the low death rate -- 0.5% in Mumbai and 2.5% in the state. Measures imposed by the government Double masks recommended for travel by local trains 30 people to be traced for every primary infection Seal orders if more than 15 test positive in an area New norms for micro lockdowns, containment zones 38 more private hospitals to carry out vaccination||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-curbs-coming-for-mumbai-maharashtra/articleshow/81490648.cms||Lata Mishra
March 14, 2021||India||20.5 lakh vaccine doses given on Friday, highest in a day||NEW DELHI: India administered a record 20.53 lakh doses of Covid vaccines on Friday, the highest in a single day so far with UP accounting for the maximum number of inoculations at over 3.3 lakh doses. Eight states — UP, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Bihar, Kerala and Karnataka — accounted for 74% of the doses administered. The total count of doses given across the country till Saturday evening stood at over 2.91 crore with another 9.74 lakh doses administered till 7pm. Over 78.6 lakh beneficiaries aged 60 and above and 13.8 lakh between 45 and 59 years with specific co-morbidities have received shots till Saturday evening. Around 31.7% of the total 2.91 crore doses administered so far have been given to these two age-based prioritised population groups and these would be first shots for the recipients. While India currently uses two vaccines — Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield — under restricted emergency use, over half a dozen vaccines are in the pipeline and are going to be in use soon, health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday. "India has developed two vaccines, which have been given to 71 countries. Many more nations are seeking the vaccines, and these are not little-known nations… Canada, Brazil and other developed countries are using Indian vaccines with great zeal," Vardhan said. Some public health experts have expressed concern about variations in the daily count of doses and pointed at the urgent need to ramp up inoculation and increased availability of vaccines is key to augmenting immunisation coverage. The central government also maintains that it is up to states to increase the daily coverage steadily without impacting the non-Covid essential services and that there is no shortage at present to inoculate the identified priority population. Officials point out that all states do not have health infrastructure at par. "There are states where the private health system is not so strong or has limited presence. In such states, vaccination sessions are limited to a few days of the week. These states also lack round-the-clock sessions. Therefore, the uptake is less in such states," an official said. Of the total 2.91 crore doses, around 53.12 lakh were second doses to health and frontline workers — the count of people fully immunised now. Ten states, including UP, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and West Bengal, account for 69% of the second dose vaccinations. Vaccination on Friday had picked up after a gap of three days when fewer people were inoculated due to Mahashivratri on March 11. While India first crossed 20 lakh vaccine doses on March 8, it dropped for three consecutive days to a low of 4.8 lakh on March 11 (Thursday).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/20-5-lakh-vaccine-doses-given-on-friday-highest-in-a-day/articleshow/81488573.cms||Sushmi Dey
March 14, 2021||---||Eye on Bengal votes, PM Modi to visit Matua mandir in Bangladesh||KOLKATA: PM Narendra Modi is set to visit the Matua temple at Orakandi in Bangladesh on March 27, the second day of his two-day trip to the neighbouring country. During his visit on the invitation of PM Sheikh Hasina, Modi will attend the 50th anniversary celebrations of Bangladesh’s independence, birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and the 50th year of ties between the two nations. Matua face and BJP Bongaon MP Shantanu Thakur will be at Orakandi during Modi’s trip, the first such visit by an Indian PM. Read AlsoBangladesh set to welcome PM Modi for Golden Jubilee celebrationsBangladesh is all set to welcome world leaders, including Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to take part in the Golden Jubilee celebrations of the country's independence and also the birth centenary of Father of the Nation, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. The celebrations, which will takeOrakandi is the birthplace of Matua gurus Harichand Thakur and Guruchand Thakur and the cradle of the Matua Mahasangha that largely comprises Namasudras.. “We will have a huge gathering of Matua members. The PM will offer prayers at the temple,” said Thakur. After Rajbanshis in north Bengal, Matua is a Hindu religious sect that has been determining fates of candidates in at least seven seats in North 24 Parganas and Nadia. Most seats where the Matuas have considerable influence will go to polls in the fifth phase (April 17) and seventh phase (April 26). Since Independence, Matuas have been migrating from Orakandi to this part of Bengal, particularly in Thakurnagar in North 24 Parganas. This continued even after the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971. Harichand-Guruchand descendant P R Thakur was a Congress minister in 1962 while his widow Binapani Devi sided with Mamata Banerjee. Matuas largely shifted towards BJP during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls after Modi promised them the citizenship they have been demanding since 2003. Mamata too showered bounties on them. A large section of Matuas is still eyeing the implementation of the CAA that was put on the backburner after Union home minister Amit Shah announced that the Centre was committed to implementing CAA but only after “the vaccination process is over”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/eye-on-bengal-votes-pm-modi-to-visit-matua-mandir-in-bangladesh/articleshow/81488676.cms||---
March 14, 2021||India||Eye on Bengal votes, PM Modi to visit Matua mandir in Bangladesh||KOLKATA: PM Narendra Modi is set to visit the Matua temple at Orakandi in Bangladesh on March 27, the second day of his two-day trip to the neighbouring country. During his visit on the invitation of PM Sheikh Hasina, Modi will attend the 50th anniversary celebrations of Bangladesh’s independence, birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and the 50th year of ties between the two nations. Matua face and BJP Bongaon MP Shantanu Thakur will be at Orakandi during Modi’s trip, the first such visit by an Indian PM. Read AlsoBangladesh set to welcome PM Modi for Golden Jubilee celebrationsBangladesh is all set to welcome world leaders, including Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to take part in the Golden Jubilee celebrations of the country's independence and also the birth centenary of Father of the Nation, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. The celebrations, which will takeOrakandi is the birthplace of Matua gurus Harichand Thakur and Guruchand Thakur and the cradle of the Matua Mahasangha that largely comprises Namasudras.. “We will have a huge gathering of Matua members. The PM will offer prayers at the temple,” said Thakur. After Rajbanshis in north Bengal, Matua is a Hindu religious sect that has been determining fates of candidates in at least seven seats in North 24 Parganas and Nadia. Most seats where the Matuas have considerable influence will go to polls in the fifth phase (April 17) and seventh phase (April 26). Since Independence, Matuas have been migrating from Orakandi to this part of Bengal, particularly in Thakurnagar in North 24 Parganas. This continued even after the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971. Harichand-Guruchand descendant P R Thakur was a Congress minister in 1962 while his widow Binapani Devi sided with Mamata Banerjee. Matuas largely shifted towards BJP during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls after Modi promised them the citizenship they have been demanding since 2003. Mamata too showered bounties on them. A large section of Matuas is still eyeing the implementation of the CAA that was put on the backburner after Union home minister Amit Shah announced that the Centre was committed to implementing CAA but only after “the vaccination process is over”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/eye-on-bengal-votes-pm-modi-to-visit-matua-mandir-in-bangladesh/articleshow/81488764.cms||---
March 14, 2021||India||'Khela hobe': Game’s on in Assam too, with a twist||GUWAHATI: Trinamool Congress’s viral election jingle “Khela hobe (the game is on)” is resonating in Assam with some Congress improvisation and BJP gamesmanship. In the Bengali-majority constituencies, Congress candidates like former minister Rockybul Hussain have been treading the fine line between inspiration and copyright violation to own Mamata Banerjee’s chant. “Khela, khela, khela hobe, ei bar Congress sarkar hobe (the game is on, this time Congress will form government),” Hussain declared at a rally in Lumding on Saturday. “It’s ‘khela hobe’ for our candidates Swapan Kar (Lumding) and Debabrata Saha (Hojai),” he said. Not to be left behind, minister and BJP strategist Himanta Biswa Sarma turned around the slogan to project himself as a striker up against a non-existent goalkeeper. “Khela to hobe, kintu goalkeeper thakbe na. Ami khali shoot korte thakbo. Joto ta shambhab, toto ta goal hoye jaabe (The game will be played, but without a goalkeeper. I will only keep shooting at the goal and it’s more than likely the ball will hit the target).” Sarma may have been alluding to the West Bengal CM’s remark at a rally in her state a few days ago. “Khela hobe. Aami goalkeeper. Dekhi ke jete (The game is on. I will be the goalkeeper. Let us see who wins).” The slogan has also reverberated in ‘Independent’ territory. Riding the khela hobe wave, former BJP MLA Dilip Paul, contesting Silchar as an Independent, announced at a rally that he was up for the game. “Ei matite khela hobe, Dilip Paul er joi hobe (The game will be played on this ground and Dilip Paul will win).” The jingle, written by TMC spokesperson Debangshu Bhattacharya, went viral soon after it was uploaded on YouTube. Several variations have been released in Bengal since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/khela-hobe-games-on-in-assam-too-with-a-twist/articleshow/81488926.cms||Prabin Kalita
March 14, 2021||---||'Khela hobe': Game’s on in Assam too, with a twist||GUWAHATI: Trinamool Congress’s viral election jingle “Khela hobe (the game is on)” is resonating in Assam with some Congress improvisation and BJP gamesmanship. In the Bengali-majority constituencies, Congress candidates like former minister Rockybul Hussain have been treading the fine line between inspiration and copyright violation to own Mamata Banerjee’s chant. “Khela, khela, khela hobe, ei bar Congress sarkar hobe (the game is on, this time Congress will form government),” Hussain declared at a rally in Lumding on Saturday. “It’s ‘khela hobe’ for our candidates Swapan Kar (Lumding) and Debabrata Saha (Hojai),” he said. Not to be left behind, minister and BJP strategist Himanta Biswa Sarma turned around the slogan to project himself as a striker up against a non-existent goalkeeper. “Khela to hobe, kintu goalkeeper thakbe na. Ami khali shoot korte thakbo. Joto ta shambhab, toto ta goal hoye jaabe (The game will be played, but without a goalkeeper. I will only keep shooting at the goal and it’s more than likely the ball will hit the target).” Sarma may have been alluding to the West Bengal CM’s remark at a rally in her state a few days ago. “Khela hobe. Aami goalkeeper. Dekhi ke jete (The game is on. I will be the goalkeeper. Let us see who wins).” The slogan has also reverberated in ‘Independent’ territory. Riding the khela hobe wave, former BJP MLA Dilip Paul, contesting Silchar as an Independent, announced at a rally that he was up for the game. “Ei matite khela hobe, Dilip Paul er joi hobe (The game will be played on this ground and Dilip Paul will win).” The jingle, written by TMC spokesperson Debangshu Bhattacharya, went viral soon after it was uploaded on YouTube. Several variations have been released in Bengal since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/assam/khela-hobe-games-on-in-assam-too-with-a-twist/articleshow/81488834.cms||Prabin Kalita
March 14, 2021||India||UN confirms $10,000 donation from pro-Khalistan outfit||LONDON: The United Nations has received a $10,000 (Rs 7 lakh) “donation” from the pro-Khalistan group Sikhs for Justice, an outfit outlawed by India. SFJ is simultaneously lobbying the UN to set up a “commission of inquiry” to investigate alleged mistreatment of farmer protesters. A spokesperson for the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) in Geneva, told TOI: “We confirm we received a contribution of $ 10,000 on 1 March from an individual representing the Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) group via our online donation function. In general, we do not decline online contributions, unless they are from groups or individuals listed on UN sanctions lists or the organisation/individual is engaged in activities manifestly contrary to the UN Charter or its principles.” US-based Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, who has been designated a terrorist by India and is general counsel to the pro-Khalistan SFJ, which is behind Referendum 2020, said a further $1.3 million had been pledged from the Sikh community to establish a UN commission of inquiry (CoI) “to investigate India’s use of violence and sedition charges against protesting farmers”. “As of my knowledge the UN has not established the commission. But we are pursuing the matter through the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights,” Pannun said. CoIs are used to respond to situations of serious violations of international humanitarian law. There is one in place in Syria at present. Read AlsoSikh body slams banned Khalistan outfit over ‘referendum’NEW DELHI: The US-based pro-Khalistan group Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), which is a banned outfit, has asked Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee to facilitate the registration of Sikh voters at two city-based gurdwaras for a referendum in November on the secession of Punjab from India. A large“There is no plan for any such CoI on India being undertaken by the OHCHR,” the spokesperson said. “Most COIs are officially set up with a specific mandate by the 47 member states of the UN Human Rights Council, and have a budget attached which states agree upon. Any contribution made online by individuals or groups does not oblige OHCHR to carry out any specific activity, especially ones that have not already been decided upon by us and do not exist,” he said. “We have communicated the fact that there is no relevant CoI in existence to the Sikhs for Justice and offered to return their $10,000 contribution if they had any false understanding about how it would be used. In response, the group has instead agreed to allow their contribution to be added to our “unearmarked” income — i.e. money that is used by us to carry out a variety of important general work already decided on and budgeted by the Office,” the OHCHR spokesperson said. Read AlsoIndia slams farm protest debate in House of Commons, says packed with false assertionsThe Indian government slammed a debate held in the House of Commons on press freedom and safety of farmer protesters in India, saying it was one-sided and packed with false assertions. The High Commission of India in London issued a statement immediately after the debate held in Westminster Hall atThe SFJ has also launched a secure portal to collect data on anyone who has “suffered mistreatment at the hands of Indian officials for supporting the farmers’ protest”. The portal claims this data is being sent directly to the OHCHR in Geneva. When asked about this, the spokesperson said: “OHCHR receives information through many channels” and they had "very strict methodology” to evaluate such information. Read AlsoBanned outfit &amp; PJF joined hands to spread unrest in country: CopsNEW DELHI: The investigation into the controversial toolkit case has indicated that banned outfit Sikhs For Justice had joined hands with London-based Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) sometime in 2019-20 to spread unrest in Delhi and other parts of the country, according to police sources. For this“We also engage with government authorities as appropriate. We have received many submissions from the Indian farmers’ movement, but we are not part of any organised information-gathering effort. One important additional point to note is that civil society organisations should be protected from any form of reprisal for their engagement with ourselves or with the other UN human rights mechanisms which receive and act on complaints and submissions,” the OHCHR spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/un-confirms-10000-donation-from-pro-khalistan-outfit/articleshow/81489226.cms||NAOMI CANTON
March 14, 2021||India||SC slams Himachal HC for its ‘incomprehensible’ judgment||SHIMLA: A Supreme Court bench comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah expressed displeasure on Friday at the incomprehensible manner of writing of a Himachal Pradesh high court judgment. It was hearing a special leave petition arising out of an order passed by a division bench of that high court. The apex court bench said it was constrained to observe that the language in the judgment of the high court was incomprehensible. It added that such orders of the high court as in the present case do a disservice to the cause of ensuring accessible and understandable justice to citizens. The Supreme Court bench said judgments are intended to convey the reasoning and process of thought that lead to the final conclusion of the adjudicating forum. It said the purpose of writing a judgment is to communicate the basis of the decision not only to members of the bar, who appear in the case, and to others to whom it serves as a precedent, but, above all, to provide meaning to citizens who approach courts to pursue their remedies under the law. It said that since the HC has affirmed the award of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal (CGIT), it has been able to arrive at an understanding of the basic facts from the order that was challenged before the HC. “From the record of the court, more particularly the award of the CGIT, it emerges that though a serious charge of misconduct was held to be established against the respondent, it has been interfered with and the high court has dismissed the petition under Article 226,” it added. The apex court observed in the order that the reasons set out in the judgment of the division bench of the HC dismissing the petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution fill 18 pages but are incomprehensible. It has ordered that till the next date of listing there shall be a stay of the operation of the impugned judgment and order of the HC dated November 27 last year, and that no coercive steps shall be taken against the petitioners on the basis of the award of the CGIT dated July 9, 2019. The Himachal HC, by its order dated November 27 last year, had affirmed the CGIT order. In the order, while concluding that the first charge of misconduct against the respondent was proved, interfered with the penalty of dismissal only on the grounds that it was harsh and disproportionate to the misconduct. Hence, the penalty of dismissal was modified to that of compulsory retirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-slams-himachal-hc-for-its-incomprehensible-judgment/articleshow/81489785.cms||---
March 14, 2021||India||J&K govt schools must have tricolour on their signboards||SRINAGAR: The J&K administration has directed all government schools across the Union territory to have signboards with the tricolour in the background and adopt ‘grey and white’ colour scheme for school buildings, an official spokesman said on Saturday. Through a government order (GO), the school education department has directed all the heads of the institutions to install “signboards of a standard design with the tricolour in the background”, besides adopting the “grey and white colour scheme” for school buildings, the spokesman said. An officer of the rank of deputy director has been appointed to district-wise monitor compliance with the directive. Schools have to complete the activity by April 30 and submit weekly reports to the administrative department, he said. A senior official in the department said that a format for the schools to submit details of the progress has already been drawn up. “The initiative was started in February this year and most of the schools have begun working on it,” he said. In January this year, the J&K administration had made hoisting of the tricolour a must for all government buildings on Republic Day. Till the scrapping of J&K’s special status under Article 370 in August 2019, the erstwhile state had its own flag, besides the national flag. Its red flag with a plough and three stripes is no longer in use. J&K had also adopted a separate Constitution in 1956, under which it was permitted to fly its own flag, which it did till August 5, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-govt-schools-must-have-tricolour-on-their-signboards/articleshow/81489838.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 14, 2021||India||As India keeps Sri Lanka on tenterhooks at UNHRC, President Gotabaya dials PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Following recent tensions in ties, not least because of Sri Lanka's decision to cancel an agreement with India and Japan for jointly developing the East Container Terminal (ECT) at the Colombo port, PM Narendra Modi and President Gotabaya Rajapaksa spoke Saturday with the former underlining the significance of the island nation for India's Neighbourhood First policy. Significantly, Rajapaksa's call to Modi took place in the middle of the ongoing UN Human Rights Council session where another resolution on alleged war crimes and human rights violations in Sri Lanka will come up for vote later this month. Unlike China, which has defended India's strategically located neighbour in the Indian Ocean , India's position has been fairly ambiguous with the government signalling that support from India is not a foregone conclusion. Even as Lankan authorities dialled India for support, India said last month at the UNHRC that delivering on the legitimate aspirations of the Tamil community was in the best interests of Sri Lanka. The government also called upon Sri Lanka to take necessary steps for addressing such aspirations, including through the process of reconciliation and full implementation of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution of Sri Lanka. The same had been said by foreign minister S Jaishankar when he visited Sri Lanka earlier this year. While there was no readout offered by the Lankan government of the conversation Saturday, the MEA said in a statement that the leaders reviewed topical developments and the ongoing cooperation between both countries in bilateral and multilateral forums. "They agreed to maintain regular contact between relevant officials, including in the context of the continuing COVID-19 challenges," said the foreign ministry statement. In complete contrast to India's position, China, known for its proximity to the Rajapaksas, has appreciated the Lankan government's "efforts to promote human rights and economic and social development, to protect vulnerable groups and advance national reconciliation and fight against terrorism". Beijing has also said it against politicisation of human rights and against "applying double standards or using it to interfere in the affairs of other countries". India though has said its "consistent position" rests on support for Sri Lanka’s unity and territorial integrity and also "abiding commitment" to aspirations of the Tamils for equality, justice, peace and dignity. "We believe that respecting the rights of the Tamil community, including through meaningful devolution, contributes directly to the unity and integrity of Sri Lanka," said India in its statement last month, adding that assessment of the UN High Commissioner for human rights Michelle Bachelet regarding developments in Sri Lanka since 2009 12 raised important concerns. Giving nothing away, it has asked for the Council to be guided by a commitment to find a lasting and effective solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-india-keeps-sri-lanka-on-tenterhooks-at-unhrc-president-gotabaya-dials-pm-modi/articleshow/81489841.cms||Sachin Parashar
March 14, 2021||Bengaluru||Ramesh Jarkiholi files complaint in sex CD case||BENGALURU: Ramesh Jarkiholi, who recently resigned as minister following the sex CD case, filed a complaint with Sadashivanagar police on Saturday, alleging it was a conspiracy hatched by several persons to finish his political career and extort money from him. Barely hours after his complaint, a woman released a video clip, stating she did not have any political support and sought police protection. Jarkiholi: It’s a conspiracy to finish me politically and extort moneyJarkiholi’s complaint, which comes 11 days after the scandal, read: “Unidentified persons have conspired to finish me politically and extort money from me. The conspiracy, which is three months old, was hatched at Sadashivanagar. The conspirators created a fake CD and harassed me mentally. They tried to extort money from me. There are many persons behind the conspiracy and using others, the CD was uploaded to social media to create political instability. Please initiate legal action,” Jarakiholi has stated in his complaint. Based on his statement, police registered a First Information Report under the following sections of the Indian Penal Code — 120B (hatching criminal conspiracy), 385E(extortion), 465 (forgery) and 469 (forging document and forging electronic material). SIT continues searchMeanwhile, sleuths of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) visited four houses (in Bengaluru, Devanahalli, Tumakuru and Bidar) to get information on those behind the making and leak of the controversial tape to the media. “We had a search warrant from the court. We seized some important documents, including photos, during the raids. Three persons have remained incommunicado and their mobile phones are switched off. We’re looking for them for their alleged involvement in the making and editing of the CD,” an investigating officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/jarkiholi-files-complaint-in-sex-cd-case/articleshow/81490000.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Bengaluru||Pronounced guilty by seekers of TRP: Disha Ravi||BENGALURU: Climate activist Disha Ravi, who is out on bail in the toolkit case linked to the farmers’ protests, said the episode of her arrest and the furore it unleashed made her question when “it became a crime to think (that) the most basic elements of sustenance on this planet were as much mine as theirs”. In a statement posted on her social media pages, the 22-year-old said she felt her autonomy had been violated and she had been pronounced guilty by “seekers of TRPs”. Read full story||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pronounced-guilty-by-seekers-of-trp-disha/articleshow/81490004.cms||---
March 14, 2021||India||Covid -ve report not needed for Kumbh, says new Uttarakhand CM||DEHRADUN: CM Tirath Singh Rawat in one of his first interviews after taking over as Uttarakhand’s new CM, told TOI on Saturday that pilgrims would not need to bring RTPCR Covid-19 test report while coming for Kumbh Mela, officially commencing from April 1 to April 30 in Haridwar. The state government under Trivendra Singh Rawat had issued SOPs making the RT-PCR test report mandatory for pilgrims. The CM said he had taken the decision to remove the requirement of Covid test reports since “there were doubts among people planning to visit Haridwar for Kumbh and, thus, it is imperative to remove all their apprehensions.” He said, “Kumbh happens only after 12 years. We don’t want people to miss out on the opportunity of experiencing the festival.” Rawat said it was also not practically possible to conduct the RT-PCR test or check the negative reports as lakhs of people would come to Kumbh daily. “All we want is the happiness of saints, devotees, traders and locals. We will ensure that Covid-19 norms are followed and the required health infrastructure is available for Kumbh,” he said. Asked if he had any inkling that he would be given the CM’s responsibility, Rawat said, “I didn’t have a clue. When central party members held a meeting in Dehradun, I went to attend it like the others. I am thankful to the party leadership.” He pointed out that education, tourism, infrastructure and health were his focus areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-ve-report-not-needed-for-kumbh-says-new-uttarakhand-cm/articleshow/81489983.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 14, 2021||---||Yashwant Sinha joins TMC, recalls Didi’s 'hostage offer'||KOLKATA: Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s finance minister for two terms, Yashwant Sinha, joined his former railway minister Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress in Kolkata on Saturday with a hitherto undisclosed blast from the past — that the Bengal CM, as part of the second NDA government in 1999, had offered to be a hostage as part of a negotiation strategy during the Kandahar hijacking crisis. “She has always been a fighter. I want to tell you today that when the Indian Airlines flight (IC-814) was hijacked by terrorists and they flew it to Kandahar, Mamataji offered to go there as a hostage,” Sinha said at Trinamool Bhavan, claiming she made the offer at a cabinet meeting. “Her condition was that the other hostages had to be released. She was ready to make the ultimate sacrifice for the country.” Sinha, who quit BJP in 2018, accepted the Trinamool flag from three party seniors — Sudip Bandyopadhyay, Derek O’Brien and Subrata Mukherjee. He then went to Mamata’s Kalighat residence with O’Brien and was there for over 45 minutes before formally sealing his ties with Trinamool. “The tipping point was the attack (the alleged Nandigram incident in which Mamata hurt her left foot). This (BJP) government can do anything to win an election,” Sinha said. “I have worked with Mamataji in Vajpayeeji’s government, and we will again work together to save democracy,” he said. Expressing doubts over the Election Commission’s role in ensuring fair elections, Sinha said, “I say it with a lot of responsibility that the EC is no longer a neutral body.” It remains to be seen what impact Sinha’s joining Trinamool will have. Party seniors, however, view it as “a big morale-booster” before the polls, “given his standing among people from Bihar and Jharkhand”. “The country is facing an unprecedented situation. The strength of democracy lies in the strength of the institutions of democracy. All these institutions, including the judiciary, have become weak now,” Sinha said. His 2018 book, ‘India Unmade’, seeks to explain how the first Modi government allegedly contributed to “unmaking” India on the economic front. The former Union finance and external affairs minister said the Bengal polls were crucial not only for the state but also for the country. “PM Vajpayee could add to the BJP family. He believed in consensus. But today’s government believes in crushing and conquering. The Akalis and BJD have left BJP. Who stands with BJP today?” His son, Jayant Sinha, remains a BJP MP from Hazaribagh (Jharkhand). Bengal BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya didn’t say beyond Sinha’s role as a Union minister. “Sinha was a senior minister and made significant contributions to the government,” he said. On Sinha’s comments about the EC’s role, Bhattacharya said, “Trinamool has the ability to make people speak its language. I hope the veteran politician realises that soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/yashwant-sinha-joins-tmc-recalls-didis-hostage-offer/articleshow/81490052.cms||---
March 14, 2021||India||$70m digital artwork’s mystery buyer is Singapore-based desi||The art world was left scratching its head on who forked out $69.3 million for what is essentially a JPG file made by Mike Winkelmann, the digital artist known as Beeple, in a Christie’s auction on Thursday. Now, the mystery seems to have been solved with the buyer turning out to be a Singapore-based coder of Indian origin, who paid for it with cryptocurrency, and goes by the pseudonym Metakovan. Metakovan, who is of Tamil descent, is the founder of Metapurse, a fund that collects non-fungible tokens or NFTs. NFTs signal ownership and authenticity of digital art by recording the sale through blockchain technology. Metakovan describes himself as a crypto native who did not have a bank account till recently and still does not own a house or car, according to a recent interview. He started in cryptocurrency in 2013 when Bitcoin was about $100. The coder was given the name Metakovan by his mom. "When I was describing what I was doing, she came up with the name… Metakovan means king of meta in Tamil." The buyer, who did not reveal his name or which city he came from, told an interviewer on Clubhouse that he had lived briefly in Canada, then North America till 2017 but left because of "unclear regulations and tax". He is now based in Singapore. "My favourite place is my hometown. I almost feel like I am in exile, I don’t get that luxury to live with my mom, I don’t get that food… but we want to create something huge," he says. A history buff and a movie producer in the real world, Metakovan feels that NFTs could help redistribute wealth in the world. "It is technology that brings change like the discovery of oil. When some new technology comes up, there is a possibility of redistribution of wealth," he says. Quoting Thiruvalluvar, he says, "I believe in good virtues. Just as a lotus in a pond rises up when lifted by a flood of water, similarly, people with good virtues rise up." The New York Times reported that Metakovan's fund was acquiring a wide variety of NFTs. "We see NFTs as a larger space; there are so many different kinds," Metakovan, who started his collection in 2016 by buying land in virtual worlds, told NYT. In 2019, he paid about $111,000 in an auction for "1-1-1", the first digital car for the blockchain game F1@Delta Time. It was the highest price NFT sold that year. Last December, Metakovan’s collection also acquired a complete collection of 20 Beeple NFT works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/70m-digital-artworks-mystery-buyer-is-singapore-based-desi/articleshow/81490058.cms||Himanshi Dhawan
March 14, 2021||Patna||Opposition MLAs march to Raj Bhavan, urge guv to sack govt||PATNA: Many MLAs of the opposition comprising RJD, Congress and Left parties on Saturday staged a protest march from the Vidhan Sabha premises to the Raj Bhavan after leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav was not allowed in the assembly to raise the issue of seizure of several cartons of illicit liquor from a school allegedly owned by the brother of state cabinet minister Ram Surat Kumar. The protest march was led by Tejashwi. After reaching near the Raj Bhavan, the opposition MLAs sat on a dharna before the statue of the first President of India Dr Rajendra Prasad for around 30 minutes. Later, a delegation of opposition leaders went inside the Raj Bhavan and submitted a memorandum to governor Phagu Chauhan, seeking “immediate dismissal” of the state government for “working beyond the provisions laid down in the Constitution.” “In the ongoing Budget session of the assembly, the cabinet ministers are repeatedly making attempts to dictate the chair of the Speaker. Voices of opposition MLAs are not being heard. They are not being given opportunities to raise the issue of public importance in the assembly. The state government is violating the dignity of the Constitution in the assembly,” the opposition leaders said in a memorandum submitted to the governor. Tejashwi later told reporters that during the pre-lunch session in the assembly, Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha gave him two-minute time to speak. “As I began raising the issue of seizure of several cartons of illicit liquor from the school run by the cabinet minister’s brother, deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad tried to dictate the chair of the Speaker, who then prevented me from raising the issue of liquor seizure,” Tejashwi alleged. Tejashwi alleged the school is named after cabinet minister Ram Surat’s father Arjun Rai and it is owned by the minister’s brother Premchand Lok alias Hanslal Rai. While showing some documents, electricity bill of the school and photographs of a school function at a press conference, Tejshawi countered the minister’s previous claim that he had no relation with his brother and school owner Hanslal Rai. Tejashwi said the minister attended a function at the school in 2017 and he could be seen sitting with his brother during the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opposition-mlas-march-to-raj-bhavan-urge-guv-to-sack-govt/articleshow/81487374.cms||Madan Kumar
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||CBSE’s AISC initiative to empower students||Nagpur: CBSE has tied up with tech giant Intel to launch an online community for students to create artificial intelligence-enabled social impact solutions. The AI Student Community (AISC) will be open to school students across the country and is envisaged as online forum where school students can learn, share and leverage AI-related knowledge. This program will also allow students to participate in online challenges, test their knowledge and also upgrade themselves. CBSE hopes that students will share their experiences through blogs and connect with the other students from across the country. A moderator curated forum will also be active on the site where students can discuss or deliberate on relevant AI topics. Apart from learning, students will be able to benchmark their knowledge with global peers. AISC will provide students the opportunity to participate in national and international competitions. Registration is free and can be done by accessing the AISC tab on www.cbseacademic.nic.in Once registered, students will be able to learn AI as a skill, and its application for social impact projects through real time webinars with Intel AI certified coaches and experts. This will also enable access to AI learning resources curated from across the world. Through this exclusive online forum, registered students will also be able to attend webinars and face- -to-face boot camps for enhancing their AI skills. An official statement from CBSE says this will be a “youth-driven platform to encourage learning communities.” The central board says AISC will be a common ground for students to come together for learning and sharing experiences. For creating social impact solutions, CBSE hopes that students will leverage peer knowledge, courtesy the vast information sharing that will happen on the platform.  The board is also hoping that AISC will help in spreading AI awareness in an inclusive way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbses-aisc-initiative-to-empower-students/articleshow/81488210.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Drunk pvt bus driver held, vehicle seized||Hyderabad: For the first time in about three months, a private bus driver was caught by the traffic police for driving under the influence of alcohol during a special drive held here on Friday night. G Govardhanagiri (51) of Anantapur district was driving a bus from the city to Hindupur in Andhra Pradesh. When the bus carrying about five passengers reached the YMCA, Narayanguda at around 10.45 pm, the vehicle was pulled over by the police. “When we checked him, we found his BAC level at 47 mg/100 ml as against the permissible BAC level of 35 mg/100 ml. Five passengers were travelling in the bus,” said B Chandra Mohan, inspector (traffic), Narayanguda. A case has been registered against the driver and the vehicle was seized. The detention of the drunken bus driver has shocked several passengers who regularly travel in these vehicles. Road safety experts TOI spoke to have urged the police to check drivers of these long-distance buses frequently to ensure the safety of public. “It is not an isolated incident as many drivers of long-distance buses often drive under the influence of alcohol without realising the risk involved in their act. An observation of drivers for a few minutes will tell you if he has consumed liquor or not. The police should do these checks on a regular basis at passenger pick-up points, near schools, colleges and on highways,” said Vinod Kumar Kanumala, founder of the Indian Federation of Road Safety. In a similar incident in November last year, Cyberabad police arrested the driver of a bus belonging to a private college for causing the death of a biker in an accident at Jeedimetla while driving under the effect of alcohol. The police found that he was driving the bus at a very high speed in a drunken state, following which a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder was registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-pvt-bus-driver-held-vehicle-seized/articleshow/81488211.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Vijayawada||VMC results: 176 tables, three rounds of counting for 64 divisions||VIJAYAWADA: All eyes are now on Andhra Loyola College where counting of votes for 64 divisions of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) are scheduled to take place on Sunday. Authorities have made elaborate arrangements for the counting and arranged 176 tables for counting. The counting process will be conducted in three rounds with counting of voters for 1 to 23 divisions to take place in the first round. After declaring results, votes polled in 24 to 46 divisions will be counted in the second round. Finally, counting of votes polled in 47 to 64 divisions will be counted in the final round. Counting tables were arranged at Loyola Auditorium and the new administration block of the college. Officials said they have adopted this system to avoid confusion. “Counting process will be conducted in a fair and transparent manner. CCTV cameras are installed at every table for surveillance. Counting staff will clear doubts and objections raised by political parties,” said a senior VMC official. Officials estimate that the first round of results will be declared at around 11 am on Sunday. City police have deployed three-layer security at the counting centre and announced that only counting agents of political parties with valid passes will be permitted into the counting stations. Officials imposed section 144 in areas around Andhra Loyola College and announced that shops and establishments will remain closed. Rallies and celebrations of political parties have been prohibited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vmc-results-176-tables-three-rounds-of-counting-for-64-divs/articleshow/81487501.cms||Venu Lanka
March 14, 2021||Patna||‘Bihar govt to improve infrastructural facilities in all colleges’||PATNA: The state government will soon draw a new road map for ensuring proper dissemination of quality education in universities and colleges, education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary tells B K Mishra in an interview. Excerpts: What’s the need of preparing a new blueprint of higher education in the state?As the higher education institutions in the state have not been able to catch up with the changing times despite huge investment of the government, there is a need to redraw its existing framework for the betterment. It has also become necessary in view of the various provisions made in the New Education Policy (NEP) of the Centre. Where does our present system falter?Even though our boys and girls are talented and they invariably perform well at the national level, higher education institutions in the state have failed to come up at national level. Only a few colleges have been accredited with good grades by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) in recent years even as many colleges and universities have not yet volunteered for NAAC assessment. Sincere efforts will be made to improve the academic and infrastructural facilities in colleges and prepare them well for the NAAC’s assessment. The existing libraries, laboratories and sanitation facilities will be modernised and strengthened for the benefit of common students. How do you plan to bring in the desired changes in the system?The state higher education council has constituted its various statutory committees, including academic reforms committee, quality assurance cell, committee for IT and information communication technology, state-level NAAC committee and committee for implementation of NEP. These committees comprising vice-chancellors, deans of faculties and principals of colleges would become fully functional soon and start working towards yielding a better result. Meanwhile, the council has been asked to coordinate with the UGC for provision of more financial grants to the colleges for their development under Rashtriya Uchhtar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA). What are the plans of the government to enhance the state’s gross enrolment ratio (GER) in higher education? The government has decided to open at least one plus two school in every panchayat. Besides, the sanctioned strength of students in colleges and universities will be increased with appropriate teaching staff and infrastructural facilities. Distance education and online education will also be encouraged for increasing the GER.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-improve-infrastructural-facilities-in-all-colleges/articleshow/81487468.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Engineer of building construction department caught taking bribe||PATNA: A vigilance team on Saturday arrested a superintending engineer of building construction department, Ranjan Prasad Kumar, from his office in Saran district on charges of accepting Rs 1.30 lakh as bribe. The vigilance team also recovered Rs 10 lakh in cash and gold jewellery from the engineer’s rented accommodation in Patna. Kumar is posted at Chhapra, the district headquarters of Saran. Acting on a complaint lodged by a contractor Indrajeet Kumar Singh, a trap team led by DSP S K Mauar raided the office of the superintending engineer and arrested him while he was allegedly taking Rs 1.30 lakh as bribe from the complainant. Sources said Kumar had demanded Rs 3 lakh as bribe from the contractor for clearing a revised estimate of renovation of the building of the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/engineer-of-building-construction-dept-caught-taking-bribe/articleshow/81487294.cms||Ramashankar
March 14, 2021||Patna||‘Four Patna hospitals to be made autonomous health institutes’||PATNA: Health minister Mangal Pandey said in the state assembly on Saturday that the government has decided to convert four hospitals in Patna into superspecialty autonomous health institutes besides establishing Bihar University of Health Sciences (BUHS) in 2021-22 fiscal for overseeing medical education in the state. The four hospitals concerned are Rajendra Nagar Eye Hospital, New Gardiner Road Hospital, Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narayan Hospital (Rajbanshi Nagar) and Gardanibagh Hospital. The minister was giving the government’s reply to the House debate on the Rs 13,264-crore budgetary demand of the health department for 2021-22. The House passed the budget by voice vote amid walkout by the opposition members. Pandey said that the government has also decided to construct a building for the attendants of patients coming to All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna. “To provide sophisticated treatment to children born with heart ailment, an arrangement has been made at Prashanti Medical Research Foundation, Rajkot (Gujarat),” Pandey said, adding infrastructure and other facilities will also be created to give matching medical and healthcare to such children at Indira Gandhi Institute of Cardiology and Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna. The minister said district hospitals in 13 districts – Bhagalpur, Begusarai, Gaya, Gopalganj, Madhepura, Muzaffarpur, Munger, Nalanda, Patna, Rohtas, Samastipur, Siwan and Saran – would be converted into model hospitals in future. “The health department will procure 1,000 ambulances to serve people in urban areas,” Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-patna-hospitals-to-be-made-autonomous-health-institutes/articleshow/81487454.cms||Abhay Singh
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||Neurosurgeon back in OT after 6-week Covid battle||Kolkata: When she is not busy with the scalpel conducting challenging neurosurgeries on critical patients she picks up her camera and heads out to don the role of a shutterbug. But Covid-19 had almost snatched away her two loves — neurosurgery and photography. The 49-year-old doctor, Sanghamitra Sarkar, however, fought it off with six weeks in hospital including 24 days on ECMO support. On Saturday, the neurosurgeon picked up the scalpel for the first time after recovering. She is hopeful of taking up her camera again too. “I still have some weakness in my lower limbs. But with the help of supportive colleagues and their encouragement, I could perform a brain surgery after so many months. I feel all the more alive after being able to go back to the OT,” Sarkar told TOI. The associate professor of neurosurgery at Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital (CNMCH), who is also an acclaimed photographer with many national and international prizes to her name, got the infection in the first week of December last year. She was initially admitted to Medical College and Hospital, but despite being on ventilation for seven days, her condition kept deteriorating. Sarkar was then shifted to Medica Superspecialty Hospital on December 7, where she was immediately put on ECMO support. “The Covid pneumonia was so bad that even after three weeks on ECMO, we saw no improvement. Thankfully, we did not give up and we were helped by the doctor’s own fighting spirit. She started improving gradually from the fourth week. Otherwise, a lung transplant would have been the only other option. The positivity in her also helped a lot in the battle,” said ECMO specialist Arpan Chakraborty. Sarkar was taken off ECMO support after 24 days. The critical care team, lead by Dipanjan Chatterjee, ensured a speedy recovery after the ECMO treatment. Sarkar was discharged from hospital on January 11. Once home, she had to undergo rehabilitation therapy so she could start walking again before she going back to her hospital duty at CNMCH on February 25. “I had started seeing patients in the OPD and the wards, and also had been taking classes since I went back to work. But nothing satisfies me more than taking up surgeries,” said Sarkar who is one the few woman neurosurgeons in the country. On Saturday, Sarkar, along her team, removed a brain tumour from a patient at the state-run medical college. “Hats off to the indomitable spirit of this neurosurgeon and the great efforts put up by the critical care team. Her case was one of the toughest. Stories like her recovery will keep inspiring doctors to keep working harder,” said cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar, senior vice-chairman at Medica. “Right now, I am not in the position to pick up the camera and other heavy accessories. But this phase, too, will get over. I am eagerly waiting for the day when I can pick up my camera and head outdoors to pursue my passion,” said Sarkar, whose tribal photography has received accolades from many agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/neurosurgeon-back-in-ot-after-6-week-covid-battle/articleshow/81487748.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Punters bet big on GVMC mayor’s post||Visakhapatnam: With the results of municipal elections just round the corner, punters are cashing in on speculation and placing bets on the mayor’s seat and the number of seats likely to be won by TDP and YSRC. For the mayor’s seat, the odds are 1:3 for TDP and 1:1.50 for YSRC. While punters are betting YSRC would bag over 60 wards, many are betting that TDP would get below 40 seats or above 50 seats . “This time, one cannot expect or analyse the results because the agitations around Vizag Steel Plant picked up momentum a couple of days before polling. More than 20 wards in Gajuwaka are up in arms against the central government as well as the state government,” a punter said on condition of anonymity. It will be recalled that only 60 of polling took place in the GVMC elections, that is, 10 lakh votes were polled for 98 wards comprising 18 lakh voters. This may spoil the TDP’s chances, some analysts said. While both YSRC and TDP have pinned their hopes on the mayor’s seat, the Jana Sena may be a crucial factor in many wards and can change results if it corners 500 to 1,500 votes in 10 to 15 wards. Meanwhile, YSRC national general secretary V Vijayasai Reddy said the party would win the mayor’s seat and gift it to chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/punters-bet-big-on-gvmc-mayors-post/articleshow/81487473.cms||Siva G
March 14, 2021||Patna||Two-day Patna Mind Fest begins||PATNA: Platinum Three, the team comprising Akshay Kumar, Jyotiraditya Goswami and Anand, won the India Quiz on the first day of two-day Patna Mind Fest 2021, which began at Bihar Museum here on Saturday. Abhihsek, Shashwat and Vivek of ‘3 Idiots 2.0’ team bagged the second position. The team of Misu Sinha, Arun Pratap Narayan and Sumant Kumar Sinha stood third. As many as 98 teams participated in the quiz contest. The team of Nikhil Nitesh, Rohit Kamal and Priyanshu Pradyot emerged the winner of ‘Dumb Charade’, the second contest of the day. Team Bingo comprising Tanya, Shriti Rani and Puja Kumari secured the second spot and team APS2 of Karan, Kislay and Swetank won the third position. As many as 74 teams participated in the preliminary round. Eight teams qualified for the onstage final. The last contest of the day was ‘Word Bee’, which tested participants on their skills in word play. As many as 54 teams took part in this event. On the concluding day on Sunday, the fest will witness Cryptic Crossword and General Quiz contests. Balamurugan D, chief executive officer of Jeevika, IG (prisons) Mithilesh Mishra, Patna zoo director Satyajeet Kumar and director of primary education Ranjeet Kumar Singh inaugurated the event. Vivek Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, revenue and land reforms department, was also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-day-patna-mind-fest-begins/articleshow/81487438.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Traders catch AMC teams off guard at Khau Gulli||Ahmedabad: A joint enforcement team (JET) and the officials of the solid waste department of the AMC had a tough time enforcing social distancing at the Khau Gali near the Law Garden on Saturday. According to sources, when the officials tried to convince the shopkeepers to follow the social distancing norms, the traders showed them videos of the recently held cricket matches at the Narendra Modi Stadium in Motera. “Are social distancing norms being followed at these cricket events,” the traders countered the AMC officials when told to strictly obey the rules on mask and distancing at the food street. On Monday, the civic body had launched a major drive to enforce Covid-19 protocol after the state and the city reported steep rise in new Covid cases, especially in the western parts of the city. Apart from sealing several eateries, the AMC’s solid waste department ordered the eateries at the Happy Street in Law Garden area, and at Vastrapur Lake to close down. The officials said that they had photographs of eatery employees and the customers standing close to each other without wearing masks. On Saturday, the JET teams spanned out in various parts of the city and took action against those traders who were not following social distancing. The teams first carried out raids in the IIM-A and Vastrapur Lake areas. Heated arguments ensued as soon as the civic body officials started taking action against the traders. A shopkeeper refusing to be quoted said, “We asked the officials if corona was spreading only through the traders and if the matches at the Narendra Modi Stadium were not spreading corona. The officers did not have the answer.” The shopkeepers said that the team was showed videos of the crowds at the matches and quotes of doctors who had said that allowing 50% public at the T20 matches would increase corona cases in the city. Sensing trouble, the team immediately left the spot only to return with a police force. The officers said that a major drive to check violations will be launched on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/traders-catch-amc-teams-off-guard-at-khau-gulli/articleshow/81488467.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 fears: ‘Keep beggars out of court’in Mumbai||Mumbai: Taking objection to production of beggars in court without precautions or Covid-19 tests, a Kurla magistrate court last week said either they should not be brought before it during the pandemic or precautions should be taken. The court said despite the pandemic beggars from all over the city were being brought to court daily. The court said 200-250 beggars are brought to court. “Most are Covid-19 positive, despite that beggars are being taken without Covid reports,” it said. Due to lack of precautions beggars with symptoms come in contact with other beggars, all lives are at stake. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-fears-keep-beggars-out-of-courtin-mumbai/articleshow/81488885.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||All eyes on AU for GVMC counting||Visakhapatnam: Visakhapatnam district officials have made elaborate arrangements for the counting of votes polled in elections to the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation. For the counting process, eight separate buildings of Andhra University have been chosen for all eight zones of the city. The result of the 40th ward, which registered only 19% voting, is likely to be announced first. The counting would be simultaneously conducted in 98 different rooms for all 98 wards of the city. Officials have set up digital screens to announce the results of each round. Officials expect that counting for a few wards may stretch late into the night, particularly those which opted for re-counting. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/all-eyes-on-au-for-gvmc-counting/articleshow/81487512.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: 30 candidates to battle it out in polls to two MLC seats today||VIJAYAWADA: All arrangements are in place for polling on Sunday to MLC seats in two teachers’ constituencies. The two seats from East Godavari-West Godavari and Krishna-Guntur teachers’ constituencies will fall vacant on March 29, with the retirement of Ramu Surya Rao and A S Rama Krishna, respectively. The State Election Commission has made arrangements for polling in 116 polling stations in the two Godavari districts and 111 polling stations in Krishna-Guntur districts. Ballot papers have been readied and polling personnel reached polling stations by Saturday evening. According to the commission, 17,467 voters in the two Godavari districts and 13,505 voters in Krishna-Guntur districts are set to decide the fate of the candidates. There are 11 candidates in the race in the Godavari districts and 19 candidates in the Krishna-Guntur constituency. The Left-sponsored Progressive Democratic Front (PDF) is ahead of others in the two constituencies. Its candidates, Shaik Sabjee from the Godavari constituency and Boddu Nageswara Rao from Krishna-Guntur constituency, are said to have an edge over other contestants this time, with the ruling YSR Congress backing them. Sitting MLC A S Rama Krishna is contesting again with TDP support, while the other candidates are backed by various teachers’ associations. Boddu Nageswara Rao of the PDF, who won as MLC from the graduates’ constituency in 2013, is putting up a tough fight against incumbent Ramakrishna. However, unlike in the past, this time the teachers’ unions are divided on a number of issues, which is expected to play a key role in deciding the election. The State Election Commission said that 12 polling stations in East Godavari, 21 polling stations in Krishna and 42 in Guntur districts have been identified as critical and special arrangements have been made to ensure free and fair polling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/30-candidates-to-battle-it-out-in-polls-to-two-mlc-seats-today/articleshow/81487466.cms||Gopi Dara
March 14, 2021||Patna||38 more test positive for Covid-19 in Bihar||PATNA: The state’s Covid tally increased to 2,62,975 on Saturday with 38 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. With 28 more people recuperating from the virus on Saturday, the state’s recovery rate has touched 99.28%. There were 331 active Covid cases in the state on Saturday. The virus, meanwhile, claimed life of one more person on Saturday. The victim was from East Champaran. Covid-19 cases were reported in 13 districts on Saturday. Patna topped the chart with 17 cases. Madhubani, on the other hand, has recorded six new cases. Meanwhile, 80,185 people received first and second doses of Covid-19 vaccines on Saturday. Altogether 50,251 senior citizens and 6,507 people above 45 years of age with comorbidities received their first dose on Saturday. Apart from them, 18,283 beneficiaries got their second dose. With this, 10.93 people have so far got the first shot of Covid vaccine and 3.01 lakh others second shot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/38-more-test-positive-for-covid/articleshow/81487331.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 14, 2021||Patna||Night temperature may drop in Bihar: Met||PATNA: Skies remained cloudy at most places in the state on Saturday, while thunder along with lightning was reported from few north-eastern districts of the state. Officials at the Patna meteorological centre said that dusty winds along with light to moderate rainfall occurred at many places. Places which received significant rainfall, included Gonha (29mm), Ramnagar (28mm) and Chanpatiya (15mm) among others. In Patna, skies were clear from Friday morning but the sky became overcast by evening, which persisted on Saturday also. Meteorologist Sanjay Kumar Patel said, “A trough line is passing over the Gangetic plains in West Bengal to Vidarbha via Odisha. An anti-cyclonic circulation over Bay of Bengal is leading to moisture incursion in the region, which has started weakening on Saturday. Accordingly, clear skies and dry weather are expected in the state over the next 24 hours, except a few eastern districts,” he said. Private weather agency Skymet weather also reported on Saturday that showers in Bihar are likely to last for 24 hours. The cloudy weather in Bihar is likely to subside in the next 48 hours but it has also given slight respite from the heat as the mercury was surging steeply ever since the onset of summer season from March 1. The maximum temperature at Patna witnessed a sharp plunge over the last 24 hours as it came down from 34.4 degrees C on Friday to 26.4 degrees C on Saturday, which was also merely five notches lower than the corresponding normal. At Gaya, the maximum temperature came down to 26.4 degrees C, which was six notches lower than the corresponding normal for the day. Meteorologist Patel, however, said that the maximum temperature is again expected to surge but minimum temperature may drop slightly over the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/night-temperature-may-drop-met/articleshow/81487361.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Patna||Patna: Flight bookings surge, airfares take off ahead of Holi||PATNA: The surge in flight bookings has begun ahead of Holi with people planning to return to celebrate the festival with their families, pushing up the airfares of Patna-bound flights. Airline executives at the city’s Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport said few seats are available on various routes, especially from Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Kolkata and Hyderabad, and they are coming at a premium. The airlines also have the luxury of applying flexible charges. “The passenger rush in all sectors is high because of Holi. Prices change due to seat availability and demand. The airlines have different bucket fare for the economy, business and first-class coaches. If the prices on all sectors are high it means the demand is also high,” an executive said. The travel and tour operators in the city claimed that the prices of flight ticket on different routes have shot up by two to three times than the normal fare over the past few days. Ajay Kumar Singh, a travel agent at Boring Canal Road said the normal fare of Rs 2,500- 2,800 on the Delhi route has gone up to Rs 6,550 while the upper limit was Rs 19,000, including connecting flight. “Same is the situation of other routes, including Rs 6,300 to Rs 13,500 on the Mumbai route, Rs 5,400 to Rs 16,500 on Kolkata route, Rs 6,900 to Rs 13,450 on Bengaluru and Rs 8,350 to Rs 13,900 on Chennai. Every day, the airline companies are increasing the rates,” he said. Another travel agent, Manoj Gupta said the airfare started increasing from February-end for the Holi festival. “On several routes, only a few seats are left in direct flights while the prices of connecting flights are three times higher than the normal fare. The airfare of outbound flights also remain high even after Holi,” he said. Ritika Sharma, who works in Hyderabad said she booked the ticket for Patna almost a month ago and she paid Rs 8,100 including all taxes for a one-way trip. “To return to my workplace, I am looking for the availability on a train,” she said. Some people have decided to cancel their planned visit home for the festival because of the exorbitant airfares. Ankush Sharma, a management student said this time, he is not going to celebrate the festival with his family in Patna, as the rise in airfare has forced him to stay in Chennai. "I do not think that travelling by train would be safer after the Covid-19 pandemic, so I dropped the idea to visit my hometown during the Holi," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flight-bookings-surge-airfares-take-off-ahead-of-holi/articleshow/81487428.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 14, 2021||Patna||Bihar ups vigil to check Covid spread||PATNA: The state health department and railways have decided to increase vigil on people coming from states having higher Covid caseload, such as Maharashtra and Punjab, in view of the upcoming Holi festival. At a virtual meeting, health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit on Saturday asked all the civil surgeons to ensure random test of passengers coming to Bihar from severely-hit states. “All places registering new Covid-19 cases in the state will have micro containment zones. We will intensify Covid tests considering an increase in number of positive cases in other states. All the district magistrates and civil surgeons have been asked to ramp up Covid tests. There will be no lowering of guard,” Amrit said. He added random tests would be done in a train coming to Patna from Nagpur on Sunday. “Random tests will also be done at Patna airport,” he added. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh said random Covid test of passengers would be conducted at railway stations and bus stands in the district. “If required, health department officials will conduct RT-PCR test of passengers showing high temperatures,” she added. Dr Singh, however, said though the health officials were deployed at various places on Saturday, people were not cooperating with them. “We have requested the district magistrate to provide additional police force,” she added. Chief public relations officer of East Central Railway (ECR), Rajesh Kumar, said additional RPF personnel have been deployed at the entry and exit gates of various railway stations to avoid crowding of passengers. “Only people bearing confirmed train tickets are allowed to enter the station premises. We are ensuring strict implementation of all the protocols to keep Covid at bay,” Kumar added. Doctors, too, have advised people to stay cautious. “People should practice ‘Covid appropriate behaviour’ and undergo vaccination whenever their chances come,” said Dr Arun Shah, a paediatrician. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, head of cardiac surgery department and nodal officer of Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna, said, “People shouldn’t be complacent. They should maintain all safety protocols, especially use of mask and sanitiser and social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-ups-vigil-to-check-covid-spread/articleshow/81487316.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 14, 2021||Kochi||Kochi Metro Rail Ltd expands public bicycle sharing system||KOCHI: Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) on Saturday launched MYBYK, a public cycle sharing system where commuters can take cycles on rent from a docking station nearby and travel to the Metro station. The commuter can then rent a cycle again from the departing station to nearby destination. KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma launched the system and its logo. The user will have to download the mobile app and register for utilizing the service. One has to remit Rs 500, which is refundable, for availing the service. User can choose one out of three plans. Hourly – Rs 2 (minimum ride charge is Rs 15), weekly – Rs 199 (unlimited ride, can keep the cycle at home or office) and monthly – Rs 499 (unlimited ride, can keep the cycle at home or office). District collector S Suhas launched KMRL cycling club at the function held at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, which was attended by riders, children and senior citizens. Meanwhile, Kochi1 Card, launched by KMRL and Axis Bank Ltd, crossed the milestone of one lakh cards on Saturday. Out of one lakh cardholders, 30% are women. “With Kochi1 Card being used in Metro trains, parking at stations and 200 city buses, we want to enable acceptance at autorickshaws for a complete multi-modal transit ecosystem of Kochi. Axis Bank has tied-up with more than 100 local merchants to offer shopping and dining offers to cardholders as part of hyper-local strategy,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kmrl-expands-public-bicycle-sharing-system/articleshow/81487768.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: PM Narendra Modi’s old school to inspire visitors?||AHMEDABAD: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s hometown Vadnagar is all set to get another landmark – the Vernacular School in Darbargadh area in the heart of the town, where the PM pursued his primary education, is likely to be converted into a ‘Prerna (inspiration) Centre’, said sources close to the development. The project came to limelight when a team led by Raghavendra Singh, secretary, ministry of culture, visited the school on March 10 to assess its structure and overall development plan. Singh had also visited the site of experiential museum by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on the banks of Sharmishtha lake. Sources close to the development said that the century-old school’s portion is closed for students due to its dilapidated condition. The school is located close to the PM’s ancestral home and used to have a play ground nearby where young Modi and friends used to congregate, said sources. Officials in the know of the development said that the finer aspects of the school project are being deliberated. “The focus of the centre would not be solely on the PM, but to provide inspiration to the next generation. It is also likely to have a spiritual aspect to it.” The structure of the school would be preserved and conserved with landscaping around it. A few options are being worked out including removal of a couple of nearby structures and a water tank in the vicinity. The ‘Prerna Centre’ would become the latest addition to the ancient town, which was known for its Hatkeshwar temple and Kirti Toran of Solanki era before it shot to fame as PM’s hometown. In the past two decades, the town witnessed development of Sharmishtha lake, Tana Riri garden, a watch tower as tourist attractions in addition to the extensive work by ASI that unearthed Buddhist past of the town including a nunnery, a stupa and a super structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/modis-old-school-to-inspire-visitors/articleshow/81487794.cms||Parth Shastri
March 14, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Upendra Kushwaha to take final call on merger||PATNA: Ahead of the likely merger with JD (U), the RLSP state executive on Saturday authorised party president Upendra Kushwaha to take the final decision on the matter. RLSP secretary-general Madhav Anand told TOI that the state executive passed a resolution to authorise Kushwaha to take a call on the party's future course of action. “The party president will now hold another meeting with our national executive before taking the final decision,” Anand said. RLSP general secretary and chief spokesperson Fazal Mallick said the meeting was attended by members of the state executive as well as district presidents of the party. “The meeting was important as several important decisions have to be taken regarding the future course of action as well as the strategy of the party. Discussions were held on various issues and the state executive took a resolution to abide by the decision of the national executive of the party, which is slated to meet on Sunday,” Mallick told reporters. On being asked about a merger with JD (U), Mallick said, “Deliberations were held on various possible courses of action, including a merger with JD (U), or alliance with ruling NDA or being alone. Party president has been authorised to take the final decision regarding it.” The rumours about the merger of RLSP with JD (U) has been in the air from last few months and indication regarding the same has been seen on several occasions, including RLSP chief Kushwaha and JD(U)’s former state president and Rajya Sabha member Bashishtha Narain Singh taking the Covid vaccine almost at the same time at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) here on March 8. Kushwaha as well as Singh had said that “they have always been together”. The RLSP had severed its ties with RJD led Mahagathbandhan last year and formed a coalition with six smaller parties, including Asaduddin Owaisi led AIMIM during the Assembly elections held in October- November last. The RLSP had fielded its candidates on 125 out of a total of 248 assembly segments but drawn a blank. Meanwhile, JD (U) functionary Navin Arya, however, told TOI on Saturday evening that no communication was made to the party office regarding the merger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kushwaha-to-take-final-call-on-merger/articleshow/81487230.cms||Piyush Tripathi
March 14, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Early diagnosis key in battle against CKD||AMARAVATI: Many regions in the state are seeing a rise in kidney ailments, the causes of which range from unsafe drinking water, high use of pesticides to hot and humid weather conditions. The rising number of chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients has become a matter of concern in the state. The state government has taken the assistance of national and international agencies to monitor the number of kidney diseases in Srikakulam’s Uddanam area but experts are yet to crack the reason behind the quick rise in cases. This as many other parts of the state are facing a similar situation. Experts said that screening, particularly from areas reporting a fast spike in cases, should be made mandatory in order to diagnose the disease in the early stage. “Strengthening of primary health centres to conduct tests for creatinine, sugar and blood pressure levels for locals at least once a year will help diagnose ailments at an early stage,” said nephrologist at Dr Ramesh Hospitals, Dr DLP Sai Kumar. “Over 70% of CKD cases are diagnosed at an advanced stage where people require transplants. Many are surviving on dialysis as a result of organ donor shortage,” he said. According to studies carried out by the International Federation of Kidney Foundation (IFKF) and International Society for Nephrology (ISN), about 40% of total cases being diagnosed in India are from 30 to 40 years age group. “People in this age group are in a highly productive phase and need to be protected for the well being of their families and economy of the nation,” said Dr Sai Kumar. The nephrologist said that they have been getting several cases from the below 30 years age group too from Prakasam district, Palnadu region of Guntur and various parts of Rayalaseema. In fact, several parts of Krishna district have also been witnessing a high number of kidney ailments in recent times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/early-diagnosis-key-in-battle-against-ckd/articleshow/81487525.cms||Samdani MN
March 14, 2021||Dehradun||RT-PCR not must anymore for Kumbh pilgrims: Tirath Singh Rawat||Dehradun: Chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Saturday in one of his first interviews after taking over as Uttarakhand's new chief minister told TOI at his camp office in Dehradun that pilgrims would not need to bring RT-PCR Covid-19 test report while coming for the month-long Kumbh Mela, officially commencing from April 1 to April 30 in Haridwar. Earlier, the state government under Trivendra Singh Rawat had issued SOPs making the RT-PCR test report mandatory for Kumbh pilgrims. The chief minister said that he had taken the decision to remove the requirement of Covid test reports since “there were doubts among the people planning to visit Haridwar for Kumbh and, thus, it is imperative to remove all their apprehensions.” He added: “Kumbh happens only after 12 years. Therefore, we do not want people to miss out on the opportunity of experiencing the festival.” Rawat said it was also not practically possible to conduct the RT-PCR test or check the negative reports as lakhs of people would come to Kumbh each day. “All we want is the happiness of saints, devotees, traders and the locals. This is why our decisions will be in their interest. We will ensure that Covid-19 norms are followed and the required health infrastructure is available for Kumbh. But I am certain that it will not be required as everything will pass off peacefully,” the CM stressed, while adding that roads and national highways in Haridwar leading to the Kumbh site will be repaired within a week. Asked if he had any inkling that he would be given the chief minister’s responsibility after Trivendra Singh Rawat resigned, Rawat, who is currently Lok Sabha MP from Pauri, said, “I didn’t have a clue. I was going to the Parliament. My committee meeting was scheduled for the next day. But when the central party leaders held a meeting in Dehradun, I, too, went to attend it like the other legislators and MPs. I am thankful to the party leadership that they found me suitable for the post. Recently, former CM Trivendra Singh Rawat’s announcement to declare Gairsain a separate division — by including two districts each of Kumaon and Garhwal — had stirred up the hornet’s nest in the Himalayan state. Ruling party legislators had strongly opposed the move. Similarly, the Char Dham Devasthanam Board Act passed by the previous government was met with a strong response from the priest community of the Char Dham shrines, especially Gangotri and Yamunotri. On these two issues, the CM said, “We will review both the decisions. We will respect the voice of the people. Nothing will be done against the sentiments of the state. For issues like Gairsain commissionerate, the cabinet has formed a sub-committee to look into such matters and hand over its report.” He pointed out that education, tourism, infrastructure, health and connectivity were his focus areas. “For the first time, an effort has been made to connect the plains of Garhwal with the hills through the Rs 16,216 crore Rishikesh-Karnprayag rail project. Several roads of the state have been made national highways. Similarly, under the Jal Jeevan Mission, we are trying to provide piped water lines to each house in the state,” said Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-once-in-12-yrs-devotees-saints-must-be-at-ease-rt-pcr-negative-report-not-mandatory-tirath-rawat/articleshow/81487769.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 14, 2021||Patna||Govt working to improve quality of education: Bihar minister||PATNA: State education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary on Saturday said the government is working on different parameters to improve quality of school education which includes the launch of Vidya Vahini app, providing e-content of textbooks and Unnayan scheme for smart classes and recruitment of teachers on sanctioned posts. Choudhary was replying to a question raised by the RJD MLC Ram Chandra Purbey, who pointed out that Bihar ranks 17th in school education quality index prepared by NITI Aayog along with the World Bank and ministry of human resource development. The education minister said there are 30,020 vacant posts of teachers in secondary and higher secondary schools and 90,762 in primary and middle schools and the process for their recruitment is on. “In 5,646 secondary and higher secondary schools, Unnayan scheme has been implemented and e-content of all the books from classes I to XII was available on Bihar Text Book Publishing Corporation’s website. The department is also preparing to start three-month catch up classes,” he said. JD(U) MLC Sanjeev Shyam Singh raised the issue of shortage of librarians in schools. Choudhary said an assessment of the number of librarians required in educational institutes will be done. It will be followed by eligibility tests. He said of 2,789 sanctioned posts of librarians in higher secondary schools, 893 have been filled up. RJD MLC Subodh Kumar said since there is no college for women in Raghopur block, many young girls cannot pursue higher education. “The block is surrounded by water bodies and it is not easy for girls to travel to other places,” he said. Other MLCs like Ghulam Ghaus and Devesh Chandra Thakur also demanded establishment of a woman college in Raghopur. BJP MLC Nawal Kishore Yadav said it was sad that a constituency which had two chief ministers and a deputy CM is bereft of a degree college for women. The education minister said the priority of the government is opening one college in all the sub-division. Congress MLC Sameer Singh raised the issue of commercialisation of Bihar Vidyapeeth campus at Sadaquat Ashram. He was asking questions in absence of another MLC Prem Chandra Mishra. State art and culture minister Alok Ranjan said the campus was not being used for commercial purposes. “Instead, Rajendra Smriti Sanghralaya, Maulana Mazharul Haque library, Rajendra Prasad Sikshan Mahavidyalaya and Atal Incubation Centre are running from the campus,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-working-to-improve-quality-of-education-minister/articleshow/81487446.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata civic body outreach drive with NGOs, clubs to shore up vax numbers||KOLKATA: The civic health department is roping in NGOs and local clubs to reach out to senior citizens and those with co-morbidities so they walk into the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) ward health centres and take the Covid-19 vaccine. Unlike hospitals that are coping with rush for inoculation during morning hours, the KMC health centres have unused slots and have failed to meet their vaccination target. According to a KMC health department senior official, the civic body is currently operating 51 vaccination centres across the city, including one at the civic headquarters, for elderly citizens and those above 45 suffering from co-morbidity factors. Each centre has the capacity to handle around 150 applicants a day. However, 60% of the KMC-run vaccination centres are recording much less than 100 elderly citizens or people with co-morbidity factors. TimesViewVaccine recipient numbers so far have not had adequate representation from economically weaker sections. A smooth roll-out from the KMC and other government agencies can make our vaccination programme much more inclusive.“We had set up vaccination centres at specified sites and decided to increase the number gradually. At present, we are operating 51 centres which can handle around 7,000 applicants daily. But we rarely cross the 4,000 mark. We have identified centres which have failed to attract elderly citizens for several reasons, one of which could be lack of information about such centres,” a KMC health department official said. To get rid of an information gap, especially in several north and central Kolkata neighbourhoods, the KMC has roped in either NGOs or local clubs whose members are going door to door to inform the elderly citizens about the exact location of the vaccination sites. “We have roped in members of local clubs in large areas of Cossipore, Belgachhia, Paikpara, Indra Biswas Road, Raja Dinendra Street, College Street and Taltala, and are getting results,” a civic official said. Similarly, the KMC health department may go for extensive publicity for elderly citizens to take advantage of the vaccination centres. “We are also exempting the elderly from the pre-registration process. We are inviting them to our centres and giving them the opportunity to register and get vaccinated on the same day. Those who have co-morbidity factors can visit our centres with a doctor’s certificate and get vaccinated,” said a borough executive health officer. KMC Board of Administrators (BoA) chairman Firhad Hakim, too, felt that the civic body would need to go for an extensive campaign across the city to get the elderly to the vaccination centres. “We have opened 51 vaccination centres across 144 wards so far and will open more depending on the demand from citizens. Right now, we need to attract more recipients, especially the elderly, to our centres as fast as we can. We will go for a publicity drive aimed towards senior citizens and people with co-morbidity factors,” Hakim said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-outreach-drive-with-ngos-clubs-to-shore-up-vax-numbers/articleshow/81487730.cms||Saikat Ray
March 14, 2021||Patna||‘I dedicate this Sahitya Akademi Award to all struggling women’||PATNA: Noted poet, social worker, novelist and associate professor at Delhi University’s Satyawati College, Anamika, who hails from Muzaffarpur, was on Friday selected for the Sahitya Akademi Award in Hindi poetry category. She talks to Faryal Rumi about modern poetry and struggle of women in society. Excerpts: How do you feel on becoming the first woman to receive Sahitya Akademi Award in Hindi poetry? I feel great because this award is for all the women who are struggling in the society. It’s their voice that I represented. I am only the messenger putting their miseries into words. Did you ever expect to get the award for this your poem ‘Tokri Mein Digant- Theri Gatha: 2014’? Honestly, I did not expect this award. I was surprised when I first got a call on March 12. I was having lunch with my colleagues when the call came. I thought somebody was joking with me. What is unique about this poem? The poem not only reflects womanhood, but also multi-pluralism and solidarity. The agony and sufferings of many women I have met in my family, society and suburbs helped me write this poem. I have tried to emphasise in my poem that challenges are translated into opportunities in women’s world. Who inspired you to become a poet? My father Shyamnandan Kishore was a Hindi poet. He was my sole inspiration. Who are your favourite poets? There are many in different languages and genre. Some of them are Adrienne Rich, Ellis Walker, Fahmida Riaz and Faiz Ahmed Faiz. I read their poems to gather strength when I feel low. How different poetry has become today? In poetry, images replaced music after the World War because we lost the heart to sing after bloodbath. It was like an earthquake in all forms of art, including poetry. Any message for budding writers and poets? They should read a lot and understand the depth of each and every word. Solidarity of languages is very important.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/i-dedicate-this-sahitya-akademi-award-to-all-struggling-women/articleshow/81487266.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 14, 2021||Patna||‘Projection system at planetarium to be upgraded soon’||PATNA: The state government has made several changes in the bidding process for the upgradation project of 25-year-old projection system at the Indira Gandhi Science Complex Planetarium, popularly known as Taramandal. The outdated system would be replaced with state-of-the-art 2D/3D system. The department of science and technology has recently conducted a meeting with the manufacturers to make necessary changes in the bidding as per their requirement to replace the old system at planetarium. Planetarium director Anant Kumar said, “The department had floated tender four times. However no bidder has come forward. After consulting the manufacturers and hearing their grievances, the specification in the bidding process has been modified. Now, the state government would decide whether the department or National Council of Science Museums would go for fresh bidding.” The 3D-Digistar projection system, based on RGB technology would be equipped with active stereo 3D, optical hybrid system and 5.1 surround sound among other latest technology. The estimated cost for the upgradation and other civil and electrical work would be around Rs 35 to 40 crore. The technology which is being used at the planetarium is optomechanical projection of celluloid films. The official told this newspaper that they hope this time they will be able to start the upgradation work as the old projector needs to be replaced. “If any machine or part of the projector would become defunct, it would be impossible to replace or repair it. Hence we need to expedite the project as soon as possible. The project also got delayed due to Covid-19 lockdown,” he said. “After remodelling, the seating arrangements will be changed and the seating capacity of the dome-shaped gallery would be reduced to 225 from the existing capacity of 261. Besides, we will be able to show 3-D films on the suspended dome-shaped screen, which will be a new experience for the residents,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/projection-system-at-planetarium-to-be-upgraded-soon/articleshow/81487253.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 14, 2021||Patna||All-woman crew greets GM of ECR, pilots special train||PATNA: It was a historic day for the East Central Railway (ECR) when an all-woman crew piloted a special train during inspection by general manager (GM) L C Trivedi on Saharsa-Darbhanga route under Samastipur division on Saturday. Loco pilot Sanyukta Kumari, assistant loco pilot Meenakshi Kumari and guard Deepa Kumari took command of the train. Even security protocol of the special train was managed by RPF women staff, much to the appreciation of the GM. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the GM started the inspection from Saharsa station where a girl child got an opportunity to inaugurate newly-built foot overbridge (FOB) and coach guidance system. The GM later inspected availability of passenger amenities and inaugurated a world-class automatic coach washing plant at Saharsa. “The automatic washing plant, which is rare in the railways, has the capacity to wash coaches externally even when the train is in motion. It can wash 70 to 80 coaches per hour and clean 300 to 350 coaches per day,” the CPRO said. The GM later inspected the Supaul-Saraigarh-Nirmali-Jhanjharpur section of the division. He took stock of the track condition, signalling system, station building and bridge condition on the route. The GM expressed satisfaction over the condition of the Kosi rail bridge, which was inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi in September 2020. He also inspected fitness of tracks on the Sarigarh-Nirmali-Jhanjharpur route. The 1.9km-long Kosi rail bridge was constructed with an expenditure of Rs 516 crore, ending the 87-year wait for the people of Kosi region. Former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee had laid the foundation for the bridge on June 6, 2003. Samastipur divisional railway manager Ashok Maheshwari and other senior railway officials were present during inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-woman-crew-greets-gm-of-ecr-pilots-special-train/articleshow/81487278.cms||Kumod Verma
March 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Relay hunger strikes at VSP reach 30 days||Visakhapatnam: With relay hunger strikes at Visakhapatnam Steel Plant reaching 30 days, the CPI(M) Malkapuram zone committee organised a padayatra in Kakarlalova, Chintallova, Kranti Nagar and Trinathapuram in protest against the Centre’s move to privatise the PSU. Agitators burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A five-kilometre walk will be held by agitators from Kurmannapalem to Gajuwaka. A social worker, Suresh, started a padayatra from Guntur to Vizag. He will conclude his padayatra after 32 days at the statue of Amrutha Rao who staged a hunger strike for the plant in the mid-1970s. On Saturday, union leaders conducted a palabhishekam to actor Chiranjeevi’s photograph for extending support to the cause. — Siva G||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/relay-hunger-strikes-at-vsp-reach-30-days/articleshow/81487489.cms||Siva G
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||No free dose for poll officials at pvt hospitals||Kolkata: On Saturday, private hospitals directed polling officials who went to get inoculated to government vaccination centres for free doses after Swasthya Bhawan officials asked them to discontinue free shots for them. Till now, polling officials were being given the vaccine free of cost both at private and government facilities. An official with State Urban Development Authority coordinating with the vaccination centres and health department said polling officials were supposed to get free shots at government hospitals only. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-free-dose-for-poll-officials-at-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/81487751.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 14, 2021||Patna||8,600 receive second dose of Covid vaccine in Bihar's Katihar||KATIHAR: Of the 26,217 beneficiaries who were given vaccination in the first phase, 8,600 received the second dose of Covid vaccine till Friday. “Apart from healthcare and frontline workers, immunisation of people in the age bracket of 45-59 with comorbidities and those above 60 years is going on,” said district immunisation officer Dr D N Jha here on Saturday. As per the available statistics, around 2,625 persons were vaccinated on Friday including health and frontline workers at 22 different places in the district. “Online registration as well as on the spot registration based on Aadhaar number is also going on in the district,” said Dr Jha. In rural areas of the district, vaccine is being given to people at 13 places, including PHCs and wellness centres, besides 22 other parts of the district. “People above 60 years of age are coming forward to take vaccines and no adverse effect after immunisation has been reported so far in the district,” said Dr Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/8600-receive-second-dose-of-covid-vaccine-in-katihar/articleshow/81487349.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Summer heat puts pet animals at risk||KOCHI: The rise in temperature has put animals especially pets at risk as they become susceptible to many infectious diseases. It is the dogs which are more vulnerable to infections. Government veterinary hospital daily comes across nearly 10 cases of canine parvovirus infection. Private veterinary hospitals also receive similar cases. “Summer will flare up diseases caused by ticks and other mites. Tick-borne diseases have increased among dogs and cats. Parvo infection is reported in dogs which were not vaccinated with multi-vaccine. The symptoms include lack of food intake, vomiting and finally bloody diarrhoea, which will lead to the collapse of the animal. If timely treatment is not provided, the animal will die of dehydration. Five to 10 cases are reported every day,” said government veterinary surgeon Dr Eldhose A. He said around five to 10% of the dogs infected with parvovirus, which is highly contagious, die due to dehydration while undergoing treatment. Doctors advise that animals should be given proper care in the summer season by providing them more water, deworming, inoculating with multi-disease vaccine and removing ticks from the body. As most of the pet dogs in Ernakulam are exotic, the risk is also very high as these canines find it difficult to adapt to the tropical conditions of Kerala. “There was an outbreak of parvovirus infection last month. Many cases are still getting reported in our hospital too and some are under treatment. It is lack of knowledge on multi-disease vaccination which has resulted in such contagious diseases among animals,” said Dr K Sooraj of a private veterinary hospital in the city. Animal activists also notice parvovirus infection among stray dogs especially puppies. “When we see dogs droopy on roadsides, we take them to hospital where doctors administer immunoglobulin injection after immediate diagnosis and it helps the canines recover. Puppies which lost their mother at early age is susceptible to the parvo infection due to low immunity,” says animal rights activist Aswini Prem of Oneness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/summer-heat-puts-pet-animals-at-risk/articleshow/81487773.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||Presi entrance test, NEET dates clash||Kolkata: Presidency University students want the date for admission test to six UG courses to be changed as it has clashed with the date announced by NEET, the all-India medical entrance test. The WBJEE board that conducts the entrance test for Presidency will discuss the issue on Monday and may announce alternative days. The date for Presidency University Bachelors Degree Entrance Test (PUBDET) for chemistry, economics, statistics, life science, English and Bengali has clashed with NEET 2021 slated for August 1. Entrance exams on other subjects are scheduled on July 31. The PUBDET timing is between 10am and 3.30 pm. NEET is scheduled to begin in the morning session. Unlike JEE (Main), there will be no multiple exam in NEET. On Friday, Presidency students wrote to the WBJEEB chairman Malayendu Saha, stating several PUBDET candidates also appeared for NEET and “shall continue to do so in this session”. The letter added the board should consider to alter, advance or postpone the UG admission exams. Saha said, “We have come to know of NEET date. On Monday we will discuss and take a call.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/presi-entrance-test-neet-dates-clash/articleshow/81487774.cms||Somdatta Basu
March 14, 2021||Agra||Farmers will make BJP pay for insulting them in next elections: Akhilesh yadav||AGRA: “BJP government has tried to rob farmers of their dignity by calling them ‘dalal’ (middlemen), anti-nationals and terrorists and they will give a befitting reply to this insult by uprooting the party in power in the upcoming elections,” said Akhilesh Yadav, Samajwadi Party national president. The former chief minister of UP was addressing a sizable gathering of farmers, including those from neighbouring districts of Agra and Aligarh, at a kisan mahapanchayat in Kasganj’s Bara Pathar Ground on Saturday afternoon. While national president of Mahan Dal Keshav Dev Maurya was present on the dais, no top farmer leader was seen. Akhilesh said his party would fight against the central government’s pro-corporate agenda in the form of the three farm laws. He alleged the central government was misleading farmers on minimum support price. “BJP is trying to sell the nation to multinational companies by privatization of railways and closing down various departments and banks. Soon, we will be slaves,” the SP leader said. Apparently with an eye on state assembly elections due next year, Akhilesh went on to add that BJP government was making it difficult for Dalits and backward caste people to get jobs and slowly edging out small businessmen. It had no agenda for development and was bent on creating communal disharmony, he added. The Samajwadi Party, he stressed, would not forge an alliance with any national political party for the assembly election but was open to alliances with regional parties. Maurya said his Mahan Dal would extend full support to the SP in the 2022 assembly elections and aid Akhilesh’s return as CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmers-will-make-bjp-pay-for-insulting-them-in-next-elections-akhilesh/articleshow/81487270.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Pune||Ambani case: Police question Tihar inmate over recovered phones||New Delhi: Delhi police’s special cell on Saturday interrogated Indian Mujahideen terrorist Tehsin Akhtar for six hours in connection with two mobile handsets recovered from his barrack in Tihar Jail two days ago.One of the handsets, which was recovered from sub-jail number eight, was the one on which the Telegram account in the name of ‘Jaishulhind’ was created. It was from this account that responsibility was claimed for the explosive-laden SUV found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence and a demand for extortion money through cryptocurrency made.TOI was the first to report that the mobile phone used in the case had been recovered from Akhtar’s barrack and that he was likely to be questioned on Saturday. During questioning, he denied having sent out the threat, though he confessed to having used the phone. Sources have told TOI that Delhi police are likely to arrest Akhtar next week in connection with his activities from jail and question him in custody. He will be questioned again on Monday.Police suspect that Akhtar and his other terror associates were behind the creation of the entity named Jaish-ul-Hind. According to prison sources, jail number eight houses Indian Mujahideen terrorists like Akhtar and Yasin Bhatkal, apart from some al-Qaeda and underworld-linked inmates who interchangeably used the phones.The mobile handset had a number 9311**0819, which was registered in the name of one Jayadip Lodhiya, Raghubar Pura, east Delhi and activated in July last year and later smuggled inside Tihar. Probing this number, the cops also stumbled upon another number -- 9711**9888 -- which was found switched off since September last year. This number was used to activate the main number.The Telegram channel was created on the afternoon of February 26. The message in which responsibility was claimed for placing the vehicle outside Ambani’s residence was posted on the Telegram messaging app late on February 27. In the payment demand, a Monero link for the transfer was mentioned. Another message from Jaish-ul-Hind surfaced a day later on a social media platform, claiming that the organisation did not have any role in the incident. The same entity was in news recently when a Telegram channel by this name claimed responsibility for the low- intensity blast outside the Israeli embassy in Delhi on January 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ambani-case-police-question-tihar-inmate-over-recovered-phones/articleshow/81488276.cms||Raj Shekhar
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||HC directs CBI to add names of accused in betel nut smuggling case||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court has directed the CBI to include five accused named by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in its list of offences for allegedly smuggling betel nuts. While hearing a PIL (No 5/2016), a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote directed the premier investigation agency to include five accused in its FIR, if there is sufficient material available against them. Earlier, the CBI in its affidavit informed that various offences were registered against unknown officials of Central Excise and Customs and unknown persons on March 5 and further investigation is under way. It informed that it had complied with HC’s orders of February 25 to file a status report on its investigations. The judges then told CBI to hand over a copy of its affidavit to amicus curiae Anand Parchure. Petitioner Mehboob Chintanwala alleged that substandard, unfit and unsafe betel nuts were sold by the fake persons on forged documents in connivance with the public servants causing huge losses amounting to crores of rupees to the exchequer. He contended that unscrupulous elements indulge in this illegal trade of smuggling products of Indonesian origin on the basis of fake certificates and invoices and thus causing the evasion of customs duty worth Rs 15,000 crore annually. Such illegal imports are purportedly facilitated by fictitious entities in India, Indonesia and SAARC countries. Moreover. rotten betel nut is being imported under the guise of cashew peels to circumvent lab tests. The HC then directed the CBI to register offences against the accused involved in the smuggling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-directs-cbi-to-add-names-of-accused-in-betel-nut-smuggling-case/articleshow/81488273.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Ahmedabad cases up 31% in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: The city on Saturday recorded a major increase in daily Covid-19 cases, hitting 185. On Friday, this number was 141, a 31% increase in 24 hours, one of the highest across the state. The city accounted for 24% or nearly a quarter of the state’s daily cases. Analysis of weekly cases reveal that the city had 142 daily cases from March 7 to 13. The last time the city had recorded 180-plus cases was on December 25 (184), making the day’s case tally the biggest in 2021 for the city. Ahmedabad district recorded 839 active cases, one of the highest numbers in the past three months.  Statistics from the Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) show that 377 patients are admitted at private hospitals in the city as of Saturday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-cases-up-31-in-24-hours/articleshow/81488279.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Two held with 600 bottles of liquor||HYDERABAD: Two persons who were attempting to illegally transport of liquor bottles from Telangana to Andhra Pradesh to sell them were nabbed by Hayathnagar police on Friday night. Hayathnagar police said that Ramavath Damoder, a driver, and Ramavath Hari, an auto driver, were arrested while they were transporting liquor in a car and an auto-rickshaw. During vehicle checking near Outer Ring Road (ORR), Koheda, police recovered 600 bottles of liquor belonging to various brands. During the questioning of the accused, police came to know that since liquor in Telangana is cheaper as compared to Andhra Pradesh, the accused decided to illegally transport liquor to Andhra Pradesh and make profit. The total value of the seized property is Rs 6 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-held-with-600-bottles-of-liquor/articleshow/81488281.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Aurangabad||6 mobile teams to test traders in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: A total of six mobile teams will carry out Covid-19 testing of traders and businessmen in different parts of the city from Monday to avoid crowding at heath centres. Paithan Gate, Patidar Bhavan, Agrasen Bhavan (Connaught place), Jijai Hospital (Garkheda), Apna Bazar(Jalna Road) and Balaji Dharmashala (Shahaganj) are some of the places where the mobile teams will carry out Covid tests. “The traders and business persons, along with their staffers, are requested to get tested either with the help of mobile teams or visit private hospitals. We appeal to them not to go to the state-run health centres as they are already witnessing a rush due to a surge in Covid-19 cases,” said officials from the civic administration. The testing drive will be organised by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation with the help of local traders’ body. Authorities have already warned that shops would lose their licence if found violating norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/6-mobile-teams-to-test-traders-in-aurangabad/articleshow/81488277.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||Setu pile-up claims 1; two others die in early morning accidents||Kolkata: Three early morning truck accidents on the busy city streets — Vidyasagar Setu toll plaza, EM Bypass and BT Road — claimed three lives and left 11 injured. Among the dead is a senior citizen and two women, one of whom is yet to be identified. The incidents, coming on the back of three back-to-back truck accidents that had claimed three lives in the past two days, has led Lalbazar to seek out ways to control such accidents within the city. The biggest accident took place around 5.10 am when a trailer moving towards Howrah drove up to the Vidyasagar Setu toll plaza lane and hit another trailer and a third truck which in turn hit an app cab and finally an SUV. “It was a pile up where the full impact fell on the smaller cars,” said an officer from Hastings police station. The deceased — identified as Harisadhan Kar (64) — was among the five who were travelling to Santragachi railway station to catch a train to Bankura. Four of his other relatives, including his wife Rupali Kar and daughter Sawrna Mali Kar (21) were seriously injured. The SUV had around ten people who were going towards Tajpur for the weekend. There was also a fatal accident on the western flank of EM Bypass in front of Ruchira Residency between Abhishikta and Ruby Crossing, involving an LPG cylinder filled truck and a scooterette. The incident took place around 3.30 am when the truck heading towards Ruby suddenly swerved to its right in an attempt to make an U-turn and hit the two-wheeler that was overtaking it. The truck ran over pillion rider, Monika Sarkar’s (52), head leaving her spot dead. The rider Dipankar Halder (26) is out of danger. In the third accident, an unidentified woman was killed by a mini truck at the Chiria More crossing at 5.30 am. Police managed to chase the truck and nab the driver at the Sinthee crossing. The investigation has been taken up by the fatal squad of traffic police, who believe the best way to avoid truck accidents is to stop overloading them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/setu-pile-up-claims-1-two-others-die-in-early-morning-accidents/articleshow/81487775.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||City NCB seizes drugs at beach in Goa, 5 booked||Mumbai: Mumbai unit of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), along with Goa unit and Goa crime branch on Friday, on the basis of specific information, conducted search operations in front of Larvie Beach Resort, Shiva Valley and Monkey Bar & Restaurant at Vagator Ozran beach, Bardez (Goa) and recovered commercial quantity of LSD (35 blots), 33gm of mephedrone, 5.1gm of heroin along with marijuana, MDMA tablets and hashish. Five persons, including a Swiss national, were booked under NDPS Act. Further investigations are on. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-ncb-seizes-drugs-at-beach-in-goa-5-booked/articleshow/81488924.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sawant says Modi, Shah let Delkar die||Mumbai: State Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant on Saturday said that PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah could have saved the life of Lok Sabha member Mohan Delkar, who committed suicide in a city hotel on February 22. The city police have registered an offence against Dadra and Nagar Haveli administrator Praful Khoda Patel under the Prevention of Atrocities against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act. Sawant said that Delkar had knocked at the doors of the PM, home minister and Lok Sabha speaker to narrate his plight. He released letters written by Delkar to the PM on December 18 and January 31 and the home minister on December 18 and January 12. - Prafulla Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-sawant-says-modi-shah-let-delkar-die/articleshow/81488286.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Chennai||The voices from behind the veil||Chennai: Among Aysha Nawab’s greatest strengths has been her eye to perceive possibilities beyond the norm. In 2012, she returned to Chennai from Australia, where she was studying and had chanced upon inspiring alternatives in ‘modest fashion’ (that satisfies one’s spiritual and stylistic requirements for reasons of faith, religion or preference). In these nine years Aysha, now a social media influencer, has been consistently offering ways to incorporate the hijab with confidence and versatility — into chic formals, salwar kurtas and even workout wear. Her distinct style has earned her endorsements of well-known brands. "And yet, there are some mainstream jewellery and garment brands that assume I wouldn’t want to promote them, because I’m a hijabi and talk about modest fashion," says Aysha. "What they don’t see in me is a stylist, who can curate a terrific look out of anything that’s given to me. So, who’s the one with the mental block," asks the 31-year-old, who now works as an English teacher in the city.For many young Muslim women like Aysha, social media — despite its apparent problems such as short attention spans, toxic trolling and low discretion — has emerged as a platform to reclaim their voice, break stereotypes within their community and outside it, earning a following that fuels them to keep going.Aysha has 12,700 followers across the world and many of them are small, home-based food and garment businesses run by women entrepreneurs who she promotes as part of her endorsements, for free, or a nominal fee."The thing about faith is that it becomes instrumental in the way you are shaped, present yourself and tell your stories," says Sara Naqvi, a 25-year-old queer artist based out of Mumbai and Amsterdam. Sarah, a student of textile design from the National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad, has been creating work aimed at "reviving erased feminist narratives"."I was raised in an Islamic family with empowering morals, and yet for a long time, was unable to acknowledge them, because of the way society shapes and frames the community’s identity as one that is regressive," says Sarah."My mother brought me up on stories of powerful Islamic women such as Khadija, one of the wives of Prophet Muhammad. I found power in the story of Sayyida al Hurra, a 16th century pirate queen, and many others in the community’s history who pioneered women’s rights and education," says Sarah. "But it wasn’t until much later in life that I was able to recognise the role these stories played in shaping my own character. And I have been striving to bring them out through my artwork," says Sarah, who was recently awarded the Serendipity residency travel grant.As part of setting many such long-standing records right, is an important message to be put out: "That Muslim women don’t need your saving," says Nabiya Khan, a 25-year-old poet from Delhi who releases her work on Instagram and Twitter, and has close to 30,000 followers. "Recently, it was Muslim women who led the anti-CAA movement from the front. They defined their struggles on their own terms," says Nabiya, who calls her poetry her "ammo" against the fight against every regressive force — be it patriarchy or ‘savarna’ entitlement.Nabiya’s poem ‘Ayega Inquilab pehenke bindi, chudiyan, burqa, hijab’ (the revolution will come wearing bindi, bangles, burqa and hijab) gained momentum during the anti-CAA protests, and took up walls as graffiti, posters and placards. "In this poem, I reclaim bangles as a symbol of strength, which in masculinist logic is used to suggest weakness. I also tried to challenge established codes of rescue, dominance, and resistance. My poetry is my protest against the tyranny of our times."When Chennai artist Sofia Ashraf (best known for her protest song ‘Kodaikanal Won’t’ against Unilever), got on stage to rap in a burqa about her identity as a Muslim, it was just after 9/11. "There was either the conservative Muslim voice or Islamophobia; no moderate view. And here I was singing about how my faith (which she doesn’t practise now), wasn’t about terrorism," says Ashraf. "The rousing cheer from the audience was what made me feel like people were hungry for newer perspectives," says Ashraf."When you put your voice out there, you’re giving an opportunity for alternative views across the globe to gain momentum," she says.Journalist, researcher and author, Sameera Khan agrees that social media has expanded the scope for young Muslim women to speak more directly and forcefully to a diverse global community. "It has broken this idea that Indian Muslim women, particularly those wearing the hijab, don’t have much to say. The truth is, they have always had and are quite articulate too. They have initiated conversations offline too and that has brought out newer narratives."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-voices-from-behind-the-veil/articleshow/81487779.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||Man in hosp with knife in back||A 49-year-old man from Garia was rushed to the emergency department of AMRI Dhakuria on the night of March 10 with a knife stuck on his back. The hospital informed the police while doctors started primary treatment. An imaging showed the knife had entered 4 inches into his body through the right shoulder blade and reached close to his lungs but missed the organ by less than half an inch. The blade fractured a rib, which prevented the knife from puncturing his lungs and his heart. The patient claimed that an accidental fall had led to the injury. Woman found dead inside rented room: A 26-year-old woman, hailing from Assam and married to a Bangladeshi settled in the US, allegedly committed suicide on Saturday morning. The victim, identified as Sweta Barua, was found dead in a rented room in Chittaranjan Colony under Jadavpur PS. Cartridges seized at Howrah stn: Cartridges of 9 mm pistol have been seized at Howrah station by the Government Railway Police. As many as 99 cartridges were being sent through a courier service from Ludhiana to Aurangabad. The GRP has identified the sender, Ravideep Singh, and the recipient, Pintu Sharma. Fake job racket busted A fake job racket — run by Charanpreet Singh and Sourav Ghosh — that had been duping young aspirants with assurance of airline jobs in Kolkata was busted by the crime and intelligence wing of CISF at the city airport on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-in-hosp-with-knife-in-back/articleshow/81487796.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad’s AQI at least 200 for third consecutive day||AHMEDABAD: Feeling suffocated? Feel as if you’re inhaling dry dust with air? Is the dry weather leaving you coughing due to allergy and fretting over getting Covid-19? No, it’s not just the pollen season, it’s rather the deteriorating air quality that’s causing your eyes to burn or leaving you gasping for a breath of fresh air. The air quality index (AQI) for Ahmedabad stood at 200 or above for the third consecutive day on Saturday. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to Safar Air Quality monitoring stations, the air quality in Ahmedabad remained poor since the past few days. The Air Quality Index (AQI) stood at 200 in Ahmedabad (overall) indicating poor air quality and in certain parts, like Raikhad and Lekhwada, it deteriorated to 300+ indicating very poor air quality. In fact, over a 30-day period from February 11 to March 13, Ahmedabad’s overall air quality was at a minimum of 47 as on February 27, and was the worst at 229 on March 5. Civic authorities however claim that poor air quality has hardly been the case. “Ahmedabad’s air quality index hardly ever indicates poor. Mostly, it is in the yellow-zone i.e. in moderated levels. We do not track area-wise AQI but only look at the city average and this has remained in the moderate level,” said Dr Chirag Shah, nodal officer for the Ahmedabad Air Action Plan, AMC. Even as Ahmedabad’s Air Action Plan was launched in 2018, besides monitoring air quality, no infrastructure has been developed or changes been executed yet, except for installation of the air quality monitoring stations, claim AMC officials. “In the upcoming budget of the AMC, we have proposed measures for carrying out wall-to-wall carpeting for certain stretches of roads as road dust is said to be one of the major problems leading to deterioration of air quality in Ahmedabad,” said Shah. The civic body is also in the process of hiring an ‘expert consultant’ to advise the AMC and document on the air quality monitoring and related initiatives. “Currently, data measurement is not possible due to lack of infrastructure,” Shah confirmed. Spike in number of upper respiratory infections: Doctors Medical practitioners claim that deteriorating air quality can cause a major spike in upper respiratory infections. Pulmonologist Tushar Patel said, “Cases of allergic bronchitis are as such on the rise in Ahmedabad. This is not just due to excessively dry weather and transitioning of winter to summer but also due to increasing air pollution.” Public health experts indicated that AMC must take measures proposed in Air Action Plan. “The health department as well as civic authorities must monitor cases of respiratory illnesses, bronchitis and map them with changing indices of air quality. This will help identify threshold level of pollution. Studies must be carried out to identify causes of pollution and appropriate policy decisions must be taken,” said Dileep Mavalankar, public health expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/citys-aqi-at-least-200-for-third-consecutive-day/articleshow/81488287.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Amritsar||In Nandigram, SKM says don’t vote for BJP||Bathinda: Leaders of Sankyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the farm front spearheading the agitation against three agro-market laws, on Wednesday reached Nandigram assembly seat, where West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee is contesting the election against party man-turned-rival Suvendhu Adhikari of the BJP. On the second day of their ongoing visit to the state, SKM leaders travelled from Kolkata to Nandigram. They addressed two rallies during the day — on Kolkata’s Mayo Road, the second in two days in the state capital, and the other at Nandigram. Rakesh Tikait too reached Kolkata on Saturday and he got a warm reception at the airport. SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said many things could be said about their visit to Bengal, but they only had one agenda, of ensuring BJP’s defeat. “We are least concerned about who wins,” he added. Tikait said as the BJP, which is leading the central government, had reached Bengal to further its “propaganda”, they too had reached the state to counter the party’s narrative. “We are here to see BJP is put on the mat in these elections. On reaching Kolkata, we saw a lot of enthusiasm among the people,” he said. Tikait added farmers will protest at Delhi borders till the government did not repeal the three laws which have sparked widespread protests since last year. He described the central government as a “looteyro ki sarkar” (government of looters). He said the PM Narendra Modi-led government was out to handover government reponsibilities to corporates. “By 2022, 4.5 lakh employees of the railways will be retrenched, the department of telecom will be closed, airports will be sold, and now this government wants corporates to make money off food grains and hunger,” added Tikait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/in-nandigram-skm-says-dont-vote-for-bjp/articleshow/81488284.cms||Neel Kamal
March 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat has six cases of Covid-19 strains identified abroad so far||AHMEDABAD: Samples from a 31-year-old youth from Gandhinagar were sent for genomic sequencing to find if the youth was carrying the South African virus strain. Gujarat has so far recorded six cases — all from Surat — where strains identified abroad have been reported. While five patients were carrying the UK strain, one was found to have the South African variant. All patients had been identified based on random sampling of Covid strains, and all had been discharged or tested negative when the test results were received. While senior state health department officials remained mum about aggressive contact tracing of these patients, sources privy to the developments said random testing may be increased in Ahmedabad and Surat, the two cities recording the most daily cases. “There is no difference in the treatment protocol for the variants,” said a city-based critical care specialist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-has-six-cases-of-covid-19-strains-identified-abroad-so-far/articleshow/81488295.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram corporation to resume dry waste collection next week||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The city corporation will resume its dry waste collection drive in the city with three collection drives planned for different kinds of recyclable waste this month. Collection drive for plastic waste will be held on Saturday. Glass waste will be collected on March 25 and old sandals and bags will be collected on March 31. In addition to the collection drive, non-biodegradable waste can be handed over at material recovery facilities (MRF) from 7am to 9am as per the dry waste collection calendar. Nearest collection outlets can be known from Smart Trivandrum mobile app. The corporation is resuming its dry waste collection drive after almost a year. Although the spread of Covid-19 was a major impediment in organizing collection drive, delay in payment of bills to the contractors further disrupted the system. Despite the previous council approving the bills, the administration had withheld release of payment. It was also directed that a separate committee may scrutinize the bills again. There had also been complaints regarding mismanagement of dry waste collection hubs in the city which were a big hit among the public. The bills were pending for contractor engaged for plastic and cloth waste collection in the city. One of the bills of a drive held in 2019 was cleared only in January 2021. The health wing of city corporation then took steps to extend the contract of collection agencies. Their period of contract had expired in January and considering the present situation, the contracts have been extended till March 31. The corporation has also called for new tenders for collection of different kinds of dry waste in the city. The project wing has also begun clearing of waste piled up at various recovery facilities and collection centres. Loads of waste were piled up in recovery facilities after contractors backed out from transporting the waste due to non-payment of bills. The officials said that problems are being resolved and dry waste collection drive will soon get back on track in the city. Corporation now gives unusable plastic to private contractor at Rs 4 per kg. Cleaned plastic is being given to Clean Kerala Company. Till 2020, 543.6 tonnes of plastic were collected through collection drives in the city. As per the statistics, 491 tonnes of glass, 155 tonnes of sandals and 25 tonnes of e-waste were collected and transported from the city in the past three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/city-corp-to-resume-dry-waste-collection-next-week/articleshow/81487777.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||Two groups can take ISC physics practical exams on a day: CISCE||Kolkata: CISCE has granted schools the permission to hold ISC physics practical exams in two batches on a day, but with a gap of at least two hours in between for fumigation of labs. Some schools are converting their chemistry and biology labs into physics labs so that no lab is used twice and the entire class can be accommodated on a day. At St James’, where the science batch size is large, chemistry and biology labs will be turned into physics labs so that all ISC science boys can come in small batches and fit into the labs. “In doing this, I am not repeating the use of any lab. I have the space to be able to do it,” said principal T H Ireland. Some schools will follow the rule book and bring in two batches on one day and spread out the lab-based subjects according to the number of students. St Paul’s Mission School will divide its students into four batches. “I will bring in two batches on a day with a gap of three hours for fumigation,” said principal Sanchita Chatterjee. This was echoed by Sujoy Biswas, principal of Ram Mohan Mission School. “The meeting on Friday over physics has permitted this. For chemistry and biology, I will bring in one batch a day,” he said. Another meeting over practicals is slated for Monday. At South City International, principal John Bagul said single batches would come each day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-groups-can-take-isc-physics-practical-exams-on-a-day-cisce/articleshow/81487784.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 14, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Vets yet to identify animal on the prowl||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The veterinary team looking into the predatory attack on goats at Thalikuzhy in Pulimathu panchayat has not been able to find out any evidence on the nature of animal. While residents believe that a leopard is on the prowl, pug marks collected from adjacent areas at Kilimanoor and Pulimathu do not belong to feline family. “From the postmortem, we have reasons to believe that it was a feline predator going by the nature of attack. The goats were tied to a post in an open cage. Attempts were made to drag the animal which is characteristic of a predatory attack. The abdominal region was attacked followed by consuming visceral organs. In the attempt to drag the goats, the limbs were also cut off. No pug marks were seen near the actual place of attack,” said veterinary surgeon, Peringamala, Dr Binod P G. Other paw marks obtained from adjacent areas have been analysed. However, it shows that the marks belonged to canines. “Felines retract their nails. On a normal gait and while being on the move, it stays retracted and paw marks do not show signs of nail. Only during an attack, it brings out nails. The paw marks we received have clear signs of nails, which belongs to canines,” added Dr Binod. Residents had informed the forest department about sighting of a leopard in areas near Kilimanoor two weeks ago. The attack on goats happened at Thalikuzhy three days ago. The forest department has installed CCTV cameras in areas where residents have reported about sighting a wild animal. The visuals have so far revealed only dogs and boars. It is learnt that hazy visuals received from one area show an animal belonging to feline family. Chances of finding leopard in this region is considered to be remote, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vets-yet-to-identify-animal-on-the-prowl/articleshow/81487788.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Varanasi||Truck owner arrested for threatening ARTO in Mirzapur||Varanasi: Mirzapur police arrested a truck owner, Raju Chaubey, for allegedly threatening and blackmailing additional regional transport officer (administration/enforcement) Vivek Kumar Shukla after failing to pressurise him for waiving road tax. Inspector Katra Kotwali Swaminath Prasad said, “On the complaint of ARTO a named FIR against Raju Chaubey has been lodged under section 186 (voluntarily obstruct any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 500 (defamation) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC.” “When police raided Chaube’s house he tried to jump from the roof to escape. In this bid, Chaubey’ got his leg fractured and was admitted to district hospital under police custody. Police are trying to identifying Chaubey’s accomplice, who has also been made an accused in this case,” he added. In his complaint, the ARTO alleged that when the process for realising dues of tax on the Chaubey’s trucks was started by the transport department he threatened him and asked to stop tax realisation. The ARTO has assumed charge of his office recently. However, when the ARTO did not come under his pressure, Chaubey gave an application to senior officials alleging Shukla was seeking bribe. Later, he made call to ARTO over phone and threatened that the latter will be booked in a fake case of rape. Chaubey also used indecent language for the ARTO. The audio clip of this conversation went viral on social media on Friday after which police and senior officials of district administration swung into action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/truck-owner-arrested-for-threatening-arto-in-mirzapur/articleshow/81487519.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kanpur||Man arrested for harassing 66 women, girls on phone in Uttar Pradesh||KANPUR: A 51-year-old serial molester with over 66 complaints of harassment lodged against him by women and girls across the state at Women Power Line 1090 was nabbed in Auraiya on Friday. Two cell phones and multiple SIMs used for luring and harassing women were seized from his possession. The cases may go up as many of his victims didn’t move police in fear of blackmail. The accused, Rajesh Kumar, is father of three married sons, is a native of Jeeva Sarsani village under the limits of Bela police station in Auraiya district. Rajesh’s first misdeed was reported in the year 2018, when a woman approached Women Power Line number and filed a complaint against him. The accused would call women and girls on their mobile phones and harass them and make objectionable remarks and force them to listen to his vulgar songs and indulge with him in vulgar chat. There were nearly 66 women and girls from various districts across the state who had made a complaint against him with Women Power Line at Lucknow. Some of his victims did not lodge complaints due to fear of being defamed. Auraiya cops along with Dial 1090 team identified the accused on the basis of the CDR (call detail record) details of his phone and nabbed him on Saturday. Rajesh was arrested by a team led by Inspector Bela and Inspector Women Power Line, Lucknow. “Based on technical inquiry and details obtained from Women Power Line, a joint team of Bela police and Women Power Line, Lucknow traced the location of the suspect and nabbed him from his house in Jeeva Sarsani village of Auraiya,” said superintendent of police Auraiya, Aparna Gautam on Saturday. Inspector Bela, Pappu Singh told TOI, “During interrogation, Rajesh, a farmer by profession, admitted to his involvement in the crime and revealed that he had victimised over 100 girls and women across the state for personal satisfaction.” “Rajesh, a class 8th drop-out, used to call girls and women and force them to indulge in vulgar chat and listen to his vulgar songs. He even used to blackmail his victims and also threatened some women,” the officer said. The complainants told police they had been getting incessant calls and messages from two numbers, which the accused was using. Police said he had contacts of more than 200 women in his phones at the time of his arrest. Police about his modus-operandi said the accused would allegedly dial different combinations of numbers. If a girl or woman picked up, he would save the number. Later, he would allegedly dial again and force the girls and women to indulge with him in vulgarity. Inspector, Women Power Line, Ajay Pal, said, “He was harassing girls and women since 2018. Initially, Women Power Line, after tracking down his number following numerous complaints also tried to counsel him, but in vain and he continued with his misdeeds.” “A case under sections 354 D 2 (whoever commits the offence of stalking), 294 (obscene acts and songs), 504 (whoever intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause him to break the public peace, or to commit any other offence) and 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) of IPC has been lodged against him and he has been sent to jail,” the Inspector added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-arrested-for-harassing-66-women-girls-on-phone-in-auraiya/articleshow/81487550.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata colleges clean up campuses in lockdown||KOLKATA: On-campus classes may have been suspended at colleges and universities, but the authorities did not let the lockdown months to go to waste. Taking advantage of a deserted campus, many institutes carried out long-pending maintenance and restoration as well as cleaned up the premises, rearranging facilities and adding a fresh coat of paint. J D Birla Institute gave a complete facelift to its two-decade-old BBA campus on Moira Street. “We discarded more than 1,000 kg paper and set up a vertical garden. The canteen has been renovated and a fiction section added to the library. Furniture was coded, and the corridors were decorated with pictures,” said Deepali Singhee, principal at J D Birla Institute. The exercise was possible within limited number of days as on-campus classes were suspended. The huge entrance to Calcutta University—the one on the stretch leading to IISWBM and facing the southern entrance of Presidency—is also being refurbished. The dilapidated gate with crumbling plaster is being renovated. “When classes are on, it is impossible to shut the gate even for a few minutes. But soon after the lockdown was relaxed, we started renovation. The work on the main entrance will start soon,” said an official of the university. Bethune College has been strengthening the main building. Maulana Azad College renovated the girls’ hostel, which lodges around 75 boarders. “We could complete the construction and unveil it on time in the presence of education minister Partha Chatterjee,” said Subhasis Dutta, Maulana Azad College principal. Scottish Church College has started work on setting up of a basketball court and also on termite treatment as well as structural strengthening and restoration of Jubilee Annexe Building. “Since on-campus classes have been suspended, academic activities have not been disturbed. We will wrap up within this academic year,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/colleges-clean-up-campuses-in-lockdown/articleshow/81487793.cms||Zeeshan Javed
March 14, 2021||Varanasi||Prez arrives on three-day tour, offersprayers at KVT, attends Ganga Aarti||Varanasi: President Ram Nath Kovind arrived in Varanasi on Saturday and offered prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath temple and then witnessed the mesmerizing Ganga Aarti at the Dashashwamedh Ghat in the evening. The President on a three-day east UP tour with his wife Savita Kovind and daughter Swati, was earlier welcomed by Governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath on landing at the LBSI Airport in the afternoon. From airport, the President went to Banaras Locomotive Works (BLW) by helicopter for staying at its guest house. Later, the President entered the Kashi Vishwanath Dham (corridor) area through Chhattadwar to enter Kashi Vishwanath temple complex through Rani Bhawani entry point. President Kovind and his family performed ‘Shodashopchaar Pujan’ amid chanting of Vedic Mantras by priests. On coming out of the sanctum sanctorum, he was felicitated by the CM, who gifted him a shawl, conch shell and Rudraksha rosary. The CM also apprised him about the in the Kashi Vishwanath Dham (corridor) project. The President then went to Dashashwamedh Ghat to attend the Ganga Aarti. The President and his family viewed the aarti from the same platform from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi had witnessed Ganga Aarti thrice. Around 21 priests sporting dhoti and kurta, accompanied by 18 girls in traditional attire started lighting up the ceremonial brass lamps for the Ganga Aarti amid synchronised and rhythmic chanting of mantras. In view of the President’s visit, the city remained under multilayer security cover. Traffic diversions become effective on highways as well as on city roads. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma had imposed ban on use of drones at ghats which were guarded by local police, PAC, NDRF personnel and armed forces. The officials in Sonbhadra and Mirzapur districts were also busy in finalising arrangements for the President’s visit on Sunday. Sonbhadra district magistrate Abhishek Singh said the President will take a 15-minute round of Seva Kunj Ashram and will then interact with tribals at Vanvasi Sangam, before leaving for Mirzapur district where he will offer prayers at Vindhyavasini Devi temple in Vindhyachal before returning to Varanasi for night stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/prez-arrives-on-three-day-tour-offersprayers-at-kvt-attends-ganga-aarti/articleshow/81487252.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Bareilly||Akhilesh Yadav, 20 SP workers booked for assault on journalists in Moradabad||Bareilly: Former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and as many as 20 Samajwadi Party workers were on Saturday booked in connection with assault on journalists allegedly by the SP chief’s security personnel and his party workers during a press conference in Pakhwara area of UP’s Moradabad on Thursday. Meanwhile, a cross FIR was also registered against two journalists on a complaint lodged by Moradabad SP chief Jaiveer Singh Yadav, said police, adding that a probe was underway. Speaking to TOI, Moradabad superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand said, “An FIR was registered against Akhilesh Yadav and as many as 20 SP workers under sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) of the IPC, following a complaint lodged by the journalists’ association against them in connection with the attack on mediapersons.” “Meanwhile, two journalists were also booked under sections 342 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 332 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 352 (punishment for assaulting or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation), 499 (defamation), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the IPC on Jaiveer Singh Yadav’s complaint,” said the SP. “An investigation is underway and CCTV footages of the press conference are being scanned,” added the SP. On Thursday evening, a few mediapersons covering the press conference of the former UP CM were injured after a few party workers and Akhilesh’s security guards went berserk at them at a hotel in Moradabad district. One of the injured reporters, Fareed Shamsi, 40, has reportedly sustained a fracture in his leg while others sustained minor injuries. The reporters claimed that they had to hide in the kitchen to save themselves from Akhilesh’s supporters and security guards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/akhilesh-yadav-20-sp-workers-booked-for-assault-on-journalists-in-moradabad/articleshow/81487303.cms||Maria Khan
March 14, 2021||Amritsar||Structures at Singhu: Police register 2 FIRs||Bathinda: Raising “pucca” structures at Singhu border to protect themselves from the sun is proving dear for farmers. Acting on complaints filed by National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and Kundli municipal committee (MC), police have registered two FIRs at Kundli police station over one such structure and a borewell. The FIR on NHAI’s complaint is related to unknown persons allegedly raising a pucca structure illegally on the national highway at Singhu border, while the FIR on MC’s complaint is related to a borewell being dug without permission. The FIR on pucca structures has been registered under the National Highway Act and sections 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) and 431 IPC (mischief by injury to public road, bridge, river or channel) at Kundli police station in Sonipat district. Farmers who have been protesting on the Kundli-Singhu border between Haryana and Delhi for nearly four months have started building brick-and-cement structures to protect themselves during summer and have dug the borewell to arrange water. The Hoshiarpur circle unit of farm organisation BKU (Doaba) is said to be constructing a double-storeyed structure too. A project director of NHAI complained to the police about the pucca structures near Malwa Motors. According to him, the construction was damaging NH-44. The SHO of Kundli police station, inspector Ravi Kumar, confirmed FIRs had been registered. He said Kundli MC alleged in its complaint that a borewell had been dug up at the agitation site. Farm organisation BKU (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said, “Farmers had no other option but to build pucca structures to stay for longer duration to fight against the central government, which is not ready to listen to us. Structures are being raised to save protesters from the heat during the approaching summer season.” Sonipat police too registered a case against several unknown farmers on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/structures-at-singhu-police-register-2-firs/articleshow/81488289.cms||Neel Kamal
March 14, 2021||Varanasi||IIT (BHU) prof develops prototypefor easy, safe use of hydrogen fuel||VARANASI: In a path-breaking accomplishment, Dr. Rajesh Kumar Upadhyay of the department of chemical engineering and technology and his team at IIT (BHU) have developed a membrane reformer prototype for producing ultra-pure hydrogen from methanol. The team said it is the first such prototype in India and there are no such commercial units worldwide. The prototype isolated 99.999% pure hydrogen from a mere 15 ml/minute methanol to 13 litre/minute and succeeded in producing 1 KW of power on integration with a hydrogen fuel cell, Dr Upadhyay said. The Union government has recently launched the National Hydrogen Energy Mission to promote production of hydrogen from green energy resources. Hydrogen is said to be the top clean fuel with its high energy density and versatility to replace fossil fuels. Dr. Upadhyay said this prototype would significantly reduce fossil fuel use and carbon footprint. Due to the compact unit, it can be used for on-site production of ultra-pure hydrogen. It also reduces storage and transportation safety hazards associated with hydrogen and can also be used to power mobile towers besides replacing diesel-based generators. The prototype can also be used to charge electric vehicles. The research project was funded by Union government’s department of science and technology. The entire unit is manufactured in India and all components like methanol-reforming catalysts and hydrogen-selective membranes were synthesized at the chemical engineering lab in the institute. Dr Upadhyay said the team was working on developing mobile electric vehicle chargers. “This prototype can be installed in an electric vehicle and integrated with a hydrogen fuel cell to generate electricity for charging. The electric vehicle owner can use an app-based module to use the charging facility. This will also reduce the queue at charging stations,” he added. Such units can also be installed at fuel stations for producing hydrogen. IIT (BHU) director Prof. Pramod Kumar Jain said the membrane reformer prototype promotes the ‘Make in India’ and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ initiatives of the government. IIT (BHU) is one of the leading institutes working on all aspects of hydrogen energy. A centre of excellence will be established in the institute for research in utilisation of hydrogen energy and its applications. “Hydrogen is the lightest element and has much higher energy-to-weight ratio than petrol and diesel. Its use will reduce dependence on fossil fuels,” the director added. “Use of hydrogen as energy source doesn’t increase carbon dioxide in environment. However, the major challenge in commercialisation of hydrogen energy is to develop efficient and safe methods of production, separation, transport and storage since it is highly combustible. The on-site generation of hydrogen significantly reduces this threat,” Prof Jain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/iit-bhu-prof-develops-prototypefor-easy-safe-use-of-hydrogen-fuel/articleshow/81487233.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Allahabad||Preparations for board exams underway||Prayagraj: The UP board has commenced their preparations for holding the board exams for high school and intermediate-2021. The exams are set to begin on April 24. To start the process of holding the exams, the board has started the process of dispatching the necessary answer-sheets to all 75 districts. A total of 56,03,813 students including 29,94,312 for High School and 26,09,501 for Intermediate have registered for this year’s board exams. Instructions for the appointment of centre managers and invigilators for conducting the exams are also being sent to all districts. UP Board secretary Divya Kant Shukla has directed all district inspector of schools (DIOSs) to send their recommendations regarding the appointment of Centre managers and additional Centre managers to Divisional Joint Directors (Education) concerned and UP Board headquarters besides the respective Regional Offices of UP Board by March 30. Likewise, the district inspectors of schools (DIoS) have been asked to provide information regarding the count of exam centres in their districts, the number of centre managers and additional centre managers, class invigilators and the number of other staff members needed along with the count of CCTV cameras at each centre among others. UP Board secretary Divya Kant Shukla said that the DIoS’s have also been asked to keep a full record of teachers being deputed as class invigilators for the exams. For performing these duties, the officials have been asked to ensure that in case of shortage of regular teachers for being deputed, priority is given to retired secondary schools first followed by those from upper primary schools and then primary schools. Teachers whose wards or kin are appearing in the exams at a centre are to be kept away from all such duties, the officials explained. Officials said that likewise, women invigilators are to be deputed at centres having all-girl examinees or in the majority. As for deputing centre managers, at centres being set up in government and government-aided and recognized unaided schools, the principals of those very institutions are to be mandatorily be made the centre managers barring those principals who have been barred from performing all duties by Principals’ Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/preparations-for-board-exams-underway/articleshow/81487219.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Allahabad||Guava roots protect against diabetes, finds SHUATS scholar||Prayagraj: Sangam City is known for producing the best Guava in the world and now a student of an institution from the same city has proven that not just the fruit or leaves of Guava but even the plant’s roots come packed with many health benefits, especially when it comes to fighting Diabetes. Amrita Raj, a research scholar of the Department of Chemistry of Naini-based Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences (SHUATS) has succeeded in carrying out green synthesis of Silver Nanoparticles prepared from roots extract of Guavas (Psidium Guajava) that have proved effective as antidiabetic agents and have also effectively fought off bacterial infection. “Green synthesis is an emerging area in various fields and provides economic and environmental benefits as an alternative to chemical and physical methods. In this method, nontoxic safe reagents which are eco-friendly and safe are used. This eco-friendly technique incorporates the use of biological agents, plants or microbial agents as reducing and capping agents. Silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) synthesized by green chemistry offer a novel and potential alternative to chemically synthesized nanoparticles,” shared Raj, who is pursuing her research under associate professor Reena Lawrence. She had recently presented her work at an international conference on “Global Approaches in Natural Resource Management for climate-smart Agriculture (GNRSA)–2021” and bagged the “Young Scientist Associate Award” along with “Best oral presentation award”. She further explains, “The green synthesised of AgNPs has shown best anti-diabetic results with effective inhibition against carbohydrate digestive enzymes such. It can be advantageous for heart health, benefit digestive system, aid weight loss besides being used for anticancer effect, and boosting immunity”. Diabetes Mellitus has emerged as an epidemic that has affected millions of people worldwide including India in the last few decades. The rapidly developing field of various nanomaterials and nanodevices using AgNPs has increased the possibility for early diagnosis and effective treatment, said Reena Lawrence, an associate professor who has overseen the research. “Nanotechnology is a discipline that is concerned with material characteristics at the nanoscale and offers novel techniques for disease detection, management and prevention. It is used as medicine and even has applications in the drug industry and nanomedicine drug delivery,” she explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/guava-roots-protect-against-diabetes-finds-shuats-scholar/articleshow/81487225.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Chennai||When an extra pinch can cause more pain||Chennai: Eight years ago, when her brother went into kidney failure, Rajiyashree Balaji and family decided to cut down on their salt intake. A home baker, Rajiyashree looked up ways she could minimise the condiment without compromising flavour. She found if she increased the amount of cumin powder or added more vegetables she could enhance the taste without anyone missing the salt. "It took my children a week to adjust to the new flavours but now they’ve stopped snacking because they find processed food too salty. I’ve cut the salt out of my breads and cakes too," says Rajiyashree.In the old days, salt was used as a preservative, says nephrologist Dr Rajan Ravichandran. "Today, it’s a habit." For years, he would advise his patients to cut down on salt to keep their blood pressure in check, and then one of his patients challenged him to do the same. "I took him up on the challenge. We started cooking at home without salt, instead sprinkling just a bit on the food after it is served on the plate. It cut my consumption down by 25%," he says.Every year Dr Ravichandran, chairman of Sapiens Health Foundation, which focuses on promoting health education to prevent kidney disease, puts out extensive campaigns urging people to halt the salt. He has convinced several hotels to remove salt shakers from their tables. "Don’t supply the poison, let people ask for it," he says. Sunday marks the end of World Salt Awareness week 2021, the theme for this year being ‘More flavour, less salt’.WHO recommends 5g of salt per day, consumed either as natural food or added. "One levelled teaspoon amounts to 6g," says nutritionist Meenakshi Bajaj, dietician at the TN Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital. On an average, say doctors, Indians consume 10g to 15g a day. "You can add just ¾ teaspoon (levelled) of salt to food, because the remaining 1g comes from naturally sources like vegetables, pulses and meat," she says.Meenakshi recommends using spices and herbs as salt substitutes, such as onion or garlic powder, lemon zest, cardamom, and nutmeg as they enhance flavour and aroma.Apart from natural and added salt, Meenakshi says people have to watch out for the invisible sodium in food. "In processed food, look at the label for ingredients like sodium benzoate. That’s also salt," she says. Other carriers of invisible salts are baking soda (which people inadvertently use while cooking chickpeas) and baking powder added in bakery items. To reduce the sodium intake start with small steps, remember to keep the salt shaker at bay and choose to consume fresh foods.Too much salt in the diet is linked to high blood pressure, which can lead to stroke and kidney failure, says Dr Ravichandran. "Children need less salt than adults. Of late, we find that children, whose BP should be 90/60 are now showing readings of 120/80. People mistake that as normal. It’s not for a child."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-an-extra-pinch-can-cause-more-pain/articleshow/81487797.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Varanasi||Mother of three woman elopes with Class VII student||tnn Gorakhpur: A married woman, a mother of three kids, eloped with a teen boy, a student of Class VII, in Gorakhpur causing ripples in police circles. The boy’s family lodged a com-plaint at Campierganj police station after which an FIR was registered and probe initiated, but the two had not been traced till the filing of this report. A 29 years old married woman and a 15 years old boy went missing after they went to a Shivratri fair on Wednesday. Their families started searching for them when they didn’t reach home till Thursday morning and informed police on Friday evening. As per sources, the woman and the boy had an affair since the last one year but no one suspected them due to their age gap. On the complaint of the boy’s family, a case wa lodged against the woman under sections 363 (Punishment for kidnapping) and 365 (Kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) IPC. “A case has been registered against the woman on the complaint of the boy’s family. We are tracing them and will succeed soon,” said CO Campierganj Rahul Bhati. The woman is a mother of three little children. Her husband told police that her behaviour towards him had changed since some time, but he could not even imagine that such a thing would happen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mother-of-three-woman-elopes-with-class-vii-student/articleshow/81497483.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Allahabad||53 heritage trees in Prayagraj over 100 years old||PRAYAGRAJ: The Uttar Pradesh government has identified 943 trees from a total of 28 species across the state under the category of heritage trees. Of the trees in Prayagraj district, there are 53 trees in Sangam city that are over 100 years old and have a religious or historical association. Besides, there are 13 such trees from the neighbouring district of Pratapgrah and seven from Kaushambi. Following the directives of the state government, the divisional forest officer (DFO) across the state were asked to prepare a list of such trees that are over 100 years old and are associated with mythological events, historical occasions, important events, monuments, religious traditions etc. Such trees were to be included in the list of ‘heritage trees’. As a follow-up, an extensive inspection was done by the team of experts which visited all the places from where the tentative list was submitted to the government. Based on the recommendation of the team, the state government has now announced the list of 943 trees which would be tagged as heritage trees of the state. These trees are among the 28 species of three commonly seen in any city. Of this first-of-its-kind initiative in UP, 53 trees have been selected from the Sangam city too. These include 21 Banyan trees, 20 Pipal trees, four trees each of Pakhad and Neem, two of Parijat and one tree each of Mahua and Shesham. “It is a known fact that the city of Prayagraj has a rich historical and religious legacy and these trees have been the witness to this legacy and have rightly been tagged as heritage trees. These include the famous Akshaywat tree located at Akbar fort, the Parijaat tree at the banks of river Ganga at Jhansi side, the Banyan tree located beside the Senate hall of the Arts faculty of Allahabad University, the huge Sheesham tree at Ram Shayan Ashram at Shringverpur," said the Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Prayagraj, YP Shukla. Besides, the city had numerous trees which are not only old but also had historical and religious value. These trees are at different places in the district including Allahabad Museum, Azad Park, Allahabad University, Railway DRM Office etc. Likewise, among the 943 trees, which have been identified as heritage trees, 13 trees are from the neighbouring Pratapgrah district. These include four Banyan trees, seven Pipal trees and one each of Samel (Bombax ceiba or silk cotton tree) and Kareel. This Kareel tree is also famous as Kareel Baba Sthan. Locals believe that Lord Ram had rested under the shade of the tree while going towards Chitrakoot for the 14 years of exile. Similarly, seven trees from the neighbouring district of Kaushambi is also on the state government’s list of heritage trees. Among these are three trees each of Banyan and Pipal and a tree of Imli (Tamarind). “Now that these trees would be tagged as heritage trees, they are sure to be included in the list of tourists coming to these places and government”, said the DFO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/53-heritage-trees-in-city-over-100-years-old/articleshow/81487209.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||ICT Academy to hold int’l conclave on ‘new normal’||Thiruvananthapuram: The fifth edition of the two-day international conclave organized by ICT Academy of Kerala ‘ICSET 2021’ will be held online on Monday and Tuesday. The theme of the latest edition of the conclave is ‘Leading the new normal’. Former council of scientific and industrial research director general Dr R A Mashelkar will inaugurate the conclave. Chairman of ICT Academy of Kerala Tony Thomas will be part of the conclace. The inaugural session will have vice-president of Trailhead Academy (APAC) at Salesforce William Sim and vice-chancellor of APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University Dr Rajasree M S in the guest panel. The inaugural session would be followed by sessions and discussions led by experts in the discipline of IT and Engineering. “ICSET 2021 will provide an exclusive space to bring together industry experts from all over the globe on a single platform,” said Dr Manoj A S, conference chair, ICSET 2021, ICT Academy of Kerala. The speakers and panellists attending this conclave will share their insights on issues such as innovation and entrepreneurship in the new normal, the new normal career opportunities, lifestyle in new normal and the technology impact on business in new normal. A session on disaster management in the new normal led by operations manager of UN environment programme Dr Muralee Thummarukudy and a talk by Dr Sohan Roy on entrepreneurship avenues in new normal will also be held. The conclave would also comprise a ‘Techlathon’ designed exclusively to promote technical skills of students where all undergraduate, graduate and postgraduate students can participate and exhibit their creativity, problem-solving, collaboration, communication and prototyping skills. State finance minister T M Thomas Isaac will be the chief guest of the valedictory function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ict-academy-to-hold-intl-conclave-on-new-normal/articleshow/81487795.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Kaithal village bans Pundri MLA||Kaithal: Farmers of Pai village on Saturday banned the entry of Pundri independent MLA Randhir Singh Golan, after the latter made a sarcastic comment on farmers from the village in Kaithal district and neighbouring areas. Farmers burnt an effigy of Golan in Pai, which comes under Pundri constituency, and affixed posters warning Golan not to enter the village, in front of their houses. The posters read: “Kisan aandolan ka apman karne vale vidhayak Randhir Golan ka gaanv Pai me aana sakhta mana hai (legislator Randhir Golan who disrespected the farmers agitation is not allowed in Pai village).” The posters also read that farmers’ supporters were welcomed in the village. Golan was a BJP leader, but left the party after he didn’t get the ticket in last assembly elections and contested as an independent candidate. Later, he supported BJP and was inducted as the chairman of Haryana Tourism Corporation. Farmers came out with the posters after a video of Golan went viral on social media in which he is heard saying that the agitating famers were Congress workers and even the protest was sponsored by the party. “I couldn’t vote against the government as the no-confidence motion was moved by Congress just for few farmers of three villages — Pai, Bhana and Karora. There are 54 villages in my segment. I will not resign from assembly as the agitation is purely planted by Congress,” he added. Four farmers from villages around Pai have died in the ongoing protest against farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kaithal-village-bans-pundri-mla/articleshow/81488298.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kanpur||Driver detained in death of gang-rape survivor’s father||Kanpur:The police on Saturday impounded a truck and detained its driver wanted in connection with the mowing down of Sajeti gang rape survivor’s father outside a community health centre (CHC) in Ghatampur, Kanpur on the morning of March 10. Police hope that interrogation and call detail records of the truck driver will bring out facts regarding the incident. The mishap took place when the survivor reached the CHC for medical examination after an FIR was filed in the gang rape case. As her father and uncle stepped out of CHC to drink tea at a roadside hotel, the former was mowed down by a speeding truck. Later, a case regarding the accident had been registered by the girl’s family and the police had booked sub-inspector Devendra Yadav, father of Deepu Yadav, one of the gang rape accused, on charges of murder in connection with the death of the survivor’s father. The family members of the deceased had alleged in the FIR that SI Yadav, posted in neighbouring Kannauj district, hatched a conspiracy to kill the survivor’s father and make it look like a road accident. “After an FIR was lodged against the SI, our eight teams were working day and night to trace the truck and its driver. We have finally impounded the truck and are interrogating the driver to ascertain the circumstances under which the survivor’s father was killed,” said DIG Preetinder Singh. A senior police official privy to the investigation told TOI that they will also scan and analyse truck driver’s phone call details. To recall, the Kanpur’s Sajeti Police had filed a case under Section 376D (A)-(punishment for gang rape on woman under 16 years of age), 504 (whoever intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause him to break the public peace, or to commit any other offence), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of IPC and 5G/6 POCSO Act on Tuesday based on a complaint by the girl’s father. The girl’s father had stated in his complaint that on Monday when his daughter was returning home from the fields at around 7 p.m., accused Deepu Yadav and Golu Yadav caught hold of her. Later, they took her to a secluded spot and took turns to rape her and also threatened to kill her if she raised an alarm. The girl somehow managed to return home late at night and narrated her ordeal. The girl’s family alleged that a day after the incident, when they were heading toward Sajeti police station to lodge a complaint, Deepu’s brother Saurabh Yadav had threatened to eliminate them if they would make a complaint against them. The death of the rape survivor’s father sparked protest on Kanpur-Sagar highway, just metres away from Ghatampur CHC where his 13-year-old daughter was undergoing medical examination for sexual assault early Wednesday. Shockingly, the incident took place before a posse of policemen escorting the man and his daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/driver-detained-in-death-of-gang-rape-survivors-father/articleshow/81487563.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
March 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Blind girl, her friend get gold medals at GU convocation||Ahmedabad: It was a proud moment for Himanshi Rathi when she received a gold medal at the 69th convocation of Gujarat University. Himanshi is blind and received the medal for scoring the highest in her MA, English Literature. Equally proud and elated was her friend, Vindra Joshi, who was guiding Himanshi to the dais to receive her gold medal. Vrinda also topped, along with her friend, and she too received a medal. Himanshi said there are four other members in her family who have vision issues. It would have been difficult for her alone to scale these heights, had it not been for her friend. “We have been studying together since we were in Class 11, and she reads out things to me,” she said, and added that she also relies on advanced electronic devices to study when Vrinda is not around. Both the friends are from Palanpur and shifted to Ahmedabad after they completed their schooling. The families of both friends moved to fulfil the girls’ dreams. On what plans they have after receiving their master’s degrees, Himanshi was quick to reply, “We will clear the civic services exams.” Vrinda added, “In fact, it was for the preparation for the competitive exams that we had shifted to Ahmedabad.” While they were talking to newsmen, a faculty member broke news to them that Himanshi got two medals and handed it over to her. Speaking on the occasion, the chief guest for the convocation, Justice M R Shah of the Supreme Court exhorted the students for hard work and said that there is no alternative to it. Recalling his university days, he said, “I am proud to be a student of Gujarat University and proud to be a Gujarati.” Meanwhile, 50,083 students in different disciplines were conferred degrees on the 69th convocation held at university senate hall amid Covid-19 protocols. As many as 275 medals and scholarships were awarded to the students who shone in their academic pursuits. There were 82 girls and 69 boys to have received medals for their outstanding performances. 70-year-old wins medal for MA in Prakrit Jayshree Shah was the only senior citizen to have received a gold medal at the Gujarat University convocation, on obtaining an MA in Prakrit. She said she is a Jain and her inclination to her religion led her to study the language so she could read and understand the scriptures. A resident of Vastrapur, Shah retired as the principal of a school in Kalol a decade ago and then decided to learn the language. This was not the first time that she chose to study with the younger member of her family. “While I was reading for my exams, my granddaughter was taking her Class 9 exams,” she said and remembered how she prepared for her MEd exams when she was 35, “My daughter was studying for her board exams then. We used to study together.” She now wants to enrol for a PhD, but expressed concerns about clearing the National Eligibility Test (NET).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/blind-girl-her-friend-get-gold-medals-at-gu-convocation/articleshow/81488315.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Nashik||Strict rules in Jalgaon for patients in home isolation||NASHIK: Jalgaon district administration has framed stringent rules for home isolation for Covid patients, who are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. Now, asymptomatic patients over 60 years of age or those with co-morbidity will have to be institutionally quarantined. District collector Abhijit Raut told TOI that they are discouraging home isolation. “We have sufficient beds at our Covid Care Centres (CCC). Moreover, private CCCs are also available for asymptomatic or mild symptomatic patients,” he said. The district collector said that patients with mild symptoms or asymptomatic can be home isolated only if they have proper facilities at their residences. The names of all family members and the doctor giving the treatment should be mentioned. Those opting for home isolation would have to mandatorily ensure 24×7 caregiver, who is in constant touch with the treating doctor. The administration has decided that the patients under home isolation will be stamped on hand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/strict-rules-in-jalgaon-for-patients-in-home-isolation/articleshow/81488303.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Yazdani bakery’s owner passes away in Mumbai||Mumbai: Months after Mumbai's iconic Yazdani bakery lost its cheerful face with the demise of the colourful baker Meherwan Zend, the Irani restaurant's "backbone" departed on Saturday. Pervez Irani, the youngest and tallest of the three brothers who co-owned the restaurant at Fort, passed away at the age of 81, leaving behind a legacy of a regimented life and a gruelling work ethic. He is survived by his wife Yasmin and son Tirandaz.  Acutely aware of the shadow that his father Meherwan Zend's outsized personality, cast on towering, diligent younger brother, Perzon Zend describes the 6-ft-2.5-inch-tall Irani as the "cornerstone" who would show up at the bakery at 8 am every day "come rain or shine" and do the "grunt" work. "He also had a way with children," says Perzon, about the uncle who would not only regale him with historical trivia about Mumbai as a kid but also was prone to greeting his pint-sized customers with a gregarious "Hello, my darling".  Once, in fact, a profound encounter followed one such greeting. "I know you from before I was born," a little girl said to him, before pointing to her mother, who introduced herself as the pregnant woman Irani had helped during the riots of 1992-93 when the streets were dark due to a bandh. "Yazdani's was the only light that was on. She was passing by, and knowing him, he had probably offered her a bun maska and chai," recalls Perzon. He was a "simple, happy" man who loved listening to old English songs and would begin each day by reading Bombay Samachar."The bakery became his identity," says Perzon,—Sharmila.Ganesan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/yazdani-bakerys-owner-passes-away-in-mumbai/articleshow/81488317.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
March 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Independent MLA cancels visit after stir||Karnal: Two days after he voted against a no-confidence motion moved by the Congress against the serving JJP-BJP coalition in Haryama, independent MLA Dharam Pal Gonder had to cancel his visit to Karnal’s Nissing town after a protest by farmers. Gonder, who represents Nilokheri segment in Karnal district, was scheduled to participate in an event at a cow shelter in Nissing, but hundreds of farmers from nearby villages reached the venue with black flags and held a protest. They said they will not allow the MLA to enter the village. They accused the MLA of not supporting their no-confidence motion against the government and raised slogans against him. After drama for an hour, the MLA cancelled the visit. Thereafter, farmers went back. Amritpal Singh, a farmer leader associated with BKU (Charuni), said they had already warned legislators to be ready to face a social boycott. Heavy police was deployed around the venue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/independent-mla-cancels-visit-after-stir/articleshow/81488302.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kochi||Woman on bus from Bengal gives birth, abandons infant||Kochi: In a dramatic turn of events, a 35-year-old pregnant woman who travelled around 2,500km by road from Jalangi in West Bengal to Kerala, delivered a baby girl on the roadside at Walayar in Palakkad and headed towards Perumbavoor in Ernakulam, on Saturday. All this happened without the knowledge of her fellow passengers in the private bus that was transporting 33 migrant workers to the state. Police later took the woman into custody at Angamaly and took her to Palakkad. The events unfolded when a vegetable vendor halted his vehicle on the roadside to take a break around 11am and heard the cries of an infant. He informed residents who in turn alerted the Walayar police. According to Walayar CI, the baby was found abandoned on the dried-up bed of a stream about 30m away from the road. “On investigation we learnt that an apparently pregnant woman was seen travelling towards Perumbavoor in a bus. We alerted the Angamaly police who took her into custody. She is now denying that she is the mother of the infant. She is physically weak and need medication. So, we have not arrested her. But the doctor at the hospital in Angamaly where she was taken for examination said that there are signs of her giving birth recently,” said the officer. “A scan is needed to confirm it. We will do it at a hospital in Palakkad once she regains health. After that her blood sample will be collected for DNA test to confirm whether the child belongs to her or not. We have learnt that her husband was not staying with her. That might be the reason for her abandoning the baby, which has been admitted to Palakkad district hospital. The baby is healthy. We will submit a report to Child Welfare Committee,” he added Rahul T R, the driver of the bus, said an excise team had stopped the vehicle for checking once it crossed at the Walayar border. The two excise officials who entered the bus found the woman in a weak condition and asked me to take the woman to a hospital. When we were about to resume the journey, the woman said she had stomach pain and needed to get down from the bus. She and a man alighted the bus and went to the dried stream. They returned after about 15 minutes. We did not realize that she had given birth to a baby,” he said. He said he took the woman and the man with her from Jalangi . When the baby was found, excise team told police that they had found a woman and man leaving the bus at the said spot. “The CCTV camera installed by the MVD shows a woman and man leaving the bus and walking towards the dried stream,” said Sivasankar, a nearby resident. (With inputs from Palakkad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/woman-on-bus-from-bengal-gives-birth-abandons-infant/articleshow/81487822.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Fine for not lifting crop from mandi in 48 hours: Dushyant||Chandigarh: The Haryana government has made all arrangements at the mandi level for the procurement of rabi crops at the minimum support price (MSP), said deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Saturday. The procurement will begin in two phases, said Chautala in a meeting with senior officers of the state government. He said the state will start procuring wheat and mustard from April 1, and barley, gram and pulses from April 10. If a transporter does not lift the crop from market in 48 hours, he will be fined, added Chautala. Chautala held a meeting with senior officers associated with the procurement process. Principal secretary V Umashankar, additional chief secretary P K Das and other senior officers were present in the meeting. Dushyant also gave directions on lifting of crop, functioning of procurement, and for ensuring that no arthiya or farmer faced any problem. The state government will procure every grain of wheat, mustard, barley, pulses and gram at MSP if a grower has registered their crop on ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal, said Dushyant. He said suitable arrangements had been made for lifting crops from mandis and transporters had been ordered to lift grains within 48 hours. Dushyant said so far, 7.5 lakh farmers had registered themselves for selling their crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fine-for-not-lifting-crop-from-mandi-in-48-hours-dushyant/articleshow/81488309.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kochi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi opens global ayurveda fest||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the 4th Global Ayurveda Festival via videoconference and said that during the Covid crisis, ayurveda and traditional medicine gained more importance globally. “Traditional medicine with modern therapies for a healthier future is the necessity of the world and everyone is realizing it. People are realizing the benefits of ayurveda and its role in stimulating humanity,” the Prime Minister said. “India is promoting wellness tourism. Wellness tourism is not only about treating the disease but also treating for greater well-being. It is an important pillar of Indian ayurveda and tourism,” he added. “There are many opportunities for young people to do research and start new ventures in ayurveda. The launch of the National Ayush Mission shows the importance given to ayurveda. It strengthens ayurvedic treatment and education. The World Health Organization (WHO) has announced the launch of a global centre for traditional medicine in India. It is a welcome step that students from different countries will come to India to study ayurveda,” said Modi. The Prime Minister said our policy on ayurveda is in line with WHO’s traditional treatments for 2014-2023. Ayurveda is not only about diseases but also about getting rid of them. Ayurveda says that if you enjoy food with patience and slowness, you will not have to go to the hospital, he added. The eight-day Global Ayurveda Festival is attended by scientists from more than 25 countries. Union minister for youth affairs Kiren Rijiju, who is also in charge of the ministry of Ayush, and Union minister of state for external affairs and chairman of the organizing committee V Muraleedharan were the chief guests at the inaugural function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pm-opens-global-ayurveda-fest/articleshow/81487814.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Interim relief for actor in British visa forgery case||MUMBAI: A sessions court on Friday granted interim relief to actor Shweta Tiwari after she filed an anticipatory bail plea in a forgery case. Tiwari’s estranged husband, Abhinav Kohli, lodged a complaint that she had forged his “no-objection” certificate while applying for a British visa for their then one-year-old son in 2017. The visa application was subsequently rejected. Tiwari’s plea, argued by advocate Hrishikesh Mundargi, said an FIR was lodged by Kohli to wreck vengeance on her and out of sheer spite and personal vendetta. “A prima facie perusal of allegations in the FIR does not make out any of the offences or warrant custodial interrogation of the applicant,” the anticipatory bail plea said. The court said her immediate custodial interrogation was not necessary as the alleged forgery was committed “long back in 2017” and since then it was known to Kohli. “The applicant can be protected from arrest as of now. Call for reply,” the sessions court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-interim-relief-for-actor-in-british-visa-forgery-case/articleshow/81489030.cms||---
March 14, 2021||India||Autonomy violated, pronounced guilty by TRP-seekers: Disha||BENGALURU: Climate activist Disha Ravi, who is out on bail in the toolkit case linked to the farmers’ protests, said the episode of her arrest and the furore it unleashed made her question when “it became a crime to think (that) the most basic elements of sustenance on this planet were as much mine as theirs”. In a statement posted on her social media pages, the 22-year-old said she felt her autonomy had been violated and she had been pronounced guilty by “seekers of TRPs”. Speaking out for the first time since she was arrested from her Bengaluru home on February 13, taken to Delhi and sent to custody, sparking an international outrage, Disha recounted: “In all the years that someone had asked me where I see myself in 5 years, I would have never answered ‘jail’ but here I was.” Thanking those who stood by her, she said the fight would continue. Disha, who was released on February 23 and has since returned to Bengaluru, wrote, “I kept asking myself what it felt like to be there at that moment in time, but I came back with no answers. I had coerced myself into believing that the only way I would be able to live through this was by tricking myself into thinking that this wasn’t happening to me the police did not knock on my door on 13 February, 2021; they did not take my phone and laptop, and arrest me; they did not present me at Patiala House Court; the media personnel were not trying to find a place inside the room.” “As I stood in that courtroom, desperately searching for my lawyers, I came to terms with the fact that l would have to defend myself. I had no idea whether there was legal assistance available so when the judge asked me if I have anything to say, I decided to speak my mind. Before I knew it, I was sent to 5 days in police custody. Locked in my cell, I wondered when it became a crime to think the most basic elements of sustenance on this planet were as much mine as theirs.” Calling her support for protesting farmers “a fight alongside those who are displaced”, Disha said her grandparents, “who are farmers, indirectly birthed my climate activism”. She ended her statement by quoting Soni Sori, the Adivasi schoolteacher turned political leader of Chhattisgarh: “We are threatened every day, our voices crushed; but we will continue to fight.” Disha was arrested by Delhi Police from her Bangalore residence on charges of sedition on February 13. She was in police custody for five days and later was sent to judicial custody before she was granted bail. In his bail order, additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana had said citizens “cannot be put behind bars simply because they choose to disagree with state policies. The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the governments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/autonomy-violated-pronounced-guilty-by-trp-seekers-disha/articleshow/81490069.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur Covid cases spurt by over 2k on Sat, highest in current wave||NAGPUR: The district registered 2,261 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, which second highest single day increase and highest in current phase of pandemic. Active cases increased to 16,014 even as Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) claimed there was no shortage of beds in in government, civic, or private hospitals. However, the civic body failed to prepare a system of admission in Covid Care Centres (CCCs) or hotels for asymptomatic positive patients not having home isolation facilities. As per data from district civil surgeon, the fresh cases include 1,844 (81.56%) from city, 415 (18.35%) from rural areas and two (0.09%) from other districts. Highest ever single day increase of 2,343 was recorded on September 13, 2020, during peak of the pandemic. Saturday was the fifth time the district had recorded cases above 2,000 and third time over 2,200 on a single day. More than 2,000 fresh cases were registered for the first time on September 8, 2020. There were 2,205 cases on September 8 and 2,060 on September 11. It was 2,343 on September 13 and 2,052 on September 16. According to state public health department, the number of active cases at 16,014 continued to be second highest in the country after Pune (24,025). On Friday, out of 15,423 active cases, 11,106 (72%) were in home isolation and 2,056 (13.34%) in Covid Care Centres (CCCs) and hospitals. Status of 2,261 (14.66%) patients detected on Saturday was not known. As per NMC’s data, there are 3,863 beds in NMC, government and private hospitals in the city. There are 1,550 beds in NMC and government-run hospitals on which 579 were occupied. Out of 2,313 beds in private hospitals, 1,127 were occupied. Thus, the city still had 2,157 beds vacant. NMC has started CCCs at Pachpaoli and VNIT. There are 130 patients in the two CCCs. Civic body teams have admitted asymptomatic positive patients found roaming outside in CCCs. The officials at NMC control room told TOI they were not having any idea of process of admission in CCCs. They gave contact number of a doctor who did not respond. Neither NMC, nor district administration has provided CCC facility of admission in private hotels as was done during August and September last year. NMC and Zilla Parishad continued to maintain good number of tests. In all 55,899 tests were done in last six days for a daily average of 9,316 which is highest during entire pandemic period. The number of deaths was low at seven in the district on Saturday. The deaths had increased to 15 on Friday. There is a slight rise in deaths. Last six days saw 57 fatalities whereas it was 55 in the first week of March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-covid-cases-spurt-by-over-2k-on-sat-highest-in-current-wave/articleshow/81488330.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Angels of lockdown still march on for a cause||MUMBAI: While a vast majority of the city’s population stayed home fearing the Covid-19 outbreak a year ago, few braved the pandemic and set out on a mission – to feed jobless, homeless and helpless people on the streets, in slums. What started as a small initiative to feed hungry souls has now translated into large-scale projects. A year on, as the city is crawling back to normalcy, food supply may not be the priority, but these do-gooders have moved on to address other issues of hunger management, access to education, livelihood, among others. Malad couple Faiyaz and Mizga Shaikh's gesture of using up their Provident Fund money to buy rations for the underprivileged during lockdown had won hearts. The couple received Rs 36 lakh from donors across the country, which included industrialist Anand Mahindra. A year later, they remain just as busy. "After word spread about our work, people from all over the city started reaching out to us for help and we haven't turned anyone away," Faiyaz said. Zeal English School, a small educational set-up, run by the Shaikhs in Malwani has 350 students on its rolls and most couldn't access online learning as they had no gadgets. The Shaikhs started off by getting smartphones for the class X students so they could prepare for their board exams. During winter, the couple partnered with non-profit groups to give away nearly a thousand blankets to pavement dwellers and orphans in Panvel and parts of south Mumbai. The Shaikhs have contributed towards medical treatment of cardiac and cancer patients and have also chipped in for a wedding where the bride and groom belonged to impoverished families. They also gave away sewing machines to empower women in Malwani. "My daughter, Rahin, was interested in pursuing a course in nursing but we have been struggling to make ends meet after I hurt my hand and lost out on work. Besides paying Rahin's college fees, the Shaikhs have helped us with meals," said Malwani resident Shagir Shah. A civil engineer from IIT-Bombay had been racking her brains on how to help the underprivileged, soon after the lockdown came into effect. Shievani Upadhyay, 24, took a sabbatical from her consulting firm and set out on a mission. She joined like-minded individuals - Rashmi Balwani, an entrepreneur, and Samrudhi Chothani, a lawyer-- in launching the Annapurna Movement. While the movement took off with smaller communities in Mankhurd, they started getting distress calls from other regions too. Their aim was to reach out to families without ration cards, individuals down with chronic illnesses, single women and the disabled. As the food requirement went down, the three women wished to continue with their efforts. Annapurna has now metamorphosed into a small NGO, Enrich Lives Foundation. They now run small education centres in slums to teach English and Mathematics. "We realised many Anganwadis shut shops in the lockdown. Teachers were jobless, and the students were out of school. We, therefore, decided to reach out to these children," said Upadhyay. Going forward, they are planning to upskill women with digital education to make them job ready. Activist Ruben Mascarenhas had never imagined that he would eventually end up helping the civic authority to tackle the city’s hunger problem, when he started feeding the homeless communities along the Western Express Highway in the first week of the lockdown. He and his volunteers distributed about 1,200 cooked meals with support from various civil society groups every day in the beginning. “We later started the transit operations - providing food and water to migrants leaving the city at various exit points- from railway stations to check nakas,” said Mascarenhas. He was joined by Neeti Goel, a restaurateur, Shishir Joshi from Project Mumbai, Swaraj Shetty, Anik Gadia, Pathik Muni and Advocate Rakesh Singh in their efforts. In the months to come, they reached out to orphanages, old-age homes, daily wage workers. Eventually, in November, the team managed to launch their own organisation called 'Khaana Chahiye.' The non-profit is now out to combat hunger at grass root level. “Hunger is also a policy problem. We have identified 10,000 homeless families and have created a live hunger map that would help the policy makers to reach out to these marginalised sections,” said Mascarenhas. The group is currently working with the BMC to develop a functional crisis management system. Several other NGOs including Akshaya Patra Foundation and individual efforts of people like Nidhal Mohammed, a former TISS student ensured the homeless communities survived in the lockdown. Akshaya Patra has distributed over 3.7 crore cooked meals across the country till last month and almost 10 lakh grocery kits in the same period. Nidhal and 10 other co-ordinators collaborated with other NGOs and distributed food and sanitary kits in over 10 locations in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-angels-of-lockdown-still-march-on-for-a-cause/articleshow/81489088.cms||Yogita Rao
March 14, 2021||Kochi||2,035 more cases reported in state||Thiruvananthapuram: With 2,035 Covid-19 cases being reported in the state on Saturday, the total number of cases till date has become 10,89,478. Among the new cases, 1,807 were cases of local transmission and the contact source of infection was not traceable for 167. There are 13 healthcare professionals among those infected and 48 people have arrived from outside the state. At the same time, 3,256 patients have recovered from the disease. Meanwhile, 12 deaths occurred in the last few days were confirmed as due to Covid-19, taking the total Covid death toll in the state to 4,381. In the last 24 hours 58,344 samples were tested with a test positivity rate of 3.49%. So far 10,53,859 people who have recovered from Coronavirus infection in the state. Kozhikode reported the highest number of 255 cases followed by Ernakulam 232, Kollam 224, Kannur 205, Malappuram 173, Kottayam 168, Thiruvananthapuram 162, Thrissur 153, Alappuzha 133, Kasaragod 84, Palakkad 80, Pathanamthitta 70, Wayanad 53 and Idukki 43. There are currently 351 hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/2035-more-cases-reported-in-state/articleshow/81487843.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Kochi||Police dept to procure 293 vehicles||Thiruvananthapuram: In a crucial procurement to ensure mobility of the police force, the police department is set to purchase 293 vehicles –– 255 for police stations and 38 for control rooms. The proposal, a part of which has been sanctioned, is under the government’s consideration. In an order issued on March 5, the government had sanctioned Rs 2.1 crore for purchasing 41 light motor vehicles (LMVs) too for police stations. Though police had also proposed purchasing rubber dinghy boats for water-locked police stations, the proposal was cancelled due to shortage of Plan funds earmarked for such purchases. The original proposal of police was for purchase of vehicles worth Rs 24.73 crore. The latest purchase is the first major one after the serious criticisms on the manner in which the force has been purchasing vehicles, in the comptroller and auditor general’s (CAG) audit report tabled in the assembly last year. The CAG report had criticized police for procuring luxury vehicles for its top officers instead of vehicles for operational purposes. According to the audit findings, out of 481 local stations, five (1.03%) did not have any LMV and 193 (40.12%) had just one each. Meanwhile, 24 stations (4.98%) did not have any two-wheelers and 245 (50.94%) had less than three two-wheelers. As per norms set by the bureau of police research and development, police stations should have a minimum of two LMVs and three two-wheelers. The audit had found that as on January 1, 2018, there were 3,748 LMVs with the department, of which 790 were deployed in police stations (against the requirement of 1,042), thus, indicating a shortfall of 24%. Also, 64 of the 269 LMVs (24%) procured during 2013-18 were for the use of non-operational units and top-ranking officers, against the rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-dept-to-procure-293-vehicles/articleshow/81487837.cms||KP Saikiran
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC’s plan to set up a park on reclaimed land opposed||Mumbai: The BMC on Saturday gave a concept plan to fishermen and local residents on a proposed green park which will come up by reclaiming 300 acres of land along the Cuffe Parade seashore. However, resident groups, elected representatives and fishermen opposed the plan, saying no concrete environmental study was carried out. Fishermen unions have already voiced protest against BMC’s plan, saying that if such reclamation is done, Mumbai would soon become Venice as a result of greater flooding in coastal areas. “BMC shared a concept plan and it showed that it's not just a green space but a theme park. No detailed environmental study was done to study impact on marine life and fishing...,” said BJP corporator Harshita Narwekar. Viswanath Salian, working president of Akhil Maharashtra Machhimar Kriti Samiti for Mumbai, saw the presentation at Radio Club but was not satisfied. “Fishermen have not been taken into confidence. If they carry out reclamation, water levels will rise. It will hamper our livelihood... This park is not needed at Cuffe Parade,” Salian said. Deputy Municipal Commissioner (Gardens) Ramakant Biradar said, “This was a preliminary concept plan and we will incorporate all suggestions and objections... The environmental aspects will be studied by NEERI and National Institute of Oceanography... We will ensure the park will not hamper livelihood of fishermen and will not have any adverse impact on the environment,” Biradar said. —Chaitanya Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bmcs-plan-to-set-up-a-park-on-reclaimed-land-opposed/articleshow/81488372.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 14, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Summer isn’t here yet, but the heat is rising||CHENNAI: The past few days had been dry, hot and glaringly bright though the mercury reading has hardly been different. But in a week’s time, that may change. Weathermen said temperatures may rise beyond 35 degrees C or 36 degrees C after equinox on March 20. For the next 48 hours, though, Chennai and the rest of the state may experience the same dry and hot weather.The IMD has forecast temperatures to hover at 33 degrees C maximum and 24 degrees C minimum in the city and the suburbs for the next 48 hours. The skies may be partly cloudy during the afternoon and clear thereafter. This, meteorologists said was due to the dry easterlies flowing into the land making the days feel dry and hot as humidity drops due to lack of moisture in the air. This makes the sweat evaporate faster in the body which then feels the heat despite temperatures being not so high. “Right now, you will feel the heat only when you step out. It is only when the temperature is about 37 degrees C, you will start feeling hot even when you are indoors,” N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, IMD, said earlier. On Friday and Saturday, the maximum temperatures were 0.1 degrees C/0.2 degrees C below normal, but humidity was at 61% and 77% making the day shining bright and hot with clear skies. Bloggers said the weather models indicate a spike in temperatures post the equinox, when the Sun crosses the equator, leaving length of day and night almost equal, and begins its journey to the northern hemisphere from the south. Blogger Pradeep John said temperatures may hover at 35 degrees C till March 21 and models indicate a rise to 38 degrees C in the past 10 days of this month in the city and the suburbs with certain times of the days experiencing hot land breeze or northwesterly winds. “What we are seeing now is not summer. There could be a rise at month-end which is normal. South and southwestern TN may see mango showers or pre-monsoon showers in the last 10 days of the month,” he said. After a few days of light showers in some parts of southern districts, IMD has forecast dry weather to prevail across the state till March 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/summer-isnt-here-yet-but-the-heat-is-rising/articleshow/81487845.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: MLC election vote today, stakes high for TRS & BJP||HYDERABAD: The stage is set for the high-stakes Sunday’s polling to the Legislative Council from two graduates' constituencies where 164 candidates are testing their luck to become MLCs. Polling would be held from 8am to 4pm for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates' constituencies. As many as 93 candidates are contesting from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar constituency while 71 are in the fray from the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency. Sunday’s polling has all the trappings of high-octane election — a jumbo ballot paper and large ballot boxes — unheard of in an MLC election before. Capping the high-voltage campaign spread over the last 25 days, over 10 lakh voters in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituencies will exercise their franchise to decide the fate of 164 candidates. Three major parties — TRS, BJP and Congress — independents and some smaller parties are vying for the honours. Even counting of votes is likely to be a long-drawn process. Though it will be taken up on March 17, the wrapping up of counting and announcement of the result is expected to take 2-3 days. The poll outcome has become a matter of prestige for both the TRS and BJP, especially after the reverses the ruling party had suffered in Dubbak assembly bypoll and GHMC election. The TRS wants to prove a point or two. It wants to win the MLC seats at all costs and prove that the BJP’s win in Dubbak and GHMC elections was just a one-off and that there was no ‘anti-incumbency’ factor against the KCR government. On the other hand, the saffron party is keen to continue its victory march and emerge as the only alternative to the TRS in the state by bagging both the seats. The party believes a win in both the seats would further cement its position as an alternative among the voters and provide a big fillip to mount a serious challenge to TRS in the Nagarjunasagar assembly bypoll and be within the striking distance of their goal of winning the 2023 assembly elections. Since the graduate constituencies are spread over 6 districts and dubbed as ‘mini assembly’ polls, the major parties strained every nerve and ran a high-pitched campaign to convince voters. Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar is currently held by the BJP and the party has renominated incumbent N Ramchander Rao. Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda seat was won last time by the TRS, which fielded Palla Rajeshwar Reddy again. While Congress is hoping to win at least one seat, independent candidate K Nageshwar in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and TJS president M Kodandaram in Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda are confident of scoring an upset win. TRS president and CM K Chandrasekhar Rao got into the thick of the poll action and sprang a surprise by fielding former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao’s daughter, educationist Surabhi Vani Devi from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat. Party working president KT Rama Rao addressed several meetings of lawyers, teachers, correspondents, caste associations to enlist support for Vani Devi. All the parties and independents went all out to lure government employees, caste associations, lawyers and teachers seeking their vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlc-election-vote-today-stakes-high-for-trs-bjp/articleshow/81489131.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Virar man wanted for killing brothers arrested in Pune||The crime branch of Pune police on Wednesday arrested a 55-year-old man for the murder of his two brothers in Virar. When he was questioned, the suspect, 55-year-old Jitendrasingh Juni, confessed to having committed both murders, the police said. In a statement, the crime branch said Juni, with help from accomplices, murdered Chegansingh Ghungroosingh Tak (24) on September 1, 2012, and 40-year-old Fillasingh Ghungroosingh Tak on August 25, 2020. The Virar police, now under the newly created Mira-Bhayander Vasai-Virar police commissionerate, had booked Juni on murder and rioting charges in the two cases, but were unable to trace him. Juni had been hiding in Ramtekdi in Hadapsar. Constable Deepak Kshirsagar was tipped off about his whereabouts, which led to his arrest. Juni’s custody has been transferred to Virar police. “Juni recently shifted to Ramtekdi. He earlier stayed in Telangana and Rajasthan,” senior inspector Rajendra Mokashi said on Saturday. “During questioning by police, Juni admitted to killing his brothers following a dispute over breeding and selling of pigs in the local market,” Mokashi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-virar-man-wanted-for-killing-brothers-arrested-in-pune/articleshow/81489165.cms||Asseem Shaikh
March 14, 2021||Chennai||DVAC files graft case against TNHB officials under KK Nagar division||Chennai: Based on the Madras high court’s directions, the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption on Wednesday filed a corruption case against unnamed officials at TNHB KK Nagar division and Ashok Nagar sub-registrar for allegedly issuing false documents. The DVAC was asked to investigate a complaint by Dr S Arunkumar and other flat owners of KK Nagar TNHB complex on the genuineness of a letter by TNHB administrative officer to a man named V Prabhakaraja. A fraudulent sale deed document issued by Ashok Nagar sub-registrar and another sale deed issued by the SRO. The complainant said four residential flats in the MIG block on PT Rajan Salai in KK Nagar had been allotted to four people and TNHB executed the sale deeds. The four allottees later sold it. The complainant said the sale deed was only for the flats and not the undivided share of land. Prabhakaraja was neither an allottee nor a subsequent purchaser of the flats, the complainant said. The complainant said the alleged fraudulent letter issued by TNHB stated the undivided share of land was 1,664sqft and was given to Prabhakaraja for availing a loan. This despite him having no right over any flats in the complex. Based on this letter, the sub-registrar Ashok Nagar registered a sale deed executed by one of the owners P S Malathi in favour of V Sugantha, an influential person’s wife, the complainant said. The issue is that the survey number in both these documents is 276, while the survey number in sale deeds of the other three houses is 394/1. “It is not known how TNHB used a different survey number for this house,” the complainant said. The DVAC has registered a case of criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust and corruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dvac-files-graft-case-against-tnhb-officials-under-kk-nagar-division/articleshow/81487842.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||HC notices over Congress members joining TRS||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court has issued notices to the authorities of the legislative assembly and council asking them to explain within four weeks how they allowed 12 MLAs and four MLCs who were elected on Congress party tickets to join the TRS without relinquishing their legislator posts. Some of them were later inducted into the state cabinet too. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, while hearing two petitions filed by CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka and Mohammed Shabbir Ali from the council, also issued notices to all the MLAs and MLCs who switched over to TRS and started sitting along with ruling TRS party legislators. The bench also allowed Congress counsel Ravi Shankar Jandhyala to serve personal notices to all the authorities and legislators as some of the notices sent earlier were not delivered to their intended recipients. Taking a cue from the anti-defection law that decriminalises en masse defections, a majority of Congress legislators switched over to the TRS, both from assembly and council, and declared their decision as merger of CLP into TRS legislature party. The aggrieved Congress leaders in their plea questioned the decision of the speaker in issuing a bulletin duly recognising such merger on June 6, 2019. They said the decision of the speaker is without jurisdiction, contrary to the constitutional provisions of the Schedule 10 and Articles 102, 191 and 324 of the Constitution. They wanted a direction to the respective speakers of both houses to first decide the disqualification petitions pending against the turncoat legislators as expeditiously as possible preferably within 90 days as was laid down by the Supreme Court. They also made the Election Commission of India a respondent to the case to enable the court to ascertain the status of the legislators. The court directed MLAs — Devireddy Sudheer Reddy, Chirumarthy Lingaiah, Hari Priya Banoth, Kandala Upender Reddy, Patlolla Sabitha Indra Reddy, Rega Kantha Rao, Athram Sakku, Beeram Harshvardhan Reddy, Vanama Venkateswar Rao, J Surender, Gandra Venkata Ramana Reddy and Rohith Reddy — to file their affidavits. MLCs — MS Prabhakar Rao, K Damodar Reddy, T Santosh Kumar and Akula Lalitha — too have to file their affidavits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-notices-over-cong-members-joining-trs/articleshow/81488394.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||‘With no peer interaction, tiny tots deprived of their magical phase’||In all discussions about education and school closure, the most neglected segment has been of the pre-primary age group kids, who are the most vulnerable. Completely reliant on elders for almost everything, the age group of 3-6 has been ‘locked up’ since one year, thus affecting their peer-level social and emotional skills drastically. The mental growth trajectory in this age group is very steep, hence it’s crucial to provide them with the environment which will best foster that. Academic Kalpana Dhareshwar, who has three decades of experience exclusively in early childhood education, talks to TOI about the dangers of prolonged school closure on these kids. Excerpts... The general perception is that even if tiny tots don’t attend pre-nursery/nursery it doesn’t matter. This statement shocks me the most. Early childhood education (ECE) is the most important phase of any child. The changes which a child goes through from say three years old to four is enormous when you compare it with someone going from 15 to 16. Everyone’s focus is X & XII, while foundational ECE years are ignored. In fact, if parents invest in these early years, then it becomes fairly easy later. It’s been one year since the pandemic started. For some tiny tots it meant discontinuation of the academic session, while for some their first year of school never started. Early childhood stands on three pillars — social, emotional and physical development. Social skills are best learnt on a peer-to-peer basis, when they interact with other kids in class. Emotional skills get developed as kids form close friendship with one or more buddies. And physical development is more fun when playing with the same age group kids outdoors during break time. With schools being closed, these little ones have already missed out on some part of this crucial development phase. With no physical schools, single-child parents are finding it difficult to keep the child occupied. When we talk about keeping kids occupied, remember that these are really small children who need to be guided. Always remember, children thrive on a fixed routine, something we officially call a ‘structure’. And this structure is key to keeping them occupied, keeping them happy. So there is a fixed time for waking up, getting freshened up, sitting for online classes, play etc. When in school, we ensure that we make them do the same thing at fixed times and that’s how you get them going and help them develop self confidence in doing or participating in tasks. Tiny tots get disturbed if that structure is altered. That’s when they become cranky because the continuity was broken. So till the schools open in physical mode, parents must stick to a structure for their child. But that’s easy for a school with dozens of teachers, not for a stay-at-home parent who may have other chores as well. Every problem is also an opportunity. The key is to start involving children in some chores which they will enjoy as play time and will secretly help build their confidence as well as motor skills. Involve them in laying the table by carrying an empty plate or glass. Give them some dough to make roti. Of course the roti will be of a weird shape but you have helped develop motor skills and concentration. Ask them to peel peas or fetch a tomato from the fridge. Children pride themselves on being able to accomplish a task and getting feedback. That’s how their self confidence grows too. But giving a mobile phone to keep a kid occupied sounds much easier. You can call me old school, but I am not in favour of mobile phones turning into baby sitters. You can’t avoid screen time completely due to online classes, so the aim must be eliminate it as much as possible. As I said a child needs to be guided and given a structure (routine), which he/she will follow automatically. The initial months for setting this structure will be extremely difficult for parents, but ultimately it will be rewarding. Keep them busy right from the morning. Start the day outdoors, always. A walk in the garden or on the terrace, but in sunlight. After freshening up and online classes, get them involved with drawing, craft, jigsaw puzzles or small chores. These are small kids, they depend on you to tell them what’s to be done next. The loss of physical schooling, will it have an effect. Definitely. A child’s brain development happens by the age of five, and every month leading to that is crucial. In this phase, a child needs peer interaction. You will be surprised how in pre-nursery class, kids strike up amazing friendships even though they only speak their respective mother tongues at this age. It’s almost magical to see a Bengali and Punjabi kid just sitting and laughing without saying anything comprehensible. That chemistry, that friendship, speeds up a child’s mental and physical well being. And that’s what, unfortunately due to the pandemic, our tiny tots are being deprived of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-no-peer-interaction-tiny-tots-deprived-of-their-magical-phase/articleshow/81487858.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 14, 2021||Shimla||Year on, wave hits districts spared so far||SHIMLA: After witnessing a downward trend in the Covid-19 positive cases for months, Himachal Pradesh is again witnessing spurt in cases since February 23 and this time Kangra, Shimla and Sirmaur districts seem to be worst hit. Opening of educational institutes and removal of restrictions are said to responsible for upward trend as people have now lowered their guards and are not following the Covid protocol. As on February 23, the state had 218 active cases left, which grew to 706 by March 12. On March 19 last year, Himachal had reported coronavirus infection cases for the first time when a 32-yearold man back from Singapore and a 63-year-old woman back from Dubai, both from Kangra district, tested positive. Till May 1, 2020, the state had just one active case and was on the verge of becoming Covid-free, but then people of Himachal Pradesh stranded in other parts of country started returning home. The first 10,000 cases were reported in around 75 days span, while next 10,000 (from 10,000 to 20,000) cases were reported in 143 days, and it took 25 days to reach the total tally of positive cases to 30,000 on November 16 last year. The next 10,000 cases came within 13 days on November 30 and in next 15 days, the count crossed 50,000 mark on December 15, 2020. After that state had witnessed significant drop and in last around one month only 9,331 positive cases have been reported till March 12, 2021. Initially, positive cases in bulk were reported from Gyuto Monastery near Dharamshala in Kangra district where 154 monks were tested positive, now positive cases in a bunch are being reported from a private educational institute in Sirmaur district, where 123 students were tested positive till March 12. After restrictions like night curfew, capping the number of people attending marriages or other social gatherings were lifted, number of positive cases has started increasing once again. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur recently informed the state assembly that rising cases have been detected in some groups — 154 cases from Gyuto Monastery and 16 employees of an industrial training institute in Bilaspur. Similarly, students residing in the hostels in Shimla and Siamaur districts were also tested positive. The cabinet will meet on March 15 to decide whether some restrictions needs to be imposed in the areas from where large numbers of cases are being reported in groups. NHM HP mission director Dr Nipun Jindal reirtrated the need to ensure physical distancing and wearing of masks. He said vaccination drive in the state was being conducted on war footing. In Himachal Pradesh, initially samples of suspected persons were either being sent to National Institute of Virology Pune or National Centre for Disease Control Delhi for confirmation. “Within one and half months, the state created its own testing facility by establishing eight RT-PCR laboratories and 25 TrueNAT laboratories. While process was also started to allow private hospitals to conduct antigen tests,” he said. The state government had launched ‘active case finding campaign’ on April 1 last year under which health workers would provided information regarding symptoms of Covid-19 to the people at their doorsteps. Every ASHA worker with two person’s team visited every household to gather information about individual and shared it with the health department digitally. Launching of mobile sampling vans in April last year to collect the samples proved biggest weapon in fight against the pandemic as mobile vans ensured the collection of samples from areas where movement of people was not possible during lockdown or area being declared as containment zone. For the Covid-19 positive patients opting for home isolation, undertaking e-OPD consultation on daily basis was made mandatory, at least one e-consultation per day, via e-Sanjeevani OPD mobile app. This arrangement ensured the daily monitoring of the status of patient’s health, he said. Himachal Pradesh was ranked third across India for registering highest number of consultations on e-Sanjeevani portal during Covid-19 pandemic in August last year as the state had facilitated 24,527 consultations, after Tamil Nadu with 32,035 consultations and Andhra Pradesh with 28,960 consultations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/year-on-third-wave-hits-districts-spared-so-far/articleshow/81488387.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Aurangabad||Crime branch arrests MCOCA accused absconding for 6 yrs||Aurangabad: The crime branch of the city police has arrested one of the seven members of the dacoity gang on Friday. The suspect had been on the run for over six years. The arrested man has been identified as Pandurang alias Gajanan Kachre of Jain Galli in Ambajogai of Beed district. He was nabbed from Veenatai Thackeray Chowk, Ambajogai in Beed.Considering the gang’s involvement in a series of serious property offences across the state, Aurangabad city police in 2015 had arrested them and slapped them with the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA).Crime branch inspector Avinash Aghav said since slapping the gang with MCOCA, this accused had been evading arrest. But now he has finally been arrested.Police sub-inspector Yogesh Dhonde said on October 15, 2015, the gang had committed armed dacoity at the house of Mishrilal Bardiya (81), situated in the limits of Osmanpura police station.Accordingly, an offence was registered. The accused identified as Suryakant Muley, Vinod Gaikwad, Gorakh Khalekar, Sunil Pawar, Nandu Shirsath and Rajendra Kalse were booked and arrested on the charges of dacoity. Considering the gang’s involvement in a series of property offences, they were slapped with MCOCA. In addition to this, the crime branch team has also nabbed another member of the gang, Rajendra Kadas, who was also arrested under MCOCA but since getting bail had evaded appearing before the court.As a result, the court had issued a non-bailable warrant against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/crime-branch-arrests-mcoca-accused-absconding-for-6-yrs/articleshow/81486925.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Goa||CM to netas: Get people to take the jab||Panaji: Admitting that there is low response to the Covid-19 vaccination drive, chief minister Pramod Sawant urged elected representatives to take over the responsibilities and ensure that people come forward for inoculation. “We are witnessing that lesser number of people are coming forward for vaccination at primary health centres. Panchs, sarpanches and public representatives should coordinate with health officials to ensure that at least 100 people are vaccinated everyday at these centres,” Sawant said. Sawant said that the state has set a target to complete 100% vaccination as quickly as possible. Speaking to mediapersons on Saturday, Sawant said that mega vaccination camps have been scheduled on March 15 and 16. “When the entire world is saying that lockdown is a solution to Covid-19, in our country, our Prime Minister Narendra Modi says that vaccination is the solution. To make Goa corona-free, vaccination is the only solution. I am confident that all public representatives will participate in the vaccination drive,” he said. Sawant was speaking to mediapersons at the Secretariat at Porvorim at a function organised to hand over a hearse van and garbage collection vehicles to panchayats. Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik, who was present at the function for the first time after his accident, has donated these vehicles through MPLAD funds. TOI on Saturday reported that health officers were concerned with regards to low vaccination in the state. It has been two weeks since the vaccination of senior citizens and people aged between 45 and 59 years having comorbidities commenced. But the daily average on most days has been below 2,500. On some days, it was even lesser than, 2,000 while the health services was targetting vaccinating 3,000 to 4,000 people per day. However, 3,450 people were vaccinated on Friday. Not so satisfactory response to the vaccination drive is owing to lack of community participation and support, a health official said. Health services is hoping the mega vaccination camps planned for Monday and Tuesday will push the daily average. “We will have to consider other options if the response of the target population doesn’t show improvement by next week,” the officer said. Speaking on the assembly elections in four states, including West Bengal, Sawant said that BJP will win assembly elections in all states. He also said that if he gets instructions from the party then he will participate in campaigning for these assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-to-netas-get-people-to-take-the-jab/articleshow/81488411.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Aurangabad||Rekha Jare murder: Key suspect held in Hyderabad||Aurangabad: After searching more than 100 premises in seven states over the past three months, the Ahmednagar police — as a part of a multi-agency operation — finally nabbed Bal Bothe, who has been named as the key suspect in the alleged contract killing of NCP activist Rekha Jare.The deceased woman was the president of the Yashaswini Mahila Brigade. On the night of November 30, 2020, she was allegedly murdered by bike-borne assailants. At the time, Jare — along with her son Kunal, mother Sindhubai Waikar and friend Vijaymala Mane — was returning to Ahmednagar from Pune in a car. Kunal had taken a photograph of one of the accused.Police have also arrested five others — Janardan Akula Chandrappa, a lawyer from Ranga Reddy in Telangana; Rajshekhar Chakali, a 25-year-old from Mustafabad in AP; Shaikh Ismail (30) and Abdul Rehman (52), both from of Ranga Reddy; and Mahesh Tanpure from Ahmednagar — under IPC section 212 for harbouring Bothe while he was on the run. A manhunt has been launched for another suspect who too had harboured Bothe.Last month, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court had rejected his anticipatory bail, following which Ahmednagar declared him as absconding and initiated the process of attaching his immovable assets. Also, a 1,400-page chargesheet in the case was filed on February 26 before the Ahmednagar court.Superintendent of police Manoj Patil told TOI: “We have arrested the accused (Bal Bothe) from Hyderabad. Preliminary probe has revealed that he feared that Jare would ‘expose’ him by filing a police complaint. So he decided to eliminate her.”“The Mumbai crime branch, led by Jt CP Milind Bharambe, Maharashtra cyber police, Hyderabad, Rajkonda police and some central agencies played a crucial role in helping us nab the accused,” said Patil.In the past four days, Bothe had changed eight locations in Hyderabad. He was finally rounded up from a hotel in Balajinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rekha-jare-murder-key-suspect-held-in-hyderabad/articleshow/81486927.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra-Karnataka buses suspended over lang row||Kolhapur/Belagavi: Bus services between Maharashtra and Karnataka have been suspended until further notice after the Marathi-versus-Kannada row erupted yet again in the border areas, leading to stone-pelting and ink-smearing campaigns on both sides over the past two days. After protesters threw stones at Maharashtra state transport buses in Kolhapur late Friday night, corporations in both states deemed the environment unsafe and withdrew their buses. The latest round of protests is believed to have started two days ago as alleged Shiv Sena members blackened Kannada signboards at Mahalakshmi temple in Kolhapur, which draws thousands from across the border. Citing Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray’s claims on Belagavi, the vandals reportedly abused shop-keepers from Karnataka. Videos of the incident went viral, and within 24 hours, pro-Kannada outfits in Belagavi smeared Marathi signboards with black paint. The stoning of Maharashtra state buses in Kolhapur on Friday reignited the chaos. As a precautionary measure, the Belagavi division of North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation suspended 400 buses to Maharashtra, and the latter suspended 58. Belagavi division controller Mahadevappa Munji said all Maharashtra buses have been sent back. The cancellation of buses left many stranded at Kolhapur depot on Saturday. Ajay Patil, depot manager, said, “The decision was taken suddenly therefore passengers had to face difficulties. Many arranged private transport in such times.” Karnataka Border Area Development Authority chairman C Somashekar urged the Yediyurappa government to intervene and take up the matter with Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-karnataka-buses-suspended-over-lang-row/articleshow/81488437.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab closes all anganwari centres till further orders||Chandigarh: After closing schools due to the resurgence of Covid cases, the Punjab government on Saturday instructed to close all anganwadi centres in the state till further orders. Punjab social security, women and child development minister Aruna Chaudhary termed the decision as a safety measure for children, and said ration and other materials to children and other beneficiaries would continually be distributed door-to-door through anganwari workers and helpers, so that nutritional support to beneficiaries was not affected. She instructed to follow all health protocols, that is, wearing of masks, washing hands and maintaining social distancing. The cabinet minister said efforts were on war footing to save little ones from the virus. She also appealed to workers and helpers to make people aware about the precautionary measures. She also made it clear that anganwari workers and helpers would be present in centres and conduct home visits for door-to-door distribution of supplementary nutrition program and other activities. Chaudhary said workers and helpers would call in beneficiaries in a staggered manner and ensure that growth monitoring record was prepared within the timeline given by the department. The government on Friday had declared preparatory leaves for all classes in government, government aided and private schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-closes-all-anganwari-centres-till-further-orders/articleshow/81488402.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Chandigarh||After trailing gang for 6 mths, cops bust fake passport racket||Hisar: After nearly six months of investigations, Fatehabad police busted an inter-state gang involved in making fake passports and arrested 24 persons, including two employees of Fatehabad police, three officials of Chandigarh Passport Seva Kendra and a postman at Tohana in Fatehabad. Fatehabad superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kumar said the arrested accused include Gagandeep Singh, brother of Ranjeet Rana alias Cheetah, a notorious drug smuggler. Fatehabad police took him on three-day remand on Friday. Rana was arrested by Punjab Police in connection with the recovery of 532 kg heroin at Attari border. He was arrested in Haryana’s Sirsa district, the SP said. “A total of 25 fake passports have been made by this gang at the Tohana address. Cheetah’s brother Gagandeep also made a fake passport to escape abroad. Kolkata-based Devashish Chakraborty, who made a fake passport of Bangladesh citizen Saijul Islam, was also arrested,” SP said. Subhash Chandra, DSP (headquarter), Fatehabad, said the case came to light when security in-charge, inspector Jagjit Singh of Fatehabad police saw the same mobile number on five passport forms. When he called the number, it was found to be switched off. When address verification was conducted, it was found that the passport applicants did not live at the given address, the DSP said. On August 20, 2020, Tohana city police registered a case on the complaint of inspector Jagjit Singh against 29 persons under relevant sections of the IPC, the DSP said. Line of investigations During investigations, police first sought identity cards from the passport office attached to the application form given for fake passports. The identity cards were found to be fake. Later, police gathered information of passports made at the Tohana address and on verification, 25 passports were found to be fake. After this, police interrogated the postman who delivered the fake passports and police employees who verified them. Modus-operandi The gang mastermind, Monu Sachdeva, a resident of Moti Nagar, Delhi, contacted Anil Bhatia, a resident of Tohana in Fatehabad district. Anil Bhatia contacted Rajvindra, a resident of Chander Kalan village of Tohana, who was posted in Tohana as postman. Rajvindra used to deliver fake passports to him. For passport verification, Anil Bhatia approached police constable Naresh, a resident of Litani village in Hisar district and EASI (essential assistant sub-inspector) Baljeet, a resident of Mirzapur village in Hisar district, working as “chhota munshi” in City Town police station. The gang was also assisted by Sukhdev, a resident of Patoh village of Bilaspur district in Himachal Pradesh, posted as assistant superintendent at Passport Seva Kendra in Chandigarh, Amrik, a senior passport assistant, a resident of Mohali, Punjab and Anil Sapra, a senior passport assistant, a resident of Chandigarh. Apart from these, Monu Sachdeva had his brokers in many states who used to contact those who needed fake passports. MHA order used This gang took advantage of an order of MHA (ministry of home affairs) dated 2018, in which the ministry made new rules for passport verification and apprised police personnel about it. According to the new orders, passport verification had to be done whether a criminal case had been registered against the applicant or not. Earlier, for passport verification, a policeman used to visit the address of the applicant and also get information from the neighbours. This process stopped after issuance of the new orders and the gang took advantage of this. Fake passports made for Rs 2 to Rs 3 lakh Police investigations revealed that fake passports were prepared for Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3 lakhs, which was distributed among middlemen. Anil Bhatia used to get Rs 35,000 to Rs 40,000 for a passport. Gang catered to five of family Investigations revealed that five members of a family from Delhi got passports made from this gang. Police arrested Suveer, a resident of Delhi and his father Sukhbir. While Surveer’s wife Mahender Kaur and two children got bail from the high court, they were included in investigations. Arrested people Besides main accused Monu Sachdeva, Anil Bhatia, two policemen, three officers of Passport Seva Kendra and a postman, Gagandeep, Fatehabad police also arrested Jayant, a resident of Delhi (who used to make fake identity cards) and brokers including travel agent Gurprit alias Prince, a resident of Amritsar district of Punjab, Prabhjit alias Shaily, Palvinder, son of Shali and Deepak Puri, both residents of Jalandhar district as well as Devashish Chakraborty, a resident of Kolkata. Apart from five members of the Delhi family who made fake passports, Sukhdeep Matti, a resident of Jalandhar, has also been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-trailing-gang-for-6-mths-cops-bust-fake-passport-racket/articleshow/81488431.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Now, MBMC puts curbs; central team says lockdown no solution||Pune/Mumbai: A day after Panvel, Pune, Aurangabad and Parbhani imposed restrictions to blunt the spike in Covid-19 cases, comes a similar announcement from Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation. MBMC on Saturday imposed restrictions on the timings of restaurants, bars, banquet halls and shops in seven hotspots till March 31. The back-to-back measures in the state are being taken at a time when a Central team has said a total lockdown is not a solution in any region. The approach should be more surveillance centric rather than hospital centric, said the three-member expert team dispatched by the Centre, which recently toured six Maharashtra districts. State surveillance officer Pradeep Awate, who was with the central team as it toured Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Aurangabad and Mumbai, said the experts were of the opinion that random lockdowns do not curtail spread. “A lockdown was necessary in the early stages of the pandemic, when we had to shore up infrastructure. But it’s not needed at this stage,” Awate said. Instead of widespread curbs, the team suggested large-scale testing, strict monitoring of clusters and a stop to all large gatherings. The suggestions were compiled into a report and discussed during the Pune district review meeting on Friday. Sharp Covid-19 surges have been reported in most districts in Vidarbha, including Nagpur, Amravati and Akola; Pune, Thane, Mumbai in western Maharashtra; and Nashik, Dhule and Jalgaon in the north. The central team’s suggestions stated the affected districts should implement containment strategies that were in place during the August-September surge. It also called for increased door-to-door surveillance with a focus on maximum contact tracing and swab collection.The team said doctors should monitor all reports coming in from the field teams. MBMC has adopted the containment zone strategy. Eateries in the hotspots will shut by 11pm instead of 1am and shops an hour earlier by 10pm. The hotspots are mostly residential areas. Poonam Sagar, Mira Road, Sadanana Nagar in Murdha village, Bhayander, vicinity of Hotel Sai Leela in Penkarpada and Kashimira are some of the containment zones. Restaurants and shops in other areas can function as usual. Active cases in MBMC totalled 792 on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-now-mbmc-puts-curbs-central-team-says-lockdown-no-solution/articleshow/81489238.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 14, 2021||Kolhapur||6 held, 13 booked for killing man||Kolhapur: Satara police have arrested six people and booked 13 others for allegedly murdering the chief chemist of a private sugar factory. Those who have been arrested include two top officers of the sugar factory —- Manoj Bhimrao Ghorpade (44), the co-chairman of Khatav-Maan Agro Processing Ltd, and managing director Sangram Bhimrao Ghorpade (40). Four others, who have been arrested are Suny Dayanadn Kshirsagar (26), Ranjit Dhanaji Suryabvanshi (22), Rohit Ramdas Kolugade (25) and Shubham Rajendra Ghadge (22) These six people were produced before a Satara court and were remanded in police custody till March 16. The murder case has been registered with Waduj police station. A total of 19 people have been booked for allegedly murdering Jagdip Thorat (40). Holding him responsible for alleged irregularities in the factory, they allegedly beat Thorat up severely on Wednesday. His family members took him to the hospital around 3.30 am on Thursday in Karad when he some health problems. He died on Thursday morning. Tension prevailed in the hospital when the angry family members insisted on legal action against those, who beat him up. They also said they would not accept the body until legal action was taken. Police had initially registered the incident as an accidental death but it became a murder case after taking down the statements of Thorat’s family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/6-held-13-booked-for-killing-man/articleshow/81486932.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||Fasting, because he has appetite for saving environment||Nagpur: His way of protecting environment is starving himself till the policy-makers back-pedal. A true Gandhian at heart, he has been sitting on Satyagrahas since over a decade – be it to save tigers, stopping coal mines in forest areas or to curb pollution. Meet conservationist Bandu Dhotre, probably the only man in the country who has gone on indefinite hunger strikes for eight times to save environment. Based in Chandrapur, which is one of the most toxic cities in the country, Dhotre recently fasted for about 12 days for the conservation of historic Ramala lake situated in his hometown. He broke his fast after the authorities assured to take stringent measures to clean the lake. Speaking exclusively to TOI, the activist shares why it had become crucial to take such an extreme step. “The iconic lake is over 500-year-old and was constructed by the Gonds. In Chandrapur, we had already lost five lakes due to encroachment and other anthropogenic activities. Since 2008, I had been fighting to save Ramala lake which had become highly polluted and was completely covered with echornia water weed,” says Dhotre. He would do immense research to find ways for cleaning up the lake. In 2009, the local administration did clean the lake and removed weeds but all in vain — as proper de-silting was not done, the condition of the lake started deteriorating again. “Since then, I have been constantly fighting to conserve it. This lake was built with an intention to provide safe drinking water to the city. And I wanted to make sure it happens,” says Dhotre, who is also the president of NGO Eco-Pro organization. When he went deep in his research, he found that discharge of sewage in the lake was the main cause of contamination. What followed was continuous correspondence with authorities for years. “But all they would do was make a budget every year but not release funds. IAS officers would also keep changing. The lake water soon started polluting nearby groundwater sources. When some residents tested their borewell and well water, it was found to be highly unhealthy,” says Dhotre. By this year, he has had enough. “I knew that summers was the best time to clean the lake. So I decided to sit on fast,” he says. Like his previous anshans, this one too was successful in making his voice heard by the policy-makers. When the news reached state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, he immediately directed district administration to prepare separate estimates for cleaning and beautification of the lake. This is not the first time that his demands have been met. In 2012, Dhotre fasted for over 12 days to protect tigers in the state. Earlier too, he has raised various issues like coming up of coal mines in forest area, construction of railway over-bridge and others. Importantly, all his demands were met. So what is it about his Satyagrahs that forces policy-makers to bend down? According to Nagpur-based environment activist Sagar Gabhane, it is his way of approach that gets the job done. “For Ramala lake, he took follow-up for 12 years, did all the documentation and tried to work hand-in-hand with the government. When that didn’t work out, he decided to sit on Anshan. Even during this, there is no negativity in the air. He puts in all efforts to involve the general public by explaining them the issue. He aim is not to target anyone but find solutions,” says Gabhane. When asked why he needs to take such a difficult path everytime to raise genuine concerns, Dhotre says, “Every government has been so negligent towards safeguarding environment and doesn’t do anything unless something extreme happens. I can’t get violent or go out on road and burn tyre. Through these satyagrahs, my main motto is to create mass awareness about crucial issues. Satyagrah is as relevant today as it was during Gandhi’s time.” For him, a lot has changed and a lot remains unchanged. “While public response has tremendously gone up, the government is still the same. Environment was neither a priority then, nor is it now,” says Dhotre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fasting-because-he-has-appetite-for-saving-environment/articleshow/81487863.cms||Manka Behl
March 14, 2021||Goa||Govt restarts process for ward reservation||Panaji: The department of urban development on Saturday began the process of reservation of wards in five municipal councils, and an order in that regard is likely to be issued on Monday. The move came a day after the Supreme Court upheld the recent high court order directing the proper reservation of wards in Margao, Mormugao, Mapusa, Sanguem and Quepem. The top court had ordered the re-conduct of the exercise of reservation.  Confirming that the process for reservation of wards has been started anew, a municipal official said they have started counting the exact population of reserved categories in five councils. “We will reserve wards by following the rotation system,” he said. Upholding the high court order, the apex court had cancelled elections to the five councils for not following the rotation system while reserving wards for women. The elections were scheduled on March 20, after the SC stayed the high court order, the state election commission had announced a fresh election date for March 21. Elections to six councils and the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) are scheduled on March 20. Meanwhile, there has been uncertainty over which wards will be reserved, as the nomination-filing process has been completed in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-restarts-process-for-ward-reservation/articleshow/81488445.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Chaos in House as MLAs clash over mantri ‘role’ in liquor trade||PATNA: The Bihar assembly saw chaotic scenes on Saturday as some opposition and ruling alliance MLAs nearly came to blows over RJD's attempts to raise the issue of land reforms minister Ram Surat Rai's alleged involvement in the banned liquor trade. The commotion marred the proceedings of the House all through the day. Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha had to adjourn the House twice, once each in pre-and post-lunch sessions. Earlier, when the House met for the day, Tejashwi, who had held a press conference at his residence, pointed to an adjournment motion over Rai's alleged involvement in the business of liquor in this dry state be taken up for discussion. But the Speaker did not allow it. RJD member Rekha Devi moved the adjournment motion in the zero hour, but the treasury benches opposed it, and the Speaker adjourned the House. Later, Tejashwi and other opposition members sat on a dharna outside the chamber of the Speaker, and still later decided to march to the Raj Bhavan, where governor Phagu Chauhan gave them a hearing. Grievances of the opposition members spilt into the second half leading to the unprecedented row after Congress member Vijay Shankar Dubey had moved the cut motion against the budgetary demand of the health department. Just when Tejashwi started making his speech, ruling BJP members obstructed him with their remarks that triggered the row. The House witnessed the unprecedented ruckus in its post-lunch session, rarely seen in the past 25 years, as a small section of frontbenchers from both the treasury and opposition benches lunged forward into the well, menacingly, to take on each other. However, barring the sharp exchange of words, violent gestures and flexing of arms by them, the House luckily escaped the taint and infamy. The members of the treasury and opposition benches could have come to real-life blows in the well, if a dozen marshals (police personnel deputed on assembly duty) had not rushed in and formed a seven feet long wall to separate them, however, without touching them. Otherwise, the stiff-looking marshals had stood facing the treasury benches, and their backs were on the opposition side. The grim-looking Speaker adjourned the House in the nick of time for 45 minutes from 2.45 pm. While CM Nitish Kumar was not present, deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi were there in the House. In between, RJD member Rambriksh Sada from Alauli (Khagaria) was in visible tempers, as BJP member abused him by taking his caste name – Mushahar, a Dalit category. Later, a few enraged RJD members said that they would file an FIR against the BJP member, but Tejashwi told media persons, “It has to be ascertained if what happens on the floor of the House can go to the police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chaos-in-house-as-mlas-clash-over-mantri-role-in-liquor-trade/articleshow/81487710.cms||Abhay Singh
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpurians grab lockdown getaway offers to unwind, beat pandemic blues||NAGPUR: The weeklong lockdown announced by the state government from March 15 owing to sudden spike in Covid cases, Nagpurians, unlike last year, have taken it as a blessing in disguise. They have started booking nearby hill stations and forest resorts to enjoy the period along with their family members, making almost all resorts, parks and hill stations booked. Even innovative entrepreneurs of the city are offering “lockdown getaway” packages at hill stations, wildlife destinations and even bio-diversity parks. Aura Park off Amravati Road is offering week-long packages which, apart from lodging and boarding, also include a tryst with nature. “Over 600 different species of plants are present here which we will explain the tourists about. They will get to learn how medicinal properties of these plants help keep us healthy,” owner Ambarish Ghatate said. Jungle resorts, an all-time favourite for Nagpurians, and multiple options, too, are seeing a rise in bookings for the lockdown period. Owner of Tuli Veer Bagh, Pench, Mohabbat Singh Tuli, said, “Both my resorts are almost full for the lockdown period. In fact, inquiries had started rising earlier this week and soon bookings happened. May be, it was the lockdown decision which acted as a catalyst for booking confirmation.” He further said the general perception is that resorts are “safer”. “You have acres of land in most resorts and limited occupancy, so no chance of overcrowding. People can walk, play or cycle without even coming close to a stranger,” Tuli said. Pench Tribal Camp owner Sandeep Singh said the state government should have come up with more clarity on travel. “Most of the tourists feel what happens if their vehicle is stopped en route or if borders get sealed while returning to Nagpur. Had the government explained these things clearly, all Pench resorts would have been full to the brim. Apart from that, tourists know that resorts are extremely safe. We have doctors on call and all safety guidelines are adhered too,” Singh said. Even the picturesque Tamia and Pachmarhi hill stations are all set to see Nagpurians checking in. Dr Sushrut Babhulkar, owner of Serendipity (Tamia), said, “The booking response for the lockdown period has been very good. People want to go to a safe place and they know they can find the kind of atmosphere they want in resorts. We have made RT-PCR report mandatory for guests and there’s a primary health centre nearby for any emergency situation that may arise.” Travel Agents’ Association of India (Central India chapter) chairman Rajesh Agarwal said it’s the weekend getaways only that can generate some revenues in the present circumstances. “For long distance tourism, business has collapsed by almost 95%, year-on-year. People are scared to travel plus there are multiple restrictions for those going abroad. So weekend getaways will definitely see business traction,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpurians-grab-lockdown-getaway-offers-to-unwind-beat-pandemic-blues/articleshow/81488453.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||35-year-old accused of raping minor||Ahmedabad: Khokhra police on Saturday filed a complaint for rape, molestation and offences under Sections 3, 4, 7 and 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against one Jagdish Thakor, 35, a resident of Khokhra, who is into the business of printing wedding cards. “Two years ago, the accused allegedly saw that the victim, who in now 17, was alone at home. He allegedly forced his way in and raped her. He then threatened her to keep mum about the matter,” said Khokhra police inspector Y S Gamit. “The accused would later force her into complying with his demands whenever he found her alone at home, by threatening to sully her reputation. On Friday at about 2.30pm, he was grabbing her hand when the girl’s brothers saw him,” a Khokhra police source said. “A fight ensued between the brothers and the accused. A crowd gathered and a bystander called the police,” the source said. “As the accused was roughed up by the crowd, he was taken to LG Hospital for treatment. He is still there and a police point has been set up there to keep watch on him,” the source said. “As the victim is a minor, her statement was taken by women police officials in the presence of a representative of an NGO,” Gamit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/35-year-old-accused-of-raping-minor/articleshow/81488475.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Patna||Family of five found hanging at Bihar's Supaul home||PATNA: Five members of a family were found hanging from the ceiling of their house in Supaul on Saturday. Police prima facie suspect it to be a case of a "suicide pact" due to monetary distress. Surprisingly, all victims were wearing new clothes. An FSL team from Bhagalpur visited the spot and collected forensic samples. The victims were reported to be under monetary duress. The incident took place in ward number 12 of Gaddi village under Raghopur police station. It came to light when some neighbours noticed a foul smell emanating from the house of Misri Lal Sah. They informed the local mukhiya Md Tasleem, who reported the matter to the police. Supaul SP Manoj Kumar along with other police officers later visited the site of occurrence. SP Manoj Kumar said the victims were identified as Misri Lal Sah (52), his wife Renu Devi (44) and their three minor children--Raushan Kumari (15), Lallan Kumar (14) and Phul Kumari (8). Sah was last seen on Monday when he had visited the local PDS shop for ration. “Sah didn’t like to mingle with people after his eldest daughter Nitu Kumari eloped and later married,” the SP said. Moreover, Sah was under depression due to the poor economic condition of the family. He had already sold 10 out of 15 cottah land, which he owned. The SP said the family kept aloof and had detached itself from the other residents of the village. Even his three elder brothers didn’t visit him, he revealed. The mukhiya Tasleem said Sah was upset over the family’s economic condition. He had sold a major portion of his ancestral property as he had no other source of income, he added. The local sarpanch Yuvaraj Mandal said that Sah was under mental duress. He didn’t allow his children to go outside. “People had not seen any of his three children for the past several months,” he said. Meanwhile, the SP said the viscera has been preserved. “We are waiting for the post mortem report. The autopsy report will throw more light on the incident,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/family-of-five-found-hanging-at-supaul-home/articleshow/81487729.cms||Ramashankar
March 14, 2021||Kolhapur||Speed up measuring of land for runway extension: MADC||Kolhapur: The Maharashtra Airport Development Corporation has directed the Kolhapur district administration to speed up the process to measure land to be acquired for the extension of the runway.Deepak Kapoor, the vice-chairman and managing director of MADC, reviewed the works undertaken at the Kolhapur airport, which has been witnessing a high footfall of passengers in the recent months mainly because more flights have started to several cities from here.The review comes after state finance minister Ajit Pawar, in his budget speech on March 8, said there will be no dearth of funds for the development of facilities like runway extension and night landing at Kolhapur airport.Kapoor on Friday tweeted, “Took detailed review of Kolhapur airport land acquisition of 64 acres. We have decided to speed up the process. Joint measurement fees for land acquisition being deposited immediately with district authorities. Have requested district authorities to expedite measurement (sic).”In another tweet, he said district collector Daulat Desai has been asked to speed up the joint measurement of land so that full details about the runway extension will be available to MADC. So far, over two lakh passengers have moved in and out of the airport therefore has potential to become most vibrant airport in the region after Pune as per officials. The plan now is to increase runway length from the existing 1,370m to 2,300m so bigger aircraft cab land and take off swiftly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/speed-up-measuring-of-land-for-runway-extension-madc/articleshow/81486939.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Speaker forms MLAs’ panel on suggestions for Haryana APMC Act||Chandigarh: Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Saturday constituted a five-member committee to share suggestions and recommendations to the House during the ongoing budget session on whether there was a need to repeal or make amendments to sub-section 7 of Section 8A and Section 42 of Haryana Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961. The committee includes MLAs Kiran Choudhary, Abhe Singh Yadav, Ram Kumar Gautam, Bharat Bhushan Batra, and Sudhir Kumar Singla. A notification has been issued in this regard by the Haryana legislative assembly secretariat. As per the notification, the committee will share its suggestions/ recommendations regarding disputes between farmers and contract farming sponsors arising out of contract farming agreement which bar jurisdiction of civil court. The committee will submit its report during the ongoing session, so that department might take action in due course of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/speaker-forms-mlas-panel-on-suggestions-for-haryana-apmc-act/articleshow/81488454.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||Docs check vaccine efficacy, all test positive for antibodies after 2nd dose||Nagpur: Seven doctors who tested themselves reported protective antibodies against Covid-19 had developed in their bodies after first and second week of second dose of vaccination. A female radiologist got a high reading of 317 where 15 is considered positive for antibodies, while another radiologist tested positive for coronavirus two days after second dose, and also developed antibodies later. A total of 37,195 healthcare workers (HCWs) like doctors, nurses, radiologists, pathologists, technicians, attendants etc have taken first dose, while 12,623 have taken second dose too in the district as on Monday. TOI had on February 25 reported three of six HCWs got antibodies 24 days after first dose, while remaining three had NIL in all three types of tests — IgG, IgM and RBD. The MoHFW had in a reply to advocate Ankita Shah said, “Efficacy of Covishield vaccine is 70.42%. A good amount of antibodies will develop about 14 days after second shot.” To test this, a few HCWs got antibody test done after their second dose. Ophthalmologist Dr Sunil Mulchandani and wife Dr Sindhu Mulchandani, a radiologist, had tested positive and were asymptomatic. “A test on December 14, 2020, before our vaccination, showed we had no antibodies,” said Dr Sunil. The couple for IgG antibodies test done on March 3, seven days after second dose for Dr Sunil and nine days after second dose for Dr Sindhu. For IgG test, above 15 is considered as positive report. The count for Dr Sindhu was 317 and Dr Sunil got 37.5. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “Count of 317 is high but not rare. Antibodies development varies based on individual’s immune system.” Consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe told TOI, “Studies across the world show Covid antibodies develop faster and in higher numbers in women, who also get infected less, and have lower hospitalization and fatality rates” Dr Sunil said, “It is very clear antibodies in both of us are due to the vaccine. We ensured inoculation of our parents too.” Antibodies count of radiologist Dr Rajkumar Khandelwal was 17 in a test done 12 days after second dose, where a count above ‘1’ is positive. “I had also tested positive two days after second dose. But my symptoms did not increase and I recovered in home isolation.” TOI had on February 18 reported five doctors tested positive days after first dose. Convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) Dr Anup Marar and chief consultant pulmonologist Dr Rajesh Swarnakar were among three doctors who did not get antibodies in tests conducted 24 days after first dose. Dr Marar received 22.16 antibodiy level two weeks after second dose. Dr Swarnakar’s count was 6.8, 18 days after second dose. ENT Dr Nitin Deosthale did antibody tests before first dose, 28 days after first dose and 20 days after second dose. “I had no antibodies before taking first dose. Count was 1.6 after 28 days of first dose, and it increased to 3.1 after 20 days of second dose,” he said. Dean of Lata Mangeshkar Hospital Dr Kajal Mitra also did antibodies test two weeks after second dose and his count was 3.5. In tests used by Dr Mitra and Dr Deosthale, above 1.1 is positive. All the seven doctors had taken Covishield. Dr Swarnakar, national secretary of Indian Chest Society, said, “Antibodies developed after vaccine will protect against Covid-19. But even if antibodies count is NIL, vaccine also gives T-cell immunity, which not only protects against Covid-19 but also all such viruses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/docs-check-vaccine-efficacy-all-test-positive-for-antibodies-after-2nd-dose/articleshow/81487871.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 14, 2021||Madurai||Engg colleges yet to give genuineness certificates||Chennai: Engineering colleges seeking affiliation with Anna University are yet to produce genuineness certificates for PhD degrees obtained by more than 3,000 faculty members. The university directed the colleges to submit the certificates on or before April 30.Around 510 engineering and stand-alone colleges sought Anna University affiliation for 2021-22. In their applications, the colleges have submitted that around 9,500 faculty members on their rolls have PhD degrees.To weed out fake PhDs and prevent faculty members lending their names to more than one college, the university asked all colleges to get genuineness certificates from the respective universities and submit it during the affiliation process. However, certificates were produced only for around 6,000 faculty members. The university had also informed colleges that faculty members were submitting fake Aadhaar numbers, PAN cards and degree certificates and instructed colleges to documents with originals before uploading them. “In addition, PhD degree holders are obtaining PhD degrees from different universities and lending their names to more number of colleges. It is also suspected that some faculty members have bogus PhD degree certificates and working in affiliated colleges,” the university said in a letter.A principal from a private engineering college, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said few colleges showed researchers and faculty members from deemed universities as faculty members of their institutions due to poor admissions. “Such colleges may not be able to produce genuineness certificates as it would land the concerned faculty member in trouble. A few also got PhDs from dubious institutions. So it’s doubtful whether all institutions would submit the genuineness certificates,” he said.Engineering colleges said universities charge more than Rs 1,000 per faculty member and added that obtaining genuineness certificates has become difficult due to the pandemic.“Most faculty members working in affiliated colleges got their PhDs from Anna University. When the university demands genuineness certificates, it should also take effort to reduce the fee for the same. It is an additional burden for colleges,” a principal from a city college said.M A Maluk Mohammed, director and correspondent of MAM College of Engineering and Technology in Trichy, said the move would ensure that all faculty members are genuinely qualified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/engg-colleges-yet-to-give-genuineness-certificates/articleshow/81487894.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Goa||Day after SC rap, Garg resigns as SEC||Panaji: A day after the Supreme Court’s chastisement of the state government, and its direction that the state election commissioner can’t be a serving bureaucrat, law secretary Chokha Ram Garg resigned from his post as SEC. “A new, independent SEC will shortly be appointed,” CM Pramod Sawant told TOI. Garg was holding additional charge of the state election commission. Sources said that once the new SEC is appointed, the date for elections in five municipalities — Margao, Mapusa, Mormugao, Sanguem and Quepem —would be decided. The state government has also started the process of reservation of wards in the five municipalities. On Friday, a bench of Justices R F Nariman, B R Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy rapped the Goa government for giving additional charge of SEC to its law secretary, and said the decision “made a mockery of the constitutional mandate that state ECs must be truly independent bodies”. On March 4, within hours of the Supreme Court staying the high court order cancelling elections to five municipalities over reservation of wards, the SEC rescheduled polling to the five municipalities on March 21 instead of March 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/day-after-sc-rap-garg-resigns-as-sec/articleshow/81488455.cms||Murari Shetye
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Green light for diversion of mangrove land for Airoli flyover||Mumbai: The state revenue and forests department has approved the diversion of one hectare (2.5 acres) mangrove land between Airoli bridge and Thane-Belapur Road for construction of a flyover. It is part of the 12km Airoli-Katai Naka Freeway and will reduce travel time between Mumbai to Kalyan and Badlapur region. The work is being executed by Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) in three phases —an elevated road near Airoli bridge, a link between Thane-Belapur Road and NH4, and a link between NH4 and Katai Naka. In another instance, 150 hectares (375 acres) of forest land across Thane, Palghar, Ahmednagar and Pune is to be diverted for laying of an electricity transmission line. The forest lands are being diverted in Shahpur, Bhiwandi, Murbad in Mumbai Metropolitan Region. In 2018, Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Ltd had applied for the diversion of forest land to lay a 400KW Babhaleshwar-Kudus transmission line. The proposal has received in-principle approval from the Central government, subject to fulfillment of certain conditions, including providing land for compensatory afforestation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-green-light-for-diversion-of-mangrove-land-for-airoli-flyover/articleshow/81487869.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Border dispute: Sanjay Raut calls for all-party team’s visit to Belgavi||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday alleged that Marathi people residing in Karnataka’s Belgaviwere being victimised, and said that an all-party delegation from Maharashtra should visit the city in the neighbouring state to resolve the ongoing stand-off. Talking to reporters, Raut said that in the last eight days there have been instances of attack on Shiv Sena leaders and the party’s office in Belgavi by pro-Kannada outfits. “Belgaum is part of India and the Maharashtra- Karnataka dispute is a language dispute. It shouldn’t be stretched too far and this is the responsibility of the Karnataka government too,” he said. “If the situation goes out of hand, Shiv Sena and Maharashtra government shouldn’t be blamed as the response would not be official, but political,” Raut said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/border-dispute-sanjay-raut-calls-for-all-party-teams-visit-to-belgavi-in-mumbai/articleshow/81488459.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Rajkot||False negative Covid-19 report sold for Rs 1,500 in Rajkot||Rajkot: The health department of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Saturday arrested two persons for allegedly selling false Covid-19 negative reports even without collecting swab samples of the patients. The accused were identified as Parag Joshi and his associate Dharmesh Herma, both aged 36 years, said police.The accused ran a home sample collection service (Herma Lab). “However, RMC officials found that neither of the accused was qualified to collect the samples nor did it have a licence to operate such a service,” said Rajkot DCP Manoharsinh Jadeja.The complaint was lodged by RMC medical officer Manish Chunara with Gandhigram police station after his department received complain that Joshi was selling the fake Covid-19 negative certificates for Rs 1,500 each. Joshi and other unidentified accused were booked under relevant provisions of the IPC, Disaster Management Act and Gujarat Medical Practitioners’ Act.The FIR stated that Joshi obtained the false reports allegedly from Bhatt Pathology Laboratory. In a statement to the RMC, head of Bhatt Pathology Laboratory Dr Jayprakash Bhatt said that a number of laboratories in Rajkot were sending samples to them for testing. Bhatt said his laboratory was authorised by RMC for Covid-19 testing. The RMC official alleged in the FIR that Joshi was risking people’s lives for his personal benefit by providing Covid-19 negative reports without examining swab samples. According to police, names of other people involved in this alleged scam could come out during investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/false-negative-covid-19-report-sold-for-rs-1500-in-rajkot/articleshow/81487419.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Pune||Pune gets seven new flights under summer schedule||PUNE: Seven new flights, including a direct flight to Goa, will commence from the city airport from March 28 — the day the summer schedule of airlines comes into force. Apart from Goa, the airport will have new direct connections to Varanasi, Durgapur, Darbhanga, Gwalior, Jabalpur and Kochi. “While the flight to Goa will operate six days a week, the flight to Varanasi will run thrice a week. Goa is a popular destination and witnesses increased passenger traffic during summer,” an airline official said. The flight to Darbhanga in Bihar from Pune will operate six days a week. While flights to Durgapur and Gwalior will operate thrice a week, the Pune-Jabalpur flight will operate twice a week. The flight from Pune to Kochi will operate daily. There are around 80 flight movements at the Pune airport at present. “We expect the number of flight movement at the airport to be more than 95 from April,” an airport official said. Travel agents said they received many queries regarding the direct connection to Goa. There were at least two direct flights till early last year, but they were discontinued after the airports reopened for domestic flight movements in May 2020. “We are sure the new flight will attract many flyers,” a representative of a city-based travel company said. Anand Kanitkar from Aundh, said, “Now, we can plan the Goa trip easily.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-gets-seven-new-flights-under-summer-schedule/articleshow/81488462.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 14, 2021||India||Applicants for new driving licence must go via video tutorial||NEW DELHI: From November this year, those applying for a new driving licence (DL) will have to mandatorily go through an in-depth online video tutorial on safe driving practices one month before going for the test. Besides details of safe driving practices, the video tutorials will also have interviews of family members of those impacted by casual driving, reports Dipak Dash Similarly, the existing licence holders will need to undertake a driver safety certification course, if they are caught for certain types of traffic offences. These drivers would have to complete the refresher course in three months. Their DLs would be linked to Aadhaar to track the drivers who have completed the course. The road transport ministry has also set the October 31 deadline for rolling out a mechanism to share footage of two-wheeler riders not wearing helmets while crossing toll plazas with local police for issuing challans to them. This is crucial considering that while in major cities such violations are captured in cameras set up by traffic police, CCTV cameras are almost non-existent in other parts of the country. Nearly 44,666 two-wheeler drivers and pillion riders were killed in road crashes in 2019 for not wearing helmets and such victims constitute almost 80% of all two-wheeler occupants killed in accidents. Sources said the detailed protocol for online video tutorial for new applicants for DLs and safety certification course for existing drivers will be spelt out in the Central Motor Vehicle Rules under the amended MV Act in the next few weeks. They said several video tutorials are available with states and organisations specialising in road safety. “There will be an integrated system for this and the applicant won’t be able to apply unless he/ she has successfully completed the video tutorial. This will make them aware about the rules and they will get sensitised when they will go through the experiences of people who have suffered due to road crashes caused by irresponsible drivers,” said a source. Though there have been several debates over whether fault of drivers or bad engineering and maintenance of roads is more responsible for road crashes, the trends across the globe show that driver behaviour is one of the key reasons for traffic crashes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/applicants-for-new-driving-licence-must-go-via-video-tutorial/articleshow/81490204.cms||Dipak K Dash
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Hand over access to my data centre: Shaik||Hyderabad: Heera Group founder & CEO Nowhera Shaik on Saturday said she is waiting for Hyderabad Central Crime Station (CCS) to hand over access to the sealed data centre in the city before she can comment on the money to return to investors. “My company has sufficient resources like gold, properties and other sources to return the money. In Telangana alone, we have properties worth Rs 5,000 crores. Apart from this, we have properties in other parts of the country. We don’t need to sell our properties to repay money to needy investors, since we can repay with our existing sources,” Shaik said at her first press conference here after her release from a Mumbai jail recently. As of now, 29 cases were pending against her across the country and before various agencies. “The SC gave two weeks time for Hyderabad CCS to give access to our data center. CCS still has one more week time. We will start our business and, those who want to continue to do business with us, I can assure that our business will grow 100 times efficiently than before,” she said. In the past, Shaik had planned to contest from Hyderabad Lok Sabha constituency. When asked whether she has plans to revive her political career, Shaik said as of now she did not give any thought to it as elections were still far away. She said that following the shut down of her business, 20,000 people, who were working in her business, became jobless.  She claimed that all her businesses were functioning from buildings owned by her group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hand-over-access-to-my-data-centre-shaik/articleshow/81487876.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Rajkot||15 of RK Ashram including priests test nCov positive||Rajkot: All activities of the Shree Ramakrishna Ashram in Rajkot were suspended after 15 priests and employees of the ashram, including the head priest, tested positive of Covid-19 on Saturday. In a statement, the president of the ashram, Swami Nikhileshwaranandji said, “Swami Adibhavanandji, 83, who is a diabetic patient for long, had felt weak three days ago. But at that time he tested negative. He tested positive during a CT scan on Friday night and his condition is critical.” Following that, test was conducted on all the priests of the ashram in which nine priests including Swami Nikhileshwaranandji tested Covid positive. All the priests are in quarantine and under treatment. The ashram authorities have also appealed the devotees to go for test if they have developed any symptoms or had come into contact of any infected priests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/15-of-rk-ashram-including-priests-test-ncov-positive/articleshow/81487437.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Nashik||Woman ends life, children poisoned in Nashik||NASHIK: A 43-year-old woman in the Untawadi area of the city ended her life by consuming poison on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. The woman had also administered some poisonous substance to her two children. The two children — a 17-year-old boy and a 13-year-old girl— are undergoing treatment at the Nashik civil hospital. As per the Gangapur police, their condition is stable. Police sub-inspector Chetan Pardeshi of the Gangapur police station said the incident came to light on Friday at 7 pm when her husband noticed that his wife and children were not waking up. Realizing something was wrong, he shifted them to the hospital. The woman was declared brought dead. Pardeshi said the woman has left a suicide note statingt she was not happy with her life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-ends-life-children-poisoned/articleshow/81486961.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 14, 2021||Kolhapur||Shetti: Block highways, burn effigies to protest against power disconnection||Kolhapur: Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) president Raju Shetti on Saturday appealed to the citizens to take to the streets, block highways and burn effigies of the chief minister, deputy chief minister and energy minister on March 19 to protest against the disconnection drive being carried out by the Mahavitaran over the past three days. Shetti, in a video message said: “I am getting complaints from across the state that the Mahavitaran is disconnecting the power supply forcefully. Since the lockdown, we have been demanding waiver of the electricity bills of the consumers with consumption of less than 300 unit and bills for the power consumed by irrigation pumps of the farmers. Despite our repeated agitations, the government has not budged. Now, as the financial year is ending, people have no money.” Activists from Kolhapur city, who have formed a forum to galvanise support, have threatened to ‘gherao’ Mahavitaran’s office at Tarabai Park on Monday. Niwas Salokhe, the convenor of the forum said, “Most consumers responded to our call and refused to pay the bills. The government, which was earlier ready to waive the bills, has now made a U-turn.” Meanwhile, on Saturday, the Mahavitaran disconnected 131 domestic connections, 175 commercial connections and 13 industrial connections. tNn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shetti-block-highways-burn-effigies-to-protest-against-power-disconnection/articleshow/81486957.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fadnavis new prez of Rambhau Prabhodin||Former chief minister and now opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis has been elected president of Rambhau Mhalgi Prabhodini, a training academy for elected representatives and voluntary activists. It has been founded by the RSS. Rajya Sabha MP Vinayak Sahasrabuddhe is the vice-president while Bhai Girkar has been elected secretary. The elections were held on Saturday in Mumbai. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-fadnavis-new-prez-of-rambhau-prabhodin/articleshow/81488480.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Nashik||Police naik held for taking Rs 1,500 bribe||Nashik: A police naik attached to the Nashik Road police station was arrested while accepting a bribe of Rs 1,500 on Friday. The police naik has been identified as Arun Lahane. A press release from the anti-corruption bureau, Nashik, stated Lahane had the task of issuing a warrant to an accused. The accused had moved court to get the non-bailable warrant cancelled. Lahane allegedly had demanded Rs 1,500 from the accused for not arresting him until the time of cancellation of the warrant issued against him. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-naik-held-for-taking-rs-1500-bribe/articleshow/81486970.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Rajkot||MBBS student infected after 2nd dose||A first-year MBBS student of Junagadh medical college tested positive of Covid-19 on March 9. Following this, all physical MBBS first year education was shifted to online education for a week. The student had taken second dose of vaccine on March 3. Medical superintendent of Junagadh civil hospital, Sushil Kumar said, “The student is a native of Upleta town in Rajkot district and has tested positive within 14 days after taking second dose of the vaccine. His parents and friends have tested negative. The student is also recovering.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mbbs-student-infected-after-2nd-dose/articleshow/81487444.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||BMC invites bids for three molecular labs at hospitals||MUMBAI: The BMC has floated tenders to set up three molecular diagnostic laboratories and upgrade the existing one at Kasturba Hospital into a high-end lab capable of carrying out whole genome sequencing (WGS). The first three tenders are for the Nair, Sion and Cooper hospitals; officials said the setting-up and five-year maintenance costs of the three labs would be around Rs 4.75 crore. “This is part of our long-term plan to boost our capability to tackle infectious diseases and tone able to better fight pandemics in the future. The upgraded molecular diagnostic lab at Kasturba Hospital will be the first such in Mumbai. For that we are buying equipment and we will set it up on our own,” said additional municipal commissioner (health) Suresh Kakani. Whole genome sequencing (WGS) is a cutting-edge technology to closely study pathogens such as the Covid-19-causing SARS-CoV-2 virus. In the past year, Covid-19 samples for genome sequencing had to be sent outside the city, mainly to the NIV in Pune and IGIB in Delhi. Kakani said that currently Nair Hospital students use the molecular diagnostic lab at Kasturba. “Genome sequencing at the upgraded Kasturba lab will help us identify virus mutants like those of Covid from the UK or Brazil. The new labs will be long-term healthcare assets for the city.” Genome sequencing helps identify variations and mutations in the original pathogen; a case in point being the identification of the B.1.1.7. variant in the United Kingdom where WGS is routinely used in Covid diagnosis. BMC's Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory, situated in the Kasturba Hospital campus near Saat Raasta, has already begun a pilot study with an IIT Bombay startup team, officials had earlier said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-invites-bids-for-three-molecular-labs-at-hosps-in-mumbai/articleshow/81489466.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 14, 2021||Nashik||2 employees of power utility assaulted||Nashik: Two officials of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) were assaulted in two separate incidents on Friday. While one incident took place in the Bhadrakali area of the city, the other was reported from Sinnar. Mahesh Kawade (51), an MSEDCL officials from Nashik Road, had visited Tigrania Road near Tractor House in Bhadrakali at 10.45 am on Friday along with chief technician Ramdas Gangurde to recover the pending electricity bill of a customer. Kawade told the customer that he had Rs 34,449 dues. While the customer had made payment of Rs 5,000, the MSEDCL official told the customer that he should pay at least Rs 5,000 more. When the customer’s son came to know about the same, he and his two friends accosted Kawade on the road and roughed him up for going to his house to collect the bill. Kawade than registered an offence against the person concerned and his two friends with the Bhadrakali police station. Meanwhile, one more technician ,Somnath Wagh, who is attached to the Sinnar Circle of MSEDCL, was heckled and threatened of dire consequences when he snapped the electricity connection of a consumer in Agaskhind, Sinnar. Wagh had visited an electricity customer in Agaskhind village and had taken the meter reading of the consumer following which, the customer heckled him and warned of dire consequences if he came back to the village again. A complaint in this regard has been registered with the Sinnar police. The Sinnar police are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-employees-of-power-utility-assaulted/articleshow/81486973.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Surat||Prevention tightened with spike in cases||Surat: Health teams of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) intensified testing of people entering the city from outside at the entry points. Testing has also been tightened at railway station and airport as the number of Covid-19 cases has registered a rise again. A dyeing unit in Pandesara was closed by the SMC after 10 workers were found positive in two days. The health department barricaded and closed Ganga dyeing premises declaring it as a containment zone. “Two on Wednesday and eight on Thursday were found positive after which the dyeing unit was closed. Similar actions have been taken against a few education institutions where multiple cases of Covid-19 were detected,” said A K Naik, deputy commissioner (Health). Ten cases were found positive in Barfiwala college after which SMC’s Katargam zone closed down the college. “Two days ago, two students were found positive after which eight more were found to be positive and hence, the college has been shut down. Ten cases were also found in different schools after which these too have been ordered to remain closed,” said a health official. City municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani held a meeting with the textile business and community leaders at SMC headquarters on Friday and requested them not to celebrate Holi in the market area to avoid gathering of people in large numbers. The textile business groups, market associations and social groups have agreed to the suggestion. The Rajasthani community in the city traditionally celebrates Holi in a grand manner every year. Pani visited Bhatiya checkpost, the first point of entry to the city from Maharashtra side, to examine the testing process. SMC has also ensured that places where large number of people usually visit during weekends remain close on Saturday and Sunday. “Malls, multiplexes, movie theatres, game zones and exhibitions have been ordered to remain closed in Athwa zone area. The majority of these establishments are in this zone and the rise of cases here is also higher,” said a senior SMC official. The health department ordered schools and colleges to keep their canteens closed where students gather in large number. “This is done to avoid the spread of the virus further,” said a health official. Orders have also been issued to keep Dumas beach closed during the weekend and urged police to ensure that visitors are kept away from the popular picnic destination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/prevention-tightened-with-spike-in-cases/articleshow/81487453.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad MP blows thewhistle on fake waqf NOCs||Aurangabad: City MP Imtiaz Jaleel, a member of the Maharashtra State Board of Waqf, has alleged that bogus no-objection certificates (NOCs) are being used people to purchase waqf land across Maharashtra. “There are several agents, including lawyers, who are playing a key role in issuing bogus NOCs on waqf letterheads with forged signatures. Such agents are seen moving around in the waqf office,” he told reporters here on Saturday. The MP said that some time back, a prime plot of land belonging the Badlapur Jama Masjid trust in Thane district was purchased by a doctor for around Rs 1 crore. “The doctor was promised that he would get an NOC from the waqf board, following which he would be able to get it transferred in his name,” he said. “The doctor turned up at the Aurangabad-based state waqf headquarters as he did not get the NOC and came across a senior lawyer from Osmanabad district. He promised to issue an NOC against Rs 15 lakh. However, following negotiation, the deal was finalised at Rs 9 lakh,” said Jaleel. “The lawyer took the money from the doctor through RTGS and issued a back-dated NOC with the signature and stamp of the waqf CEO. However, the doctor filed an RTI application and got a reply that it was a forged NOC,” said Jaleel. The city MP raised questions over the waqf authorities keeping mum despite learning that bogus NOCs are being issued. Jaleel produced an NOC and said it was bogus and issued by the same Osmanabad lawyer to a Solapur-based person, who had purchased waqf land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-mp-blows-thewhistle-on-fake-waqf-nocs/articleshow/81486971.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Vadodara||New cases above 60 for first time since Jan 24||Vadodara: For the first time since January 24, the number of new Covid-19 positive cases reported in a day in the city and district region crossed the 60 mark. Out of 2,539 samples tested on Saturday, 61 turned positive. On January 24, a total of 3,202 tests were conducted out of which 62 had tested positive. The live cases and hospitalisation due to Covid-19, however, remained under control. On January 24, there were 931 live cases while on Saturday the number stood at 610. The live cases include 41 on ventilators or BIPAP machines as well as 93 on oxygen support. The condition of the other 476 patients reported to be stable. The death toll due to the pandemic in the region remained at 242 as no more deaths were confirmed by the civic body. Also, 60 persons recovered from Covid-19 and were discharged on Saturday. Out of the 61 new cases 24 were reported from areas of the district outside the Vadodara city. In the city, 11 new cases were reported from the north zone while 10 were reported from the west zone. The east and south zone accounted from eight cases each in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-cases-above-60-for-first-time-since-jan-24/articleshow/81487461.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Bhiwandi man held for duping bank customers in Mumbai||Mumbai: The Colaba police arrested a Bhiwandi resident for duping bank customers on the pretext of asking for their KYC update and siphoning off money from their account. Mohammad Ansari Bain is a member of an online fraud gang that poses as nationalised bank officials and under the pretext of updating know your customer (KYC), extracts victims’ bank details and OTP to fraudulently transfer money from their accounts. A Colaba resident received a call on November 12 and was duped of Rs 1.9 lakh for which Bain used her OTP and other details. — S Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bhiwandi-man-held-for-duping-bank-customers-in-mumbai/articleshow/81488486.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Aurangabad||Forest dept, AMC in deep slumber as yet another fire in Satara mountain range||Aurangabad: A part of the Satara-Deolai mountain range on the outskirts of Aurangabad witnessed another wildfire on Saturday, causing damage to local flora and fauna. While such fire incidents continue to remain unabated, the forest department, along with Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), are accused of failing to swing into action even after seven such devastating incidents have been reported within a fortnight. While around 1,100 hectare area of the mountain range concerned is under the jurisdiction of the forest department, the local civic body and private players have collective ownership of a very large area. Range forest officer S B Tambe said that only three fire incidents were reported in the land owned by the forest department in Satara-Deolai mountain range. “The other fire incidents were reported in the land belonging to private owners and the AMC. At our end, we have registered an offence against unknown people and have also increased the vigil,” he said. Wildlife activist Hemant Chhajed said that the Maharashtra Forest (Protection of Forest from Fire) Rules,1982 mandates the forest department to take official cognisance of other fires from Satara-Deolai mountain range. “As per rules, the forest department is expected to issue show-cause notices to the AMC as well as private players for fire incidents being reported within a radius of one kilometre from its boundary. If the explanation is unsatisfactory, criminal action can be initiated against both the parties for abetting wildfires,” he said. Conservationist Kishor Pathak said that neither the forest department nor AMC has effective fire-fighting mechanism in place to douse repeated fires at the Satara-Deolai mountain range. “While fireballs, fire blowers and firefighting suits are a must in adequate numbers, both the establishments still resort to outdated practices of dousing fires which lead to longer time in getting control over the fire. Also, both these establishments need to increase vigil in the Satara mountain range,” he said. When contacted, acting chief conservator of forests Shivaji Phule said that all possible efforts would be taken to prevent fire incidents at the Satara mountain range. “It is joint responsibility of the forest department, AMC and private parties to keep a check on fire incidents. While the forest department is leaving no stone unturned, other stakeholders must also join hands with us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/forest-dept-amc-in-deep-slumber-as-yet-another-fire-in-satara-mountain-range/articleshow/81486977.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Railways delivers dead rohu fishlings, lands in hot water||Coimbatore: A fish farmer from Pollachi is all set to sue the Southern Railway for causing the death of lakhs of rohu fishlings, after the Thiruvananthapuram-bound Shalimar Express left the city railway junction before porters could unload 217 boxes of fishlings on Friday morning. Kashinath, who breeds rohu fish near Aliyar dam, said he had ordered 4 lakh fishlings from a breeder in Kolkata. “They were packed into 400 plastic bags with coolers and oxygen supply and put in carton boxes. The consignment was then sent in Shalimar Express on Wednesday evening.” While the train reached the city railway station at the scheduled time of 10.10am on Friday, the train left before porters could unload all the 400 boxes. One of the porters said, “The train began moving while we were unloading the consignment. The owner did not realize that more than half of the boxes were still in the train. When he realized only 183 boxes were unloaded, he immediately contacted the railway officials.” The officials assured Kashinath to do the needful to bring the consignment back to the city from Thiruvananthapuram in some other train. However, when his consignment finally reached the city on Saturday morning, all the fishlings were dead. Kashinath said the fishlings had died after the oxygen supply, which was provided only for 48 hours, ran out. “If the train stops only for two minutes at the station, why did the railway accept such a massive order. I have lost Rs 1.5 lakh.” Railway officials were unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/railways-delivers-dead-rohu-fishlings-lands-in-hot-water/articleshow/81487900.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||Govt will install CCTVs to monitor Indira Rasoi: Minister||JAIPUR: After finding irregularities in maintaining records, the state government will install CCTV cameras at Indira Rasoi. The announcement was made by urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal in the assembly. He said, “In the previous BJP government, subsidy of Rs 18.95 on breakfast and Rs 19.95 on lunch and dinner per plate was provided by the government. At present, Rs 12 subsidy is provided per plate which is not only saving government money but also benefiting masses. To maintain transparency, CCTV will be install for effective monitoring,” he said. Recently, the DLB has sent a letter to 36 urban local bodies seeking explanations after irregularities in maintaining records of Indira Rasoi beneficiaries. Under the scheme, it is mandatory for operators to take mobile numbers of the residents to whom food is provided at subsidised rates. The department verifies the number of sold food plates based on the data including mobile numbers. Moreover, it also seeks feedback of the scheme from beneficiaries. An official said, “In the data uploaded on March 4, it was recently found that Indira Rasoi operators were not keeping a record of the beneficiaries’ phone numbers. We have sought an explanation.” The irregularities surfaced in the corporations of big cities of the state including Jaipur (Heritage and Greater), Jodhpur (North and South), Udaipur, Bikaner and others. An official said the department keeps the record to maintain transparency. “The cost per plate is Rs 20, however, it is provided on subsidised rates. The consumer has to pay only Rs 8. The operators have to maintain the data of beneficiaries,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-will-install-cctvs-to-monitor-indira-rasoi-min/articleshow/81488490.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Madurai||‘Must speak up on society’s stigmas’||Madurai: More people should speak up on issues stigmatized by the society, said retired justice of the Madras high court Prabha Sridevan, on Saturday. The former judge was speaking after releasing the book ‘Left Behind: Surviving Suicide Loss’ written by Nandini Murali, a survivor of suicide loss, following her husband and a renowned urologist Dr T R Murali’s death by suicide in 2017. Addressing participants, Prabha Sridevan said Nandini has spoken about gender-based stigmatization. For instance, poverty, illness and disability. If it is a woman, the sufferings are different, she said. Her book where she addresses issues such as secrecy and guilt in dealing with the aftermath of suicide. The book, comprising 187 pages, was released on behalf of SPEAK, an initiative by MS Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation. SPEAK, where Nandini Murali is the director, was launched to create a space for conversations on suicide and promote mental health. Nandini Murali said it took two years for her to complete the book. She distanced from her personal emotions while penning down the words, she said. “The pain I underwent has been the catalyst to write the book,”she said. Dr S Mohan Raj, a consultant psychiatrist said not many books are available to deal with suicide loss in India. The book will begin a movement. It is rich in literary value and has many dimensions, he said. Vice-chancellor of Madurai Kamaraj University M Krishnan, managing director of Hi Tech Arai, Madurai B T Bangera, director, projects, Aravind Eyecare Systems Dr Aravind Srinivasan, Bengaluru-based senior consultant psychiatrist Dr Raguram, and Dr C Ramasubramanian participated in the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/must-speak-up-on-societys-stigmas/articleshow/81487902.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Follow SOPs or face a lockdown: CM Uddhav Thackeray warns eateries, malls||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has warned hotels, restaurants and malls to follow Covid-appropriate standard operating procedure (SOPs) laid down by the government and not force the state to announce a lockdown that will hamper their business. In the backdrop of rising Covid-19 cases in the state, Thackeray had a virtual meeting with representatives of these industries on Saturday and said it was found that many of their members were not following the rules, especially 50% occupancy in restaurants, keeping 1-metre distance between tables and wearing of masks by all. He said the Central team that was in Mumbai last week also complained about one such restaurant. “When these sectors were allowed to reopen in October, there were some norms laid down for their functioning. They were followed for some time. But now, in many places, it is being noticed that no guidelines are being followed. We started the economic cycle. If everyone cooperates, the infection can be prevented, and we are not forced to impose strict restrictions like a lockdown,” Thackeray said. Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, president of Hotel Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), said they have assured the government of all possible cooperation. “There may be some establishments that are not following the rules and we would not like the entire industry to suffer because of them. So, we have started our own squads that will go around checking for defaulters. We will report errant restaurants and hotels to the authorities for violations,” said Kohli. “To arrest a further spike in cases and prevent another lockdown, in our capacity as an industry association, we have been requested by the chief minister to form an internal group to maintain vigil and ensure existing SOPs are followed,” said Shivanand Shetty, president, AHAR. Thackeray said a majority of cases are from highrises and so it was important for places such as restaurants and malls which the residents frequent to follow the protocols. Thackeray also called for strict wearing of masks in public areas like washrooms and basins in a restaurant. Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said steps to ensure crowd control have to be taken, as at the current rate, by April 15, the state will add 25,000 cases a day; it is adding over 15,000 as on today. (With Chittaranjan Tembhekar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-warns-eateries-malls-follow-sops-or-face-a-lockdown-in-mumbai/articleshow/81487908.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Police beat a hasty retreat on Virat Kohli post||DEHRADUN: Indian cricket team's captain Virat Kohli was dismissed for a duck in the first T20 international against England on Friday evening. Immediately after, Uttarakhand Police shared a picture of his dismissal in a tweet, saying that in addition to wearing a helmet, it is important to stay alert so as not to ‘get out for a duck like Kohli’. However, after a strong response from Twitterati, the state police beat a hasty retreat and deleted the tweet from its official handle. Deputy inspector general Nilesh Anand Bharney, who is also the spokesperson for Uttarakhand police headquarters, told TOI, “Social media’s outreach is massive and the youths follow the iconic figures. It helps us take the message out to a large number of people.” Read AlsoUttarakhand Police post tweet on Virat Kohli's dismissal to raise driving awarenessUttarakhand Police on Friday used the example of India skipper Virat Kohli's dismissal against England in the first T20I to raise driving awareness. "A helmet is not enough! It is necessary to drive in full consciousness or else you can get out on zero just like Kohli," Uttarakhand Police's officialHe pointed out that such messages are “catchy” and “draw the attention of many in the society”. The senior police official said, “Spreading awareness on any issue is important and we want that the bikers follow all norms and remain cautious as it will minimise the possibility of road accidents.” The state police was forced to delete the post from its social media account after drawing flak online. In response, a Twitter user wrote, “Kohli is not some roadside boy but he is the most successful captain and an outstanding athlete and even his 5% fitness is not visible in the Uttarakhand police.” Another user mentioned that Rajasthan police had to apologise to Jasprit Bumrah for a hoarding which took a swipe at a no-ball bowled by the pacer. This is not the first time when Uttarakhand police has used a catchy tweet to generate awareness on traffic or regarding Covid-19 protocols. Earlier, it had posted a scene from Hindi movie ‘Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge’ and a still from popular Netflix series 'Money Heist' to request people to stay indoors during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/out-for-a-duck-on-kohli-tweet-ukhand-police-beats-hasty-retreat/articleshow/81487478.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 14, 2021||Goa||Covid infections in state’s urban areas increasing||PANAJI: While Covid spread in rural Goa has been under control and some of the health centres have either nil or minimal cases, it is the urban areas that have continuously seen new cases. However, all centres had seen a considerable dip since November. Since last week, the rise in infections in urban areas — especially Margao and Panaji — have become notable with each reporting at least 10 to 15 new cases everyday, though their average had also fallen below five cases a day. On Saturday, Panaji urban health centre’s case load increased to 122 from 112, a day before. Margao urban health centre’s tally was at 108. Besides these, Vasco, Mapusa, Cansaulim and Ponda health centres are seeing a slow rise in new infections. While one high-profile wedding reception proved to be a super-spreader, health officers hope the recent Mahashivratri celebrations across the state don’t prove to be another trigger. “There were crowds everywhere and people did not wear masks. I saw a politician celebrating Mahashivratri and posing with people in the temple, none were wearing face masks,” a health officer said. The officer said the picture would become clear in another eight to ten days. “I hope there is no major rise and the virus does not spread to rural areas that are reporting few cases,” he said. Another officer said canvassing by candidates contesting municipal elections is leading to crowding, and nobody wants to wear masks or follow social distancing. “Those who wear masks without properly covering their nose and mouth is as good as not wearing one,” the health officer said. The officer said, he is not surprised that the rise in new infections is more in urban areas which are densely populated when compared to villages. A doctor attached to a city hospital said he is worried about how well they will be able to handle the situation if there is another spike in Goa. “Already fatigue has set in, though the workload has reduced considerably after the cases dropped,” he said, adding that the vaccination of senior citizens and those with comorbidities has been slow and that is an area of concern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-infections-in-states-urban-areas-increasing/articleshow/81488547.cms||Bindiya Chari
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||State wants to vaccinate all high-risk groups in 50 days in Mumbai||Mumbai: Within the next 50 days, the state wants to vaccinate the high-risk populations comprising senior citizens, the 45-59 age group with comorbidities and healthcare and frontline workers. “We want to ensure that each in this priority population receives at the least their first Covid vaccine shot in the next 50 days,” National Health Mission director N Ramaswami told TOI on Saturday. Ramaswami estimates the number of people in the high-risk groups to be around two crore people. For the first time since the Covid vaccination drive was launched on January 16, the state vaccinated 2.54 lakh people, including 1.55 lakh senior citizens, in a single day on Friday. “We have asked the Centre for permission to increase 250 more centres so that we can vaccinate 3 lakh a day,” said Ramaswami. Almost 27 lakh vaccine doses, including first and second shots, have been administered in the state so far. On Friday, the state received 18 lakh dose of COvid vaccines, in which there were 11 lakh of Covishield and seven lakh doses of Covaxin. “We expect this stock to last us for a week or 10 days,’’ said Ramaswami. In Mumbai, BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said that the municipal corporation had received 63,000 doses of Covaxin on Saturday and would start administering these doses from Monday. So far, the state government’s JJ Hospital in Byculla was the only centre administering Covaxin, but hospital officials had asked for more Covaxin centres to meet the high demand for the vaccine . Thus, from Monday, BMC’s five centres — Nair Hospital, Seven Hills Hospital and the jumbo cenres at BKC, Mulund and Dahisar — will also offer the Covaxin vaccine along with Covishield. “We now have over three lakh doses of vaccines with us at the moment and this stock should last for a week at least,” Dr Gomare said. Meanwhile, 45,050 people in Mumbai were vaccinated on Saturday, taking the number of administered dose of vaccines to six lakh in the city since the launch of the drive . “We have received approval from the Centre to open up 13 more centres,” said Dr Gomare. The city will then have 90 vaccine centres. Meanwhile, Covid vaccination was suspended temporarily in some of the vaccination centres in Panvel on Saturday due to a shortage of vaccines. Of the 13 centres in Panvel, two private hospitals and six municipal facilities ran out of supply, forcing the authorities to call off the drive for the day. According to local authorities, vaccine stocks were expected later in the night. NHM director Ramaswami said there is no shortage of vaccine in the state. “It is possibly a local civic distribution issue,’’ he said. (With inputs from B B Nayak in Panvel)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-wants-to-vaccinate-all-high-risk-groups-in-50-days-in-mumbai/articleshow/81489617.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 14, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot man sells non-veg food on Maha Shivratri, booked||RAJKOT: Selling non-veg food on Maha Shivratri proved costly for Sahili Shakir Ganibhai. Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) has lodged a complaint against Sahili with the Rajkot taluka police station under the section 188 of IPC which deals with the violation of notification issued by the local authority. RMC had issued a notification prohibiting the sale or storage of meat, fish, chicken and mutton on March 11, the day Maha Shivratri was celebrated. Moin Saeed, an inspector from the solid waste management department of RMC, filed a complaint with the police that the accused, in violation of the order issued by RMC commissioner, was running a Bilali Biryani food parcel service. The complaint stated that Sahili sold chicken dum biryani through an online food delivery app on the holy day. “Generally, it’s difficult to get evidence in this kind of violation. But we got the proof of non-veg food delivery though the online application and based on that we have lodged a complaint,” RMC environment engineer Nilesh Parmar said. The RMC complaint stated that Sahili, a resident of Awas Yojna, Nana Mauva Circle, was running a food parcel service from his residence. He had a licence from the food department to run this service. Police said it will arrest the accused in the case after investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-man-sells-non-veg-food-on-maha-shivratri-booked/articleshow/81487488.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Trichy||Child workers rescued from smart city site||Trichy: For the second time in a month, the taskforce against child labour has found minor boys employed at the construction site of smart city project in Trichy city. Eight boys, including six from Jharkhand, one from West Bengal and another from Tamil Nadu, were rescued from the city corporation’s construction site at Chathiram bus stand. The task force comprised officials of the labour department, anti-child trafficking unit (ACTU), national child labour project(NCLP), Child Line and Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA). The boys aged 15 and 16 years were forced to work in unsafe location without any safety measures, according to a complaint filed by BBA state coordinator H Natharsha Malim at Fort police station. Inquiry revealed the boys were procured by two agents. Natharsha demanded action against the owner of Sivasakthi construction and the two agents under Bonded Labour System Abolition Act, Child and Adolescent Labourer (prohibition and regulation) Act, Juvenile Justice Act and IPC. However, no case was registered till Saturday. It may be recalled that the team had rescued four boys of other states from a Trichy corporation construction site at Thillai Nagar in February but no case was registered despite filing complaint. Cases were registered against K Selvaraj, 50, N Rajinikanth, 49 and M Karuppasamy, 29, of the three establishments on charges of employing the minors and harassing them, under various acts on the complaint from Natharsha Malim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/child-workers-rescued-from-smart-city-site/articleshow/81489557.cms||Gokul Rajendran
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Shed casual approach on Covid: Shabbir||Hyderabad: Former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir has urged the state government to take additional measures to prevent the further spread of Covid-19 in the state. “There has been a significant increase in the number of fresh cases of coronavirus in Telangana, especially during the last 10 days. The state government should take immediate steps to prevent further spread of Covid-19 particularly in view of reports of spurt in new cases in Maharashtra and other states. It must seriously implement the ‘trace, test and treat’ policy to avoid further damage by the pandemic,” Shabbir Ali said on Saturday. Shabbir, who took the first dose of Covaxin, appealed to the people to get themselves vaccinated on their turn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shed-casual-approach-on-covid-shabbir/articleshow/81488548.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Cyber cops nab 2 in fake online electronics sale in Mumbai||Mumbai: The city cyber police have arrested two persons for being part of an online fraud racket. The duo impersonated as officials of an electronic trading company and duped several under pretext of supplying air conditioners. Sky Electronics company officials lodged a complaint that a few buyers were cheated by someone in their company’s name and one of them even paid Rs 40,000 for an AC but did not receive it. The cyber cops have arrested Rahul Saraswat from UP and Virar Ramesh Singh from Uttrakhand for cheating and other charges on Friday. —Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cyber-cops-nab-2-in-fake-online-electronics-sale-in-mumbai/articleshow/81488557.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Three dead, three other unstable after eating bhang pakoras||BAREILLY: Three people, including a father-son duo, died and several others were taken ill — three of them still "unstable" —after they allegedly consumed liquor with bhang pakoras (fritters) in huge quantity on Maha Shivratri in UP’s Sambhal. Police said on the occasion of Maha Shivratri, several people in Simrai village under Gunnaur police station limits had gathered together and consumed liquor with bhang pakoras, but three of them, who had complained of vomiting and diarrhoea, later died during the treatment. Villagers told police that five-six people were taken ill later in the night, following which they were admitted to a private hospital in Sambhal. However, the condition of three of them, who had complained of vomiting and diarrhoea, deteriorated the next day. Two of them died during the treatment in Sambhal, while the third one who was shifted to a medical facility in Aligarh, too, died during the treatment. Police identified the deceased as — Manoj Kumar (24), his father Rishipal Singh and Raj Kumar (30)— all residents of Simrai village. District magistrate Sanjeev Ranjan and superintendent of police (city) Chakresh Mishra, meanwhile, visited the deceased's families in Gunnaur, Sambhal. The SP said, “Though several people had consumed alcohol and bhang pakoras together in huge quantity, only five-six of them had fallen ill. Manoj and Raj Kumar died on Saturday morning, while Manoj’s father Rishipal succumbed later in the evening. One Mukesh Kumar and two others are currently unstable and being treated in Aligarh. The bodies have been sent for the post-mortem examination. The matter is being probed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/father-son-duo-among-3-dead-three-other-unstable-after-consuming-liquor-with-bhang-pakoras-on-maha-shivratri/articleshow/81486996.cms||Maria Khan
March 14, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala elections 2021: IUML workers protest against candidate list||KOZHIKODE: IUML is facing discontent from a section of local party workers and leaders against candidate selection in at least three constituencies, including Tirurangadi, where party state general secretary KPA Majeed is the candidate. A group of around 50 party workers, including local leaders, from the constituency came to the house of party state president Panakkad Hyderali Shihab Thangal at Panakkad on Saturday to register their displeasure against fielding of Majeed in Tirurangadi. They said that they wanted a local leader from the constituency, preferably PMA Salam, as candidate and urged the party to change the decision. “As incumbent MLA P K Abdurabb was not considered, we had expected PMA Salam to be fielded in the seat,” a local party leader said. Also, party workers took out a protest march at Vattamkulam near Edappal against denial of seat to party state vice-president C P Bava Haji in Tirur constituency. A section of leaders and workers in Koduvally have also come out against the fielding of M K Muneer there as they have been rooting for party leaders M A Razak and V M Ummer. Many local leaders had visited the house of Muneer late on Friday night to express their discontent. Meanwhile, IUML leaders said that there was no question of changing the candidates. “Generally the candidate list announced by the party yesterday has been appreciated well. It is normal to have some people express their opinion when there are more than one candidate hopefuls in a constituency. Once Thangal announces the decision, then it becomes the decision of the party,” IUML national general secretary P K Kunhalikutty said. In Ernakulam, a section of party leaders have expressed opposition to the state leadership over the decision to field V E Abdul Gafoor, son of V K Ebrahim Kunju, in Kalamassery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/iuml-workers-protest-against-candidate-list/articleshow/81487912.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Trichy||Child rights outfits’ manifesto seeks urgent attention of parties||Trichy: With political parties busy competing with each other by promising attractive schemes to woo the electorate ahead of the assembly election, a group of child rights organisations released an election manifesto for the rights of children and demanded parties to consider their suggestions while raising serious concern about the ignorance of parties when it comes to children’s rights, on Saturday.Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch (TNCRW), Campaign Against Child Labour (CACL), Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, Forum for Promotion of Child Participation (FPCP), Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and RTE Forum – Tamil Nadu released the election manifesto on child rights in Trichy. CACL convener R Karuppasamy and central region organiser R Marudhanayagam released the manifesto by handing over a copy to CPI functionary T Injdrajith. Citing various issues being faced by the children in the state, the groups appealed to parties to include their suggestions in their manifestos or release a separate one for children. The manifesto discussed in detail the obstacles faced by children in getting their rights for survival, right to development, right to protection and right to participation. On an overall analysis on the state of children, the manifesto mentioned that the child sex ratio of Tamil Nadu was 1000:949. It also stated that 30 % of the children below five years were underweight. It also pointed out that the state had 2.8 lakhs child labourers. Quoting the annual status of education report (ASER) of 2014, the document mentioned that 46.9 % of children of Class V were unable to read their subjects. The manifesto also mentioned that a minimum five children were subject to harassment that would fall under the purview of Pocso Act. They also suggested intensifying monitoring on sex determination, upgrading government health centres and introducing Montessori education in schools on the right for survival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/child-rights-outfits-manifesto-seeks-urgent-attention-of-parties/articleshow/81489564.cms||Gokul Rajendran
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||CCS cops arrest two for phishing||Hyderabad: Two persons who were involved in two different cases of siphoning of money from two bank account holders, were arrested from Dhanbad and Jamtara in Jharkhand by Hyderabad Central Crime Station (CCS). Police said that one victim was duped by the accused by calling him in the pretext of updating Know Your Customer (KYC). The caller sent a phishing link in which the victim updated his details assuming that it was sent by his banker. Later, in four different transactions, Rs 93,477 was siphoned off from his bank account by the accused. Similarly, police said that another victim lost Rs 89,400 in another case. During the investigation, police found that the money was deposited into the bank accounts of Govind Mondal and Manoj Das from Dhanbad and Jamtara respectively, since they allowed the prime accused to use their bank accounts on commission basis. The victims who lost money are from Troop Bazar in Hyderabad and Defence Colony in Secunderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ccs-cops-arrest-two-for-phishing/articleshow/81488553.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Trichy||Case against tainted town planning officer||Thanjavur: The directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption Thanjavur is working on registering a fresh case against tainted assistant director of town planning department in Thanjavur, R Nageswaran, 52, for amassing disproportionate assets worth several crores. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), DVAC, Thanjavur G Manikandan and his team searched the three lockers of Nageswaran at the Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) branches at Thiruverumbur and Thiruvanaikovil in Trichy on Friday. The search unearthed unaccounted cash of Rs 2.26 crore from the three lockers. “He has no accounts to prove the source of the cash. So, we have seized them. The process is on to register a fresh case against him,” Manikandan told TOI on Saturday. DVAC also verified one of his savings accounts in the bank and found Rs 1.12 crore deposited in it. “We have frozen the account,” he said. Nageswaran was arrested for accepting a bribe of Rs 25,000 from a resident of Nanjikottai for granting permission for the construction of a commercial building on February 25. He was released on bail following which the police searched the lockers on Friday. The team had already recovered 1380g gold ornaments so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/case-against-tainted-town-planning-officer/articleshow/81489566.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||Admn fails to provide food, kirana kits; also denies permission to NGOs||Nagpur: On one hand, the administration has not arranged cooked food packets and kirana kits for poor and homeless people during the weeklong ‘lockdown’ announced from March 15 to 21, and on other hand, denied permission to the NGOs who planned distribution of cooked food packets for around 15,000 needy citizens.Guardian minister Nitin Raut told TOI, “Earlier, full lockdown was for three months or more. Therefore, the administration provided assistance to the needy. This time, the lockdown is only for one week. Therefore, no such arrangements have been made,” he said.Collector Ravindra Thakre did not respond to TOI’s calls.Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B also said there were no such arrangements. “A few NGOs have consulted us for distribution of food packets. We will try to work out a plan,” he said.President of NGO Together We Can Joseph George said, “There are a large number of homeless people in the city who are dependent upon people’s help. They will not get food if people do not come on the streets. Also, thousands of people eat and provide food to their families on daily earnings. They too require help during the lockdown. It was the responsibility of administration to provide food packets and kirana kits,” he said.George said, “Three NGOs are distributing 150 food packets each to needy people at 3 different localities on daily basis. Along with a few more, these NGOs had planned for distribution of food packets to around 15,000 people daily during the weeklong lockdown. They went to seek permission from the police department but it was denied. The NMC also did not give its approval. Therefore, the NGOs had no option but to cancel the plan”, he said.The civic chief said, “Lockdown is not a solution. Extended restrictions became imminent due to the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases. It will help in breaking the chain of transmission and stabilize the numbers which are increasing with every passing day.” The NMC commissioner added, “We do not have any epidemiological prediction about when the cases will come down. Therefore, we had to bring these restrictions to avoid getting into a situation which will be difficult to control. Active cases are very high.” He further said, “Right now, we are not having any shortage of beds. Chances of crisis cannot be ruled out if there is a sudden spurt in active cases. This will be prevented with weeklong restrictions. No one should assume that the number of cases will suddenly decline with weeklong restrictions,” he said.Raut on Saturday directed the police department to implement the lockdown in an effective manner.Civic chief allows libraries’ opening with 50% capacity Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B issued an order on Saturday allowing libraries and reading rooms to operate with 50% capacity during the weeklong restrictions. He also permitted offices with 10 persons for continuing works of March end and release of salaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/admn-fails-to-provide-food-kirana-kits-also-denies-permission-to-ngos/articleshow/81487504.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||India’s hard & soft power is truly represented by its sustained economic growth: Niti CEO||Jaipur: The first ‘Militaria’ conference, which was held in Jaipur on Saturday, was attended by several eminent speakers including Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant. The sessions included, ‘Defence Indigenisation & Atmanirbhar Bharat’, ‘Defence Technologies for India’, ‘Cyber & Unconventional Threats’ and ‘The Chinese Threat-The Way Forward’.New weapons and vehicles made by private firms were also displayed at the conference. “India’s hard and soft power is truly represented by its sustained economic growth. This is the key to India’s future. Economies of both east and southeast Asia have transformed themselves within one generation. India has witnessed a substantial transformation over 30 years since 1991 with an average growth of 6.5% per annum. Going ahead, investment levels and sustained economic growth is critical for security reasons. What the country has done as a fallout of the Covid pandemic is ushering in radical reforms across a range of sectors. The private sector needs to be brought in at the heart of India’s economic growth. Pushing India towards a high growth trajectory is a key challenge. Global economic growth is expected to rebound about 5.5% after (-)3.5% in 2020 which has been the worst since post-World War,” said Kant.During the session on cyber threats, experts opined that it is extremely critical to take cyber security seriously. Chief (Designate), National Cyber Coordination Centre, Lt Gen (retd) Rajesh Pant, elaborating on this further said, "Cybersecurity is going to be one of the factors that will create headwinds in the economic growth the country wants. The pandemic brought digital transformation on us all. It hit the cybersecurity community quite hard. The entire architecture of cybersecurity had to adapt quickly. With automation and digitisation, all sectors have become critical sectors and this has had made cybersecurity that much more relevant." Besides, discussions were also held about simplifying the process of procurement of weapons for the defence forces which the experts conceded were a bit tedious at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/indias-hard-soft-power-is-truly-represented-by-its-sustained-economic-growth-niti-ceo/articleshow/81488552.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Trichy||C S Vaidyanathan Chair on law, devpt launched at SASTRA||Thanjavur: Courts have always remained vigilant and controlled any excesses committed by the Parliament even in its constituent capacity, justice Rohinton Nariman, judge of the Supreme Court of India, said here on Saturday.Delivering the first M K Nambyar Memorial lecture on the 1st Amendment of the Indian Constitution organised by Sastra Deemed University School of Law, justice Nariman recalled the efforts of Nambyar in the famous A K Gopalan and Golaknath cases before the Supreme Court. Justice Nariman enlightened the audience on how his arguments had the legal foresight that laid down the pathway for protecting the basic structure of the Constitution in the Kesavananda Bharati case.Justice Nariman also launched the CS Vaidyanathan Chair on Law & Development established at the Sastra Law School through the munificent support of senior advocate C S Vaidyanathan who explained the genesis and purpose of this endowed chair. Former Chief Justice of India, M N Venkatachaliah presided over the event and urged Sastra Law School to study the nuanced relationship between law and socio-economic development. Attorney general for India K K Venugopal and son of Nambyar spoke on the transformational impact that his father had on his legal profession.Former attorney general and senior advocate K Parasaran referred to Nambyar as a lawyer of destiny with spiritual divinity and recalled his towering arguments before justice Rajamannar in the Madras high court.Nambyar’s grandson and advocate general for Tamilnadu Vijay Narayan complimented Sastra and Vaidyanthan for this unique initiative and urged students of law to be inspired by such intellectual jurists.Vice-chancellor of Sastra University S Vaidhyasubramaniam, welcomed the virtual gathering which he said was a manifestation of over 300 years of accumulated judicial wisdom in one single stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/c-s-vaidyanathan-chair-on-law-devpt-launched-at-sastra/articleshow/81489568.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Goa||Active tally at 766 with 93 new cases||PANAJI: Goa’s tally of active cases was at 766 with 93 fresh cases reported on Saturday. The case positivity rate rose to 6% which was less than 5% for the last many days. There were 70 recoveries during the day and one casualty that pushed the mortality count to 806. A 38-year-old woman from Navelim was brought dead to Hospicio hospital. She did not have any comorbidities. Dr S M Bandekar, dean, Goa Medical College (GMC), said her relatives denied that she had any symptoms of Covid before she was brought to the hospital. “The rapid antigen test was positive for SARS CoV2 virus, but a post-mortem report is awaited,” Bandekar said. On Saturday, 52 patients were home isolated and 14 admitted to hospital. The case tally of Panaji rose to 122 and that of Mapusa to 53. Margao’s urban health centre’s tally was at 106, and Vasco, Ponda and Casaulim witnessed a marginal rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-tally-at-766-with-93-new-cases/articleshow/81488559.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Rajkot||Two 11-year-olds molest 12-year-old neighbour||Rajkot: Two Class VI students were booked for allegedly molesting a 12-year-old girl, a senior in their school, at their residence in Rajkot on Saturday. The police booked the minor boys under IPC section 354 (A) and sections 7 and 8 of POCSO Act.Deputy commissioner of police Manoharsinh Jadeja told the media that after the girl narrated her ordeal, the two 11-year-old boys have been taken into custody and further proceedings will continue as per the Juvenile Justice Act. According to the police, a complaint of sexual harassment was registered with the Mahila Police Station on Saturday against the two boys by the girl’s parents. In their plaint, the parents alleged that the duo called their daughter, who is their neighbour and also a senior in their school, to play with puppies. The duo then took her inside the house of one of the accused and both boys started hugging, touching her inappropriately and harassing her sexually, said cops.Sources said that the accused boys had a quarrel with the victim’s brother a few days ago. DCP Jadeja said that when cops tried to talk with her in the presence of her mother, the girl was scared. “We had to take her to the one stop sakhi centre, where professional counsellors counselled the victim in the presence of her mother and she narrated her ordeal,” he added. Meanwhile, the police also interrogated both the boys in the presence of their parents and produced them before principal juvenile judge on Saturday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-11-year-olds-molest-12-year-old-neighbour/articleshow/81487527.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Goa||Old Goa inst develops crossbreed of Agonda pig with exotic variety||Panaji: A new and improved crossbred variety of pig called ‘Goya’ has been developed by the Old Goa-based ICAR-Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute (CCARI). A crossbreed of the Large White Yorkshire and the local Agonda Goa pig, this hybrid variety grows up to 100 kgs in ten months. It is yet to be officially released by the institute. “After the genetic study of five generations of the pig, we have proposed this variety to be released in the coastal areas,” said director of ICAR-CCARI, E B Chakurkar. “We will be propagating the new variety of pig under the Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) cell of the ICAR. We are distributing 28 pigs and feed for the animal to the people of Palghar for farmer training to begin with,” he added. The pork of the Goya variety is currently under consideration for registration and will be released only after it is officially declared by the ICAR-National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources, Karnal. The Large White Yorkshire is well suited for Goan conditions. This breed has good growth rate and feed conversion ability under intensive care. On the other hand, the Agonda Goan breed of pig are known for being able to sustain on scavenging and do not require intensive care. These pigs are difficult to handle as wild in nature. However, this breed is better for crossbreeding with the exotic breed so as to get better adoptability and disease resistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/old-goa-inst-develops-crossbreed-of-agonda-pig-with-exotic-variety/articleshow/81488562.cms||Nida Sayed
March 14, 2021||Trichy||Functionaries reject AIADMK candidate against DMK’s Nehru||Trichy: Expressing dissatisfaction over the candidate selection in Trichy West assembly segment, AIADMK functionaries and cadres held a press meet on Saturday urging the party to consider replacing the candidate. Claiming that the candidate chosen was not familiar among cadres, the disgruntled AIADMK functionaries said that the party’s choice was not appropriate enough to take on DMK’s MLA K N Nehru.The upset cadres opined that they are not against the decision of AIADMK’s district and state units’ leadership. The cadres, mostly from Karumandapam, said that the decision to field V Padmanadhan in Trichy West has evoked dissatisfaction among field workers. “We are reflecting the thoughts of grassroot level workers. Padmanadhan remained a low key player and was not actively involved in party activities, as 18 area secretaries of AIADMK in the Trichy West segment are unhappy with the selection of the candidate,” said R Gnanasekar, former Trichy corporation councillor and Karumandapam area secretary. Stating that the upset AIADMK cadres and functionaries have not approached the high command as state-level leaders are occupied in election campaigning, Gnanasekar said that they chose to inform the dissatisfaction through media and not through protests. As 18 AIADMK members have applied to contest from Trichy West segment, the upset cadres urged the party high command to select other aspirants familiar with the people and party members. “Even AIADMK loyalists who are not party members are dissatisfied as the election work is yet to commence,” Gnanasekar said. The cadres also raised slogans to change the candidate for the West segment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/functionaries-reject-aiadmk-candidate-against-dmks-nehru/articleshow/81489592.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Trichy||Upset with candidate, women break coconuts||Trichy: With almost all parties finalizing their candidates in various constituencies, protests and demonstrations against some of the choices have been gaining ground too. Women cadre from AIADMK staged a novel protest here on Saturday by offering coconut to Lord Murugan hoping that their party high command will change the Aranthangi candidate, M Rajanayagam. A group of women carrying coconuts arrived at the Lord Murugan temple at Vadakarai in a procession from Amma Unavagam raising slogans demanding that Rajanayagam be changed. They prayed to the lord before breaking the coconut in front of the temple. Rajanayagam had won the 2011 assembly elections in the segment defeating Su Thirunavukkarasar of Congress. The incumbent MLA of the segment is E Rathinasabhapathy, also of AIADMK.It was only a few days ago that AIADMK cadres protested the allotment of Alangudi seat to Tharma Thangavel, who had crossed over to the party from Congress a few months ago. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/upset-with-candidate-women-break-coconuts/articleshow/81489604.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||Nahargarh to welcome big cats, wild boar & birds||JAIPUR: Nahargarh Biological Park is all set to receive two big cats (a white tiger and a Bengal tigress) from Nandankanan Zoological Park in Odisha this week. A team from the state forest department led by senior veterinarian Arvind Mathur will reach Odisha on Sunday. Mathur said, “It’s an adventurous and unique experience by our team. The big cats will be brought by road. While returning we have to be extra cautious and take several halts (after two hours) to monitor the health of these big cats. To avoid illness due to change in water, arrangement of mineral water has also been done by the department.” Apart from tigers, the department will also get a wild boar and birds including Java sparrow and Zebra Finch. “These birds will be brought to Jaipur zoo for the first time. Also, to pair up with female, we will bring a wild boar to Jaipur.” In an exchange programme, the state forest department will send alligators, wolves, Chinkara and leopards to Odisha. “A team from Odisha will soon come to take these animals.” Recently, the Nahargarh Biological Park became infamous for deaths of wild cats. In August, after 15-year-old white tiger Raja died, the park was left with no white tiger. Similarly, another white tigress Sita died last year. An official said before bringing the big cats, the forest department will install CCTV cameras in cages for 24x7 monitoring at Jaipur’s Nahargarh Biological Park. This was recommended by experts from Punjab’s Chhatbir Zoo. The experts were called to Jaipur after the authorities were unable to understand the cause of the death of big cats at the Park. Total 10 big cats have died at the park due to leptospirosis. “Leptospirosis is a bacterial infection traced to rat and mongoose urine. The disease was reported in the Chhatbir Zoo and Jodhpur zoo in 2011. As the park is situated in the foothills, both rat and mongoose are in abundance. To fight with the menace, decision has been taken for proper monitoring,” said the official. Experts from Punjab have shared their protocol with the park authorities in dealing with the disease. They also recommended CCTV camera monitoring inside the cages to examine the health of lions, especially at night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nahargarh-to-welcome-big-cats-wild-boar-birds/articleshow/81488555.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Over 9.5k search operations in jails in last 3 months||JAIPUR: In a bid to control illegal activities in prison, the jail department has carried its biggest operation by conducting 9,568 multi-layered search operations in its 122 prisons in the last three months under ‘Flush Out’. The operation started on November 21 and extended till March 31. DG (prisons) Rajiv Dasot, who joined the prison department in October 2020, initiated the campaign in November 2020. The news reports of how the inmates operating the gangs from prison and recovery of mobile phones and psychotropic substances have been routinely recovered from the cells have triggered the campaign. “It was clear that any illegal activity carrying out from the prison cannot be done without the connivance of the prison staff. I broke the chain first by calling inter districts teams for inspection and searches which resulted in exposing the staff involved in these activities,” said Dasot. The department took action against 123 staff for their involvement in criminal activities. Also, they transferred 53 after complaints were found against them. Three staff members were suspended after their involvement was proved in the investigation. The department has strategically transferred dreaded inmates from their comfort zones in one prison to completed isolated places to break their operations. “The hardcore criminals like Lawrence Bishnoi and Papla Gujjar has been transferred to a high-security prison in Ajmer in solitary confinement leaving them with no scope to violate any law. Bishnoi had a track record of operating from the prison and since he was sent to Ajmer he is completely disconnected from his gang,” said Dasot. The department under the operation had sent 30 such hardcore criminals who had an influence in the local prison too far off places or above places 400 km from the area/prison of influence. “This initiative has kept them away from those inmates and staff who could have bowed down to their influence. Reports said that these criminals since they were shunted have not involved in any crime,” said Dasot. He informed that till March 8 they recovered 131 mobile phones, 85 sim cards, 33 chargers, 22 earphones, 19 data cable and articles like opium, smack and tobacco. The state has 122 prisons with 22,000 inmates across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-9-5k-search-ops-in-jails-in-last-3-mths/articleshow/81488560.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||24X7 police clampdown will begin from Monday: CP||Nagpur: City police chief (CP) Amitesh Kumar on Saturday said a blanket security cover would be thrown across the city round-the-clock to enforce the stricter version of the Covid-19 restrictions from Monday onwards (between March 15 and March 21) within city limits and a few adjoining places like Kamptee and Hingna. The top cop added that the police would not allow movement or presence of any person or vehicle on the roads, barring essential and emergency services, which too would be monitored.The CP said ‘nakabandis’ in the day time would be put up at 107 places, including 8 entry and exit points. In the night, there would be nakabandis at 74 places, including the entry and exits points of the city. “If you travel outside without valid reasons, we will ensure you are stopped from re-entering the city,” he warned. Kumar said people with ‘quarantine seal’ on their hands, if found at public places, would face “unprecedented action”. “Cops would immediately send people at institutional quarantine centres if found with seal on their hands, and later register offences invoking stringent laws against them,” said the CP, adding cops would be highly alert regarding breach of any kind of mandated Covid protocols. “If any person of 45 years of age on the road claims to be heading for vaccination, he or she must have a co-morbidity certificate,” said Kumar. “Citizens should be prepared to take a U-turn and return home if found on the road without valid reasons. In case there is any resistance, an offence would be registered,” said the IPS officer, stating police would take action but there would be no human rights violations. The CP said only one person would be allowed on bikes and two in cars — the lone passenger sitting behind the driver. The top cop urged citizens to carry their organizational identity cards, which would be considered as ‘passes’. Kumar, who met with various trader associations and government agencies like the state excise department, said only permit holders can seek home delivery of liquor by furnishing their permit license number and other details at the outlets, which can deliver at most 12 bottles to an individual. “Delivery boys can carry a maximum of 24 bottles with them for two persons,” said the police chief, adding that police would not allow even a drop of liquor to be retailed or consumed outside homes. Kumar has suggested that the district administration should conduct antigen testing of citizens before they enter major market places like Kalamna, from where vegetables are distributed across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/24x7-police-clampdown-will-begin-from-monday-cp/articleshow/81487506.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 14, 2021||Kozhikode||No reason to delay candidate list: Muraleedharan||Kozhikode: Vadakara MP K Muraleedharan on Saturday urged the Congress leadership to not ruin the splendour of the Aishwarya Kerala Yathra and said that there was no reason to delay the candidate list. He said that so many people don’t need to go to Nemom to secure a win. “I will obey whatever the party asks me. There is no ‘strong-weak’ distinction among candidates. If the candidate is from Congress, seeking votes by the ‘Hand’ symbol, he will win,” said Muraleedharan. He said that he is not a person who seeks compensation for obeying the party high command. “When I was asked to contest at Vadakara, I never asked for anything in return. Neither K Karunakaran nor his son has ever become a candidate and sought compensation for it,” he said. He said that there was no reason to lose confidence in the case of Nemom. “The reason for losing in 2011 and 2016 was that the seat was given to a weak alliance partner. Last time, the UDF candidate was a person who was with the LDF till the last moment,” he said. However, he told a TV channel later that a senior leader might need to contest from Nemom now due to the expectation that the rumours have created.  He added that RMP would contest from Vadakara and that there was no coercion from the side of UDF to make K K Rema contest the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/no-reason-to-delay-candidate-list-muraleedharan/articleshow/81487922.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Bareilly||Illegal liquor worth over Rs 60 lakh seized in Badaun||Pilibhit: An enforcement team of the excise department in association with the civil police recovered as many as 1158 boxes of Haryana-made whisky worth Rs 62 lakh from a truck in Badaun district on Friday. An FIR has been lodged and three persons have been arrested.An anti-liquor drive has been ordered by the additional chief secretary of excise, Sanjay R. Bhoosreddy, in view of the forthcoming panchayat elections and the festival of Holi.Excise inspector Neeraj Singh said that the recovery was made at Myaun T junction under Alapur police station following a tip-off. The truck was on its way from Haryana to Arunachal Pradesh. The truck driver could not produce the transit permit, the valid documents of the whisky stock and the registration papers of the truck, he added.Station house officer OP Gautam said that the police arrested three persons from the truck who have been identified as Vijay Kumar, Jatin Sharma and Sunil Kumar from Panchkula in Haryana.The accused have been booked under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing the delivery of property) of the IPC and section 63/72 of the Excise Act in first FIR, and under section 207 of the Motor Vehicle Act in the second FIR, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/illegal-liquor-worth-over-rs-60-lakh-seized-in-badaun/articleshow/81487032.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 14, 2021||Trichy||Saplings given away at funeral of Ariyalur’s ‘tree man’||Trichy: The funeral of C Karuppiah, popularly known as Ariyalur’s tree man, held at a remote hamlet in Ariyalur district on Saturday, was a tribute to his legacy as his family members and farmers in the region distributed native tree saplings to attendees at the funeral. The 91-year-old has planted thousands of tree saplings near water bodies and government offices across the state. According to his relatives, the environmental activist who hailed from Kallur village near Thirumanur town, associated himself with tree plantation drive for the past 40 years. Covering Perambalur, Chennai and Dharmapuri districts, the late activist had planted thousands of native tree saplings at his own expense. Farmers in Ariyalur said Karuppiah allocated a portion of his earnings from rearing goats and livestock towards planting trees. “His passion to grow trees was instigated by reading books. Instead of conducting his funeral as a normal one, we wanted to send out a message and hence we decided to distribute tree saplings for free,” said Thanga Shanmugasundaram, a farmer from Ariyalur.Over 1,000 native tree saplings including Jamun, neem and tamarind were distributed to the attendees. Family members said Karuppiah had grown saplings on his own in Kallur village besides buying native breed saplings from nurseries. “He never accepted tree saplings for free and always paid for them,” Shanmugasundaram added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/saplings-given-away-at-funeral-of-ariyalurs-tree-man/articleshow/81489593.cms||Deepak Karthik
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Man’s salary to be cut by Rs 1 lakh to pay maintenance to wife, kids||MUMBAI: In a rare case, after a 40-year-old aeronautical engineer, earning a monthly salary of Rs 5.5 lakh, failed to pay his estranged wife interim monthly maintenance of Rs 1 lakh despite a court order, a magistrate directed his employer to directly deduct the amount from his salary every month and send it to the court. The man owes the woman Rs 30 lakh in interim maintenance arrears. “It appears the husband is earning a handsome salary. Prima facie he is avoiding paying interim maintenance to wife and children. Therefore, it will be just and proper to direct the (employer) to attach the salary of Rs 1 lakh per month towards recovery of arrears till further orders in the interest of justice,” the metropolitan magistrate said last week. The 37-year-old doctor had filed a domestic violence complaint against the man and her in-laws in 2018. In February 2019, the magistrate court ordered interim maintenance for the woman and her children. The man moved the sessions court. But as there was a delay in filing the appeal, in April 2019, the sessions court directed him to pay costs of Rs2,000 within a fortnight. In June 2019, the man went back to sessions court, claiming he was unaware of the April 2019 order. He said he was working in another city and was unable to track the order online due to a technical fault with the court’s app. He claimed that as soon as he found the order online, he intimated his advocate to speak to his estranged wife’s advocate and pay her Rs2,000. The sessions court found that the accused was in court when the order was passed in April 2019, and this was recorded in the day’s proceedings. While the man’s advocate denied it, the court said there was no possibility of an incorrect record. The court said it could only extend the period of filing the appeal by 30 days, and that too lapsed. The court rejected his plea. In November 2019, the woman moved the magistrate court for attachment of the man’s salary. She said he only paid her Rs 2 lakh since the court granted interim maintenance in February 2019. The man opposed it and said he had moved Bombay high court, where his plea was pending. He said the hearing was delayed due Covid-19. He alleged that the woman had lied to court that she was unemployed. The man claimed he was told by his employer to resign. The magistrate court said that its order granting interim maintenance had not been stayed. “Therefore, he has to obey the court order,” it said. It said the woman’s employment status can be considered at the time of final decision on her domestic violence complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mans-salary-to-be-cut-by-rs1l-to-pay-maintenance-to-wife-kids/articleshow/81488034.cms||Rebecca Samervel
March 14, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur dist preps up for round-the-clock vax drive||KOLHAPUR: Soon, the vaccination sessions in Kolhapur district will be throughtout the day on all days of the week. Currently, the vaccination drive is undertaken from 10am to 5pm on working days and is put off on public holidays. District collector Daulat Desai has appointed officials to coordinate the vaccination routine smoothly. They have been asked to start more vaccination centres in the district and rope in more private hospitals for the same. Currently, the vaccination of the public health care workers and frontline workers is taking place at the administration-run centres. Citizens above 45 years having comorbidities and those above 60 years are being vaccinated at both public and private medcial centres. A large number of senior citizens are getting the jab from private facilities. Recently, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) increased the vaccination centres in private hospitals to 13 from five in just a week. “As the Covid cases are increasing, we have to speed up the vaccination of the persons with comorbidities and senior citizens. These citizens are vulnerable to the infection and a significant proportion of patients in this category succumb to infection. We have to vaccinate around 6 lakh such citizens,” said Desai. “Once the vaccination for the public health care workers and frontline workers is completed, we may be asked to start vaccination for the rest of the citizens. To cope up with the requirement, we need to hold vaccination sessions 24×7,” said Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-preps-up-for-round-the-clock-vax-drive/articleshow/81487917.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||Curbs helped in Amt. We will ease if cases drop: Min||Nagpur: Even as several organisations spoke against restrictions announced by the administration, guardian minister Nitin Raut defended the decision stating they were needed to enforce discipline among the citizens. Raut got vaccinated on Saturday with his family. He told TOI the district had surpassed Pune in number of Covid-19 cases and therefore, stringent measures were needed. Excerpts:Q. Can restrictions help reduce Covid cases?A. They can’t be the solution to fight the pandemic, but are needed to control the citizens' unhindered movement. People failed to follow Covid-19 protocols like social distancing and use of masks. In Amravati, similar restrictions proved successful as the number of active cases dropped by almost 50%.Q. But citizens, particularly from the business class, are opposing...A. Their various delegations met me today with their demands, but as a guardian minister, I need to take hard decisions in the larger interests of the society. I know people are upset but I can’t help as saving lives is topmost priority. We did our best to appeal to them to follow guidelines in the last couple of weeks.Q. Can resrictions be extended beyond March 21?A. At present, we don’t have any plan to extend them. I hope that the citizens will cooperate and we can replicate Amravati in reducing the cases. But if Covid-19 cases continue to increase, we will have no other alternative.Q. What’s the reason for the sudden rise of patients in Nagpur?A. We don’t know the exact scientific reason yet and therefore, we have sent samples to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for testing.Q. Pune, too, recorded the highest cases in India, but didn’t put any restrcitions...A. The population of Pune and even Mumbai is far bigger than Nagpur. Therefore, for us having such a large number of cases, which are higher than Mumbai, is definitely alarming. Q. Will there be curfew on streets?A. Yes, the police would manage all city streets from Monday for a week and there would be stringent restrictions on people’s movements till March 21. I sincerely request all citizens and public representatives to help the administration fight pandemic.Q. Are you experiencing any side effects after inoculation?A. So far, nothing. I am doing my official duties and signing files very comfortably.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/curbs-helped-in-amt-we-will-ease-if-cases-drop-min/articleshow/81487516.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Covid spike continues as AP sees 175 new cases||Visakhapatnam: Continuing the upward trend in daily cases, Andhra Pradesh reported another 175 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the overall caseload to 8,91,563 cases. With two more persons succumbing to the virus, one each in Ananatapur and Chittoor districts, the death toll now stands at 7,182. Altogether 132 patients were declared cured on Saturday. There are currently 1,268 active cases with 8,83,113 cumulative recoveries and 7,182 fatalities. Chittoor district reported 40 new cases in the last 24 hours, the most in the state. Of the new cases, 19 were reported from Tirupati urban and rural mandals. In the last three days, 185 cases have been reported from Chittoor alone with the district now having an active caseload of 447 with the death toll rising to 857 following the one death in last 24 hours. In terms of new cases, Chittoor is followed by East Godavari (31), Krishna (24), Visakhapatnam (20), and Guntur (15). Kurnool has not recorded any new cases. The remaining districts posted single-digit case numbers. East Godavari, which was the epicentre during the peak of the pandemic in Andhra Pradesh, has been witnessing a sudden surge in the numbers, particularly in the Konaseema region. Andhra Pradesh tested 40,448 new Covid-19 samples on Saturday and detected 175 new cases with a case positivity rate of 0.4%. The overall case positivity rate stood at 6.2%. Of the 24,882 new cases registered in India since Friday, Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh contributed to 87.7% of them. Maharashtra accounts for 63.57% of India’s total active cases. Even at this juncture, Andhra Pradesh has the lowest active caseload among major states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-spike-continues-as-ap-sees-175-new-cases/articleshow/81487287.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Thirty years on, govt still not sure about Kalpasar’s impact on marine life||Gandhinagar: Despite spending several hundred crores in last three decades to ascertain feasibility of the ‘Kalpasar sweet water dam’ project in the Gulf of Khambhat, the Gujarat government still does not know what kind of impact the project may have on the marine life in the region. The state government has also not been able to decide whether the project is technically, economically, and environmentally feasible. In a written response to an unstarred question in the state assembly, state forest minister Ganpatsinh Vasava said that, “as on 30-09-2020 dated status the state government has not carried out any study about the likely impact of the proposed Kalpasar dam project.’’ The minister also informed that neither has an agency been finalised nor has planning been done to carry out study on the effect of Kalpasar on marine life in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/thirty-years-on-govt-still-not-sure-about-kalpasars-impact-on-marine-life/articleshow/81488477.cms||Kapil Dave
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||Union min calls tribals part of Sanatan dharma||Jaipur: Union minister of state (steel industry) Faggan Singh Kulaste has accused the Congress government in Rajasthan of playing petty politics over its MLA Ganesh Ghogra’s statement saying tribals are not Hindus while talking to journalists in Jaipur on Saturday. BJP’s tribal leader Kulaste reiterated that the tribal community is an integral part of Sanatan Hindus while delivering its keynote address at a programme organised by Sanatani Aadiwasi Meena Sanstha Rajasthan. “Our religious practices and culture are part of Sanathan dharma and Hinduism. Those who are claiming tribals are not Hindus are trying to revive their politics,” said the minister. He asked chief minister Ashok Gehlot that if his party MLA believes that tribals are not Hindus, then they should pass a resolution on the same. He downplayed the demands of a section of tribals demanding separate religious and jurisprudence code, especially by Bharatiya Tribal Party in the state. “The tribal populace is close to 10 crore in the country divided into several ethnic groups. All these groups have a diverse understanding of religion and culture. Some recognize other groups as tribals while some didn’t recognize anyone other than them as tribals. If every tribal group talks about separate code, it will be difficult to sort issues,” said Kulaste. He blamed the Congress for the poor condition of the tribals in the country for not acknowledging their problems and providing institutional solutions for the same. Calling his party as real saviour of tribals, he said that Modi government made 750 eklavya residential hostels for the welfare of youths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/union-min-calls-tribals-part-of-sanatan-dharma/articleshow/81488567.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Goa||Lifeguard rescues three at Khola||Poinguinim: A Drishti lifeguard Bhikash Velip, stationed at Khola beach, rescued three individuals on Saturday. He carried out a double rescue involving a 25-year-old male from Rajasthan and a 22-year-old woman from Gujarat. As they ventured into the sea, they found themselves struggling in deep waters and started gesturing for help. The Drishti lifesaver rushed to their aid, secured both of them to a rescue board and brought them ashore. Later, the same lifesaver rescued a 27-year-old male from Delhi from the river point at Khola.  The man entered the sea for a swim and got caught in a rip current. Noticing the victim struggling, the lifesaver entered the waters and secured the victim onto a rescue board and tube.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lifeguard-rescues-three-at-khola/articleshow/81488566.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||22-yr-old held for accident||Hyderabad: A 22-year-old student who allegedly drove his bike under the influence of alcohol, and committed a road accident in which another person died, was recently booked under culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Police said that the accused was sent to judicial remand. The mishap took place on December 27 in Himayathnagar village in Chilkur. The accused, who was injured as well, was arrested by the police after he got discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/22-yr-old-held-for-accident/articleshow/81488564.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Health officials sound alarm over 2nd Covid wave in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: Just when locals in Vizag were expecting to see no new Covid-19 cases being reported, numbers have begin rising steadily this month. Active cases have reached around 100 now after coming down to 15 just three weeks ago. Health officials have cautioned that the onset of a second wave could be felt even more in the coming days. Following the municipal elections and Maha Sivarathri celebrations — in which thousands took holy dips in the sea — in the week gone by and Holi yet to come this month, a spike in Covid-19 cases looks very likely. Since January, daily new cases had been on the wane with new cases being as low as two to three till February. However, in March these numbers have shot up to 15 to 23 new cases on most days. The number of active cases had reduced from 115 on February 1 to just 15 on February 22 but since March 3, a rise was observed, which escalated to 98 on March 12. “In Visakhapatnam, the first wave of Covid-19 started a bit late, from April to May, as compared to the rest of Andhra Pradesh and the country. The second wave is also likely to be felt after March this year. With most people mistakenly thinking that the threat of the pandemic no longer exists and not adhering to Covid-19 protocols such as wearing masks and social distancing, cases are now seeing a spike and are likely to escalate further with mass movement and gatherings taking place on various festive and socio-political occasions,” said Covid-19 nodal officer for north coastal Andhra Pradesh, Dr PV Sudhakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/health-officials-sound-alarm-over-2nd-covid-wave-in-vizag/articleshow/81487265.cms||Sulogna Mehta
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||No restrictions, please, they’ll stall feeble economic recovery: Traders tell Raut||Nagpur: Various traders’ associations of Nagpur on Saturday morning met guardian minister Nitin Raut to register their objection for his decision to impose restrictions on trade and movement in city and adjoining areas till March 21. Representatives of all associations who met Raut said they were just about seeing a ‘faint’ recovery in business when this latest round of restrictions was announced.Ashwin Mehadia, who represented Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), said, “We were unequivocal in our stand that the lockdown has hurt business sentiment and everyone is opposed to this. Right from small to big traders, everyone is feeling the negative effects of lockdown.” He added that instead of restrictions, government must crack down on those who violate Covid norms. “Others must be allowed to continue their business while complying with safety protocols,” said Mehadia.Shrawan Kumar Malu, president of Vidarbha Taxpayers Association (VTA), said, “Traders will face extreme economical pressure and we also need to think about the daily bread earners. Most of our neighbouring states have minimum Covid restrictions, still are having fewer cases. Our government needs to analyze that. With too much precaution, our state should not get left behind in longer run.” A statement issued by Nagpur Eatery Owners Association said, “The monthly average revenue our industry generates is around Rs 250 crore and provides the highest employment. The cost of closing down businesses for a month is around Rs 142 crore, as most of the expenses are fixed in nature. These are expenses that don’t stop even when the business is shut, like EMIs, property tax, maintenance etc.” The association demanded the government must compensate their businesses with minimum basic expenses.Nagpur Residential Hotels Association delegation, led by its president Tejinder Singh Renu, told Raut that lockdown is not needed in current scenario. “Admittedly lockdown in the beginning of the pandemic was required as we needed time to equip ourselves with requisite health infrastructure. Now we have proper protocols, medical action and our doctors are well informed about the line of treatment. In addition, vaccination drive is underway,” said Renu.He added that under the present circumstances, lockdown was doing more harm than good. “No further extension to lockdown. More similar waves are expected and we need to learn to live with such virus courageously rather than fear it,” said Renu.Shiv Shankar Malode, president of Vidarbha Light Owners Association, said professional lighting sector had been badly hit. “We used to set up lights for stage events, wedding or corporate events but that’s all gone now due to lockdown. Earlier at least it was slowly picking up, but now our livelihoods are at stake,” said Malode.For Nitesh Agrawal, a dealer of AC units, the lockdown has posed a new set of challenges. “This is the start of our peak season and people get their ACs serviced, repaired during this time so there’s no problem in May. But now because of lockdown, we have been forced to cancel all appointments messing up the schedule,” said Agrawal.Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis termed current restrictions as an “extreme step” that couldn’t be a solution to fight the pandemic. “The fatalities are less in comparison with last year. A majority of patients are asymptomatic, so they can be treated at home. Such knee-jerk reactions would adversely affect the economy,” said Fadnavis.Lawyer M Anil Kumar said many lawyers are barely able to sustain a decent living. “Poor and junior lawyers will be doomed. Due to lockdown, already the cases have reduced along with disposal rate. Very few matters of bail, conviction and acquittal are listed. As a result, the clients aren’t paying to the lawyers. Those surviving on notaries and drafting affidavits are the worst sufferers as their customers have dropped drastically,” he said.Baban Taywade, a senior academic, said many colleges will also be affected. “Academics has been affected and this puts a question mark on the future of students,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-restrictions-please-theyll-stall-feeble-economic-recovery-traders-tell-raut/articleshow/81487522.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||IAS aspirant commits suicide in Jaipur||JAIPUR: An IAS aspirant living in a rented accommodation in Barkat Nagar hanged himself from a ceiling fan on Saturday. The suicide note found in the room said she was under stress and took her life for not fulfilling the dreams of her parents. “I will not able to fulfil your dream. Forgive me for this. My younger brother will fulfil your dreams,” she said in her syicide note. The girl identified as Anisha Meena (19) was a resident of Lalsot in Dausa, said investigating officer Ramlal Bishnoi of Bajaj Nagar police station. She was a student of Maharani’s College and had been living in the PG. She was living with a room partner who went out for some work when she committed suicide. The incident came to the light after her room partner returned and knocked on the door. When her roommate did not open the door, she called the neighbours for help. Some youths managed to reach behind the house and saw Meena hanging from the window. Police later broke the door and took her to hospital where she was declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ias-aspirant-commits-suicide-in-city/articleshow/81488563.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Vijayawada||Boy kidnapped from Tirupati rescued in Vijayawada||TIRUPATI: A six-year-old boy who was kidnapped in Tirupati on February 26, was abandoned by his abductor in Vijayawada and rescued by police on Saturday. It may be recalled that Sivam Kumar Sahoo from Chhattisgarh went missing from Alipiri link bus station on February 26. He had come to Tirupati with his parents and they were waiting to board a bus to Tirumala when he suddenly went missing. The kidnapper, identified as Sivappa, was traced to a village on the Karnataka side of the border near V Kota mandal in Chittoor district. Sivappa who was on the run for the last two weeks, left the boy in Vijayawada on Saturday and fled. The boy was found by Vijayawada One Town police who immediately informed their counterparts in Tirupati. Tirupati police personnel will go to Vijayawada, will bring the child back and reunite him with his parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/boy-kidnapped-from-tirupati-rescued-in-vij/articleshow/81487295.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||Starvation will kill us before the virus, say daily wagers||Nagpur: Sudama Sarma, 47, works as a cook on daily wages at a food joint. He is the only breadwinner of his family of six, which includes his elderly parents, and lives in a slum in Mankapur. The nearly seven-month-long pandemic-induced lockdown last year had left him devastated and when things started improving slightly, Nagpur — which stayed under Covid restrictions — is once again headed for another lockdown. The very thought of no daily earning leaves him jittery about feeding his family."On the one hand there is this pandemic to worry about and on the other hand, our livelihood. We are stuck,” he told TOI. Sarma said the uncertainty of living on a day-to-day basis is terrifying.With Nagpur once again coming to a standstill from March 15 for almost a week, the unorganized sector faces a threat to its survival. Thousands of daily wage earners are more scared of starvation than coronavirus. From those working in garment shops and restaurants to those running tea shops on roadsides, daily wagers are finding it difficult to make ends meet.“Lockdown is not the only solution. But the government machinery is making it a tool to hush up its failure in controlling the spike,” said Leena Buddhe, director, Centre for Sustainable Development. “Awareness is the key for any change and instead, government agencies including Nagpur Municipal Corporation, district collectorate and city police should have given more thrust on creating awareness. Besides, strict action should have been initiated at super spreaders like marriage venues. All these could have prevented the spike,” she said.“Our first worry is lack of work. We will die of starvation much earlier than by getting infected,” was the general opinion at Mankapur slum, where 90% people work as daily wagers. “This has meant that many of us will stare at the very real prospect of hunger, inadequate sanitation and indefinitely long uncertainty,” pointed out Ramesh Dahikar, who works in a garment shop at Sitabuldi main road.“Work has been stopped on weekends and so, our wages have already been reduced. The weeklong lockdown means no work and no pay by the owner of a barber shop in the Civil Lines area where I work,” said a barber Bharat Pathak, who earns about Rs5,000 a month.Many people whom TOI spoke with claim that they don’t have ration cards, which means that they would be without access to public distribution system foodgrains. We will die of hunger, not the virus, they lamented.The livelihood of domestic workers, street vendors and utility workers is at risk as the guardian minister’s order puts the thousands of daily wage earners of the city and district in jeopardy. The new seven-day lockdown calls for an urgent financial assistance to the workers from the informal sector, said Buddhe, and cited the example of a rag picker whose day starts at 6am and ends at 6pm. “Every day he works for almost 12 hours in Bhandewadi garbage dumping yard and earns Rs250 for it. Now, the scrap dealers will keep their shops shut due to lockdown and this poor man will be deprived of his only source of income,” she pointed out.Kartik Thakare, an electrician, said the lockdown will end all business for him as construction of offices, shops was not happening. “All through last year, our festive season income through decorative lighting for Diwali and Christmas was wiped out. Now the only business we get is for emergency cases. Some short circuit, some technical snag etc. The only immediate ray of hope is for desert cooler installation, but that has now stopped till March 21,” he said.Siddharth Patil, a dishwasher at catering events, said, “My livelihood depends completely on catering events, which are mostly weddings. In a normal year, the catering would also be for corporate events and family functions. Though some wedding orders had started coming, the rest are shut. How am I supposed to feed my family now?”Most daily wagers were of the opinion that the administration must consider the impact its decision would leave on the lives of the common people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/starvation-will-kill-us-before-the-virus-say-daily-wagers/articleshow/81487534.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 8 yrs’ RI for yoga teacher as liquor store set ablaze||Mumbai: A 30-year-old yoga teacher was recently convicted and sentenced to eight years rigorous imprisonment for abetment, as two boys set a liquor store on fire in 2016 at Kandivli, hours after he had a fight with store employees for delayed delivery due a crowd. There were no causalities, but alcohol bottles and refrigerators worth around Rs 5 lakh were reportedly lost on January 16, 2016. Finding Abhinav Singh, guilty, the court said, “A wine shop was set on fire with premeditation. The offence is serious as the gravity of the crime and loss caused can be imagined by any prudent person, particularly on the basis of duration of fire, as evident from CCTV footage, and loss of alcohol and refrigerators in the shop.” The conviction came as the court found that the prosecution “conducted the trial halfheartedly and in a casual manner”. The court, however, did not award maximum sentence of life imprisonment. “Considering the age of the accused and his family background, the court is not inclined to take a very serious view, to grant maximum punishment. A chance of reformation can be granted to the accused. But he deserves to be adequately punished for abetment of the serious crime,” the court said. The sessions court relied on statements of the store employees who deposed about the fight and threats by the accused. The conviction, based on circumstantial evidence, considered CCTV footage from nearby shops, which showed a man matching the description of the accused, and in a vehicle similar to one he owned, near the spot close to the time of the fire. Two boys were also found near the shop around that time, and they could be seen running when the fire started. They were also seen communicating with someone over the phone. Refuting the defence that the fire could be accidental, the court said the flares of fire, extremely brightly light, unequivocally spoke of flares due to burning of highly inflammable liquid, like petrol or alcohol. The court fined the accused Rs50,000, to be paid to the store owner as compensation at the end of the appeal period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-8-yrs-ri-for-yoga-teacher-as-liquor-store-set-ablaze/articleshow/81488036.cms||Rebecca Samervel
March 14, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: GST department unearths Rs 700-crore inter-state bogus billing scam, 5 arrested||LUDHIANA: The state GST department arrested five persons in an alleged bogus billing scam worth Rs 700 crore in Khanna on Saturday. The accused were identified as Vinod Kumar, Maninder Sharma, Sandeep Singh, Amarinder Singh and Sunny Mehta, all of Khanna. Maninder had even contested the local bodies elections on Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket. Officials said the accused were nabbed for creating and operating a bogus billing network across various states including Punjab, Delhi and Haryana and availing and passing on fraudulent ITC (input tax credit) to the tune of more than Rs 122 crore to various firms without due payment of tax to the government. The officials said the search and seizure operations were conducted at multiple locations in Khanna, including residence of the accused, in order to gather evidence to establish the modus operandi in creating firms in states outside and within Punjab dealing in copper scrap and hosiery items and thereafter passing the same to various beneficiary firms in the state of Punjab. “The ITC created through bogus firms was used to support the local movement of goods of various traders. The department had got an alert about the network after a vehicle carrying copper scrap was impounded by the mobile wing Jalandhar last year. Its investigation had revealed that the goods had been procured locally while e-way bill and invoice were generated from some other firm. A detailed investigation revealed a network of 44 firms spread across states was being used to create the bogus ITC for setting off the tax liability arising out of purchases made from local unregistered dealers,” the department said. “On being confronted with the evidence, the main kingpin accepted that he was operating the network with the help of some other accomplices some of whom have also been arrested. During search operations, incriminating documents related to various firms and mobile phones used for sharing fake invoices and e-way bills generated were seized. The total bogus billing by the network is likely to be worth more than Rs 700 crore while ITC created/availed and tax evaded is worth more than Rs 122 crore”. The department said the evidence was also gathered about various beneficiaries of the bogus network and other accomplices involved. The department said five of the seven accused were arrested on Saturday for the violation of Section 132 of the GST Act by a team led by assistant commissioner, MW, Patiala under supervision of joint director (investigation), Patiala. The operation was coordinated by Showkat Ahmad Parray, additional commissioner (enforcement), Punjab. “Efforts are on to nab the other accused. The accused were produced before the duty magistrate and were remanded to judicial custody,” the department said. “Action against various beneficiaries and other accomplices is also being initiated. Details of the firms registered in the names of the accused and other persons outside Punjab is being compiled and will be shared with other states for necessary action. Further investigation is in progress,” it added. Box: AAP candidate among accused State GST officials said one of the accused, Maninder Sharma, had contested from ward number 6 as Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate and finished third with 689 votes. Gurdarshan Singh, vice-president, Ludhiana (rural), AAP, said Maninder had joined AAP a few days before the elections and he was with some other party before that. He indicated that during elections, they didn’t know that he was involved in any such activity. He said the law should take its course in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gst-dept-unearths-rs-700-cr-inter-state-bogus-billing-scam-5-arrested/articleshow/81487932.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Goa||National Green Tribunal refuses to stay demolition of 3 Baina hutments||PANAJI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has refused to stay the demolition of three illegal hutments at Baina beach ordered by the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA). It said there was no material available to prove that the structures existed before 1991 or that they are not within the no-development zone. “In the absence of any cogent material to establish that the structures in question existed prior to 1991 or that they are not within the NDZ, we do not find any reason to interfere with the impugned orders. The appeals are accordingly dismissed,” the NGT stated in its recent order in the matter The appeals by owners of the hutments at Baina had challenged the GCZMA’s demolition orders issued in 2017. The NGT, however, said that the arguments made by the appellants were vague. “None appears for the appellants but we have duly considered the matters. No tangible material has been produced to assail the impugned orders. It is vaguely stated that there was no proper identification of illegal structures, CZMP has not been duly prepared, the principles of natural justice have not been followed,” the tribunal observed. The GCZMA’s demolition orders were issued as the structures were within the prohibited distance from the high tide line. The orders had said that if the demolitions were not carried out by the owners, the Mormugao deputy collector would do it and recover the cost from the owners. The violators were also asked to restore the area to its original state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ngt-refuses-to-stay-demolition-of-3-baina-hutments/articleshow/81488569.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Goa||Lobera has the last laugh as Mumbai City win it all||Panaji: Sergio Lobera has now won everything in Indian football: League Winners Shield, Indian Super League trophy and the Super Cup. Two of those trophies came in less than a fortnight with Mumbai City FC, a club he joined at the start of the season and took them to the top of Indian football. Since inception seven years ago, Mumbai had never made it to the final; their best was the semifinals in 2019 when they were hit out of the park by FC Goa 5-1 in the first leg itself. That Goa team, incidentally, was coached by Lobera. Sacked controversially last season by Goa with three games left to be played, Lobera had unfinished business. He has now more than proved a point, helped of course by the influential City Football Group whose 10-team bouquet now includes Mumbai. “Money is not equal to winning trophies,” Lobera said before his team could take on the might of ATK Mohun Bagan, who they defeated 2-1 in the final on Saturday. “I think all teams are working within the salary cap. If there are teams who don’t want to spend money, it’s their decision. We have done a very good job. We have players here who accepted our offers of less money, despite other teams offering more money.” Lobera loves to work with players who are in tune with his philosophy. At Goa, he brought Ahmed Jahouh, Mourtada Fall and Hugo Boumous, all of whom had played under him in the past. No wonder, they followed him to Mumbai with the club paying a record Rs 1.72 crore to get Boumous – Golden Ball winner last season – released. Mandar Rao Desai, Jackichand Singh and Amey Ranawade were also part of the Goa squad that won the league stage last season. But to say Lobera won the league because he had a group of players who worked with him at Goa would be unfair. Mumbai’s best domestic performers this season have been Bipin Singh, who scored the winner in the final and only player to have a hat-trick in his kitty, Rowllin Borges, tireless in midfield, and goalkeeper Amrinder Singh, who found new joy with the ball at his feet. None of them had trained with the Spanish coach before this season. Even D. Vignesh discovered his best form this season, edging out Mandar for the left-back position, while Amey was playing second division football at the start of the season before Lobera took him under his fold. Interestingly, Amey played just 66 minutes last season over two games, while Vignesh had seven minutes. Bipin didn’t cross 400 and Pranjal Bhumij was out in the cold with 29 minutes last season. “Mumbai have 17 new players, only six have played under me,” said Lobera. Despite having a relatively new squad at his disposal, Lobera didn’t change his possession-based style. His team was dominant right from the start, and towards the closing stages when ATK Mohun Bagan were threatening to play spoilsport, he changed his game plan to get the job done. If needed, his team defended like their life depended on it. "The Indian players are key to winning trophies. You're playing with six players in the first XI and Bipin has had an amazing season. There are a lot of players doing well. “Players with the opportunity to play, players with not so many opportunities to play, but always smiling and with a positive attitude. It was a big challenge from the beginning. We need to play in the bubble. Finally, we have our target, our success,” said Lobera. When Lobera had his first meeting with the City group bosses in Manchester, he knew the enormity of the challenge before him. “I accepted the pressure, I need this pressure as a coach, I enjoy this pressure. I don’t like to work in a place where there is no pressure because it means maybe you don’t have enough level in your squad to achieve big targets,” said Lobera. Lobera can be proud of himself, and the team. This season has been incredible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobera-has-the-last-laugh-as-mumbai-city-win-it-all/articleshow/81500197.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||Rain, strong winds trigger power failure in many areas||Nagpur: Heavy rain, along with hail and strong winds, lashed the city on Friday evening. The sudden change in weather caused major power interruptions in many areas.As per the data of Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, the city recorded 8 millimeters rain on Friday night. Wardha too recorded a rainfall of 2.4mm rainfall. The highest rainfall in the region was recorded at Tirora at 13.6mm.Heavy rain led to failure in power supply across the city including areas like Byramji Town, Jawahar Nagar, Manewada, Bajrang Nagar, Babulkheda, Narendra Nagar, Friends Colony, Gittikhadan and others. In many areas, power was gone all night.According to officials of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), the main lines connecting with sub-stations at Seminary Hills and Bijli Nagar got damaged due to felling of trees. “It took a long time to clear out the trees and then charge the sub-station. Post that, we started attending individual complaints,” an official said.As per the forecast of the meteorological department, not much rainfall is expected in the region in the coming days. On March 18, partly cloudy sky with possibility of rain and thunderstorm is expected in Nagpur. Maximum temperatures in the city are expected to stay between 35-38 degree Celsius. Minimum mercury levels are expected to be between 19-22 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rain-strong-winds-trigger-power-failure-in-many-areas/articleshow/81487542.cms||Manka Behl
March 14, 2021||Kochi||Indian Union Muslim League nominee offers prayers at Guruvayur temple||THRISSUR: In a refreshing gesture reinforcing the secular tradition of Kerala, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) nominee from Guruvayur constituency K N A Khader on Saturday offered prayers in front of the Sreekrishna Temple at Guruvayur, before launching his election campaign. “I am sure Lord Guruvayurappan will accept the ‘avil pothi’ (packet of rice flakes) from this ‘political Kuchela’. I am sure Lord Guruvayurappan will see my mind, and I think he has blessed me,” Khader later said. Like other devotees, he had taken off his sandals when he proceeded to the point at the East Nada of the temple, where even non-Hindus are allowed to offer prayers. “We pray before God. There is nothing wrong in it. We respect the places of worship of all communities. I had gone to Manathala Juma Masjid prior to that. Later, I also visited the ancient Palayoor church. God is one. Vedas affirm that “Eka Eva” or “There is only One”,” he said. “I had moved a bill for the welfare of temple employees of Malabar Devaswom, in the assembly. I had spoken at public meetings even in Thrissur, opposing the LDF government’s move against the devotees during the Sabarimala agitations,” he said. He said that he would work for further development of the temple town and the nearby areas like Chavakkad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/iuml-nominee-offers-prayers-at-guruvayur-temple/articleshow/81487939.cms||T Ramavarman
March 14, 2021||Goa||PSU banks to go on strike, services to be hit till Tuesday||PANAJI: Financial transactions in the state, particularly at government banks, will be severely affected till Tuesday as approximately 3,700 employees of all public sector banks (PSBs) in Goa are expected to join the two-day strike called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU). With the Goa Bank Employees Association (GBEA) expressing solidarity with the UFBU, nationalised banks are expected to keep their shutters down in protest of the Centre’s proposal to privatise two PSU banks and IDBI Bank. The UFBU has given a call for the countrywide agitation, including a two-day strike on March 15 and 16, against the Centre’s moves to privatise banks as part of the Narendra Modi-government’s disinvestment drive to generate Rs 1.7 lakh crore. “There will be no UPfinancial transactions and all the employees and officers of the public sector banks will join the strike,” said GBEA general secretary A M Pereira. The Goa unit of UFBU will hold a protest meet at Azad Maidan on March 15 at 10am with limited activists and representatives in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. Private banks will remain open and the strike will not affect financial transactions at private lenders such as ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank and others. The UFBU has opposed the various announcements made in the Union Budget regarding reform measures like privatisation of IDBI Bank and two public sector banks, setting up of a bad bank, disinvestment in LIC, privatisation of one insurance company, allowing up to 74% FDI in the insurance sector, aggressive disinvestment and sale of public sector undertakings. “At a time when the country’s economy is sagging and growth rate is sluggish, what is required is to strengthen public sector banks which are the main engines for economic growth and development. It is an irony that instead, the government is proposing to privatise and hand over the government-owned banks to private firms, most of whom are defaulters of huge bank loans,” said Pereira. Privatisation of banks would result in reduction of permanent jobs and employment of more contract labour. Along with this, reservations for SC/ST and ex-servicemen will be stopped and this will affect job security, UFBU said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/psu-banks-to-go-on-strike-services-to-be-hit-till-tue/articleshow/81488577.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Less supply this summer? More illegal borewells may add to water table woes||NEW DELHI: This summer, the capital could be staring at a severe crisis with raw water supply getting reduced by around 25% due to closure of the Nangal channel for nearly a month. As there is already a deficit between water demand and supply during summer, this may prompt more illegal borewells to spring up across the capital. Delhi’s groundwater table is falling at a swift pace. Delhi government’s revenue department and Delhi Jal Board (DJB) have identified 20,350 illegal water extraction points across Delhi, the largest concentration being in North West and South West districts. So far, 6,503 illegal borewells have been sealed. Delhi Jal Board data shows that the bulk of illegal borewells (9,067) is located in North West district, while there are 6,644 in South West and 2,185 in West districts. Revenue department officials have argued before the monitoring committee that resistance is being faced in residential areas due to shortage of water supply. In its report to National Green Tribunal, the monitoring committee had stated that action was pending on around 14,000 illegal units. The city’s current water supply capacity is only 935 million gallons per day (MGD) against a demand of 1,260 MGD. The deficit is met primarily through subsurface sources. Illegal borewells are used for meeting domestic demand, blending water supply, running water plants, packaged water, washing floors and cars and horticulture purposes. South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s deliberative wing has argued against the closure of borewells in its parks. In a recent meeting, leader of the House Narendra Chawla said an appeal should be made for review of the order for closure of borewells as maintenance of parks is also important for the environment. Almost half of south civic body’s functional park borewells are located in the west zone. A report by National Geophysical Research Institute showed that north India may be facing the largest groundwater depletion in the world with Delhi at the centre of this crisis. It added that groundwater was being pumped out 70% faster than estimated earlier. Some remedial measures being taken to reverse the trend include rainwater harvesting units, revival of lakes and waterbodies, usage of treated wastewater in parks and decentralised sewage treatment plants. In his budget speech on Tuesday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had stated that Delhi Jal Board had installed rainwater harvesting systems in 585 of its 771 installations and the remaining work was expected to be completed before this monsoon. A senior jal board official said that while progress had been made in the institutional category, the pace was still slow in private buildings despite the mandatory criterion. Another official said that action against illegal borewell was stalled due to the novel coronavirus pandemic as field staff was busy with preventive measures to counter the spread of the virus. The overall count of borewells is still not final. During a review meeting with the monitoring committee, South district officials claimed the list provided by DJB was incomplete and borewells in farmhouses in Sainik Vihar, Chhatarpur, etc, had not been surveyed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/less-supply-this-summer-more-illegal-borewells-may-add-to-water-table-woes/articleshow/81487927.cms||Paras Singh
March 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: You can take driving licence test on Sundays||NEW DELHI: Planning to get a permanent driving licence but unable to get time off to appear for a test? You can now do so on a Sunday. The transport department has decided to carry out driving tests on Sundays at all the 13 Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) in the capital. Applicants will now be able to book slots for Sundays when RTOs are otherwise closed. An order issued by the department on Friday, with the approval of transport minister Kailash Gahlot, stated that, to provide the facility, it has been decided that the offices of zonal motor licensing officers or RTOs would remain open on Sundays. The offices, however, would not provide any other services except driving tests on that day. It has also decided that the test inspector and other RTO staff working on Sundays would be allowed to take their weekly off on Mondays. Applicants will not be able to book online slots for Mondays, as the department will not allot any fresh appointment for that day from now on. The existing applicants who have already taken slots for Mondays, however, would be allowed to take the test on the appointed day, for which alternative inspector and staff would be deputed. This means that at most of the busy RTOs, driving tests would continue both on Mondays and Sundays for the next one to two months. To tackle long waiting period at many RTOs, the department is also planning to carry out driving tests at three driver training centres of the Institute of Driving and Traffic Research at Sarai Kale Khan, Loni and Burari, which have automated testing tracks. These facilities might be used for three hours every day to take the load off other RTOs, sources said. The move is just one of the measures being implemented by the transport department to provide hassle-free services to Delhiites. The department, in fact, does not want applicants to visit RTOs and is moving most of its services online, except for driving tests, vehicle fitness certificates, etc. It has also prepared a roadmap for making its services ‘faceless’ without requirement of the applicant’s presence at the RTO. The transport department has started with 12 of its most sought after services and will gradually add most of its 70 services. The faceless services have already started in some of the RTOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/you-can-take-dl-test-on-sundays/articleshow/81487931.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Sunday may be pleasant, but mercury to rise soon||NEW DELHI: After parts of Delhi received rain for the past two days, the mercury is predicted to rise again. Met officials said that the influence of a western disturbance is likely to be over by Sunday and the maximum and minimum temperatures may soar. The day temperature is expected to cross 35 degrees Celsius by next week. The maximum temperature on Saturday was 31.2 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal. The minimum temperature was recorded at 15.2 degrees Celsius, according to IMD. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “A cloud cover had formed over the region under the influence of a western disturbance, which is why the temperatures were not rising. However, the maximum temperature is likely to reach 35 degrees Celsius by Thursday.” The weatherman forecasts the maximum and minimum temperature will remain around 32 and 15 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Sunday. Meanwhile, the capital’s air quality deteriorated on Saturday as it reached ‘poor’ category. The overall Air Quality Index of the national capital was 209.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sunday-may-be-pleasant-but-mercury-to-rise-soon/articleshow/81487933.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC acquits man in 2011 ‘murder’, tells state to compensate 4 kids||MUMBAI: Bombay high court this week set aside the 2017 conviction of a man for the murder of a widow in 2011, holding that there was a doubt if it was a homicide, but directed district legal services authority to decide on compensation to her four minor, now orphaned daughters. HC invoked provisions of section 357 (A) Criminal Procedure Code and a salutary victim compensation scheme of 2014 to direct the state to compensate the children, but clarified it was not laying down any law on making a recommendation in every case of acquittal. “Their interests need to be protected, and ultimately, it is the responsibility of the state. That is why the scheme has been framed and the state government is under obligation to make available the funds,’’ said a bench of Justices P B Varale and S M Modak in its March 10 judgment. HC directed the state to act given stark prospects the children would face. The Solapur man’s counsel, Ganesh Bhujbal, argued that the theory of a homicidal death was “doubtful’’, while M M Deshmukh, the prosecutor, said proof was adequate. The minors, represented by advocate Shantanu Phanse from the legal aid panel, said Rs40,000 awarded to them as compensation by a trial court from a Rs50,000 fine imposed on the man, was not yet deposited by him. HC, after perusing records, said the trial judge was wrong in concluding it was murder on the basis of the “cryptic’’ testimony of two child witnesses, and had failed to consider a dying declaration and a letter sent by a policeman, which suggested “accidental death’’. Their mother was at a gas stove which exploded and the accused tried to douse the fire and put the woman in an autorickshaw. HC said the trial court had wrongly put the onus on the accused to prove the dying declaration and letter. The burden lies on the prosecution to prove its case of murder, said HC. The trial court convicted him “based on wrong interpretation of principles of criminal trial’’, HC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-acquits-man-of-2011-murder-tells-state-to-compensate-4-kids-in-mumbai/articleshow/81488035.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt to withdraw 5000 cases registered against those flouting Covid norms||DEHRADUN: In its first decision on Friday, the newly-constituted cabinet under CM Tirath Singh Rawat decided to withdraw around 4871 cases filed against those who had been booked during the pandemic under the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act for flouting Covid norms regarding masks and social distancing. Chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat while talking to TOI on Saturday said, “Among the people who were booked were also those from vulnerable sections of society. They hardly knew how to deal with the situation. People were in panic and some were ignorant. That’s why it was necessary to withdraw the FIRs filed against them.” Among the 4871 FIRs filed by the police in around five months of lockdown, over 150 were against the migrants who were returning to their homes. Few cases were also filed against people who claimed to have stepped outside their homes for food distribution, consulting doctors or helping elderlies living nearby. Talking about the procedure that will now be followed to withdraw the FIRs, Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said that the government will issue an order in this regard which will be addressed to all the district magistrates (DMs). “The DMs will then make a submission in the court via prosecutors. The court will take a final call on the issue,” said Kumar, adding that the violations constituted a petty offence and it is expected that the court may allow the withdrawal of all the cases. Meanwhile, Suryakant Dhasmana, state Congress vice-president who has 20 FIRs filed against him along with party chief Pritam Singh and veteran leaders like Harish Rawat for alleged flouting of Covid norms said that the opposition, since the very beginning, was against filing FIRs against people who were already harassed during lockdown. “The government, with the decision of revoking FIRs under Epidemic Act, has repented for its previous mistakes. It’s a good decision as those who were booked were mostly poor people. There are instances where events organised by the BJP itself went unchecked although Covid norms were flouted but no action was taken against the party’s people,” added Dhasmana. Anoop Nautiyal, from Social Development for Communities Foundation, an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state, meanwhile felt apprehensive of the government’s decision. “This is a vulnerable time as far as Covid pandemic is concerned. Uttarakhand is hosting Maha Kumbh which is being attended by lakhs of pilgrims. When the country is seeing another surge in coronavirus cases, decisions like these may aggravate the situation as there would be further laxity ina adhering to Covid norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-to-withdraw-5k-cases-registered-against-those-flouting-covid-norms/articleshow/81487536.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 14, 2021||Chandigarh||We need strategic awareness not quixotic jingoism||Gathering war clouds seem to have cleared out on both LoC and LAC, bringing to mind the famous analogy used by former PM Vajpayee during Operation Prakram. Most soldiers who have to face the direct consequences of conflicts as well as informed experts see a silver lining in this, albeit tinged with some skepticism. Many experts question pre-mature bartering of the coercive leverage of the Kailash ranges and warn of deceit. It would be unfair to assume that Kailash is the only option. Even for re-occupation of vacated features, contingencies with earmarked troops and mandated readiness levels would be in place. It is hoped that the tri-lateral balance of “strategic stasis,” a natural fallout of realisation of limitations of coercive measures, will endure. ‘Statis’ is defined as a state in which things remain the same and don’t change. It is time diplomats step forward and define the template of uneasy freeze with clearly defined red lines. It is also important to explore new possibilities as hard power has its limitations. The developing sense of peace has robbed rabble rousers in electronic and social media of their daily dose of trumped-up hyper ventilation, diabolically justified as “nationalism.” Many self-appointed experts have been suggesting deployment matrix in vacated areas. Any endeavour to inject realism in such debates triggers hostile reactions. Troll armadas question motives of even informed veterans, labelling them as anti-national. The net result is that we are just not willing to examine our failings, let alone improve. We seem to have built up echo chambers, where ‘twitter-yodhas’ are ready with quixotic plans to conquer PoK, Aksai Chin and break Pakistan into a dozen pieces. The unfortunate part is that some of it is fuelled by veterans on bang-bang channels. These arm-chair warriors need to be asked a few simple questions — Does any mature country or agency advertise such operations? On the contrary, Mossad, CIA, KGB and ISI, go to extreme lengths to cover their tracks and build deniability. Here, it seems open season for one and all. While the current government deserves to be lauded for tough approach evidenced in surgical strikes, resolute stand in Doklam and current stand-off, it is time to review our policy on strategic awareness and communications. Social media warriors and narrative setting is becoming the defining trend in the new normal but this tsunami needs to be reined in. The first casualty of globalised digital media is obliteration of boundaries between external and internal communications. This horrible mix-up has resulted in unbridled expectations in domestic constituency and politicisation. Official agencies have been found wanting both in timely response and content. There have been attempts to use preferred journalists by feeding official narrative through them. They, at best, can do holding action and firefighting but are inevitably identified and dubbed as ‘sarkaris/durbaris.’ There has also been proliferation of YouTubers peddling their own variety of explanations, especially in regional media. Externally, our efforts have also not yielded the desired results as brand India itself is being increasingly questioned. Most importantly, while we can keep questioning George Tenham’s observations about lack of strategic culture amongst Indians with Kautilya and Mahabharta, how can we dispute abysmal level of strategic awareness across the board? This malady breeds jingoisms like - no loss of territory, terror and talks cannot co-exist, immediately revoke IWT, thereby crowding out pragmatic responses. During talks at premier education institutions, it takes considerable effort to explain that to stop water, we need reservoirs and it takes oveer a decade construct them. Only redeeming feature is that this government has purposefully kickstarted the process. How does one percolate informed opinion or achieve negotiated border resolution amidst the cacophony of irresponsible jingoism? We should learn from recent approval for Zangmu dam on Tsang-po (Brahmaputra) after decades of denial by China. Another worrying trend is blaming all failures on previous regimes as part of passing the buck syndrome. It is time to follow Army dictum, shoulder responsibility and never blame your predecessors. Merger of princely states (notably Hyderabad and Kashmir); colonial territories (Goa and Puducherry); Sikkim and creation of Bangladesh are significant strategic milestones, besides four wars and keeping India intact despite externally aided multiple insurgencies. Even with Dragon, occupation of Tawang, Nathu La and Somdorong Chu actions need to be lauded and credit is due to regimes concerned. In conclusion, after 50-odd years in uniform, I am tempted to let my dreams take wing to attempt a tool-kit for enhancing ‘Strategic Awareness’, though it may seem utopian. This formulation is based on seminal wisdom that narrative shaping has limits and when it comes to brass-tacks, we have to build capability without too much hype. No sensible enemy will miss the signal. Hence, core message has to be transparent and tweaking can only achieve marginal value additions. First, whole of nation approach should be nuanced to qualified and informed involvement. Second, disseminate information regularly through official spokespersons and even standing committees. Don’t allow info-vacuum at any cost. Third, national security being a specialised and sensitive subject, it should not be vitiated by self-anointed experts, specially propped up ones, who exploit info-vacuum. Fourth, educate our decision makers (parliamentarians and bureaucrats) through capsule programs and war games at NDC, USI and IDSA. Fifth, think tanks should reclaim info-sphere by putting out explanatory videos, including in regional languages. Sixth, get NDU going to anchor informed debates. Finally, build national consensus and include selected senior opposition representatives in select official briefings. The writer is former Army Commander, Western Command||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/we-need-strategic-awareness-not-quixotic-jingoism/articleshow/81487938.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||Farmers’ delegation to visit Gujarat in April||Jaipur: In a bid to mobilise the farmers’ movement against the centre’s three farm laws in Gujarat, an 8-10 member delegation of Sanyunkt Kisan Morcha (SKM) will visit the state in the first week of April. Rajasthan farmer leader Himmat Singh will be coordinating dialogue with Gujarat farmers’ unions in order to mobilise agitation in state.As per the proposed three-day programme (from April 4 to 6), prepared by Singh, the delegation will take an early morning flight from New Delhi toSurat on April 4. They will head towards Bardoli Swaraj Ashram from the airport where they will pay their tributes to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s statue. On the same day, meetings with farmers’ unions and associations of Surat and press conferences will be held at 3 pm. From there they will head towards Vadodara, where they will be meeting the farmers at around 6 pm. They will spend the night at Limdi and leave for Rajkot the next morning (April 5). After meetings with the farmers at Rajkot, they will depart for Ahmedabad on the same day. On April 6, the delegation will meet the farmers at 11 am in Ahmedabad. A mahapanchayant will be announced during a press conference at 2pm, jointly organized by farmer unions of Gujarat. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-delegation-to-visit-gujarat-in-april/articleshow/81488576.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Goa||CM trying to make DMA scapegoat, says Congress||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant is trying to make director of municipal administration (DMA) Gurudas Pilarnekar a scapegoat for the faulty election reservation process, but the actual blame lies with the urban development minister Milind Naik and BJP organisational secretary Satish Dhond, stated Congress on Saturday. Criticising Sawant’s attempts to pin the blame on the DMA, the party said that as the head of the state, the responsibility lies with the chief minister. The party has demanded that Naik should be sacked immediately if Sawant believes that the department for municipal administration is at fault for the arbitrary reservation process which drew the high court and Supreme Court’s ire. State Congress president Girish Chodankar also criticised state election commissioner Choka Ram Garg, questioning why he “bent and crawled” before the government instead of showing a spine. “Choka Ram Garg is not fit to be an IAS officer, and we will write to the home ministry in Delhi to take immediate action against the officer. He is unfit to be called IAS. The previous SEC had to resign and today he is in jail. Such people cannot be appointed as SEC, people who bend and crawl,” said Chodankar. The Congress has also issued a warning to government officers, telling them to abide by the Constitution and not go by the diktats of Dhond or BJP. While criticising Pilarnekar for not standing up against BJP’s attempts to manipulate the civic polls, Chodankar pointed out that Pilarnekar’s appointment was notified on February 4, the same day that the civic poll reservations were announced. “The manipulations were going on in the BJP backroom and the governor gave his assent for Pilarnekar’s appointment on February 4, so where was the time for the DMA to prepare the reservations because the reservation was notified on February 4 ,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-trying-to-make-dma-scapegoat-says-cong/articleshow/81488574.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Surat||Surat: Woman’s body cremated sans postmortem, probe ordered||SURAT: The Surat district police on Saturday ordered an investigation into the death of a 25-year-old woman labourer and subsequent cremation of her body without a postmortem. Body of the woman Bharti Rathod, who is the mother of a five-year-old child, was found under mysterious circumstance in the parking area of a house in Mota Kumbharwad area of Mandvi town on March 6. The body was handed over to her family without a postmortem and was later cremated the next day. The decaying body of Rathod was found from parking shed for the tractor at the residence of Kanubhai, a farmer. “I have ordered an inquiry in the issue to find out why postmortem was not done. The family members did not level allegations hence police did not take steps that we normally take in criminal cases,” said Rupal Solanki, deputy superintendent of police, Bardoli town. Multiple videos and photos of the body had gone viral on social media with some pictures indicating severe injuries marks on it. Police informed that the woman had learning difficulties and used to go away from home often and return later. “Rathod went missing on March 3 and her body was found on March 6. The postmortem was not done as the body was identified and it looked like she died naturally,” said D R Rao, police sub-inspector, Mandvi police station. “Some local noticed dogs and pigs biting the body when they alerted residents,” Rao added. Police claimed that the woman’s family did not wish to lodge a complaint so postmortem was not done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/womans-body-cremated-sans-postmortem-probe-ordered/articleshow/81487549.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Six trains to depart from Kacheguda till March 24||HYDERABAD: In order to facilitate construction/commissioning of automatic coach wash plant (ACWP) at Secunderabad Railway Station, the South Central Railway has decided to shift the terminal station from Secunderabad to Kacheguda from Monday. A total of six trains are affected due to this process, which will leave from or arrive at Kacheguda station instead of Secunderabad from March 15 to 24. According to SCR, train number 02704 Secunderabad-Howrah special train (Falaknuma Express) will depart from Kacheguda station instead of Secunderabad from March 17 to March 24. Other trains that will be affected due to this process is train number of 02787 Secunderabad-Danapur special train and train number 070604 Secunderabad-Manmad special train (Ajanta express). Both these trains will also depart from Kacheguda instead of Secunderabad from March 17 to 24. “These trains will arrive and depart from Kacheguda station on scheduled timings,” the SCR officials said. This apart, the SCR, as part of the restoration of train services for the convenience of passengers has announced that it will restore six special trains between Hyderabad-Sirpur Kaghaznagar-Secunderabad, Bitragunta-Chennai Central-Bitragunta and Tirupati-Mannargudi-Tirupati from April 1 onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-trains-to-depart-from-kacheguda-till-march-24/articleshow/81488572.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||HC strikes down notice against Bommakal sarpanch||Hyderabad: Giving a finding that Karimnagar collector was acting with a predetermined mind to remove Purumalla Srinivas, sarpanch of Bommakal village in Karimnagar, Justice T Amarnath Goud of the Telangana high court has struck down show cause-cum-removal notices issued by the district collector against the sarpanch. Jandhyala Ravi Shankar, the counsel for the aggrieved sarpanch said that the officials were trying to make Srinivas a scapegoat for certain alleged irregularities in government works. He alleged the panchayat secretary was not questioned. “Even in taking the purported action against the sarpanch, the officials did not follow any procedure,” he said. Though a three-member committee was appointed, they too have not done a proper inquiry. Several FIRs were booked and he was also sent to jail. The judge too said the officials did not follow any principles of natural justice in this regard and struck down the notices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-strikes-down-notice-against-bommakal-sarpanch/articleshow/81487936.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Delhi||More than half of Delhi suitable for groundwater recharge, finds report||NEW DELHI: Around 825 sq km of Delhi’s total area of 1,483 sq km has been identified as suitable enough for artificial recharge of the groundwater table, a new report by Central Groundwater Board (CGWB) states. While 190 sq km is roof area, 81 sq km is paved and the remaining is open, which can be utilised for the purpose. The report, which has been prepared for all states to bring up their water tables, stated that Delhi’s groundwater levels were currently declining at the rate of 0.2 metres each year. “The high rate of population growth and high level of urbanisation has resulted in over-development of groundwater resources. Thus, in about 75% of Delhi, groundwater levels are declining at an alarming rate of 0.2m per annum. To increase the natural resource, rainwater harvesting and artificial recharge has become increasingly important in groundwater management,” it stated. The city’s groundwater availability is controlled by hydro-geological conditions, such as the occurrence of quartzite that forms a part of the ridge and covers 145 sq km, which makes it tough to recharge the soil in the area. The older and younger alluvium soil covers 1,338 square km. Yamuna and its floodplain form the main drainage of around 97 sq km. Three types of recharge structures have been identified as suitable for the capital — trenches, rooftop rainwater harvesting and check dams for ridge areas. However, the report has omitted congested locations like Chandni Chowk, Daryaganj, Shahdara, Seelampur and Seemapuri, stating that plot sizes are either too small or there is not enough land available to make the recharge structures. “The Yamuna floodplain has also been excluded as the water level is very shallow. It is proposed that excess floodwater may be transported to Chhatarpur basin, where the water level is deeper. A total of 22,706 recharge trenches with shafts, 3,04,500 rooftop rainwater harvesting structures and 12 check dams in hilly areas are proposed to be constructed,” the report stated. Annually, Delhi receives 611.8mm of rainfall of which 533.1mm occurs during monsoon (June to September), making it a crucial time to ensure recharge. The report states that all locations where post-monsoon water levels are more than 5m below ground level can be considered for recharge purposes. “Considering an 80% runoff coefficient for roofed areas, 60% for paved and 30% for open, the runoff availability is assessed at 175 million cubic metres (mcm). The surplus monsoon runoff from the Yamuna is 282 mcm. Thus, 457 MCM surplus runoff is available to recharge groundwater,” added the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/more-than-half-of-delhi-suitable-for-groundwater-recharge-finds-report/articleshow/81487935.cms||Paras Singh
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||Rain, hailstorm damage crops in Kota, Bundi dists||Kota: Moderate to heavy rain and hailstorm that lashed over parts of Kota for around 20-25 minutes late on Friday evening caused major damage to coriander and wheat crops in over a dozen villages in Kanwas and Ramganjmandi tehsils.District authorities and Rajiv Dutta, OSD to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, on Saturday morning rushed to the affected villages to take stock of the crop damage and ordered to initiate process to compensate the affected farmers by insurance companies. Wheat, gram, coriander and garlic sustained around 80% damage in Khajurna, Urna, Kotbawadi, Mohanpura, Mangalpura, Jangaliyahedi villages, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Sangod, Rajesh Daga said.Daga said crops in Rajpura, Alyahedi of Deoli gram panchayat sustained 25% damage, while the crops in Rajpura and other villages between Malbawadi Hanumanji and Khandgaun sustained 80% damage in the rain. Around 70% crops in villages between Aru river and Malbawadi Hanumanji were also damaged. Besides, around 25% crops were also damaged in Baluheda, Garmodi, Kacholiya, Palaheda and Khandgaun villages, he added. Dutta said at least 80-100% crop in around a dozen villages in the area were damaged. “I will submit the report to OM Birla.”Meanwhile, Birla expressed his concern over crop damage and directed Dutta to visit the affected areas.The crops in villages in Ramganj Mandi and Kanwas areas of the district sustained major damage, while other areas of the district 3-9% damage was reported in wheat, coriander and other crops as most of the crops were harvested, said deputy director agriculture, Kota, Ramnivas Paliwal.Around 10–15 % damage to wheat crop in Basoli, Manglikanan, Bada Nayagaun, Khinya and some other villages of Hindoli area in Bundi district was also reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rain-hailstorm-damage-crops-in-kota-bundi-dists/articleshow/81488583.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Goa||GFP: Cong couldn’t get aspirants in Quepem||PANAJI: The inability of Congress to field candidates in three wards of the Quepem municipal council for the elections raises questions about the party’s seriousness in taking on the BJP, said Goa Forward Party (GFP) working president Kiran Kandolkar. Kandolkar questioned how the Congress could talk about developing a party base in all 40 assembly constituencies if it could not field candidates for the Quepem civic polls itself, a constituency that it has held for several terms. Three candidates backed by local MLA and deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar were declared elected unopposed. Though after the Supreme Court’s verdict on Friday, the declaration has been nullified. “What kind of opposition is the Congress that they cannot find three people to stand for civic elections in Quepem,” Kandolkar said and then went on to take a dig at state Congress president Girish Chodankar. Kandolkar, the former Tivim MLA said that GFP is willing to wait till April-May for the Congress to take a final call. “Congress needs to decide fast and tell us after the municipality elections, otherwise we will go ahead. We are ready to contest 30 seats,” said Kandolkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-cong-couldnt-get-aspirants-in-quepem/articleshow/81488581.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Goa||Major pipeline bursts at Curti, water supply to Ponda areas hit||PONDA: Entire Ponda constituency area and parts of Madkai, Shiroda and Valpoi constituencies faced water shortages after a contractor laying the natural gas line, ruptured a major water pipeline. The pipeline supplies water to Ponda town, Curti-Khandepar and Bandora village panchayat and parts of Borim and Usgao-Ganjem village panchayats. Work to restore the pipeline had begun by late Saturday evening and it is expected that water supply to the affected areas may be restored by Sunday afternoon. Senior officials of water division of public works department (PWD) said the work of laying the gas pipeline at night time proved risky. The 900mm water pipeline was newly laid. The contractor, who ruptured it, had been entrusted the work of laying the PVC pipeline network by Goa Natural Gas company. “While drilling the roadside area near Shree Sateri Temple at Curti on the outskirts of Ponda town, with a heavy duty horizontal earth drilling machine, the contractor ruptured the water pipeline,” Nivruti Parsekar, a PWD executive engineer, said. Laid in 2019, the 900 mm ductile iron (DI) pipeline was damaged on Saturday evening at around 7.30pm. The water oozing out from the damaged portion of the pipeline also entered nearby houses. As a part of highway widening, the road contractor had shifted the earlier pipeline that was passing below the road widening area to the road side recently. The contractor had even replaced the earlier pipeline of cast iron with the new ductile iron, which burst on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/major-pipeline-bursts-at-curti-water-supply-to-ponda-areas-hit/articleshow/81488586.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Days after taking 2nd dose, GMCH dean tests positive||AURANGABAD: Dr Kanan Yelikar, the dean of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Aurangabad, tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday and has been admitted to a private hospital for treatment. Yelikar, who has been spearheading the efforts to contain the pandemic at the state-run health institution, said she has developed only mild symptoms. “I had taken my second dose of vaccine on March 2 which helped in reducing the severity of the Covid infection. I have developed only dry cough and fever and my condition is stable,” said the 63-year old dean. Yelikar said the GMCH has oxygen beds and she did not need such support due to mild symptoms of Covid-19. “I, therefore, spared the bed for another needy patient,” said Yelikar, adding that her 84-year old mother-in-law has also tested positive for the contagion. Yelikar, along with other health workers at the GMCH, was administered Covaxin — an India-made coronavirus vaccine by Bharat Biotech. Health authorities said a minimum of around a fortnight is required to develop necessary immunity against Covid-19 even after taking the second vaccine dose. “Even after taking the second dose, there are some chances of getting Covid infection with reduced severity. Therefore, Covid appropriate behaviour should be the norm for the long term,” civic health officer Dr officer Neeta Padalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/days-after-taking-2nd-dose-gmch-dean-tests-positive/articleshow/81487941.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Bareilly||Raped by her brother-in-law, minor girl tries to kill self in UP||BAREILLY: Shocked and pained by her brother-in-law's sexual assault, a minor girl in Uttar Pradesh's Moradabad tried to end her life by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at home on Friday. The 14-year-old was allegedly raped by her cousin’s husband at his house in the Chajlet area, last month. In their complaint, the girl's family said that their daughter was living at her sister’s place. They had called her to help after her sister gave birth to a baby three months ago. However, her husband allegedly forced himself on the girl and raped her. On March 8, she narrated her ordeal to the family. Police said that the family rescued her on time and prevented her suicide bid. The girl was taken to the district hospital. An FIR has been registered against the accused under IPC section of rape and Pocso Act. Her mother told police that after her niece had a baby, the girl was sent to assist her cousin with household chores and look after the baby. The cousin's husband had come to take the minor girl along with him to his home in the first week of February, the mother said. “My daughter had called up to say that she doesn’t want to stay there. Once she came back, she remained very quiet. When we repeatedly asked her what was troubling her, she narrated her ordeal. On Friday, she tried to end her life, but was saved when my sister-in-law raised alarm,” the mother added. Chajlet SHO of Moradabad Sunil Kumar said, “The girl was rescued by the family and taken to hospital where she was provided medical aid. Her condition is now stable." An FIR has been registered against the 25-year-old accused under section 376 (punishment for rape) of IPC and relevant sections of the Pocso Act, the SHO said, adding that further legal action in the case is underway. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/raped-by-her-brother-in-law-minor-girl-tries-to-kill-self-in-up/articleshow/81486628.cms||Maria Khan
March 14, 2021||Delhi||Swachh survey infuses life into neglected zones||NEW DELHI: The annual cleanliness survey has given a new lease of life to many vacant and unattended sites in the city. After poor rankings in the Swachhta Survekshan, the three municipal corporations are now busy repairing park walls, cleaning garbage dumps and sprucing up public spaces and markets. An interesting approach has been to beautify such places with street art. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation commissioner Sanjay Goel recently unveiled a 3D artwork measuring 40 x 8 ft painted on a dhalao wall on Punchkuian Road. The work created by Delhi Street Art group depicts an eagle with wings formed out of plastic bottles, so warning of the negative impact of plastic on the eco system. “Delhi Street Art has also painted 70 x 8 feet wall of kindness near the crematorium with images of spiritual luminaries. While inviting people to donate discarded things for recycling, it advocates the 3R principle: reduce, recycle and reuse,” revealed a north corporation official. The north civic body claimed to have covered 10,000 square feet with 240 street art works, including at 100 dhalaos. “At Ajmal Khan Park, we used discarded material like plastic bottles and ropes to decorate the wall of a storeroom,” said the official. “A dhalao at Rohini has been redeveloped into selfie point with and greenery planted around the garbage compactor installed at the rear. And at Netaji Subhash Place on Pusa Road, a dhalao has been covered with Madhubani art.” From Monday, north corporation plans to engage three students from an art school in each zone and take their help in speeding up the street art work. In east Delhi also, at least 75 sites have been refurbished and beautified with paintings. “Around 5,000 sq ft in total have been painted in Ghazipur landfill, Swami Dayanand Hospital, dispensaries, Laxmi Nagar market, etc. We are also taking the help of college students and pursing organisation to fund the projects under their corporate social responsibility activities,” said an EDMC official. Similarly, S DMC claimed to developed over 300 sites covering 20,000 sq feet. Rajiv Jain, nodal officer for Swachh Bharat Abhiyan at SDMC, said, “We have taken care of sites at PVR Complex, Press Enclave Marg and dhalaos near Max Saket, Lado Sarai, Kumhar Basti (Mohammadpur), Munirka bus stand, RK Puram Sector 7 market, Satya Niketan, Nanakpura, Rajouri Garden, Mayapuri, Delhi Gate, Green Park, etc. We engaged professional artists after conducting a mural art competition.” On Saturday, SDMC administered pledges to citizens to help the civic body in the cleanliness drive. In attendance at the event at Pacific Mall in Subhas Nagar were Olympic wrestler Sushil Kumar and Punjabi singer Jassi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/swachh-survey-infuses-life-into-neglected-zones/articleshow/81487948.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 14, 2021||Vadodara||MS University starts project for eco-restoration of Bhukhi stream||Vadodara: Students, teachers and officials of MS University have joined hands to set an example of eco-restoration. Since last week, eco-restoration of a small patch of the Bhukhi stream, a tributary of Vishwamitri River that passes through the university campus, has been taken up. The project has been initiated by departments of botany, environmental science, architecture faculty and construction division of MSU with the aim of setting an example of eco-restoration by stabilizing the bank of the stream. The joint efforts will also be channelized at renewing and restoring the damaged ecosystems and habitats along the stream. The bank site that falls in the backyard of the botanical garden was cleaned, cleared and levelled with fertilised soil and then covered with a jute-bag sheet. Around 500 saplings have been planted by making holes in this sheet. “Trees have been planted depending on their root properties and structures. At one level, we have planted trees whose roots go deep. At second level there are herbs and shrubs and later grass has also been planted,” said a teacher. Around 30 students of MSc and seven research scholars of botany department along with some students of architecture faculty have enthusiastically worked for 10-15 hours a day on this project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ms-university-starts-project-for-eco-restoration-of-bhukhi-stream/articleshow/81487575.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||Labour dept begins issuing online notices for cess collection||Jaipur: The state’s labour department has started issuing online notices to the builders/owners for the collection of labour cess meant for Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare (BOCW) board. While the target set for 2020-21 was Rs 310 crore, the labour department has already collected Rs 299.65 crore from the builders/owners till February. According to department officials, introducing the online system has accelerated the pace of cess collection from builders and has strengthened monitoring. “The cess notices can be issued online in such a manner that strict monitoring could be done at the headquarter level. Under this process, a person has an option of depositing cess online by entering the department’s website. However, the person has to physically submit all the relevant documents for the purpose of assessment,” said labour commissioner Prateek Jhajharia. “The online system will help us know how many notices are being generated and against whom. We will also be updated about the action taken on these notices,” he added. “It will also help us monitor if any kind of management is done at any stage to evade paying cess. The moment online notices are issued such things can be prevented,” he added.According to officials, though reservations were expressed by some with the introduction of the new system, it would be used more dynamically in the new financially year (2021-22). The cess collection in 2019-20 was Rs412 crore. “Due to Covid situation in the state, the target set for cess collection was Rs 310 crore for this financial year. As of February, we have already collected Rs 299.65 crore and we are confident that we will exceed the target. In the month February, the total collection was Rs 30 crore. Therefore, if we can collect at least Rs 25-30 crore in the month of March, we will surpass the target. It has been possible due to regular monitoring and coordination with the districts. We have got decent results so far,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labour-dept-begins-issuing-online-notices-for-cess-collection/articleshow/81488590.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Five lakh inoculated so far in state||Hyderabad: The state has now administered 7.19 lakh vaccine doses to nearly 5 lakh beneficiaries across the four categories of vulnerable population. Over 83% of these have been administered at government vaccination centres with 6,06,994 vaccine doses being given at government-run centres. A total of 22,087 beneficiaries across categories was administered the first dose on Friday and 12,997 were given the second dose. The elderly continue to be the largest chunk of a single day, with 13,427 being vaccinated on Friday. So far, a total of 1,52,032 elderly have been administered the first dose of the vaccine. In comparison 2,07,701 health care workers took the first dose and 1,52,035 frontline workers took the first dose so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-lakh-inoculated-so-far-in-state/articleshow/81488625.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Delhi||Gangster wanted for murder held after shootout in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 21-year-old member of Neeraj Bawania and Naveen Bali gang from Mundka was arrested on Friday following a shootout. Police said the man was allegedly involved in a a recent murder that took place in Mohan Garden. The accused had gunned down a man and later clicked his picture, a CCTV of which went viral on the social media. The accused, Kamal Gahlot, is a resident of Shyam Park, Nawada. The deceased had earlier allegedly murdered Gahlot’s uncle, police said. On Friday, police received information that Gahlot would come to Mohan Garden in a white Santro. Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said that a police team laid a trap and Gahlot was spotted near Mundka Industrial Metro Station around 2am. The cops blocked the road and signalled the car to stop. However, the accused tried to escape and rammed his car on the roadside. “He then got out of the vehicle and and fired three rounds with a pistol at the cops. Two police officers narrowly escaped being hit. One bullet fired by the accused hit the bulletproof jacket of head constable Lokendra Singh. In self defence, police team also fired two rounds, which hit Gahlot’s left leg,” Yadav said. The accused was taken to a nearby hospital for treatment. One loaded pistol with two live rounds and one revolver with four live rounds were seized from him, the DCP said. Police said the seized Santro was found to be stolen from Rani Bagh. “Gehlot was arrested and booked for attempt to murder among other sections,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gangster-wanted-for-murder-held-after-shootout/articleshow/81487940.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Education department to telecast lectures for Class X, XII||MUMBAI: With schools once again shutting down in parts of the state and following consultations with parents, the education department will restart telecasting preparatory lectures for classes X and XII on DD Sahyadri, starting March 15. School education minister Varsha Gaikwad tweeted that the lecture series will help students preparing for the board exams. The department had started a similar series of lectures last year through its YouTube channel. The state had then allowed classes IX to XII to resume physical classes since November 23, 2020, and discontinued the online lectures. As Covid-19 cases have begun to rise in the state, though, several districts have asked schools to shut down once again. According to the current schedule, classes begin on March 15 and go on till April 2, but officials said they would be extended if there is a need. On schedule are lectures for all Class X subjects and for the science stream for Class XII. A detailed schedule is available on State Council of Educational Research and Training website. The videos will be telecast between 12.30pm-3.30pm every day. HSC (Class XII) and SSC (Class X) exams will begin on April 23 and 29, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/edu-dept-to-telecast-lectures-for-class-x-xii-in-mumbai/articleshow/81487953.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Chenchu tribal caught in forest fire, succumbs to burns||Hyderabad: Six days after 11 Chenchus were trapped in a fire in Amrabad Tiger Reserve in Nagarkurnool district and suffered burns, a Chenchu tribal succumbed to his injuries on Saturday. Nimmala Lingaiah (36) was among the 11 Chenchus trapped in a forest fire. Lingaiah suffered 65 per cent burns and inhalation of smoke affected his respiratory system, doctors said. “Apart from external injuries, he also suffered burns in the respiratory system after getting trapped in the fire,” said OGH department of plastic surgery head Dr Palukuri Lakshmi told STOI.  Chigurla Lakshmaiah, who was also among the 11 Chenchus, said: “After our family members submitted a letter to the district collector requesting for help, the family of the Lingaiah received a compensation of Rs 50,000. I was also informed that the remaining three patients who are undergoing treatment in Hyderabad were also given a compensation for their medical expenses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chenchu-tribal-caught-in-forest-fire-succumbs-to-burns/articleshow/81487951.cms||Moulika.KV
March 14, 2021||Ludhiana||Truck kills 3 friends pushing out-of-fuel vehicle in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Three friends met a tragic end as a truck crushed them to death when they were pushing their fuel-less car up to the filling station on Ludhiana-Amritsar National Highway in the early hours on Saturday. According to police, the truck driver could not spot the trio pushing the car because of darkness. The accident occurred in Salim Tabri area. The victims — identified as Sanjiv Kumar, 30, a safai karamchari with Ludhiana municipal corporation; Arun Kumar, 23, a painter; and Krishan Kumar, 22, a hotel worker (all residents of Rishi Nagar) — were on the way to Jalandhar when their car ran out of fuel. Arun had got married just four months back. According to police, the accident occurred after midnight. Sanjiv, along with his friends, had left for Jalandhar to meet his mother-in-law, a resident of Jalandhar, after she suffered a paralysis attack. His mother-in-law was admitted to a hospital in Jalandhar. Some relatives of Sanjiv were also going to Jalandhar in another car, who noticed the accident and informed the police. Vikas Kumar, a relative, said Sanjiv, Arun and Krishan lived in the same locality. Sanjiv, along with his friends, left the house in his Maruti 800 car, while some relatives left in another car a few minutes later. The relatives noticed the damaged car of Sanjiv and stopped there. They also called 108 ambulance, however the trio had died by then. Inspector Gopal Krishan, SHO, Salem Tabri police station, said the police investigation found that when Sanjiv and his friends were on the way to Jalandhar, their car ran out of fuel on the flyover near a water sports park. While Sanjiv was on the steering, Arun and Krishan were pushing the car. The filling station was a few meters away. But a “speeding” truck, coming from behind, crushed Arun and Krishan to death and then hit the car killing Sanjiv too. The inspector said the truck driver fled the spot, leaving the truck on the road. The police have approached a Jalandhar-based transport company whose truck was involved in the accident. An FIR is being lodged in this case and the accused truck driver will soon be arrested, police said. Sanjiv is survived by his wife, two children aged 7 and 10. While Arun is survived by his parents and newly married wife. Box: Police to write to NHAI Additional deputy commissioner of police-I Dr Pragya Jain said, “There is darkness on the flyover which is why the truck driver could not spot the victims pushing the car. Earlier too, several fatal accidents had occurred on the flyover. Ludhiana police will write to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to rectify the issues to check fatal accidents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/truck-crushes-3-friends-pushing-out-of-fuel-car/articleshow/81487957.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Dehradun||Mandatory Covid test SOPs drown in Ganga during Ist shahi snan||HARIDWAR: The Kumbh mela police and administration have no information about how many people at the first shahi snan in Haridwar between March 10 and 12 had the mandatory negative RT-PCR test report. The Uttarakhand high court had earlier this month directed the state government to maintain strict vigilance so that Haridwar doesn’t emerge a hotbed of coronavirus infection. The HC had directed compliance of the Centre’s Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on Kumbh, according to which a negative RT-PCR test and registration is mandatory for pilgrims. Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar on Saturday organised a review meeting with the mela police, after which, he admitted to media persons that pilgrims did face inconvenience due to the mismanagement. The DGP assured them that the problem had been identified and will be solved by the next shahi snan. Official estimates say around 32 lakh people reached Haridwar for the shahi snan on March 11. There is no record of how many of them had a negative RT-PCR Covid-19 test report. “We did try our best to implement Covid guidelines but so far, we have no exact figure of the pilgrims who reached Haridwar by registering themselves along with a negative Covid-19 RT-PCR test report. We also got feedback from the police officers deployed at Haridwar about the inconvenience faced by pilgrims at the first shahi snan. We have got to know that pilgrims had to walk long distances to reach riverbanks and have decided to improve the management and surveillance system,” DGP Kumar said. The mela administration has no clue about the figure either. Additional mela officer Harbeer Singh told TOI, “We have no idea so far about the registration details of pilgrims. We are in the process of collecting the data. For our part, we had requested pilgrims visiting Haridwar for the shahi snan to register on the mela website first after procuring a negative Covid-19 RT-PCR test report as per the high court’s directions.” Social activist Sachin Dabral, who filed the PIL that led the Uttarakhand HC to ask the state government to implement the Centre’s Kumbh SOPs during the shahi snan, said he was concerned over the mismanagement. “The mela administration has completely failed to implement the high court’s directions on implementing the Centre’s SOPs at Kumbh. This amounts to contempt of court. At the next hearing on April 24, we will present all the reports before the court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mandatory-covid-test-sops-drown-in-ganga-during-ist-shahi-snan/articleshow/81487559.cms||MS Nawaz
March 14, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Oommen Chandy, Ramesh Chennithala in damage-control mode||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Congress top guns Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala are engaged in damage control exercise as many aspirants and leaders have been denied tickets to contest. Widespread resentment is brewing as the party district leadership is unhappy with candidates selected from their respective constituencies. Both the leaders are talking to the disgruntled leaders to prevent rebel menace. The Congress leadership is in a spot as party leaders strongly protested against the UDF candidate in Malampuzha. Janata Dal faction has been given the seat here, triggering severe criticism. Ramesh intervened in the issue and is in talks with the district party leadership. Meanwhile, Janata Dal faction has agreed to return the seat to Congress in exchange for another seat. Congress is already facing severe unrest from former DCC president A V Gopinath and his followers in Palakkad. In Kasaragod, Rajmohan Unnithan has hit out against the DCC president for not accepting party nominees in a few constituencies. In Kollam district, Chandy’s trusted lieutenant P C Vishnu Nath is being fielded from Kollam seat. The DCC president Bindu Krishna was the frontrunner for the seat but she has been asked to contest from Kundara. She turned down the offer and many party leaders in the district resigned from party posts in her support. Both Ramesh and Chandy are trying to pacify her. In Irikkur where K C Joseph has been contesting all these years, this time the seat was given to “I” group. The “A” group leaders came out in protest and launched a day-and-night strike against it. Chandy is in talks with them to end the protest. Similar resignations have taken place in Thiruvananthapuram too against the candidates fielded at Vamanapuram and Nedumangadu. The “I” group seat of Vamanapuram was given to “A” group this time. The I group leaders in the mandalam and booth committees resigned protesting against this. Ramesh Chennithala has asked them not to take such hasty decisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chandy-ramesh-in-damage-control-mode/articleshow/81487981.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Delhi||Kejriwal welcomes several lawyers into AAP||New Delhi: Several bar association members, including three leaders, joined AAP on Saturday in the presence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. The CM welcomed the new members into the party fold. AAP said these advocates will walk shoulder to shoulder with the party functionaries and volunteers. The senior advocates will strengthen their legal side.Delhi Bar Association president and AAP legal cell chairman advocate Nasair said, “The AAP government has done a lot of public welfare work for lawyers. It started an insurance scheme for lawyers and is providing cheap electricity to the chambers of lawyers. We are all very impressed by its work and people expressed their wish to become members of the party.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kejriwal-welcomes-several-lawyers-into-aap/articleshow/81487955.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Man from Odisha gets life term for murdering 47-yr-old||Coimbatore: The first additional district judge court has sentenced a man from Odisha to life imprisonment for murdering a 47-year-old man at Ganeshapuram near Annur here in January 2019. A court source identified the convict as Binoj Yakka, of Kundra village in Koraput district of Odisha. A wanderer, he was an alcoholic.“On January 31, 2019, he tried to enter the house of S Sivasamy at Ganeshapuram near Annur, when the latter along with his wife Lakshmi, 43, went out for morning walk. When the couple returned home, they found him and Sivasamy tried to send him out of the house forcibly. Binoj, however, hit Sivasamy on his head with a wooden log and fled,” the source said.Sivasamy was rushed to a private hospital, but succumbed to his head injuries on the way. The Annur police registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC and formed a special team to nab the murderer.Binoj was subsequently arrested and lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison under judicial custody. The case trial was held at the first additional district judge court. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-from-odisha-gets-life-term-for-murdering-47-yr-old/articleshow/81487561.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Goa||SEC’s duty to set aside illegal orders of govt: Supreme Court||PANAJI: The Supreme Court (SC) has held that it is the duty of state election commission (SEC) to countermand illegal orders made by the state government which delimit constituencies or allot seats. The order comes in the petition filed by the state government in the SC challenging the judgment of the high court that directed to reserve wards in five municipal councils as per law. The high court had entertained the petitions filed pointing out discrepancies in ward reservation. “This may be done by the SEC either before or during the electoral process, bearing in mind its constitutional duty,” the court noted, while adding that the most disturbing feature of these cases is the subversion of the constitutional mandate contained in Article 243K of the Constitution of India. “Under Article 243ZA(1), the SEC is in overall charge of the superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of electoral rolls, and the conduct of all municipal elections. If there is a constitutional or statutory infraction by any authority, including the state government, either before or during the election process, the SEC by virtue of its power under Article243ZA(1) can set right such infraction,” the court observed. While stating that the SEC can also approach a writ court to issue necessary directions, the court noted that it is entirely up to the SEC to set the election process in motion or, in cases where a constitutional or statutory provision is not followed or infracted, to postpone the election process until such illegal action is remedied. “This the SEC will do taking into account the constitutional mandate of holding elections before the term of a municipality or municipal council is over. In extraordinary cases, the SEC may conduct elections after such term is over, only for good reason,” the apex court stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/secs-duty-to-set-aside-illegal-orders-of-govt-supreme-court/articleshow/81488591.cms||Murari Shetye
March 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||60k bank workers in Gujarat to strike work over privatization||AHMEDABAD: Some 60,000 employees of public sector banks (PSBs) from across Gujarat will protest the proposed privatisation of PSBs. Bank employees will join the nationwide strike call proposed by All india Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) along with other bank unions. At least 5,000 PSB branches are expected to remain shut, thus impacting transactions to the tune of Rs 20,000 crore over a two-day period on Monday and Tuesday. Bankers claim that privatisation of PSBs is not in public interest. Explaining this, Janak Rawal, general secretary, Maha Gujarat Bank Employees’ Association (MGBEA), said, “Private banks are only concerned with profits and are not bound by any social priorities. Various social objectives of the government aimed at financial inclusion and easing of credit are addressed by PSBs and not private banks. A clear case in point in Jan Dhan Accounts wherein at least 33 crore accounts were opened in PSBs whereas merely 1.25 crore were opened by private banks.” “Privatization of banks will also mean increase in minimum balance limit on various accounts and customers will be forced to pay more. Interest on deposits will also decline and subsidized loans will also be stopped, especially for priority sector. Moreover, overall opportunities for employment in the banking sector will also significantly go down” said Rawal. MGBEA officials indicated that even as bankers are going on strike, it is in the interest of public and public money. MGBEA officials also mentioned that after privatization, in the name of cost cutting, several branches will be closed. Today in Gujarat there are nearly 4,900 PSBs that have been shut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/60k-bank-workers-in-state-to-strike-work-over-privatization/articleshow/81487962.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||ACB arrests excise cop for accepting bribe of Rs 7,000||JAIPUR: The ACB on Saturday arrested a police inspector, who is on deputation as an excise inspector at Jalore, for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 7,000. The accused has been taking money from a licensee of a liquor shop as monthly bribe. ACB DG BL Soni said the complainant, who has a liquor shops at Jalore, was continuously harassed by Sawai Singh Ratnu. “After the complaint approached us, our team verified the complaint. After the verification, a trap was laid in which the accused Singh was arrested for accepting Rs 7,000,” he added. A case under appropriate sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act has also been registered against the accused. State government suspends OSD to JCTSL: The department of personnel has suspended RAS officer Virendra Verma who remained in ACB custody for more than 48 hours. Verma, who was officer on special duty (OSD) with Jaipur City Transport Services Limited (JCTSL), was arrested for accepting a bribe of Rs 4 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-arrests-excise-cop-for-accepting-bribe-of-rs-7k/articleshow/81488597.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||SCB to impose penalties on dumping garbage on army land||Secunderabad: To prevent dumping of garbage on the army land adjacent to the National Highway 44 between Suchitra and Military Dairy Farm, the Secunderabad Cantonment Board decided to impose heavy penalties. Violators will have to cough up Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 for dumping waste. “We have noticed tons of demolished building material on the vacant army land. Large quantities of medical waste, fruits, vegetables and leftover food from hotels gets dumped late in the night. On the other side of this road, petty vendors have been selling their products. Doing business on army land is not only illegal but is also a punishable offence,” said SCB senior sanitary inspector Mahender, adding that they are unable to solve this problem despite conducting night patrol. When officials brought this issue to the notice of SCB chief executive officer B Ajith Reddy, he instructed them to act tough with the violators. “Sanitation workers cleared about 20 tons of garbage as part of Swachh Survekshan programme,” official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-to-impose-penalties-on-dumping-garbage-on-army-land/articleshow/81487972.cms||Sunil Mungara
March 14, 2021||Goa||Apex court hauls up state election body for trying to ‘overreach’ High Court||PANAJI: The Supreme Court on Friday castigated the state election commission’s “attempts” to “overreach” the high court by issuing the election notification at 9am on February 22 to “forestall” the final hearing of the petitions filed against discrepancies in ward reservation for the upcoming municipality elections. Elaborating on the timing of the notification by the law secretary, who was holding the post of state election commissioner, the apex court said that the election notification was issued “even before government offices open, at 9.30am, in order to forestall the hearing of the writ petitions filed before the high court, which commences hearing writ petitions at 9am.” These petitions were filed between February 9 and February12 challenging the order dated February 4 that provided for reservation of wards for 11 municipal councils. The high court had on February 15, reserved the matter for final hearing on February 22. Citing an instance of how the election commission had kept the high court in the dark, the SC observed, “When the high court issued the notice on February 15 for final hearing on February 22, the SEC did not inform the court that vide a note of February 5, elections were proposed to be held on March 20,” Referring to the stay granted by it on the high court judgment, and consequent revival of the election programme that was notified on February 22, the apex court said, “Despite this, the state election commission, on this very day, March 4, amended the aforesaid notification by extending the time period for filing of nomination for five municipal councils till March 6, between 10am and 1pm and therefore, rescheduled the election.” The Supreme Court had granted a stay on the HC judgment on March 4. Dealing with the manner in which reservation was done in the municipal council elections, the SC said that the law secretary’s letter dated February 5 called upon the director of urban development to issue a reservation order under Section 10 of the Goa Municipalities Act “at an early date”. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, B R Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy observed that the state election commissioner is none other than the law secretary to the state government of Goa. The whole process of these elections is, therefore, faulted at the start so to speak as the SEC is not, in the facts of these cases, an independent body as is mandated by Article 243K.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/apex-court-hauls-up-state-election-body-for-trying-to-overreach-hc/articleshow/81488606.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Goa||Five detained after raid on ‘rave party’ at Vagator||PANAJI: The narcotics control bureau (NCB) and the crime branch of Goa police said they raided a rave party in the early hours of Saturday at Ozran, Vagator, and detained five, including two women, two locals and a Swiss national.  Mumbai zone director of NCB, Sameer Wankhede told TOI that a drug peddler, who was caught outside the party venue, informed them about the rave parties being held at the venue. Wankhede said they then conducted a search at the shack and bar and restaurant and seized commercial quantity of narcotic substance including LSD, charas, MDMA, MND, heroin and others. “At least 1,000 people were partying at the place when we raided the shack. But looking at the raid, the tourist fled from the spot,” he said, adding, “We had gone to detain specific people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/five-detained-after-raid-on-rave-party-at-vagator/articleshow/81488612.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Though Covid is spreading rapidly, case fatality rate is dipping steadily||MUMBAI: After almost a month since Covid-19 cases started rising across Maharashtra once again, state health officials are convinced the SARS-CoV-2 strain in circulation right now is weaker than the ones responsible for the deadlier peaks in May-June and September-October periods. While the number of cases has been rising rapidly — over 40% since March 1 — deaths have not. “Cases are rising but the case fatality rate has reduced. Last week, CFR was below 0.55%,’’ said Dr Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology cell of the state health department. “There is low virulence strain at work,’’ he added. The high transmissibility-low virulence strain theory has come a year after the first Covid-19 case was detected in Maharashtra (March 9) and Mumbai (March 11). So far this year, the state has reported 3.5 lakh cases and 3,202 deaths. While the CFR in Maharashtra since March 2020 is 2.3%, it has been steadily dropping in the new year. In January, it was 1.7%, and 0.9% in February when cases started rising two- to three-fold in certain districts such as Amravati. Officials said most cases are asymptomatic or even mildly symptomatic and most were getting treated at home. “Fatalities remaining low is a relief, but that has also led to people taking the pandemic very casually. The increase in daily detections too is a worry,” said an official. Dr Shashank Joshi, member, state task force on Covid-19, said the Covid statistics should be “rebooted” and counted from January 2021 onwards. “Mortality is a big factor in assessing the severity of an epidemic. In 2021, mortality has been low in Covid-19 and CFR is below 1 as recommended by the World Health Organisation,” he said. The overall state CFR since January is 0.9%. The low CFR pattern for 2021 is apparent in Mumbai as well. From 1.4% in January, CFR dropped to 0.7% in February and is 0.3% in March so far. In Mumbai, where cases have risen almost three times in a month, BMC officials said almost 80% of cases are asymptomatic or mild.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-though-covid-is-spreading-rapidly-case-fatality-rate-is-dipping-steadily/articleshow/81489732.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Concrete base around trees: NGT asks MC, Glada, LIT to take remedial steps||Ludhiana: Responding to an application seeking direction to remove cement concrete around the tree bottom/base to ensure open space of one metre around the trees, necessary for growth of trees, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked Ludhiana municipal corporation, Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada) and Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) to take remedial action as per law. The tribunal had also dealt with similar issue vide order dated August 8, 2019 and passed a similar order. In his application, petitioner Kapil Dev said MC, Glada and LIT have continued with the practice and work of fixing solid pavers (interlocking tiles) on the side of road within green belt areas in Ludhiana. “Further, the periphery of the bottom i.e. base area of trees at ground level is being covered by pouring cement concrete and/or fixing paver tiles resulting into damage to roots of trees. The officials of MC, Glada as well LIT, without consulting the horticulturist and environment experts about the effect of concrete around bottom of trees, are continuously covering the areas around the trees with cement concrete and fixing the interlocking tiles (paver) over it.” “Both sides of roads are being covered with cement concrete and paver blocks and this practice has not only resulted in stopping the penetration of rainwater into earth’s surface, but is also acting as a slow poison for existing trees and plants. Further, there is no space left for green covers in the green belts too,” he said. The applicant contended that such act of respondents is causing severe damage to the environment. The applicant cited an order of NGT dated April 23, 2013 in his application. The tribunal while disposing of the application said that a copy of the order be forwarded to MC, Glada and LIT by e-mail for compliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/concrete-base-around-trees-ngt-asks-mc-glada-lit-to-take-remedial-steps/articleshow/81487968.cms||Shariq Majeed
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||An ‘advocate’ had taken Rs 4.5L from Sable to cops||Nagpur: An advocate was the mediator between deceased Sachin Sable, who died by suicide at his Ambarnath residence on February 18, and cops from Yashodharanagar police station. A preliminary inquiry indicated the advocate had passed on Rs 4.5 lakh from Sable, a child development officer at Thane, to a senior officer to not register an offence against him. Thane police is now conducting a probe in the city.Following Sable’s suicide, Shivajinagar police of Thane city had registered an offence against incumbent in-charge of Yashodharanagar police station Ashok Meshram, former senior inspector Ramakant Durge and police sub-inspector (PSI) Deepak Chavan, who is now in police custody remand for seven days along with Neeta Khedkar, his daughter and brother for their complicity in the case. Chavan, arrested a day ago by Thane police, was suspended by city police on Saturday. The offence was registered on the basis of a mail sent to himself by Sable narrating his plight which had led him to take the drastic decision. He named the police officers and the others including Khedkar, who worked as a supervisor in the integrated child development project at Yashodharanagar, in the incriminating mail describing their roles. It’s learnt that Khedkar, whose first husband had committed suicide, had married to Nivruttri subsequently. Nivruttri too had ended life at his Bhilgaon residence in December last year. He had left behind a suicide note blaming Khedkar and her proximity to Sable. A case of accidental death was registered at Yashodharanagar police station. PSI Chavan, investigation officer of the case, had allegedly demanded Rs 4.5 lakh from Sable who had paid the amount through an advocate which he mentioned in the mail, said the police. Later, Chavan again demanded Rs two lakh which Sable had to hand over to his elder brother. Police sources said another Rs three lakh was demanded by Chavan in the name of the incumbent PI Meshram.“We are now contemplating departmental action against the two PIs and also placed the PSI under suspension,’ said CP Amitesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/an-advocate-had-taken-rs-4-5l-from-sable-to-cops/articleshow/81487585.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||Mercury takes a dip for 3rd day in a row||Jaipur: Mercury took a dip across the state for the third consecutive day on Saturday when many places in Kota, Bharatpur and Jaipur division witnessed showers and hailstorm. There has been a dip of almost 4°C in the minimum temperatures on an average in the state. According to Jaipur Met office, there is a possibility of dust storm and showers in Bharatpur, Dholpur, Karauli and Dausa in the next 24 hours. Many places in Kota, Bundi, Baran and Jhalawar witnessed mild to moderate showers and hailstorms which has certainly increased the worries of the farmers eying to harvest the Rabi crop. Mandana (Kota) witnessed a rainfall of 28mm which was highest in the state. The rainfall accompanied with hailstorm also affected the crops of mustard, wheat and coriander. People in Jaipur woke up to a comparatively chilly morning as a minimum temperature of 17.2°C was recorded in the city. During the early morning hours nip in the air was witnessed. However, a bright sunny day gave the city a maximum temperature of 32.2°C. Sriganganagar remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 14.3°C was recorded. Many places in the state may expect rainfall, dust storm and hailstorm in the next couple of days. “It is seen in the past three years that during mid-March to mid-April due to upper air cyclonic circulation and systems like western disturbances rainfall and hail storm are witnessed. This has been a trend,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. Attributing the dust storm, hailstorm and rainfall to the active western disturbances and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office stated that mild showers and hail storm will continue at some parts in the eastern Rajasthan in the next 24 hours. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mercury-takes-a-dip-for-3rd-day-in-a-row/articleshow/81488607.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Delhi||Youth gets benefit of age, Delhi HC asks him to learn to control anger||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court has quashed an FIR with an attempt to murder charge against a 21-year-old man after noting that he had his “entire life ahead of him” and directed him to do a month’s community service at Gurdwara Bangla Sahib. Justice Subramonium Prasad observed that Mohammad Umair, who was present in the court along with his counsel, had no antecedents and had expressed regret over the incident. The court, therefore, warned him to not to get involved in similar acts or repeat the offence in future. “The youngster must learn to control his anger and keep in mind that he cannot take law in his hands,” it said. Umair, according to the chargesheet, had stated during his interrogation that when he was arguing with his mother, his neighbour Furkan slapped him. He felt insulted and enraged, took took a knife from a vegetable vendor nearby and stabbed the neighbour. He was, therefore, booked on the charge of attempt to murder on March 26, 2020. Umair’s counsel moved the petition, seeking quashing of the FIR on the ground that after the intervention of both the parents and the well-wishers, both sides had decided to settle the dispute. The high court was of the view that it was well within its power to quash an FIR or complaint on the basis of a compromise arrived at between the parties, while exercising its jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. “The accused has already spent about a month in custody. The accused has expressed regret in the court. The complainant, who is present in the court, also states that the life of the youngster would get spoiled if proceedings continue,” the order by Justice Subramonium Prasad highlighted. Keeping in mind his age and future, and the fact that the warring sides had entered into a compromise, the court exercised its powers and quashed the FIR. While directing him a month’s community service, the court imposed Rs 1 lakh cost on Umair, of which Rs 25,000 each was to be paid towards Lawyers Social Security and Welfare Fund, Nirmal Chhaya Foundation, Delhi Police Welfare Fund and Army Welfare Fund Battle Casualties. “After completion of one month, a certificate from Gurdwara Bangla Sahib will also be filed to show compliance of the court’s order. In case of any absenteeism or default on the part of the petitioner, the same shall be conveyed immediately by Gurdwara Bangla Sahib to the SHO concerned, who shall in turn inform the additional public prosecutor for the state, for bringing the same to the notice of the court and for seeking recall of the orders,” the high court noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/youth-gets-benefit-of-age-court-asks-him-to-learn-to-control-anger/articleshow/81487963.cms||Aamir Khan
March 14, 2021||Kochi||Why the Nemom temptation is a trap||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Senior Congress leaders in Kerala have once again proved why the grand old party still holds its head high in this far-south corner of the country. The Congress high command seems to have viewed the Nemom seat -- a BJP stronghold -- as an opportunity to take on the saffron party head-on and thereby dispel the widespread notion that the Congress is just the BJP's B Team. The Kerala leadership, instead, rightly saw this undue obsession with Nemom as a trap. It’s true that Congress desperately wants to get back into contention, which of late is almost equally shared by CPM and BJP. Candidature of a Congress heavyweight in Nemom, BJP’s only sitting seat, would admittedly electrify the electoral scene -- a Shashi Tharoor, Oommen Chandy, Ramesh Chennithala or a Muraleedharan might actually be able trounce the BJP candidate in a hot contest that would draw the attention of the whole state, if not the country. But a thrilling fight, a victory even, could be counterproductive and self-defeating for Congress on many counts. If the Congress tries to prove its aggression in Nemom to disprove the CPM allegation that Congress is hand in glove with BJP, it would be simply entering into a self-elimination round that would safeguard the interests of both CPM and BJP. While BJP would be able to increase its voteshare by netting all BJP votes, even if it means the victory of CPM candidates, it could help both CPM and BJP to achieve their set targets. If that be the case, the attempts by a section of Congress leaders to concentrate on Nemom would be self-defeating to the party. The political danger in Nemom, as far Congress is concerned, is the domino effect it could create in the rest of the state. ``At least in a dozen seats, UDF, mainly Congress candidates, win only because they get a sizable chunk of pro-BJP votes. It’s applicable to Ramesh Chennithala in Haripad and Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan in Kottayam, in Azhikode in Kannur, Koyilandi, Kozhikode South and Nadapuram in Kozhikode etc…’’, says a BJP insider. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran have already clarified that sitting MPs wouldn’t be fielded in the election, nullifying the possibility of fielding Tharoor or Muraleedharan in Nemom. Both the MPs have the charisma and potential to unseat BJP. But in that process, the whole group equations in Congress in Kerala could go berserk, prompting the groups to work against the larger objective the party eyes. Chennithala has emphatically said no to Nemom and Chandy too has clarified that he doesn’t wish to leave Puthuppally. ``Oommen Chandy was shrewd enough to understand the danger behind the proposal to contest in Nemom. His initial reaction did show that. But, Congress seems to be in a tight spot as it finds it increasingly difficult to avoid the political trap they set for themselves in Nemom’’, says, political scientist G Gopakumar. ``It seems that the Congress party is yet to realise the real predicament it has landed in. Drawing unnecessary attention to the Nemom seat would do no political good for the party. It could, in fact, backfire’’, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/why-the-nemom-temptation-is-a-trap/articleshow/81487965.cms||B S Anilkumar
March 14, 2021||---||Why the Nemom temptation is a trap||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Senior Congress leaders in Kerala have once again proved why the grand old party still holds its head high in this far-south corner of the country. The Congress high command seems to have viewed the Nemom seat -- a BJP stronghold -- as an opportunity to take on the saffron party head-on and thereby dispel the widespread notion that the Congress is just the BJP's B Team. The Kerala leadership, instead, rightly saw this undue obsession with Nemom as a trap. It’s true that Congress desperately wants to get back into contention, which of late is almost equally shared by CPM and BJP. Candidature of a Congress heavyweight in Nemom, BJP’s only sitting seat, would admittedly electrify the electoral scene -- a Shashi Tharoor, Oommen Chandy, Ramesh Chennithala or a Muraleedharan might actually be able trounce the BJP candidate in a hot contest that would draw the attention of the whole state, if not the country. But a thrilling fight, a victory even, could be counterproductive and self-defeating for Congress on many counts. If the Congress tries to prove its aggression in Nemom to disprove the CPM allegation that Congress is hand in glove with BJP, it would be simply entering into a self-elimination round that would safeguard the interests of both CPM and BJP. While BJP would be able to increase its voteshare by netting all BJP votes, even if it means the victory of CPM candidates, it could help both CPM and BJP to achieve their set targets. If that be the case, the attempts by a section of Congress leaders to concentrate on Nemom would be self-defeating to the party. The political danger in Nemom, as far Congress is concerned, is the domino effect it could create in the rest of the state. ``At least in a dozen seats, UDF, mainly Congress candidates, win only because they get a sizable chunk of pro-BJP votes. It’s applicable to Ramesh Chennithala in Haripad and Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan in Kottayam, in Azhikode in Kannur, Koyilandi, Kozhikode South and Nadapuram in Kozhikode etc…’’, says a BJP insider. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran have already clarified that sitting MPs wouldn’t be fielded in the election, nullifying the possibility of fielding Tharoor or Muraleedharan in Nemom. Both the MPs have the charisma and potential to unseat BJP. But in that process, the whole group equations in Congress in Kerala could go berserk, prompting the groups to work against the larger objective the party eyes. Chennithala has emphatically said no to Nemom and Chandy too has clarified that he doesn’t wish to leave Puthuppally. ``Oommen Chandy was shrewd enough to understand the danger behind the proposal to contest in Nemom. His initial reaction did show that. But, Congress seems to be in a tight spot as it finds it increasingly difficult to avoid the political trap they set for themselves in Nemom’’, says, political scientist G Gopakumar. ``It seems that the Congress party is yet to realise the real predicament it has landed in. Drawing unnecessary attention to the Nemom seat would do no political good for the party. It could, in fact, backfire’’, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/kerala/why-the-nemom-temptation-is-a-trap/articleshow/81492653.cms||B S Anilkumar
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||Senior citizen takes Covishield in city, gets a certificate with errors||Nagpur: A 72-year-old man is worried about the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine as he received a certificate with errors. He took a dose of Covishield in the city but received a certificate stating Covaxin given at a centre in South-West Delhi.As per the copy of the vaccination certificate with TOI, the senior citizen took the jab on March 5 at the Police Hospital. Doses of Covishield are being administered at this centre. The name and age on the certificate is of the same person. But the certificate states Covaxin taken at Bensups Hospital, South-West Delhi.According to the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), the beneficiary has to take the second dose of the same vaccine which he/she took in the first jab. The beneficiary cannot change the vaccine.Also, the MoHFW said the beneficiary can go to the same centre and take the second dose after 28 days from the first dose without an appointment.“I will not be able to take the second dose if the correction is not done in the certificate. The officials at the centre will not allow me to take the dose of Covishield after seeing Covaxin in the certificate or on the Co-Win application. I will not take the second dose of Covaxin as it is not allowed by the government,” he said.The senior citizen reportedly went to Police Hospital and raised the issue. The authorities at the hospital reportedly asked the man to go to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). With the help of an activist, the senior citizen contacted NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi.“I have intimated the concerned persons in Mumbai. They are checking whether it happened due to an error in the Co-Win application or at the centre. The mistake in the certificate will be rectified so that the senior citizen will be able to take the second dose,” Joshi told TOI.A 100-year-old woman took the first dose at a private hospital. The certificate of a man was received on her registered mobile number after vaccination. When the grandson of the beneficiary raised the issue with the private hospital, he received the certificate with the correction.Good response to vaccination programme continues in the district. In all, 17,720 from the age-appropriate group, healthcare workers (HCW) and frontline workers (FLW) took the jab at 131 centres in the district on Saturday which was highest so far. Among the total beneficiaries, 14,025 were 60-plus and those 45 and above with specified comorbidities.For the first time, vaccination crossed the 10,000 mark in a day in the city. 11,207 including 8,646 people from the age-appropriate group, took the jab in 61 centres in the city.An equally good response is being witnessed in rural areas. Nearly 6,513, including 5,379 people from the age-appropriate group, took the jab at 70 centres.On Saturday, the NMC started a vaccination centre at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital at Indora. It is the second centre in the city where Covaxin will be available that too free of cost. Earlier, Covaxin was facilitated only at GMCH. At the remaining 59 centres, doses of Covishield are available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/senior-citizen-takes-covishield-in-city-gets-a-certificate-with-errors/articleshow/81487571.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Four arrested for stealing 12 bikes during lockdown in Mumbai||Mumbai: Four persons have been arrested for stealing 12 bikes during the lockdown in Naigaon on Saturday. The accused used to watch tutorials on how to steal two-wheelers on the internet. The accused have been identified as Dhananjay Goswami (18), Naveen Mishra (24) and Roshan Tiwari (27) and Robinson Lopez (34), who is the mastermind behind the thefts. While Goswami, Mishra and Tiwari are friends and live in the same building in Naigaon, Lopez is a resident of Vasai. The police have seized six bikes from them. All the accused have been remanded to police custody. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/four-arrested-for-stealing-12-bikes-during-lockdown-in-mumbai/articleshow/81488631.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra: Though Covid is spreading rapidly, case fatality rate is dipping steadily||MUMBAI: After almost a month since Covid-19 cases started rising across Maharashtra once again, state health officials are convinced the SARS-CoV-2 strain in circulation right now is weaker than the ones responsible for the deadlier peaks in May-June and September-October periods. While the number of cases has been rising rapidly — over 40% since March 1 — deaths have not. “Cases are rising but the case fatality rate has reduced. Last week, CFR was below 0.55%,’’ said Dr Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology cell of the state health department. “There is low virulence strain at work,’’ he added. The high transmissibility-low virulence strain theory has come a year after the first Covid-19 case was detected in Maharashtra (March 9) and Mumbai (March 11). So far this year, the state has reported 3.5 lakh cases and 3,202 deaths. While the CFR in Maharashtra since March 2020 is 2.3%, it has been steadily dropping in the new year. In January, it was 1.7%, and 0.9% in February when cases started rising two- to three-fold in certain districts such as Amravati. Officials said most cases are asymptomatic or even mildly symptomatic and most were getting treated at home. “Fatalities remaining low is a relief, but that has also led to people taking the pandemic very casually. The increase in daily detections too is a worry,” said an official. Dr Shashank Joshi, member, state task force on Covid-19, said the Covid statistics should be “rebooted” and counted from January 2021 onwards. “Mortality is a big factor in assessing the severity of an epidemic. In 2021, mortality has been low in Covid-19 and CFR is below 1 as recommended by the World Health Organisation,” he said. The overall state CFR since January is 0.9%. The low CFR pattern for 2021 is apparent in Mumbai as well. From 1.4% in January, CFR dropped to 0.7% in February and is 0.3% in March so far. In Mumbai, where cases have risen almost three times in a month, BMC officials said almost 80% of cases are asymptomatic or mild.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-though-covid-is-spreading-rapidly-case-fatality-rate-is-dipping-steadily/articleshow/81493140.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 14, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Though Covid is spreading rapidly, case fatality rate is dipping steadily||MUMBAI: After almost a month since Covid-19 cases started rising across Maharashtra once again, state health officials are convinced the SARS-CoV-2 strain in circulation right now is weaker than the ones responsible for the deadlier peaks in May-June and September-October periods. While the number of cases has been rising rapidly — over 40% since March 1 — deaths have not. “Cases are rising but the case fatality rate has reduced. Last week, CFR was below 0.55%,’’ said Dr Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology cell of the state health department. “There is low virulence strain at work,’’ he added. The high transmissibility-low virulence strain theory has come a year after the first Covid-19 case was detected in Maharashtra (March 9) and Mumbai (March 11). So far this year, the state has reported 3.5 lakh cases and 3,202 deaths. While the CFR in Maharashtra since March 2020 is 2.3%, it has been steadily dropping in the new year. In January, it was 1.7%, and 0.9% in February when cases started rising two- to three-fold in certain districts such as Amravati. Officials said most cases are asymptomatic or even mildly symptomatic and most were getting treated at home. “Fatalities remaining low is a relief, but that has also led to people taking the pandemic very casually. The increase in daily detections too is a worry,” said an official. Dr Shashank Joshi, member, state task force on Covid-19, said the Covid statistics should be “rebooted” and counted from January 2021 onwards. “Mortality is a big factor in assessing the severity of an epidemic. In 2021, mortality has been low in Covid-19 and CFR is below 1 as recommended by the World Health Organisation,” he said. The overall state CFR since January is 0.9%. The low CFR pattern for 2021 is apparent in Mumbai as well. From 1.4% in January, CFR dropped to 0.7% in February and is 0.3% in March so far. In Mumbai, where cases have risen almost three times in a month, BMC officials said almost 80% of cases are asymptomatic or mild.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mumbai-though-covid-is-spreading-rapidly-case-fatality-rate-is-dipping-steadily/articleshow/81493141.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||68-year-old is longest-surviving kidney recipient in Asia, sets record||JAIPUR: Sixty-eight-year-old Krishna Ram Sharma was just 24 when he had undergone kidney transplant. In November last year, Asia Book of Records awarded him with a certificate for setting a record for the longest survival case of kidney transplant. On Saturday, he came all the way from Hanumangarh to take part in a function organised by Kidney Care Foundation Society (KCFS) held in the city to celebrate World Kidney Day where he narrated his journey of being the longest-surviving transplant patient in Asia. Born on July 6, 1953, Sharma suffered chronic kidney disease in 1977. “We can see now that centres have cropped up performing kidney transplants, but at that time it was difficult to find such a facility. When doctors diagnosed me of kidney failure in 1977, they advised me to go to CMC-Vellore for transplant,” said Sharma. Sharma was a junior engineer at Indira Gandhi Nehar Pariyojna in Hanumangarh. Sharma’s brother Om Prakash Sharma, three years elder to him, who was 27 at that time, accompanied him to CMC-Vellore in March 1977. When the question arose who will donate the kidney, his brother, father and sister came forward but his brother’s kidney was found suitable. “At that time, the cost of kidney transplant was Rs 35,000. My brother sold his tractor for the transplant. Another Rs 35,000 was arranged for expenses for a whole year in Vellore where I got a rented house to stay for regular follow ups and tests,”said Sharma. The transplant was performed on June 10, 1977. The story of emotional bonding of the Sharma brothers is inspiring which he narrated it at the function in Jaipur. Sharma has retired from the post of AEN from the same department. His brother also retired from government job. “He donated his kidney and he has spent his whole life normally with one kidney,” he said. KCFS president Mujahid Naqvi said, “KR Sharma helps motivating kidney recipients by sharing his journey after receiving the kidney.” The organisation’s vice-president, Amit Kumar Sharma said, “KR Sharma is the longest surviving kidney recipient for which he has been awarded certificate from Asia Book of Records.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/68-year-old-is-longest-surviving-kidney-recipient-in-asia-sets-record/articleshow/81488605.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Rizvi booked for seeking removal of Quran verses||Hyderabad: Following a representation by a delegation of Islamic Sufi and religious scholars, the Charminar police, on Saturday, booked a case against Waseem Rizvi, former chairman of the Shia Central Waqf Board for filing a PIL in Supreme Court seeking removal of 26 verses from the holy Quran. Rizvi was booked under IPC Section 295A and 153A for promoting hate among the groups The delegation met Hyderabad police commissioner, Anjani Kumar, alleged that Rizvi made hate speeches and insulted the holy Quran by claiming that it contained 26 verses that promote terrorism and Jihad. They also demanded that police book a case against him.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rizvi-booked-for-seeking-removal-of-quran-verses/articleshow/81487974.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Rajkot||Diamond worker steals bikes to fund wife’s treatment, held||aRajkot: A diamond worker in Surat, who allegedly took to crime to fund the treatment of his paralytic wife, was arrested by Junagadh crime branch for stealing two bikes. Jenti Bhambhani, a resident of Mendarda, sold one of the stolen bikes while he was arrested while trying to decamp with the other. The police have recovered both the bikes.Acting on a tip-off, the Junagadh crime branch intercepted Bhambhani’s bike. On inspection it was found that the chassis number of the bike was tampered with. Bhambhani also failed to produce documents of the bike. On questioning, Bhambhani admitted that he stole bikes from Katargam area with the help of duplicate keys and transported them to Junagadh. He also added that his wife suffered a paralytic attack and he committed the thefts to fund her treatment, police informed. Bhambhani sold one bike to Bhura Solanki, a resident of Mendarda. The Junagad crime branch has seized both the bikes and handed over the accused to Surat police. The offences regarding the theft of the bikes are registered in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/diamond-worker-steals-bikes-to-fund-wifes-treatment-held/articleshow/81487595.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal will shake roots of Modi: AAP Pb chief||Bathinda: Ahead of the party’s ‘Kisan Maha Sammelan’ on March 21, Aam Aadmi Party Punjab president Bhagwant Mann held public meetings in three villages of Mansa on Saturday. The Sangrur MP said, “We all need to show that the people of Punjab are standing strong in support of the farmers. We need to show that we are united.” “AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal has defeated Prime Minister Narendra Modi thrice in his own seat of power in Delhi. Kejriwal has the capacity to shake Modi’s roots. He is coming to Punjab now to shake the roots of Modi, along with the protesting farmers and will force him to bow down to the demands of the farmers,” he added. If you want to shake the roots of Modi’s rule and make him meet the demands of the farmers, then show up on March 21 and make the voices of the farmers stronger, he told the gathering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kejriwal-will-shake-roots-of-modi-aap-pb-chief/articleshow/81487982.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Chandigarh||SAD condemns CM for planning ‘fixed’ press conference||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has condemned chief minister Amarinder Singh for planning a “fixed” press conference to mark the completion of four years in office by asking mediapersons to submit their questions in advance. Stating that this spoke volumes about the state of the Congress government, senior Akali Daljit Singh Cheema said, “Forget facing the public, the government is unable to even face media. This is why mediapersons are now being asked to hand over their queries days in advance to the scheduled press conference on March 18.” Asking Capt Amarinder why he was going through the motions of a press conference, the SAD spokesperson said, “The Congress government could have very well issued a hand out stating it had completed 100% of the promises made to the people as part of a one-day publicity stunt in the same manner in which it had claimed last week that 84.6% of the poll promises made to the people had been fulfilled.” Asserting that the Congress government was insulting the fourth estate by passing such draconian directions, the SAD leader said such conduct was also not conducive for a thriving democracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-condemns-cm-for-planning-fixed-press-conference/articleshow/81487979.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Delhi||Mukesh Ambani case: Cops question Tihar inmate over 2 phones||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s Special Cell on Saturday interrogated Indian Mujahideen terrorist Tehsin Akhtar for six hours in connection with two mobile handsets recovered from his barrack in Tihar Jail two days ago. One of the handsets, which was recovered from sub-jail number 8, was the one on which the Telegram account in the name of ‘Jaishulhind’ was created. This account had claimed responsibility for the explosive-laden SUV found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in Mumbai and demanded extortion money through cryptocurrency. TOI was the first to report that the mobile phone used in the Antillia case had been recovered from Akhtar’s barrack and that he was likely to be questioned on Saturday. During questioning, Akhtar denied having sent out the threat though he confessed to having used the phone. Sources have told TOI that Delhi Police is likely to arrest Akhtar next week in connection with his activities from jail and question him in custody. He will be questioned again on Monday. Police suspect that Akhtar and his other terror associates were behind the creation of the entity named Jaish-ul-hind. According to prison sources, jail number 8 houses terrorists of Indian Mujahideen like Akhtar and Yasin Bhatkal apart from some al-Qaeda and underworld-linked inmates who interchangeably used the mobile phones. The mobile handset had a number 9311**0819, which was registered in the name of one Jayadip Lodhiya, Raghubar Pura, east Delhi and activated in July last year and later smuggled inside Tihar. Probing this number, the cops also stumbled upon another number — 9711**9888 — which was found switched off since September last year. This number was used to activate the main number. The Telegram channel was created on the afternoon of February 26. The message claiming responsibility for placing the vehicle outside Ambani’s residence was posted on the Telegram messaging app late on February 27. The message had also demanded a payment in cryptocurrency and mentioned a Monero link for the transfer. However, another message from Jaish-ul-Hind surfaced a day later on a social media platform, claiming that the organisation did not have any role in the incident. The same entity was in news recently when a Telegram channel by this name claimed responsibility for the low- intensity blast outside the Israel embassy in Delhi on January 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ambani-case-cops-question-tihar-inmate-over-2-phones/articleshow/81487978.cms||Raj Shekhar
March 14, 2021||Goa||Poll results will affect trend of voting: Vijai Sardesai||MARGAO: Stressing on the need for a level-playing field, and in furtherance of the objective of free and fair elections, Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai has demanded that the state government either holds elections for all civic bodies and the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) simultaneously, or hold counting of votes of all polls on the same day. Sardesai said that announcing the results of six municipal councils and the CCP will have a “bandwagon effect” on the trend of voting in the rest of the five elections which, he said, won’t go well with the spirit of polling. Following the Supreme court judgement, elections for five municipal councils – Margao, Mapusa, Mormugao, Quepem and Sanguem – will now be rescheduled, even as the remaining six councils and CCP will go for polls on March 20 as scheduled earlier. Counting of votes of the six civic bodies is scheduled to be held on March 22. To drive home his point, Sardesai pointed to phase-wise polling held for assembly elections in several states where “the underlying objective is that results of elections in one place should not have influence on the trend of voting for elections at other places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poll-results-will-affect-trend-of-voting-vijai/articleshow/81488611.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||Bodies of ‘couple’ found hanging||Jaipur: Panic prevailed at Jeevandesar Dohi village under Sardarshahar police station area in Churu district when the bodies of a 15-year-old girl and a 24-year-old man were found hanging from a tree on Saturday. Both had gone missing two days ago.Police termed it to be a case of suicide and believed that both were in a relationship that was unaccepted by their parents and society since the girl is minor. According to police, locals passing through an isolated area in the village got scared when they suddenly saw two bodies hanging from a tree at 4.30am and informed police. “Our team rushed to the spot and brought the bodies down. Post mortem report said it was clear case of suicide,” said a senior police officer. Police said the girl was infatuated towards the 24-year-old boy which was unacceptable to both the families . “They had been asked to stay away from each other. It is also found that both belonged to the same family,” the officer added. Police said the two bodies were found hanging merely 2 km away from their village. “Both went missing from their houses at 2pm on Friday and their families had also lodged a missing complaint against them,” the officer said.Police said chances of any foul play and murder angle have been ruled out. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bodies-of-couple-found-hanging/articleshow/81488614.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Prisoner denied bail to marry||Ahmedabad: A sessions court has refused bail to Pratap Dhaval (23) to attend his own marriage, which according to his wedding invitation card was fixed on March 14. In denying bail to Pratap, the court observed that he had earlier jumped bail on various occasions in a murder case and therefore it was not advisable to release him on bail. He was seeking bail in a loot case, which was allegedly committed by him and his brother Pravin alias Bholo on February 13, 2020. Pravin too was denied a release when he sought bail to attend his brother’s marriage. When the loot took place in Odhav, in which a car owner was robbed of his vehicle and valuables, both the brothers were out on temporary bail in connection with a 2016 murder case and did not return to surrender. Interestingly, this was not the first time that Pratap has sought bail for his marriage. On November 27, 2020, the sessions court ordered to release him on bail with police escort when he had requested for bail for his marriage. His brother, Pravin was denied bail to attend his marriage. Pratap, his brother Pravin and their parents were arrested in 2016 in a murder case. The mother got regular bail while other members of the family were not released on bail. They obtained temporary bail but had defaulted in reporting in time. The sessions court that conducts the trial in this case noticed their behaviour and admonished them for their various “farar” reports. The history of this litigation came as a hindrance in denial of bail to the brothers. After they were jailed first time, Pravin had scaled the walls of the Sabarmati central jail and escaped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/prisoner-denied-bail-to-marry/articleshow/81487985.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||At 38.2°C, it’s city’s hottest day this season||MUMBAI: The city on Saturday recorded a maximum temperature of 38.2 degrees Celsius, the highest this season. IMD’s Santacruz observatory’s maximum temperature was nearly five degrees higher compared to Friday and above normal. The weather department has forecast similar conditions till Monday. The earlier highest maximum this season was 38.1 degrees on March 4. The highest maximum recorded in March last year was 37.5 degrees on March 17. The all-time highest for March was 41.7 degrees in 1956. Colaba too saw a spike in temperature. It recorded a maximum of 34.8 degrees, up from 30.8 the previous day, and 3.3 above normal. The minimum was also above normal. IMD Colaba and Santacruz recorded a minimum of 24.1 and 22.2 degrees respectively. Shubhangi Bhute, scientist, IMD Mumbai, said, “North-easterly winds in lower level generally delays setting of sea breeze, which causes a rise in temperature. Similar conditions will remain will Monday and the temperature will stay around 38 degrees.” IMD forecast mainly clear skies and a minimum and maximum of 22 and 38 for next 48 hours. Higher temperature kept the air quality index ‘moderate’. SAFAR said Mumbai’s overall AQI for PM2.5 was 200 (no health problems to general public).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-38-2c-its-citys-hottest-day-this-season-in-mumbai/articleshow/81489735.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||1.8 lakh people yet to turn up for second Covid-19 jab||JAIPUR: About 1.8 lakh Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries in the state are yet to receive their second dose after getting the first Covid-19 dose from Jan 16 to Feb 11. During this period, 5.9 lakh beneficiaries got the jab, but only 4 lakh have taken the second dose, rest of the around 1.8 lakh beneficiaries have not turned up to receive the second dose even after 28 days of getting the first dose have passed. Health minister Raghu Sharma said people should not be careless in getting the second dose of the vaccine. Only after getting both the doses, sufficient antibodies will be developed in the body. In Jaipur, 64,015 beneficiaries got the first dose from January 16 to February 11and became eligible for second dose from February 15 to March 11, but 32,212 received the vaccine and 31,803 are yet to get the second dose vaccine. In Jodhpur, Ajmer, Udaipur and Kota, the eligible beneficiaries for second dose who have not taken it yet are 12,658, 11,175, 10,679 and 9,559, respectively. Till March 12, health department officials said that the state is leading in the country in vaccinating highest number of first and second dose of vaccine which is 25,11,418. In Maharashtra, it is 23,98,401, while in Gujarat 21,73,745 doses of vaccine have been given so far. The health department is targeting to vaccinate 86,84,420 above 60 years for vaccination.  In 13 days of March, the health department has achieved more than13% of the target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-8-lakh-people-yet-to-turn-up-for-second-covid-19-jab/articleshow/81488620.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Goa||Invest in Goa’s medical tourism, says Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday urged healthcare providers to invest in Goa’s medical tourism industry. He said the 500-bed super speciality block at Goa Medical College and Hospital, which is being built under Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY), will be inaugurated soon. “Goa is known for tourism. Goa’s pristine beauty attracts tourists from all over the world. We want to promote Goa as a major destination for medical tourism. I invite healthcare providers to come and invest in Goa,” Sawant said after unveiling the The Times Group’s coffee table book—Times The Galaxy: Shining NephroStars. The book documents the lives of the country’s top 100 nephrologists and gives an account of their achievements. Most of the 100 nephrologists, who have been featured in the book, were also felicitated at the function. The chief minister said that the state government also provides one of the best health insurance schemes in the country, the Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana (DDSSY), to Goans. “This scheme provides insurance coverage of up to Rs 4 lakh per family and covers more than 440 procedures,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/invest-in-goas-medical-tourism-says-sawant/articleshow/81488643.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Quiz at Central University of Punjab||Bathinda: The Central University of Punjab here on Saturday organised a quiz with 75 questions to mark 75-week-long celebrations to mark the 75th year of India’s Independence. The program was part of the central government’s ‘Azaadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’. In all, 2,051 peple took part in the quiz, making it one of the largest virtual quiz events in the nation. The participants were asked questions on the Indian freedom struggle. Suraj Sharma (Jawahar Lal Nehru College, Faridabad), Amit Kumar Singh (University of Allahabad) and Karthikeyan Swaminathan (PSG College of Technology, Coimbatore) got the top-three positions. CUP vice-chancellor Prof Raghavendra P Tiwari said questions were curated carefully as a tribute to freedom fighters. “Questions spanned all communities and regions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/quiz-at-central-university-of-punjab/articleshow/81487987.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Rajkot||Heavy bandobust in Gujarat's Sanodar ahead of Dalit leaders’ meet||RAJKOT: As many as 2,000 people from across Gujarat are expected to gather to pay tribute to slain Dalit RTI activists Amra Boricha in Sanodar village of Bhavnagar district on Sunday. In wake of congregating which will include Dalit leaders, the district administration has deployed heavy security in the village and strengthened the patrolling to avoid any untoward incident. Boricha was killed in his house allegedly by members of upper caste community on March 2 following a victory procession after the election results of the local body was declared. It was alleged by Boricha’s family that the murder was a fallout of a past dispute between the deceased and the accused over filing of police complaint. The accused had also allegedly pressurised Boricha to withdraw the complaint. Boricha who was under police protection was attacked by the accused armed with sharp-edged weapons, iron pipes and sticks. Nine accused named in the FIR have been arrested, while a police sub-inspector of the Ghogha police station was suspended for negligence in preventing the crime. Arvind Makwana, Bhavnagar district co-ordinator of a voluntary organization working for human rights said, “Dalit leaders from different parts of the state, MLA Jignesh Mewani, victims of atrocity and others are expected to join the gathering on Sunday. We are expecting nearly 2,000 people. All arrangements have been made accordingly.” Ashok Yadav, Bhavnagar range IG said, “Looking at the size of the gathering, we have increased police patrolling in nearby villages. We will take action if anybody tries to spread false messages on social media that can incite violence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/heavy-police-bandobast-in-sanodar-ahead-of-dalit-meet/articleshow/81487607.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC hopes to resolve land acquisition by April-end||Secunderabad: GHMC officials are likely to resolve the land acquisition problem for the RuB by April-end. Officials are talking to private property owners over acquiring a small extent of land on the Tukaram Gate side for the RuB. Senior officials said completion of the RuB project was delayed due to land acquisition issues. Some 10 properties are likely to be affected, they said. A few property owners were not happy with the compensation offered for the land they would part with, officials said. “We had decided on the compensation for the properties, including commercial units, which are getting affected. Talks with the affected parties are in the final stages,” GHMC executive engineer B Gopal told TOI. The GHMc is planning to complete the RuB by October. “Once, the land acquisition is sorted out, we will take up work on service road, footpaths and stormwater drain network,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-hopes-to-resolve-land-acquisition-by-april-end/articleshow/81487986.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||3 taken to custody in Falaknuma murder||Hyderabad: A day after a rowdy-sheeter was murdered in Falaknuma, three persons were taken into custody by Task Force sleuths and questioning is being done. Police said that the victim died after he was attacked with swords in the middle of the road, while he was waiting. Police said that the accused are being questioned to know the motive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-taken-to-custody-in-falaknuma-murder/articleshow/81488635.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala elections: P J Joseph faction candidates announced||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala Congress P J Joseph faction on Saturday announced its candidates for the 10 constituencies they are contesting. The candidates include M P Joseph, a retired IAS officer and the son-in-law of K M Mani. Apart from Joseph, there are four new faces in the list. The two MLAs of the party P J Joseph and Monce Joseph will contest from Thodupuzha and Kaduthuruthy, respectively. Thomas Unniyadan (Irinjalakkuda), Jacob Abraham (Kuttanad) and K Francis George (Idukki) are the other senior leaders of the party who will be in the fray. The new faces include Prince Lukose (Ettumanoor), V J Laly (Changanassery), Kunjukoshy Paul (Thiruvalla), Shibu Thekkumpuram (Kothamangalam) and M P Joseph (Thrikkarippur). Meanwhile, senior leaders like Johny Nelloor and Joseph M Puthussery were not considered. Sajan Francis, brother of the late C F Thomas, did not get a seat while Kunjukoshy Paul was a surprise candidate in Thiruvalla. He was considered over Puthussery and Victor T Thomas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/p-j-joseph-faction-candidates-announced/articleshow/81488023.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||At 1,709 cases, Mumbai count highest since October 17||MUMBAI: For the second consecutive day, the state has added over 15,000 cases and reported 88 deaths, highest in nearly 80 days. A total of 15,602 cases were added today taking the total cases to 22,97,793 and the total fatalities rose to 52,811. Mumbai recorded 1,709 cases on Saturday, the highest since October 17, when 1,791 cases were detected. The number of active cases increased in the city to 11,747. The tally of Covid cases in Mumbai since March 2020 stands at 3.41 lakh and deaths at 11,528. Experts said that the BMC has to step up testing, which is around 20,000 daily, and contact tracing in the next two weeks to get the surge under check. “Delhi has been conducting over 50,000 tests a day for 400 positive cases daily. Mumbai and Maharashtra have to step up testing if they want to check the surge in the next two weeks,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the state task force on Covid-19. More the number of people tested, more the detection of asymptomatic patients, who can potentially spread the virus. “People have to mask up and use double masks when in a crowded area,” he added. A BMC official said malls have been told to organise flying squads to locate people not wearing masks within their premises. “Malls have also been told to reduce crowding. In a video-conference with BMC commissioner I S Chahal, representatives of restaurants were told to ensure only 50% occupancy and observe social distancing,” said the official. The Mumbai circle on Saturday reported 3,198 cases and 17 deaths, taking the total cases to over 7.5 lakh and the toll in the region to 19,949. After Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli, the Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) has imposed restrictions on the timings of restaurants, bars, banquet halls and shops till March 31. Restaurants, bars, food courts and banquet halls in these areas will have close business at 11pm instead of 1am. Shops will have to shut an hour earlier, at 10pm. Meanwhile, 38 students and 40 staff of three government tribal hostels in Jawhar taluka of Palghar district have tested positive for Covid-19. The students, teachers and community kitchen staff have minor symptoms and are at the Covid-19 care centre in neighbouring Vikramgad. Over 110 tribal students of Class IX to XII returned to hostels last month. Early this week, nine students from the hostel in Hiradpada complained of fever, cold and cough. They were tested at the Jamsar primary health centre, where their reports came positive. As of Saturday, there are 10 hotspots in Jawhar. The total Covid-19 cases in Jawhar on Saturday were 615.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-1709-cases-mumbai-city-count-highest-since-october-17/articleshow/81489738.cms||Bhavika Jain
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||RuB to end traffic woes of over 1.5 lakh commuters||Secunderabad: Over 1.5 lakh commuters living in colonies in Malkajgiri and Marredpally will get freedom from traffic woes soon as a road-under-bridge (RuB) is nearing completion. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials are planning to open the four-lane RuB at Lalaguda level crossing at Tukaramgate in October. South Central Railway (SCR) has already built a structure using ‘box technology’, a key component of the entire RuB project, while GHMC engineering wing has taken up laying service roads on both sides —Marredpally and Tukaramgate (towards Addagutta) — of RuB. Earth excavation works to construct retaining walls of the RuB on Tukaramgate side were also progressing at a brisk pace. Though the RuB was proposed before bifurcation of the state, inordinate delay occurred for the work to commence. The civic body had passed a resolution to build RuB in 2017, but it overcame various hurdles such as land acquisition, SCR’s permissions, inordinate delay in shifting utilities like water and sewerage network and electricity poles and cables and completed the civil works now. “While works were in full swing, Covid-19 put a spanner in the work for a few months. Then, workers’ problems also become a major hurdle. Now, all civil works are on the right track and we hope to complete it by October, as per revised extension of agreement (EoT) for a second time.” GHMC executive engineer B Gopal told TOI. As part of the right of way, GHMC is building service roads on both sides of the RuB and widening the road in the land already acquired land towards Malkajgiri side. Simultaneously, footpaths and laying of storm water drains have been completed as per the design prepared under strategic road development plan (SRDP), he said. On the other hand, SCR also constructed a foot-over bridge to cross Lalaguda railway gate for the convenience of passengers and pedestrians. Deputy speaker T Padma Rao has been regularly monitoring the RuB project, which falls in his assembly constituency. Several commuters told TOI that they were eagerly waiting for the completion of RuB. “A major bottleneck, which we have been facing for over three decades, will be resolved soon. Hundreds of commuters used to get stuck at the level crossing due to the movement of trains,” N Bhargav, an IT employee of Malkajgiri, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rub-to-end-traffic-woes-of-over-1-5-lakh-commuters/articleshow/81488001.cms||Sunil Mungara
March 14, 2021||Kochi||Kerala elections: Enter Congress ‘high command’ group||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The developments within the Congress in connection with the finalising of the candidates has made it clear that the ‘I’ and ‘A’ groups which were calling the shots during the time of election has become irrelevant. A new “high command group” is expected to gain strength in the party under AICC general secretary K C Venugopal with these elections. Many fresh faces are expected in the list of 91 candidates and some of them have been handpicked by the “new group” which enjoys the patronage of Rahul Gandhi. The list is also expected to include around 10 candidates who were directly chosen by the group, most of them are people without a political history but experts in their own fields. Apart from the 20 sitting MLAs (K C Joseph have withdrawn from contesting the elections) there will be around 30-40 candidates who have been in active politics and have contested earlier as well. The rest will be fresh faces, all be of the high command group. The MPs from Kerala too had a say in deciding the candidates this time indicating that they too may remain close to the new group. The MPs were asked to give a list of winning candidates from their respective districts. The emergence of the new group is seen as a setback to both Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala. In earlier elections, the list given by them were approved by the high command after some discussions. This time around, even these two leaders were put on defensive over Nemom seat. Both Chandy and Chennithala were asked to leave their comfort zones and spent more time explaining their side so much that they weren’t able to press for their candidates. The chances of Chandy's close aides K Babu and K C Joseph making it to the list are bleak. Sources said Chennithala too tried his best to get Muvattupuzha seat for Joseph Vazhakkan, considered safe for him. The high command group had made its presence felt during the revamp of the KPCC also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/enter-high-command-group/articleshow/81487998.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
March 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Remove hoardings from public places, activists tell corpn||Coimbatore: Activists have demanded the city corporation to remove illegal hoardings, including the digital ones, from public places as they were putting the safety of commuters at risk and eating into the corporation’s revenue flow. As per the Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies Licensing of Hoardings and Levy and Collection of Advertisement Tax Rules, 2003, licence is a must for any advertisements that are placed in public places/public or government buildings and visible to road users. District collector is the only competent authority to issue the licence.The Indian Road Congress has also banned advertisements with moving lights or illuminated by any flashing. However, there is an exception to the advertisements in this category if they are meant for providing public service information such as time, temperature, weather or date.Activist K Kathirmathiyon said, “As per the official records, the collector hasn’t granted permission to place any advertisements in the district. But advertisement banners are found at bus shelters, along the roads and the railway property. By failing to remove illegal advertisement boards, officials are causing a huge revenue loss to the government and putting the safety of commuters at risk, as many would distract their attention.” He called on officials to remove the illegal hoardings during the drive to remove political banners and posters. “If the corporation fails to act, I might move a contempt of court plea or write to the Comptroller and Auditor General.”Another activist, S P Thiyagarajan, said officials were seemingly yielding to political pressure and turning blind eye to the illegal hoardings. “Most of the advertisement boards in the city are installed in complete violation of government norms. Without seeking permission, advertising firms are just installing hoardings at their choice of place.”According to him, officials only tear and damage the hoardings whenever they raise a complaint, instead of removing them completely. “Hoardings are placed near junctions and along the road to grab the attention of commuters, who might get distracted and meet with accidents.”A corporation source said they had started to remove hoardings from the bus shelters more than a year ago, as their licences had expired, and install boards to publicise how the civic body had achieved 50 years’ development in just five years. “But we had to stop the drive because of the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/remove-hoardings-from-public-places-activists-tell-corpn/articleshow/81488021.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 8th arrest in Rs 7cr Lonavala land scandal||Mumbai: Lonavala police, probing a land scam, where some people allegedly duped a Worli businessman of Rs7 crore under the pretext of availing a huge plot, arrested another key accused. Ram Avasthi, son-in-law of a solicitor, was the eight arrest. He was produced in Lonavala court and remanded to police custody till March 14. “He was arrested after the sessions court rejected his anticipatory bail plea,’’ sub-divisional officer (Lonavala) Navneet Kanwat said. S Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-8th-arrest-in-rs-7cr-lonavala-land-scandal/articleshow/81488655.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Lucknow||Journo attack: Akhilesh Yadav, 20 SP men booked||BAREILLY: Former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and as many as 20 Samajwadi Party workers were on Saturday booked in connection with assault on journalists allegedly by the SP chief’s security personnel and his party workers during a press conference in Pakhwara area of UP’s Moradabad on Thursday.  Meanwhile, a cross FIR was also registered against two journalists on a complaint lodged by Moradabad SP chief Jaiveer Singh Yadav, said police, adding that a probe was underway.  Speaking to TOI, Moradabad superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand said, “An FIR was registered against Akhilesh Yadav and as many as 20 SP workers under sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) of the IPC, following a complaint lodged by the journalists’ association against them in connection with the attack on mediapersons.”  “Meanwhile, two journalists were also booked under sections 342 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 332 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 352 (punishment for assaulting or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation), 499 (defamation), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the IPC on Jaiveer Singh Yadav’s complaint,” said the SP. “An investigation is underway and CCTV footages of the press conference are being scanned,” added the SP.  Reacting to the development, Akhilesh tweeted a copy of the FIR and said, "The FIR, which has been registered against me by the UP government, is being published in the interest of every citizen of the state." "If needed, the FIR would be put up on hoardings in state capital Lucknow. This FIR is a symbol of dejection of the BJP which is on the path of defeat," he said in the tweet in hindi. On Thursday, a few mediapersons covering the press conference of the former UP CM were injured after a few party workers and Akhilesh’s security guards went berserk at them at a hotel in Moradabad. (With PTI inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/journo-attack-akhilesh-20-sp-men-booked/articleshow/81488638.cms||Maria Khan
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||Ultadanga flyover flank to get a healing touch after elections||Kolkata: The government has decided to repair and restore — and retrofit, if required — a span of Ultadanga flyover that had developed a few cracks in 2019 following which the crucial link between VIP Road and EM Bypass was shut for traffic for over three days, triggering panic among motorists and creating traffic snarls. The single span between reinforced concrete (RCC) beams between pillars 31 and 32 will be first repaired according to the guidelines of the engineers of the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority and will be load-tested for “full design load”. If the cracks in the RCC beams of span RR31–RR 32 reappear, widen or new cracks develop after the full design load test, then the beams of all RCC spans of the flyover will be strengthened. The government has already floated the tender and work might start after the assembly elections. “The government had constituted a high-level committee to inspect all the bridges and flyovers in the city. The strengthening of the Ultadanga flyover is a part of that,” said an engineer of KMDA. “A single span has been identified that had developed a few cracks in July 2019. It will be repaired and restored, and a full load testing will be conducted. The government will rope in a third-party agency to inspect if the work has been carried out according to the guidelines of KMDA,” said the engineer. The flyover that connects VIP Road and EM Bypass was inaugurated by former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee in 2011. It has since then emerged as a lifeline for residents of Lake Town, Salt Lake, Bangur and also those going to the airport. A 40-metre-long span of the flyover had collapsed in March 2013 after which the stretch ferrying vehicles from VIP Road to EM Bypass was shut for over a year. Once the span was restored, the movement of heavy vehicles was barred on the flyover. “The restoration work will strengthen the bridge to avoid such mishaps in future,” said an official ofKMDA. The left carriageway has 31spans while right has 32. It is 1.3km long. TOI had reported in December that the government had already given financial approval for the repairs of the flyover. KMDA is also mulling repairs of several other flyovers and bridges in south Kolkata and the port areas. The health check of these flyovers has already been conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ultadanga-flyover-flank-to-get-a-healing-touch-after-elections/articleshow/81487621.cms||Zeeshan Javed
March 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Training for polling officials||Coimbatore: The first phase of training for polling officials will be attended by 22,150 state and central government employees on Sunday. Training will be held at the National Matriculation Higher Secondary School at Mettupalayam, RVS College of Arts & Science at Sulur, Kongunadu Arts & Science College at GN Mills, Hindusthan College of Arts & Science at Nava India, Sri Krishna Arts & Science College at Kuniyamuthur, Nirmala College at Race Course, PSG College of Technology at Peelamedu, Hindustan College of Engineering & Technology at Othakkalmandapam and Dr Mahalingam College of Engineering & Technology at Makkinampatti in Pollachi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/training-for-polling-officials/articleshow/81488000.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Rajkot||Talati found hanging from tree in Aravalli||Palanpur: A man was found hanging from a tree in a forest near Khetawada village on Saturday morning. Locals, who saw the man hanging in the morning, identified the deceased as 25-year-old Mahendra Parmar, talati of Dhundha village in Malpur taluka of Aravalli district and informed the police.Deceased had gone out at about 8am from his house in Rebhoda village and later took the extreme step. A police complaint was lodged by a relative of the deceased who told the police that Parmar’s wife Sonal (22) had left him around four years ago and a case of under section 498 of IPC was going on. Moreover, the elder brother of the deceased, Ranjeet had died under the similar condition by hanging from a tree last year, said police sub inspector FL Rathod of Malpur police station.The deceased was mentally depressed ever since and an attendant was employed to take care of him, said cops. The body was handed over to his relatives after postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/talati-found-hanging-from-tree-in-aravalli/articleshow/81487633.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Wagons derail again near cement factory||Coimbatore: Two wagons carrying cement clinker out of the ACC Cement factory at Madukkarai derailed on Saturday morning, a week after a train engine and a wagon derailed.Two railway gates were also damaged in the incident, Madukkarai Police sources said. “The accident occurred at 2.30pm. Company representatives said there was an issue with the track within the factory campus that led to the derailment. We will divert vehicles till they repair the gates,” an officer said.An engine and a wagon had derailed during shunting on March 4. It took eight hours to rerail the engine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/wagons-derail-again-near-cement-factory/articleshow/81487999.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Coimbatore||6 juveniles escape from observation home||Coimbatore: Six offenders escaped from the observation home for juveniles at Lakshmi Mills Junction in the city on Saturday night. “On Saturday around 7.30pm, 11 juvenile offenders at the home were released from two rooms for dinner. Six of them attacked the warden and locked him in a room and locked five juveniles in another room. They snatched keys from the warden and opened the main gate of the home. The warden managed to come out of the room around 10pm and alerted the city police,” a police officer said.Police teams are searching for the escaped offenders. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/6-juveniles-escape-from-observation-home/articleshow/81488013.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Maintain separate account for expenses, candidates told||Coimbatore: Expenditure observers instructed candidates to maintain a separate bank account for meeting election expenditure.Six expenditure observers have been appointed to the 10 assembly constituencies in the district. While Hitendra Bhauraoji Ninawe has been appointed for Singnallur and Kinathukadavu assembly constituencies, Vijay Kumar Singh will take care of Kavundampalayam and Coimbatore North constituencies, Mahesh G Jiwade Sulur and Thondamuthur, Ram Krishn Kedia Pollachi and Valparai, Shashanak Dwivedi Coimbatore south and Amitabh Sah has been appointed to the Mettupalayam constituency.The observers convened a meeting with district election officer K Rajamani, city police commissioner Sumit Sharan, superintendent of police Ara Arularasu and returning officers of the 10 constituencies at the collectorate on Saturday afternoon. They instructed the officials to monitor the expenses of candidates and political parties. Candidates should open new bank accounts for election expenses and should produce receipts. Banks should send details of bank transactions to the district election officer. The district election officer and the income tax department should be informed when more than Rs 10 lakh is withdrawn.Flying squad officials who seize cash or valuable items worth more than Rs 10 lakh should inform the income tax department. Election officials should also monitor liquor sales.AIADMK is contesting from nine assembly constituencies in Coimbatore. Municipal administration minister S P Velumani, who is contesting from the Thondamuthur constituency, participated in a meeting held at the AIADMK’s district party headquarters on Huzur Road on Saturday. He slammed DMK’s election manifesto, which he termed fake and said AIADMK’s manifesto will be released soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/maintain-separate-account-for-expenses-candidates-told/articleshow/81488002.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Kids at Gujarat’s govt schools study in unsafe structures||GANDHINAGAR: Though the state government has set aside Rs 32,000 crore in the budget for education, and claims to have spent close to Rs 1.5 lakh crore on education in last 5 years, facts show a gross imbalance in priorities. Despite so much money flowing into education, a large number of children study in schools with roofs in a dilapidated condition.  In a shocking revelation in the assembly in a written response to an unstarred question by MLAs, Gujarat education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama admitted about government schools, “There are 5,722 cement roofs rooms in non-useable condition. The state government in last five years has given permission to remove debris of non-use 14,143 cement roof school rooms. Permission for 15,505 unsafe debris of non-useable cement roofs rooms yet to be given.” In 2015 state assembly session, the government had informed of a shortage of 8,388 classrooms, which increased to 16,008 in 2018 and to 18,537 in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kids-at-gujarats-govt-schools-study-in-unsafe-structures/articleshow/81488020.cms||Kapil Dave
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Women who delivered with the virus recount lonely labour pains||Someday, Aparna Dalvi will tell her nine-month-old son Ruvir--who is sleeping soundly in the next room--about his incredible birth story but where would she begin? From the seven-year-long 'before' when she had dieted, worked out, quit her high-paying mechanical engineering job, endured over 600 IVF injections, bled, wept, peed standing up, dodged potholes and obsessively checked the commode for blood, anxious not to lose the child left in her womb after his twin had exited prematurely in the third month?  Or from the blood-soaked 'after' when she had torn her dupatta and wrapped him in one half of it, relieved herself with the bathroom door open just in case snakes from Powai's wilderness decided to drop in through the hospital window and when she breast-fed him with a double mask and a face shield obscuring her face? "I didn't kiss my child for 14 days," recounts Dalvi through sudden tears.  The stitches on their bellies may have healed but the wounds of memories are still raw for women whose fraught journeys to motherhood entailed a fateful layover in the Covid ward instead of the maternity ward. With neither the celebratory cacophony of spouse and family nor the customary relief of slumber after the C-section, their births look like lonely.  Besides the challenge of finding beds in Covid hospitals, 33-year-old Prachi Kunal Salgia--who delivered the same day in August that she was tested positive--had to soldier through the milky pangs of longing for her new born during her 20 days of quarantine following the delivery. Thick with grim news, rumours and conspiracy theories, the peak-pandemic air didn't help. When Chembur-based Ritika Khatri (39) who had lost her twin babies to a premature water-bag rupture in February 2019 and who had spent nine careful months in bed after getting pregnant in October the same year, tested positive for Corona on May 21 last year, her mother had collapsed on hearing the news over the phone. "She thought she was going to lose both her daughter and the unborn child," recalls Khatri, who was an asymptomatic Covid patient.  Relieved and alert after the child's negative Covid test, Khatri recalls a nurse named Rupali, being a "blessing in disguise". "She was not afraid to touch me while showing me how to breast-feed despite the fact that her own two-year-old had pneumonia at the time," says Khatri. While quarantine meant that her husband and parents would first see the new member of the family over tearful video calls, Khatri's paranoia as an infected mother would cause her to wear a mask at all times inside her house for almost a month after the delivery. Friends tell her she did the bravest thing.  Adrift in the haze of making and receiving a series of hyper-frantic phone calls hours before her C-section delivery, the surgery had been a blur for Dalvi. Though she processed the news of her husband's positive Covid-19 test as "god's exam" in her final moments of pregnancy in May 2020, she has yet to process the attitude of two committee members of her building in an upscale Mulund locality who refused to let the quarantining couple outside the gates on her due date.  "Call whoever you like," the desperate mother-to-be in Dalvi had told off the opposing members and soon, her husband pushed down the car's barriers to rush to the hospital. But when her new-born’s temperature shot up on the fifth day, Dalvi spent yet another night wide awake. "The test turned out to be negative," smiles Dalvi. Now standing in the home of her 68-year-old widowed mother, Dalvi nuzzles little Ruvir, "Ruvir means brave soul," says his father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/women-who-delivered-with-the-virus-recount-lonely-labour-pains/articleshow/81489783.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Man dies after vehicle hits divider||Hyderabad: A man died after his vehicle hit a road divider in Shamshabad on Saturday. Police said the incident occured at Gandiguda. Police reached the spot and shifted the injured to hospital, where he was declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-dies-after-vehicle-hits-divider/articleshow/81488649.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Liquor bottles worth Rs 56L seized||Coimbatore: Flying squad officials have seized liquor bottles worth Rs 56 lakh and the container truck that was transporting the same during a vehicle check near a private college on Palakkad main road on the outskirts of the city on Saturday.An official said the liquor bottles were being transported to Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala from Karnataka. “As the vehicle driver failed to produce any supporting documents, both the bottles and the vehicle were seized and handed over to the returning officer of Kinathukadavu constituency.”Flying squad officials also seized Rs82,000 from an individual during a vehicle check on Kangeyam Road in Tirupur district on the day. According to sources, they seized the amount as the car driver did not have any valid documents to prove the source of amount. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/liquor-bottles-worth-rs-56l-seized/articleshow/81488028.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Lucknow||UP: RML doctors gift a new, pain-free life to Suicide Disease patient||LUCKNOW: Ved Prakash Tripathi, 72, of Kanpur was just a teenager when pain became his unwanted companion. Way back in 1966, he was diagnosed with Trigeminal Neuralgia, a nerve disorder of the face marked by abrupt, searing facial pain, especially in the lower face and jaw, around the nose, ears, eyes or lips. The rare disease, which affects 10-12 persons (usually women) in a population of one lakh, made headlines a few years ago when the list of its patients was joined by Bollywood actor Salman Khan. “Ever since I was diagnosed with the disease, every now and then, the right side of my face was gripped by unbearable pain compelling me to run from pillar to post for relief,” recalled Tripathi, who works as an astrologer for a living. “I have probably tried every pain killer available under the sun to get rid of this pain that tested my patience. Doctors tried their best but could not help me,” he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rml-docs-gift-a-new-pain-free-life-to-suicide-disease-patient/articleshow/81488653.cms||Shailvee Sharda
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||Cop nod to Kalighat bridge repairs, but with riders||Kolkata: Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) has received conditional permission from Kolkata traffic police to start repairing Kalighat bridge, which has suffered structural damage over the years. The order has already been issued and the work is expected to start within the next couple of weeks. KMDA officials said cracks that have developed on the 60-year-old bridge will be repaired, along with some retrofitting and overall strengthening. The pillars of the bridge have been badly corroded by acidic water of Tolly Nullah and needs repairs. According to KMDA, Kalighat bridge will undergo short-term repairs for now. The bridge’s upper structure needs a thorough overhaul and eventually, in the long run, the bridge may be reconstructed as the existing structure may not be able to continue taking extra load for time, an official said. “In the long term, the bridge is likely to be reconstructed as the existing structure has been badly damaged. However, as of now, the objective is to augment the bridge’s load capacity at least for next few years,” he said. Kolkata traffic police is said to have provided a temporary go-ahead to KMDA to carry out repair works but some tough conditions have been suggested for labourers who will be involved in the work. All of them have to get verified by police and they cannot strictly stray on to off-limit areas, sources said. Cops are treading cautiously since the chief minister’s house is a stone’s throw from the bridge. “Given that the assembly elections are round the corner and the area has special security needs following two back-to-back incidents involving the chief minister’s security, we will have to speak to multiple stakeholders within the security apparatus of the state before we allow the work to proceed. However, given no fresh blockade has been sought, we might allow the work. If the labourers are found violating any norm, we might have to rethink immediately,” said an officer. The south division deputy commissioner’s office, too, stated that they were waiting orders from Lalbazar. KMDA will also seek a closure of the Science City-bound flank of Ambedkar bridge next weekend to conduct a load-capacity test. It has already conducted the test of the Garia-bound flank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cop-nod-to-kalighat-bridge-repairs-but-with-riders/articleshow/81487626.cms||Suman Chakraborti
March 14, 2021||Nashik||Deolali Camp market to stay open tomorrow||Nashik: In view of the restrictions imposed on shops selling non-essential commodities on Saturdays and Sundays, traders of Deolali Camp area have decided to keep their shops open on Monday. Bhagwan Kataria, former corporator and vice president of Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD), said, merchants in the Deolali Camp area keep their respective establishments closed on Mondays regularly. However, since the businesses would remain closed on Saturday and Sunday, the traders have decided to keep their shops open on Monday. “This will not only help the traders to make up for the losses they would be facing for keeping their shops closed during the weekend but would also help customers,” said Kataria Apart from the residents of Deolali Camp, a large number of personnel and their family members in the defence area depend on the Deolali Camp market for their daily needs. Moreover, Deolali Camp is surrounded by many villages from where people come and buy their daily essentials from the market. Kataria said the traders of Deolali Camp were strictly adhering to all the guidelines issued by the government and the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/deolali-camp-market-to-stay-open-tomorrow/articleshow/81488030.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Re-lay roads at Cheran Ma Nagar: Residents||Coimbatore: A month after municipal administration minister S P Velumani inaugurated work to re-lay roads at Cheran Ma Nagar and surrounding areas, the city corporation has not started the work.Condemning the corporation, the Consumer Awareness and Protection Association has written to the municipal administration and water supply department. “The Tamil Nadu water supply and drainage board (TWAD board) had dug up the roads to lay drinking water pipelines and to provide household water connection over a year ago. After the pipeline laying work was completed, they covered the dug-up portion with debris, instead of restoring it properly,” said N R Ravisankar, a resident and president of the association.TWAD board had completed pipeline laying work before the lockdown, the activist said. “We had submitted several petitions to the corporation, requesting to relay the road.”The 40-feet wide Kumudham Nagar Main Road is used by a large number of motorists travelling between Vilankurichi Road and adjacent residential areas, said Palanisamy, a commuter. “Pothole-ridden roads pose risk to the safety of motorists, especially at night and during the monsoon season. The corporation should take immediate steps to re-lay the roads.”Fund has been allocated and the roads will be relaid at the earliest, a corporation official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/re-lay-roads-at-cheran-ma-nagar-residents/articleshow/81488025.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyd flight makes emergency landing||A Hyderabad-bound Indigo flight from Bagdogra in West Bengal made an emergency landing at the Birsa Munda International Airport in Ranchi on Saturday morning after a 21-year-old passenger on board had a seizure. The patient was shifted to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) and doctors treating her said she is critical.According to airport officials, the patient was travelling alone from Bagdogra to Hyderabad and had developed anxiety midway. She was given first aid and oxygen support by the airline staff on board and as her condition had deteriorated, the captain of the flight decided to make an emergency landing at the airport here.Talking to TOI, airport director Vinod Kumar Sharma said, “The Bagdogra-Hyderabad Indigo flight (6E-619) landed at our airport around 11.30am after the air traffic control (ATC) was alerted about the medical emergency of a passenger. Our ATC officials ensured that the flight was given a safe passage to land and our operations team ensured that all necessary arrangements were made at the airport to shift the patient to a hospital immediately.” A team of doctors along with an ambulance took care of the passenger at the airport and she was shifted to Rims immediately after the doctors suggested immediate hospital treatment.Talking to TOI, assistant professor of the cardiology department, Dr Prashant Kumar who attended to the patient, said: “The patient was brought in an unconscious state. She has a history of seizure and was administered medicines for the management of the disease. A CT scan has also been done and there are chances that the patient has a history of brain oedema.”He added, “She is still critical and under constant medical supervision. We have informed the patient’s family members and they will be reaching Ranchi soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-flight-makes-emergency-landing/articleshow/81488031.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Covid active cases almost double to 2,329 in 16 days||JAIPUR: In addition to the sudden spike in Covid pockets across the state in March, active cases too are also on the rise. From February 25 to March 13, active cases have almost doubled from 1,208 to 2,329. On February 21, four districts — Churu, Hanumangarh, Jhunjhunu and Sawai Madhopur — had no active cases. On February 25 too, both Churu and Hanumangarh had no active cases. Now, Churu has 7 cases, Hanumangarh (48), Jhunjhunu (16) and Sawai Madhopur (6). Hanumangarh is close to Punjab, which is currently witnessing a spike in cases. Currently, there is not a single district without any active cases. A health department official said checkposts had been set up at entry points of all the districts and also on highways connecting Rajasthan with Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. It has bben made mandatory for people from the above states in addition to Maharashtra and Kerala to carry a negative RT-PCR report to enter the state. The official added they had intensified surveillance by increasing the number of tests. In Jaipur and several other districts, health department teams have been deployed at railway stations and bus stands. The state reported 201 new infections on Saturday, taking its overall tally to 3,22,719. The state’s fatalities currently stand at 2,789. Districts which reported new cases were Udaipur (39), Kota (36), Jaipur (26), Rajsamand (22), Jodhpur (14), Bhilwara (12), Ajmer (10), Alwar (9), Banswara (9), Pali(5), Karauli (3), Sriganganagar (3), Hanumangarh (3), Pratapgarh (2),Chittorgarh (2), Sikar (2), Nagaur (2), Baran (1) and Jhalawar (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-covid-active-cases-almost-double-to-2329-in-16-days/articleshow/81488657.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Satellite trader cheated of Rs 83L by 3 NRIs from Nigeria||AHMEDABAD: A 42-year-old man from the Satellite area of city on Saturday filed a complaint of cheating against three NRIs, living in Nigeria, who did not supply him 135 metric tonnes of cashews, worth Rs 83 lakh, after he paid them the money in 2016. Falgun Joshi, 42, said in his FIR that he runs a PVC stickers business in Meghaninagar since 2015 with three partners. He had in 2015 met his friend Naresh Patel from Naranpura, who ran a raw cashews business and he used to import material from the accused, Anuj Saxena, Hansraj Kalra and Shyamsundar Kakkad, from Nigeria, said Joshi in the FIR. Joshi alleged that he had approached Saxena in 2015 and Saxena told him that raw cashews had great demand worldwide. Lured by the prospect of high profits, Joshi first ordered 54 metric tonnes of cashews, worth Rs 37 lakh. Saxena promised to supply the goods soon so Joshi transferred Rs 37 lakh on February 11, 2016, the FIR states. Joshi said he later sought 81 metric tonnes of raw cashews for which he paid Rs 46 lakh to Saxena on March 9, 2016. But the cashews didn’t come. After waiting for cashews or his money for five years, Joshi approached Satellite police and filed a complaint of breach of trust, cheating and abetment against Saxena and his two business partners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/satellite-trader-cheated-of-rs-83l-by-3-nris-from-nigeria/articleshow/81488033.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Goa||Changes in offing to smoothen online marriage registration||PANAJI: The registrar’s office plans to introduce a few changes in the online system of registration of applications for marriages, aimed at smoothen its functioning. In November 2020, the registrar’s office started accepting marriage applications online. Now, the need has been felt for some changes to ensure that online applications are processed smoothly. “Some people still face difficulties in uploading documents while some have problems paying online. The staff too are facing some problems, and we are talking to them to understand and rectify them. We are trying to improve the system as we receive feedback,” an officer said. Stating that some people still continue to visit the registrar’s office to check on the status of their application, the officer said that they want to enable people to check this online. “I want all declarations online and a couple can visit the registrar’s office only at the time of final registration. One visit will be mandated to ensure that a couple is getting married of free will and neither party is under any pressure,” he said. Since they started accepting marriage applications online, he said, crowding at registrar’s offices has reduced considerably. Some of the offices are small and plans are afoot to shift them. Sale deed registration, which was made online over a year ago, is functioning smoothly, after initial hiccups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/changes-in-offing-to-smoothen-online-marriage-registration/articleshow/81488677.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: CID makes arrest in coal mining scam||KOLKATA: CID, which had started a parallel investigation into the multi-crore coal scam, made its first arrest on Friday night. The state probe agency arrested businessman Randhir Singh from Andal in West Burdwan after questioning several ECL employees from Durgapur and Asansol-Raniganj coal belt through the week. Confirming the arrest, DIC (operations) Ajoy Thakur said the complaint was filed by ECL authorities in 2020. He, however, refused to share more details saying the matter was under investigation. Sources said more arrests were likely. Singh's arrest is being seen as important since he is considered a close aide of multi-crore coal scam prime accused Arup Majhi alias Lala, who has not responded to several CBI efforts to question him. A lookout notice has been issued against him. The enforcement directorate is also investigating the case. The central investigating agency has questioned the wife and sister-in-law of chief minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew Abhishek Banerjee in connection with its probe into the scam. Even as CID conducted raids at several locations in Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, CID maintained most of its raids revolving around West Burdwan. The scam pertains to illegal mining and theft of coal from Kunustoria and Majora collieries in West Burdwan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cid-makes-arrest-in-coal-mining-scam/articleshow/81487635.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Salem||Stalin no astrologer to predict seats his party will win: EPS||Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday said he was well aware of the people’s requirements and that had helped him to announce and implement several projects and schemes that mattered to them the most during his regime. “We believe that people will support us and give us another chance to serve them.”Addressing the media after meeting AIADMK cadres at the party office near Omalur, where he asked them to work selflessly for the party’s victory, Palaniswami said he hadn’t seen the DMK’s poll manifesto and he had already done much more than the opposition party’s promises for the people of Tamil Nadu.He, however, referred to the DMK’s promises to waive crop loans, gold loans, self-help group loans, and said he had waived them all as he understood what people were expecting from his government. “For the DMK, it was a poll stunt. Our poll manifesto will have several more important announcements.”The chief minister also took a dig at DMK chief M K Stalin, who had said the alliance led by him would win more than 200 assembly seats in the state, stating the latter was not an astrologer to predict that. “I hope people will give us verdict based on our assurances and our achievements.”Recalling Vikkiravandi and Nanguneri assembly byelection results, he said poll survey results were in favour of the DMK-Congress combine. “But the AIADMK won both the seats. Similarly, irrespective of what poll surveys say, we will sweep the election.”He also came down heavily on the DMDK, which had ended ties with the ruling party recently, and said it wasn’t a mature decision for the DMDK to leave the alliance.When asked about the discontent among the party functionaries, who were denied tickets and planning to contest the poll as independent candidates, Palaniswami said he was in talks with them to dissuade them from taking such a step. Earlier in the day, the AIADMK and alliance party candidates had met Palaniswami, seeking his blessings. Among them were party candidates G Venkatachalam (Salem North) and E Balasubramnian (Salem-South), and the PMK’s R Arul (Salem-West) and Sadhasivam (Mettur).Puducherry AIADMK MLAs Baskaran, Anbalagan, Vaiyapuri and Hasanna also met him. He said the party would announce the candidates for the union territory at the earliest.Palaniswami had campaigned at Gangavalli, Attur and Vazhapadi areas on Friday. He would leave for Chennai on Sunday morning to release the AIADMK’s election manifesto. As per the party sources, Palaniswami is likely file his nomination papers on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/stalin-no-astrologer-to-predict-seats-his-party-will-win-eps/articleshow/81488660.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Gurgaon||Gardener struck by lightning in Gurugram society dies, workers protest for aid||Gurgaon: A 31-year-old gardener, who was struck by lightning when he had taken shelter from rain under a tree in a housing society in Sector 82, succumbed to his injuries early on Saturday. Three others, who too had taken cover under the tree along with Ramprasad, are undergoing treatment at hospitals in Manesar and Sector 9A. Police said all four worked at Vatika India Next, the housing society in Sector 82. Ramprasad, who suffered severe injuries, was on life support and passed away around 2am. “He was in the ICU and died during treatment. No complaints have been filed yet. However, we have registered a case under Section 174 CrPC (unnatural death). The body was handed over to his family members after an autopsy. They will take it for the final rites in his hometown in Kannauj,” said Krishan Kumar, the Vatika police post in-charge. Ramprasad was unmarried and lived in Rampura village. He was the sole earning member of his family, which comprises his ailing mother, an elder brother who is mentally challenged, his children, and a sister. After the news of Ramprasad’s death spread, other contractual workers of Vatika staged a protest and demanded compensation for the gardener’s family. “We work as labourers and earn nothing more than Rs 8,000-9,000 a month. It is so difficult to make ends meet with things getting costlier by the day. Ramprasad died while on duty, which is why we are demanding compensation for his family. There is no support system for them. His ailing mother and brother’s children have nobody to look after them. He was the only earning member. Accidents like these can happen to anybody. The management should come forward to help them,” said Sahil, one of the protesters. A representative of Vatika India Next said Ramprasad was not on the company’s payroll but hired by a contractor. “However, we are doing whatever we can to support his family. We have also offered jobs to his family members. We are in touch with the contractor to expedite the process of releasing his dues. An appeal will also be made to the government for a claim ,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/protest-for-aid-as-man-struck-by-lightning-dies/articleshow/81488663.cms||Akanksha Gupta
March 14, 2021||---||If assembly hung, will support govt formation without M K Stalin, EPS: Kamal Haasan||Kamal Haasan is still the angry new man in politics. The actor-turned-politician says his Makkal Needhi Maiam is here for a long haul to see the DMK and the AIADMK out of Tamil Nadu politics and be an alternative to what he calls a venomous, corrupt dispensation. Excerpts from an interview with Arun Ram. You got 3.7% votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. What is your expectation this time?I will not go into analytics because things can go terribly wrong with analytics. I will go with the kind of traction and reaction we got from people. What I get is a new wave of empathy for us. Can you put a number to your expectation based on lessons from 2019?We were (in 2019) nascent as politicians. We have corrected certain things. To put a number … I would put a three-figure, that is a win. We want to win. That’s an aspiration. Analysts say if we cross 10%, we are in the game. But we are not keen on just being in the game, we want to change the game. It’s good to be ambitious, but you have to be realistic.I don’t say we are going to win. I say we want to win, and that’s a fair expectation. Whatever happens after the election you cannot dismiss MNM from the map of Tamil Nadu politics. That’s a very important place to be in the first three years of our life. My enemies are those who don’t fear criticism against the corrupt. Who are these enemies?Both the parties. One is in power, one is not. One is a very venomous reptile. The head is gone, and the tail is twitching. The other is equally bad, it has a head; it is an alive and kicking animal with a fang and a bagful of venom. We have to take them on. And this is not a personal attack on anyone. You claim to be the alternative. How are you different?One, my contestants who have no criminal background. They have done social service before coming here. Two, the manifesto that came from their qualities, not their money. There are people who are affluent, but not affluent enough to run the party. That includes me. So how do you manage to battle the money bags?I keep on taking work. I charge a bomb (for acting) and that helps. I am investing all that. That’s not enough but it’s an investment in people. It’s a return gratuity for what I’ve received all these years. Surveys show people go by party, not policies or manifestos. How will you break that?I’ve done it before, in the film industry, challenging the status quo of the business—that’s something even greats like Sivaji Ganesan and MGR couldn’t. I’ve challenged formulas and I’ve won. It wasn’t easy. These changes in politics have to happen in the rural areas, but you and your big names are contesting in cities.There was a suggestion that I contest from Mylapore, but I decided against it because it may be linked to my caste. I don’t consider caste for a candidate. I chose Coimbatore because it has been a playground of religious disharmony. And some of the top corrupt ministers’ area – including the chief minister’s – is in that region. Also, the BJP is contesting there. What are your prospects in Coimbatore South?As of now it’s good. From what I hear from the ground, it will be better. If there is a hung assembly, will you support a party to form the government?We will have to help people instead of burdening them with another election, but if we have two evils to choose from, we will push for another election. What if you have to choose a CM between EPS and Stalin?I will not choose either. If these are the only choices, then I need not have come into politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/win-or-lose-were-fighting-a-headless-reptile-a-venomous-animal/articleshow/81488666.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Lucknow||PhD in occult, Shaiva philosophy at Lucknow University soon||LUCKNOW: The Abhinavagupt Institute of Aesthetics and Shaiva Philosophy under Lucknow University’s Sanskrit department will offer PhD on ‘Tantraagam’— the academic and philosophical derivations of the occult and Shaiva philosophy, a major work of 10th century Kashmiri philosopher Abhinavgupta. The institute will also offer diploma courses in aesthetics and ‘natyasastra’ (an ancient treatise on dramaturgy). The postgraduates in Sanskrit will be able to pursue the PhD and diploma courses. “We are introducing a full-fledged paper on Shaiva philosophy and aesthetics at postgraduation level in our MA (Sanskrit) course and will be conducting doctoral studies in Sanskrit on the topic of Tantraagam and Kashmiri Shaiva philosophy from this session,” said Dean Brijesh Shukla. He said the subject is taught in a few universities like a degree in Tantraagam is awarded in Banaras Hindu University. Shukla said a total of 16 PhD seats are there in Sanskrit of which five seats will be under the Shaiva school under which the research will be held on these two topics. “Acharya Abhinavagupta, who studied all the schools of philosophy, is known for ‘Tantraloka’, an encyclopedic treatise on all the philosophical and practical aspects of Trika and Kaula (known today as Kashmir Shaivism). So, research on major works of Abhinavgupta will be conducted,” he said. The institute was founded on August 5, 1968, by Prof KC Pandey, an expert in Shaivism deeply influenced by the writings of Abhinavgupta, and produced many scholars in the 80s and 90s, but gradually became defunct due to retirement of teachers and dearth of suitable candidates for the job. The institute has been revamped with help of government grants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/phd-in-occult-shaiva-philosophy-at-lu-soon/articleshow/81488659.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai University expects Rs 78 crore deficit in next financial year||MUMBAI: Mumbai University has projected an annual deficit of Rs 78.5 crore for 2021-22. While the Covid-19 pandemic threw budgeted revenues for 2020-21 off the mark, expenses dropped too. Thus the revised deficit for the current year is Rs 12.5 crore as against the estimated Rs 66.8 crore earlier. The total budget for 2021-22 stood at Rs 724 crore as against Rs 781 crore for 2020-21. Terming this year as ‘Mission Begin Again’, MU plans to make good the deficit by raising alumni donations, attracting CSR funds, earning interest on general funds and putting in place cost-cutting initiatives. Among the new initiatives of the MU, money has been budgeted for setting up two new sub-campuses in Sindhudurg and Palghar. The pandemic has made it imperative to have a digital footprint and the budget has set aside Rs 1 crore for the same, as also another Rs 2 crore for setting up a digital university. MU is preparing a proposal to set up a Swami Vivekananda chair and seek funds from University Grants Commission. On the academic front, MU announced that from the current academic year, the PhD Entrance Test (PET) would be held twice a year for the benefit of doctoral aspirants. Expressing concerns over faculty pay, especially in engineering colleges, senate member Vaibhav Narawde said, “Teachers are not getting paid, many are being forced to go on leave, so many of them are getting only partial salaries. Several letters written to various bodies, including the Directorate of Technical Education, have met with silence. Members of the DTE who are supposed to attend the senate are never present.” Another member said several engineering college principals had violated norms and were not academically qualified to occupy that post. To that, senate member Supriya Karande said that several autonomous colleges too were violating norms and a university panel be set up to inquire about their working. Earlier, member Arti Prasad said enrolment in 2020 had taken a hit and the state ought to be approached for relief so that students who cannot afford university education can be offered aid. Senate member Sangeeta Pawar said expenses could be cut such as Rs 36 lakh on a research and recognition committee. On a positive note, senate member DP Mehta said Rs 142 crore invested in Yes Bank was returned with Rs 5.9 crore interest. Mumbai: The Mumbai University has projected an annual deficit of Rs 78.5 crore for 2021-22. While the Covid-19 pandemic threw budgeted revenues for 2020-21 off the mark, though, expenses dropped too, and thus the revised deficit for the year stood at Rs 12.5 crore as against the estimated Rs 66.8 crore. The total revised budget of 2021-22 stood at Rs 724 crore as against Rs 781 crore. Terming this year as ‘Mission Begin Again’, MU plans to make good the deficit by raising alumni donations, attracting CSR funds, earning interest on the general funds and putting in place other cost-cutting initiatives. Among the new initiatives of the MU, money has been budgeted for setting up two new sub-campuses in Sindhudurg and Palghar. The pandemic has made it imperative to have a digital footprint and the budget has set aside Rs 1 crore for the same, as also another Rs 2 crore for setting up the university’s digital university. On the academic front, MU announced that from the current academic year, the PhD Entrance Test (PET) would be held twice a year for the benefit of doctoral aspirants. Expressing concerns over faculty pay, especially in engineering colleges, senate member Vaibhav Narawde said, “Teachers are not getting paid, many are being forced to go on leave, so many of them are getting only partial salaries. Several letters written to various bodies, including the Directorate of Technical Education have met with silence. Members of the DTE who are supposed to attend the senate are never present. We should complain about their perpetual absence to the chancellor.” Another member said that several engineering college principals had violated norms and were not academically qualified to occupy that post. To that, senate member Supriya Karande said that several autonomous colleges too were also violating several norms and a university panel be set up to enquire about their working. Earlier, member Arti Prasad said that enrolment in 2020 had taken a hit and the state ought to be approached for a relief package so that students who cannot afford a university education can be offered financial assistance. Several members, including senate member Sangeeta Pawar maintained that several expenses could be cut, including Rs 36 lakh on research and recognition committee. On a positive note, senate member DP Mehta said that the Rs 142 crore invested in Yes Bank was returned to the university along with Rs 5.9 crore as interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-university-expects-rs-78cr-deficit-in-next-financial-yr/articleshow/81487826.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Dehradun||Coach of Delhi-Doon Shatabdi Express catches fire near Rajaji Tiger Reserve, 35 passengers evacuated, no casualties reported||Dehradun: It was a close shave for 35 passengers on board coach C5 of the New Delhi-Dehradun Shatabadi Express on Saturday. At around 12:20 pm, many of the passengers spotted smoke slowly filling their coach. This was after the train had left Haridwar and was on its way to Dehradun. Ramnath Thakur, who was one of the first passengers to suspect a fire, told TOI, “As soon as we saw smoke coming from the bathroom, we informed the railway canteen staff. They alerted the loco pilot and as soon as the train stopped after running two kilometers, evacuated all passengers aboard our coach.” Thakur, who was returning to Dehradun after attending a wedding in Delhi, termed it as “nothing short of a near-death experience for us.” “We are lucky that we escaped unhurt but our belongings were burnt to ashes,” he said. The train was stopped near Kansro forest range of Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR), in the stretch between Raiwala (near Haridwar) and Doiwala (near Dehradun) stations. According to officials, as many passengers had got down at Haridwar, the train was relatively empty by the time it reached Karson. No casualties took place. Local forest staff of RTR, police personnel and fire fighters were the first responders. It took fire tenders three hours to douse the burning coach, which had been detached from the train before it burst into flames. Divisional railway manager (DRM) of Moradabad division Tarun Prakash and additional divisional railway manager (ADRM) NN Singh, along with a team of officers, visited the spot to take stock of the situation. Senior divisional commercial manager (DCM) of Moradabad Rekha Sharma said, “A proper enquiry will reveal the source of the fire. A team from the state government will also look into the matter.” Station master of Doiwala Gopal Singh Bisht, who also went to the spot, told TOI, “The promptness of the staff saved the situation. The canteen staff informed the train’s guards, who were able to gauge the gravity of the situation and stopped the train and detached the burning coach without delay.” The remaining coaches of the train departed for Dehradun and reached the station at 3.10 pm. On its journey back to Delhi, the train started 20 minutes late, railway officials said. Meanwhile, owing to the mishap, 04114 Subedarganj-Dehradun Express was rescheduled from 1:25pm to 4:25pm and 02091 Dehradun-Kathgodam Express was rescheduled from 3:45 pm to 4:45pm. The trains 04113 Subedarganj-Dehradun Express and 05005 Gorakhpur-Dehradun Express were terminated mid-way and the passengers were sent to their destinations on buses. Watch Close shave: Coach on Dehradun-Delhi Shatabdi Express catches fire, 35 passengers safe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/coach-of-delhi-doon-shatabdi-express-catches-fire-near-rajaji-tiger-reserve-35-passengers-evacuated-no-casualties-reported/articleshow/81487647.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||9 held for pilfering fuel in Adibatla||Hyderabad: Nine persons who indulged in pilferage of petrol or diesel were nabbed in Adibatla on Friday. Police said that the prime accused Raghu Goud, in connivance with a fuel tanker driver, has been pilfering fuel. Rachakonda police seized 805 litres of fuel, three fuel tankers, a bike, fuel extractor pipes, 9 mobile phones and cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/9-held-for-pilfering-fuel-in-adibatla/articleshow/81488665.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||RAS-2018 interviews from March 22||Ajmer: The Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) will again start interviews of RAS-2018 from March 22. The interviews were scheduled from December 7 last year, but since the matter reached Rajasthan High Court, the commission postponed the interviews. The RPSC on Saturday again released the dates of interviews and asked the candidates to download their interview letter from the website. In the first phase, 300 candidates will be called for the interview. There are around 2,010 candidates who are eligible for the interview in different phases. The RAS and Allied Services Examination-2018 was conducted by RPSC to select about 1,051 candidates. The commission also asked the candidates to follow Covid guidelines for coming for the interviews.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ras-2018-interviews-from-march-22/articleshow/81488037.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Lockdown not a solution for any district, say central team||PUNE: A three-member expert team dispatched by the Centre, which recently toured six Maharashtra districts, said lockdown was not the solution for any region of the state. The approach, the team said, should be more surveillance-centric. State surveillance officer Pradeep Awate, who was with the central team as it toured Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Aurangabad and Mumbai, said the experts were of the opinion that lockdowns do not curtail spread. “A lockdown was necessary in the early stages of the pandemic, when we had to shore up infrastructure. But it’s not needed at this stage,” Awate said. Instead of widespread curbs, the team suggested large-scale testing, strict monitoring of clusters and a halt on large gatherings. The expert team’s suggestions were compiled into a report, which was discussed during the Pune district Covid review meeting on Friday. The team said the next two months are critical for the state’s high-incidence districts, adding that data has to be drawn from from flu clinics for quick testing and early treatment. In its report, the expert team said there should be flu clinic for every 25,000 people. “With this figure, Pune city will need at least 140 to 150 flu clinics. For this, we would need cooperation from private practitioners,” the report stated. The experts said all Covid deaths at hospitals should be analysed to ensure the most effective treatment protocols are in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-not-a-solution-for-any-district-central-team/articleshow/81488041.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||JMC-Greater mayor Somya Gurjar alleges graft in civic body, seeks ACB help||JAIPUR: Hinting at deep-rooted corruption in Jaipur Municipal Corporation Greater (JMC-Greater), mayor Somya Gurjar has written to the ACB to keep strict vigil on corporation officials when payments are made to contractors. The mayor alleged that many officials demand kickbacks from contractors while clearing their dues and this could taint the corporation’s image. The letter dated March 12, 2021 reads, “The department officials clear payment of crores of rupees to contracted firms. We suspect that officials take commission from the contractors and thus dues should be cleared under ACB supervision,” she said. The mayor claimed the attempt was to make the corporation corruption-free and deliver all facilities to residents. “A request has also been made to residents to tag the mayor on Twitter while registering their complaints,” she said. With dozens of complaints registered with the ACB against officials every year and the mayor herself shooting a letter to uproot graft, it is clear that corruption runs deep in Jaipur’s Greater and Heritage corporations. In November 2020, the ACB had arrested an executive engineer and a contractor on charges of corruption. The engineer identified as Sher Singh Choudhary took a bribe of Rs 1 lakh from contractor Govind Agarwal. As both offering and accepting bribe is an offence, the duo was booked under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act.JMC sanitary inspector Kaluram was booked after he was allegedly caught taking a bribe of Rs 4,000. The accused officer was demanding the bribe from sanitary workers for providing them attendance statements. Sources said in the past, ACB’s efforts to book corrupt officials have been caught in a maze of formalities and apparent political pressure. Even as the agency has been awaiting prosecution sanction in more than approximately 49 cases lodged against JMC officials over the past few years, many of the tainted officials have continued to enjoy plum postings in the municipal body. “There are more than 20 instances in past decade when prosecution sanction was denied in the general body meeting by councillors,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-greater-mayor-gurjar-alleges-graft-in-civic-body-seeks-acb-help/articleshow/81488674.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||Mentally ill man kept chained in house at Pokhran for 18 years||JAISALMER: Hari Singh (45), who is suffering from mental illness, has remained chained at his home in Roopsar village of Bhaniyana sub-division of Pokhran for the last 18 years. Singh was leading a normal life and worked as a labourer to take care of his family. However a week after marriage, he lost his mental balance. Despite being poor, the family borrowed money from moneylenders and his wife sold her jewellery and got him tested at Mathuradas Mathur Hospital in Jodhpur 27 years ago. After a little improvement, they brought him home but after some days he again started behaving differently. The family again took him to Jodhpur and got him treated at many places and spent lakhs of rupees, but there was no improvement in his condition. Being economically weak, they gave up on his treatment. The family tied him with chains in the cattle shelter under the open sky. He has been in chains for the last 18 years. If he is set free then he eats anything, goes anywhere, beats people, throws stones so he is kept in chains, said his wife. His mother and wife feed and bathe him. As Hari Singh’s mental condition deteriorated so she could not see any of her grandchildren, cried Singh's mother Sohan Kanwar, who is 70 years old. Hari Singh was the only earning member of the family. His father died of shock when Hari lost his mental balance and now his mother is taking the responsibility of feeding her son and daughter-in-law for last 18 years. Social worker Sohan Moodh said that they are not getting food security schemes, pension facilities, etc., from the government. Sohan Kanwar has requested the government to treat her son and help her family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mentally-ill-man-kept-chained-in-house-at-pokhran-for-18yrs/articleshow/81488038.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu polls: Dissidence mars Congress candidate selection for polls||The ‘famed’ dissidence in the Tamil Nadu unit of the Congress, which had almost gone silent over the past two years ever since K S Alagiri was made TNCC president, has reared its ugly head once again. TNCC headquarters Sathiyamurthi Bhavan saw a slew of protests on Saturday over the allocation of tickets to contest the ensuing assembly elections. The Congress, which is part of the DMK-led alliance, has been allotted 25 seats after three rounds of prolonged talks with the Dravidian major. While all eight sitting members of the Congress are pushing for being re-nominated, a few senior Congress leaders have managed to get assured tickets for their sons. This has left several other aspirants fuming. Congress MP and TNCC working president Vishnu Prasad’s supporters held a protest accusing the party’s state leadership of favouring a former TMC (M) man A M Munirathinam by offering Sholingur seat to him, rejecting the claims of a few other aspirants who had remained loyal to the Congress. Soon after, a group claiming to be supporters of Alagiri staged a counter protest accusing Vishnu Prasad of doing very little to help the Congress grow in the vanniyar belt and of now creating dissidence. While another group held a sit-in protest urging the TNCC leadership not to re-nominate S Vijayadharani from Vilavancode, party MP from Karur S Jothimani cried foul over money being seen as the major criteria for getting "right seats" in the alliance talks and also for securing "assured tickets" from the party. "Had Rahul Gandhi thought money should be the prime criterion, I would have never become an MP," she said in a social media post. "The whole issue is revolving around a game plan of a few young MPs who want to take control of the party and senior leaders keen to hold on to their turf. These MPs are rallying around party Virudhunagar MP Manickam Tagore," a Congress insider said. Manickam Tagore himself took to Twitter to attack those creating ruckus and bringing disrepute to the party. People will identify those playing into the hands of the AIADMK–BJP front, he added. By Saturday evening, Alagiri intervened and tried to defuse the rumblings by assuring all groups that tickets will be given only to those who had worked hard for the party. The Congress candidate list is likely to be released on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dissidence-mars-congress-candidate-selection-for-polls/articleshow/81488701.cms||D Govardan
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Made-in-Hyderabad vaccine key weapon in Quad arsenal to counter China||HYDERABAD: Vaccine capital Hyderabad is set to be key to the Quad’s (Quadrilateral Security Dialogue) strategy to deploy vaccines as munition to counter China’s growing clout in the Indo-Pacific region. Millions of doses of Johnson & Johnson’s Covid-19 vaccine, one such strategic weapon in Quad’s arsenal, will be churned out of Hyderabad’s Genome Valley that houses a chunk of global vaccine capacities with players like Biological E, Bharat Biotech, Indian Immunologicals and Shantha Biotechnics. In August 2020, J&J inked a pact with BioE for transfer of technology to produce over 500 million doses per annum of the single-shot Janssen Covid-19 vaccine. Read AlsoIndia to make J&amp;J’s Covid vax as part of Quad initiativeIndia will manufacture the US-developed Johnson &amp; Johnson’s single-dose Covid shot as part of the first Quad vaccine initiative. The project will be financed by Japan and the US, while Australia will use its logistics capability to ship the vaccines to Southeast Asia and Pacific countries.Now, the Quad, an informal strategic forum comprising India, US, Japan and Australia, has decided to help BioE ramp up vaccine capacities to make at least 1 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccine by 2022 end with Stringent Regulatory Authorisation (SRA) or World Health Organisation (WHO) emergency use listing through financial support from the US International Development Finance Corporation (DFC). Biological E managing director Mahima Datla said the Quad initiative would offer “broad support to BioE to increase capacities” both for the J&J vaccine and the one it is developing in collaboration with Houston-based Baylor College of Medicine (BCM). While Datla refused to comment on specifics for the J&J vaccine, she said the BioE-BCM vaccine too would be part of the Quad thrust once it gets WHO pre-qualification. Meanwhile, a J&J spokesperson said the company sees the Quad move “as an important step in the global response to Covid-19 and will continue collaborating with governments, health authorities and other companies worldwide to help end this pandemic”. Indian vaccine industry pioneer and Shantha Biotechnics founder KI Varaprasad Reddy said India can definitely beat China hollow when it comes to vaccines because of credibility it has earned. “India has established a benchmark in vaccine manufacturing, something that China has not been able to achieve. We have several WHO prequalified vaccines, while China has hardly one or two,” he said, adding that WHO pre-qualification is a stringent process that takes nearly three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/made-in-hyd-vax-key-weapon-in-quad-arsenal-to-counter-china/articleshow/81488679.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||Manganiyar folk artist Dappu Khan dies, people express grief||Jaisalmer: Manganiyar folk artist and Kamyacha player Dappu Khan Merasi died in a private hospital while undergoing treatment on Saturday. When the news came on social media, people from many parts of the country expressed condolences. Merasi has performed at Coke Studio, Rajasthan Kabir Yatra and at many national and international level events. He had also performed at the White House before Bill Clinton. Gunasar Lok Sangeet Sansthan president Bux Khan said that he was taken to a private hospital in Jodhpur on Saturday due to breathing difficulty and breathed his last around 3pm on Saturday. Merasi was a resident of Bhadli village and for the last 30 years he had been entertaining the tourists at Rani Mahal in Sonar Fort in Jaisalmer. He was an expert player of Kamyacha, which is on the verge of extinction. Merasi was featured in album 'Moomal' which won him accolades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/manganiyar-folk-artist-dappu-khan-dies-people-express-grief/articleshow/81488048.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Lucknow||Rebellious by nature, youth drawn towards Shiva: Amish||Lucknow: “Those naturally rebellious are perhaps the ones most attracted to Lord Shiva. This is why a large number of youngsters are looking up to him the most. A rebel who has a cause giving equality to his wife and having knowledge of the universe,” said author Amish Tripathi. Amish along with his elder sister Bhawna were part of the first panel discussion --Decoding the Epics -- at the spring edition of ‘Metaphor: the Lucknow litfest.’ The siblings have co-authored their recent book ‘Dharma’ delving into the treasure trove of the ancient Indian epics. “My books not only changed my world but also me as a person. I have become calmer, less aggressively competitive and taken a 360 degree swing in my personality,” he said. The session was moderated by another author and entrepreneur Meenakshi Upadhyay. “The concepts of dharma and adharma are very subjective and not related to religion as many think. What we consider non-violence could be ‘adharma’ for a soldier on the border or a police personnel in a riot situation. Would we consider their use of violence as adharma then? No, it is their dharma then to use the tools with them for the greater good,” said Amish and Bhawna, explaining the concept of their book. Exploring ‘architecture’ in cinema: While story telling is the primary intention of books and films, architecture is what gives the stories its context -- the ‘setting’ within which the stories are played out. While books leave the architectural context largely to the imagination of the reader, cinema has to place the scenes in time to be enacted in the context of specific architectural backdrops that depict the time or times that the story is set in. This interesting presentation by architect Snehanshu Mukhjerjee, to be followed by a discussion between him and architect Srinivas Murthy, looks at how architecture helps to give physical shape and add the dimension of time convincingly to written works of fiction as depicted in cinema by exploring specific scenes from classic films such as Ray’s Aparajito, Charulata and Akira Kurosawa’s Throne of Blood among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rebellious-by-nature-youth-drawn-towards-shiva-amish/articleshow/81488716.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||‘Make plan to give 5% quota to disabled persons in pvt jobs’||Jaipur: The state’s court for specially-abled persons has directed labour and employment departments to come up with a plan and proposal for providing 5% reservation to persons with disability (PwDs) in private jobs. The court has suggested the department to ensure reservation to the PwDs in private factories and small industries at the initial level. "We have demanded 5% reservation in jobs in the private sector on a similar pattern as in Bihar. The disability court has asked the departments to first make a plan for private factories and industries," said Hemant Bhai Goyal, vice-president, Divyang Adhikar Mahasangh. The departments failed to give any reply to the office of commissioner for specially-abled persons in the last hearing. The office of commissioner for specially-abled persons has also written to rural development and panchayati raj department instructing them to provide 4% reservation to specially-abled persons in MGNREGA work. The government had increased mandays under MGNREGA for PwDs to 200 days. PwDs, who are beneficiaries of social security pension scheme, have been categorised under below poverty line (BPL) families in the state budget. They will now be getting all the government benefits meant for BPL category including Ayushman Bharat-Swasthya Bima Yojana, PMAY-G, National Food Security Scheme and others. There are 5.40 lakh specially-abled persons in Rajasthan who are getting pension under social security scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/make-plan-to-give-5-quota-to-disabled-persons-in-pvt-jobs/articleshow/81488051.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Citizens maintain distance from masks, cases surge||HYDERABAD: For the first time in over a month-and-a-half, the number of Covid-19 positive cases crossed the 200 mark on Saturday. A ground check revealed that a high percentage of Hyderabadis have thrown caution to the wind, moving around without wearing masks properly or maintaining social distance. This even as experts have warned that availability of Covid vaccines does not mean that the pandemic has ended. While the total number of cases recorded on Saturday were 216, some 52 of them were recorded in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits. This is an increase of 50% as compared to 20-25 cases being recorded daily in GHMC limits until a week back. TOI found low usage of masks in many areas, even in high-density ones like Miyapur, HiTec City, Khairatabad, Secunderabad and Charminar. “The vaccine is already available. Cases will not increase now,” said a youngster who had ventured out for a drive in HiTec City without a mask. A group of three middle-aged residents,who were out on motorcycles, felt the virus has already been wiped out. “We do not have many cases here,” said Vishnu Prasad, who was among the three standing without a mask outside a shopping mall in Miyapur. “Cases are increasing only in few parts of the country. That too will be in control now since the vaccine is available,” he said. Experts have cautioned that this very behaviour is the reason behind increasing Covid-19 cases. “The feeling that vaccine is available has given a sense of false confidence to people, even the ones who have not taken the vaccine,” said a senior health official from the state health department. “In fact, many are not even getting themselves tested despite being a first or second contacts. Abandoning Covid-appropriate behaviour will mean having to pay a higher price later. With an increase in cases along the state borders, people should be even more careful, especially now that we already are seeing a spike in cases. If we do not control the cases now, it may again spiral out of control.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/citizens-maintain-distance-from-masks-cases-surge/articleshow/81488714.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 14, 2021||Pune||Over 24,000 get jabs in PMR, rural sites report dip due to limited stock||PUNE: More than 24,300 beneficiaries received the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday across the Pune Metropolitan Region, about 6,000 less than the number of recipients recorded on Friday. A major drop in vaccinations was reported in many centres in the rural areas, where coverage slipped to just over 3,000 from Friday's tally of over 11,700. The PMC reported 14,858 vaccinations, which too was slightly less than Friday’s tally of 14,902. In Pimpri Chinchwad, however, the number of jabs was up by 1,000. As for the number of vaccination centres, the PMC had 83 operational sites (the highest), the PCMC had 21 and the rural areas had 31 centres by Saturday. So far, a total of over 3.29 lakh beneficiaries have received the vaccine in the region, including first and second doses. Vaishali Jadhav, the assistant health chief of the PMC, said the city has had nearly 14,000 daily beneficiaries for the past few days. Ashish Bharati, chief of the PMC’s health department, said supply of more vaccine doses was expected within the next couple of days. “We are expecting the fresh batch to come in by Sunday or Monday,” he added. The PMC is expecting at least 90,000 doses. Officials also said more vaccination centres are likely to be added across Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural areas. “Some more private hospital are set to start vaccine centres soon. The process to complete required formalities are under way,” a senior official said. Ayush Prasad, CEO of the Pune Zilla Parishad said fresh stock will boost numbers in the rural areas again. “Vaccination dipped in the rural parts because some centres didn’t have enough doses. But by Monday, centres in the district will have enough doses available.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-24000-get-jabs-in-region-rural-sites-report-dip-due-to-limited-stock/articleshow/81488088.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||Disciples bid farewell to Brahma Kumaris’ chief Dadi Hriday Mohini||Udaipur: The Brahma Kumaris, the world’s largest spiritual organisation led by women, bid adieu to their chief Dadi Hriday Mohini in a simple funeral ceremony on Shantivan campus at Abu Road in Mt Abu on Saturday. Dadi Hriday Mohini (93) had passed away on March 11 at a hospital in Mumbai following a prolonged illness. She became the chief of Brahma Kumaris after the passing away of the previous head of the institution, Dadi Janki, in March 2020. President Ram Nath Kovind, vice-president Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and several other political leaders sent their condolences. Dadi’s mortal remains were consigned to flames in the presence of senior figures of the institution from different parts of India and the world. The gathering was kept small due to restrictions imposed by the government in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Thousands of members of the Brahma Kumaris who had reached Shantivan to pay their last respects to Dadi watched the ceremony on giant screens inside the Diamond Hall, with thousands more across the world watching it live on television and online.The cremation took place in a lawn in front of Shakti Bhawan, Dadi Hriday Mohini’s residence in Shantivan. Earlier, members of Brahma Kumaris’ apex decision-making body, the Management Committee, paid tributes to Dadi Hriday Mohini, describing her as a great yogi who has left a deep impression in the minds of countless people with her spiritual wisdom, simplicity, and loving nature. Dadi Ratan Mohini, the additional chief of Brahma Kumaris, B K Nirwair, secretary general of the Brahma Kumaris, B K Brij Mohan, additional secretary general, B K Laxmi, B K Mruthyunjaya, executive secretary, B K Asha, director of Om Shanti Retreat Centre, B K Jayanti, director of Brahma Kumaris services in Europe, and others spoke on the occasion. Born in Karachi in undivided India in 1928, Dadi Hriday Mohini was associated with the Brahma Kumaris since the age of eight, when she along with her mother joined a spiritual community led by Prajapita Brahma, the founder of the Brahma Kumaris.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/disciples-bid-farewell-to-brahma-kumaris-chief-dadi-hriday-mohini/articleshow/81488081.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Poll buzz picks up steam but in Covid time, action moves online||Mumbai: BMC polls may be a year away but the hustle seems to have already begun. Not just corporators from the ruling -Shiv Sena, even Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) teams--which will be the newest entrant in the civic poll fray is leaving no stone unturned to reach out to citizens, especially those from Advanced Locality Management groups. For instance, AAP recently held a webinar with members of ALMs across Mumbai presenting their roadmap for BMC elections 2022. Planning to contest all seats, AAP’s tagline in the invite was ‘citizen activism to clean politics’. Reuben Mascarenhas, national joint secretary of AAP, said AAP is a party that started with civic activism and went on to citizen politics. “The legacy of the party itself is such and therefore reaching out to all citizens group was inevitable. We are surely contesting from all 227 seats in the BMC election and have got many citizen activists to formally join AAP. The webinar was just a start,” he said. Chembur resident Rajkumar Sharma, from Advanced Locality Management and Networking Action Committee (ALMAC) said he did try to log in to the AAP webinar. “...I think it’s good to hear everyone out. If we plan to cast our vote, we should know well what every candidate or party has in mind for the area or city at large,” he said. In Goregaon, first-time corporator Deepak Thakur, has circulated a flyer among his area citizens, sharing his own mobile number with the tagline — ‘Power in your Pocket’. In Covid times, webinars or messaging services are being used. In the case of Thakur, he has asked citizens to use WhatsApp to register their complaints. “This is only for my ward residents. My mother Vidya Thakur, now an MLA, has been a four-term corporator and we are here to solve citizens’ issues, so why not through WhatsApp which is now used widely?” he says. Dadar’s Parsi Colony Corporator Amey Ghole from Shiv Sena meanwhile has formed ‘Team Corporator’ wherein he has got a few residents from every area of the ward he represents to join him. “This is a non political initiative and these residents are more like the eyes and ears of that particular locality for me wherein if they have any issues the same can be taken ahead with the civic authorities. I have formed WhatsApp groups also with the authorities wherein the concerns are then shared for a faster redress,” said Ghole. Meanwhile in south Mumbai, Marine Drive resident Mahendra Hemdev says they have a localized civic redress group which was formed by their MLA Rahul Narwekar. It is called ‘MLA Action group’ and also the local Shiv Sena corporator Sujata Sanap has one called ‘Resolve your civic issues’. “Both these groups were started during the lockdown months last year and their purpose is only to resolve civic issues. No forwarded messages like ‘Good Morning’, ‘Good Night’ are allowed in these groups. The MLA or corporator also have their own members in these groups who help in resolving the issue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-poll-buzz-picks-up-steam-but-in-covid-time-action-moves-online/articleshow/81488748.cms||Richa Pinto
March 14, 2021||Nashik||Close watch on sale of medicines for cold, cough||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have warned medical stores against selling medicines for cold, cough, body pain, fever without prescriptions from registered medical practitioner. Officials said that these are symptoms of Covid-19 infection and over the counter sale of medicines for these complaints could pose problem. NMC commissioner Kailas Jadhav said, “There are chances that the people are buying these medicines over the counter and hence, we have asked the Nashik FDA to strictly monitor the sale of these drugs. It would help in tracing people with these symptoms, conducting their Covid-19 tests and treating them if infected. This will further help in containing the spread of the infection.” Assistant commissioner of FDA, Nashik, Madhuri Pawar, said that since these medicines are in the scheduled list, chemists and druggists are not permitted to sell them across the counter. “There is no specific and fresh order. We have warned the shopkeepers and told them to keep a record of the sale of scheduled medicines,” Pawar said. The officer also said that the drug inspectors have been alerted to the keep a tab over such sales and take appropriate measures to curb the same. Gorakh Chaudhari, president of Nashik District Chemists and Druggists Association, said that there are products that did not fall in the scheduled list and people should exercise restraint in demanding the same. “There are many other products, which can be sold over the counter. Our members cannot ask for prescriptions for these. So people must not use the same and be responsible,” Chaudhary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/close-watch-on-sale-of-medicines-for-cold-cough/articleshow/81488082.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Tests for 50L primary students from Mon||Ahmedabad: More than 50 lakh students from class 3 to class 8 are expected to participate in the periodic assessment test that is slated to begin from Monday. The exams will be held on-campus for students who have resumed physical classroom studies. While the state government recently allowed schools to restart after a nine-month break due to Covid-19 pandemic, on-campus studies for students below class 6 has not resumed so far. “Exams will be taken for students from class 3 to class 8 beginning Monday. Exam papers will be sent to the homes of those students who cannot attend physical classes,” said M I Joshi, director of primary education. The dates for the unit test have been revisited at least twice in the past. The test was earlier to be conducted from February 25 to February 27 but it got delayed due to local body elections. Teachers and other school staff members were engaged in election duty and hence the exam dates were revised, said sources in the state education department. The Gujarat education board had then decided to conduct the exam from March 2 to March 4 for schools across the state. However, this too had to be rescheduled. Students need to be assessed periodically to check their progress and take measures for further improvement, said an official of the education department. “This exercise was halted for a long time due to Covid-19, but it needs to be done now before it’s time for the annual examination,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tests-for-50l-primary-students-from-mon/articleshow/81488071.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Goa||Coastal body seeks info on notified fishing villages||PANAJI: The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has sought to know from the state directorate of environment and directorate of fisheries if any fishing villages have been notified in Goa under CRZ 2011 notification or under any state or central government act. The information has been sought in a case pertaining to 121 structures in CRZ area in Baina, for which demolition orders had been issued. The structures had been identified as per a report by the deputy collector for Mormugao. The owners of the structures had appealed against the demolition orders before the National Green Tribunal (NGT), stating that they were part of a fishing village. Accordingly, NGT told the GCZMA that it should have considered fishing villages when taking a decision.  The fishermen argued before the GCZMA that the notices have been against traditional fishermen, all of whom have been in the business for generations and have fishing boats or canoes registered in their name. The fishermen said that the state coastal zone management plan (CZMP) is still in the process of being finalised and fishing villages will be demarcated in the plan. The CZMP will require structures of traditional fishermen to be protected. And so the fishermen from Baina asked the disposal of the cases for demolition at Baina may be kept on hold till the CZMP is finalised. The GCZMA accordingly sought information if there is any fishing village identified in Goa. The authority has also sought to know from the Mormugao municipality how long the area in Katem Baina, where the structures stand, is part of urban area. Owners of the structures had appealed against the demolition orders before the NGT, stating that they were part of a fishing village. Accordingly, NGT told the GCZMA that it should have considered fishing villages when taking a decision||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coastal-body-seeks-info-on-notified-fishing-villages/articleshow/81488765.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||One Way Cab eying expansion to 100 cities within a year||Vadodara: Six years ago, he launched a first-of-its-kind service in Gujarat that made travelling by road between the cities truly pocket-friendly for passengers. Vivek Kejriwal, CEO of One Way Cab, a Vadodara-based firm, is now planning to expand his services and connect with about 100 cities across the country.In fact, Kejriwal has his eyes set on the rural market and is looking for investors to fund the project. “We are in talks with a couple of investors, as we want to raise about three million US dollars within the next few months. We want to reach out to the rural markets, and for expansion plans we need funds,” Kejriwal, 37, said. One Way Cab is present in about 50 cities and within a year and Kejriwal is aiming to double the numbers. “There is scope to expand in tier II and tier III cities as there is a good market for one-way cabs there,” he added. If a passenger has to make a single-way journey between cities, taxi service providers usually charge for round trips.But One Way Cab charges only for one-way travel, making the transit cheaper for commuters. When asked how the idea of offering a one-way cab service dawned upon him, Kejriwal said, “We first launched a taxi service in Vadodara and it was at that time that I got the idea of starting a one-way cab facility. And it proved to be successful. In fact, we were the first organized player in the country to offer this facility.”The firm now has 30 employees and 20 of them are currently working from home due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Kejriwal, who originally hails from Bhagalpur in Bihar, completed his bachelor's in Computer Science from Fergusson College in Pune before shifting to the US where he worked for about three years. In 2013, he returned to India to start his own venture.“I had completed my schooling from Surat as my father worked there. I was familiar with Gujarat, and I felt that Vadodara needed mobility. The market here had potential. So, we decided to launch our greenfield project in Vadodara, which is well connected with other cities,” Kejriwal told TOI.When asked if One Way Cab is still facing the Covid-19 pandemic blues, Kejriwal said that most people are working from home and business travel too hasn’t picked up much. “But people are now doing leisure travel, and they also use our service for airport transport. We are hoping the business picks up soon,” Kejriwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-way-cab-eying-expansion-to-100-cities-within-a-year/articleshow/81488104.cms||Tushar Tere
March 14, 2021||Pune||Pune: Food and beverage outlets in shopping malls fear fresh drop in business over new curbs||PUNE: The 10pm deadline for malls has already begun to drastically affect business at food courts, many establishments in the city said. While food and beverage outlets will continue to offer delivery services till 11pm, the seating area would be off limits by 10pm, affecting these outlets’ business to a great extent. Malls reported steady footfalls during the day on Saturday but added that it had begun to taper off towards the evening. The full impact would become clear only in the coming days, mall operators said. Earlier, malls could operate till 11pm. Now they must close an hour earlier. “Food courts were already maintaining the 50% seating capacity per outlet. On a table of four, only two were being allowed to sit. This was already impacting business and footfalls at the mall, but Friday’s restrictions would further drive down business. By Saturday afternoon, footfalls in malls were steady, partly due to a new movie release. However, we saw a 20% drop in footfalls by the evening because of the new deadline,” Surjit Singh Rajpurohit, chief operating officer of Amanora Mall and a member of Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI), told TOI. Malls said they get the highest footfalls around 7pm on weekends. “People drop in by 7pm, move around and push off by 10 pm. However, on Saturday, we recorded a 5% drop in footfalls compared to last week. We will have to observe the trend for a few more days to be able to see just how much the footfalls dropped due to the change in the closing time,” an official from a city-based mall said. The owner of a restaurant with outlets in several city-based malls said his business was affected by 70%. “We had barely reached about 20% of our original business because many theatres are still closed. On Saturday, we did just 5% of our regular business. We do not understand the logic behind restricting the operation timings of businesses like restaurants, which were already operating at 50% capacity,” he said. Vikram Shetty, vice-president of Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA), said the government seemed “unmindful” of their plight. “For one, the rule about displaying information about total seating capacity and seats occupied at any given time at the entrance of the eatery hardly helps. One can restrict the number of people in a restaurant, but what about those waiting in line outside, or those flocking at the local, open street markets in Pune?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fb-outlets-in-shopping-malls-fear-fresh-drop-in-biz-over-new-curbs/articleshow/81488100.cms||Neha Madaan
March 14, 2021||Agra||AMU students protest against UP Shia Waqf Board chief for PIL seeking removal of 26 verses from Quran||Agra: A day after former chairman of UP Shia Central Waqf Board Waseem Rizvi filed a PIL in the Supreme Court seeking removal of 26 verses from the Quran, the Aligarh Muslim University students staged a protest and accused him of blasphemy.In the memorandum submitted to the President of India, the students stated that Rizvi had alleged that 26 verses of the holy book were not there in the original text of the scripture but were "added by the Caliphs to promote terrorism and violence on the pretext of jihad". The PIL also seeks intervention of the apex court to obliterate the impugned verses of the Quran. Condemning the statements given by Rizvi, the students asked the President that due action be taken against him for blasphemy and that the government should disregard his statements immediately to prove its secular and democratic credentials. In the memorandum, the students stated that the statements have hurt sentiments of the community and also threaten to destroy the social fabric of the nation. “The vilifying statements are deliberate and malicious acts to outrage religious feelings and is a cognizable, non-bailable and non-compoundable offence,” reads the memorandum.Former students’ union president Faizul Hassan said that they are ashamed that Rizvi made such statements despite being a Muslim. “This person is creating fissures between the two sects and he should be put behind the bars,” he said, adding that this person is a threat to the society. Another student leader Farhan Zuberi said, “We have demanded strict action against him as he is trying to divide the nation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-students-protest-against-up-shia-waqf-board-chief-for-pil-seeking-removal-of-26-verses-from-quran/articleshow/81487151.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Chennai||Maths, physics optional for engg: AICTE sticks to its decision||Chennai: After receiving widespread criticism for its move of making maths, physics optional for engineering admissions, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) stands by its decision of making maths, physics optional for engineering admissions from 2021-22. The council which removed the approval process handbook (APH) on Friday due to “certain typographical errors in the text and table” uploaded it on Saturday after corrections. However, APH for 2021-22 did not change the eligibility criteria for BE, BTech admissions. As per the new eligibility criteria it is not mandatory for students to study maths and physics to join engineering and technology programmes. They can pursue engineering by studying any three of the 14 subjects -- physics, mathematics, chemistry, computer science, electronics, information technology, biology, informatics practices, biotechnology, technical vocational subject, agriculture, engineering graphics, business studies and entrepreneurship. “This initiative of AICTE will enhance accessibility of technical education to students coming from diverse background and also it shall seek to reduce the pressure on students to pursue such portions which are not relevant in pursuance of higher technical education. This is totally in line with the philosophy of National Education Policy 2020 in terms of flexibility and multi-disciplinary courses, innovation etc.,” the council said in its clarification. It further said it received representations from students and industry to give option to pursue technical courses such as agriculture, biotechnology, information technology, electronics to students who did not have prior electives of maths and physics at Class XII level. The council further said that it is an option given by the council which is not binding on the states or universities and for various entrance exams such as JEE and CET among others.  “They may continue to hold the entrance exams in physics, chemistry and mathematics as is being done now and gradually decide to conduct exam in other subjects after discussing and taking decisions in the university senates and academic councils and state level committees. In future, when NEP shall be implemented in totality then this option can be implemented in its letter and spirit,” AICTE said. Under the new pattern of 5+3+3+4 in school education, the disciplinary boundaries have been removed to promote overall development of students in different disciplines.  “Hard Boundaries (physics, chemistry, mathematics) imposed for entry into all branches of engineering education (which are 367 in Diploma and 261 in UG) since long time was affecting access to higher technical education for those who had not taken these subjects,” the council said while citing example of making chemistry optional for circuit branches including computer science. E Balagurusamy, former vice-chancellor of Anna University said AICTE should identify the engineering courses which do not need maths or physics and exempt it. “But, they cannot generalise for all courses as students cannot even understand the engineering concepts without understanding maths,” he said. He further said such a big move has been brought in without any discussions. “There was no deliberation even among the academicians before taking such a decision.” he said adding that it would further deteriorate the quality of engineers in our country. Bridge courses will not be much help as colleges and universities may end of teaching maths for more than two years. “Maths is a unifying subject in this emerging paradigm of interdisciplinary engineering education and hence important as a subject of study in Class XII. Also, JEE has a maths paper because its considered important for engineering admissions,” said S Vaidhyasubramaniam, vice-chancellor of SASTRA university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/maths-physics-optional-for-engg-aicte-sticks-to-its-decision/articleshow/81488753.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Lucknow||‘Under SP, nepotism, graft marred hirings’||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath launching a scathing attack on Samajwadi Party while handing over job letters to block education officers (BEO) on Saturday, and said there was rampant corruption, nepotism, casteism during SP regime and meritorious candidates were neglected. “Between 2012 and 2017, the appointment process for government posts in Uttar Pradesh was distributed among members of a family. One appointment process was looked after by an uncle, the other allotted to a nephew, maternal uncle, or maternal grandfather,” he said. He further drew a corollary between SP rule and Mahabharata, saying, “Just as Kaka-Mama-Nana blocked the progress of India during Mahabharata, in the same way, this family (Samajwadi Party) remained an impediment to the progress of UP.” “We have ensured all fairness and transparency in your appointment. Merit is the only basis for government jobs. Now, no one has to give bribe to get job,” said Yogi, while handing over appointment letters to 271 block education officers. “Earlier, every appointment was done on the basis of caste and religion. Many times, apart from providing jobs, these people used to find grooms for their daughters and sisters during appointments,” the CM added. “We warned recruitment commissions saying they have complete freedom in work, but if complaint of any irregularity is received, the entire commission will face action. The result is that today no one can say any ‘jugaad’ helped in getting a job,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/under-sp-nepotism-graft-marred-hirings/articleshow/81488750.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Delhi||At 419, Covid cases cross 400 for 3rd day in a row in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The capital on Saturday recorded 419 new Covid cases, crossing the 400-mark for the third consecutive day. The positivity rate stood at 0.56%, stated data shared by health department. On Friday, 431 cases were recorded — the highest single-day spike in over two months, while Thursday and Wednesday saw 409 and 370 cases, respectively. Health minister Satyendar Jain said the figures of over 400 per day were “not alarming” and asserted that the positivity rate was still below 1%. Health experts and doctors have attributed this “sudden rise” to people turning complacent, not following Covid-appropriate behaviour and “assuming all is well now”. According to official figures, a total of 585 Covid cases were reported on January 1 and 424 on January 3. The daily count dropped to 306 on January 11 and rose again to 386 on January 12. The numbers started to come down in February. On February 26, the month’s highest daily count of 256 cases was recorded. The cases on Saturday took the infection tally to 6,43,289, while the number of active cases rose to 2,207 from 2,093 on Friday. With three more fatalities on Saturday, the death toll climbed to 10,939, stated the bulletin. The total tests conducted in the past 24 hours stood at 74,326, including 47,120 RT-PCR and 27,206 rapid antigen tests, it added. The number of people under home isolation on Saturday rose to 1,204 from 1,097 on Friday, it said, adding that over 6.3 lakh people have recovered from the infection till date. Medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital Dr Suresh Kumar said non-adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour was responsible for the spurt in cases. “The active cases have increased and so have the number of patients requiring hospitalisation. If this trend holds or picks up pace, we may again have to increase designated facilities for Covid management in hospitals,” he added. Delhi had witnessed three peaks in Covid-19 cases last year — in June, September and November, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-419-covid-cases-cross-400-for-3rd-day-in-a-row/articleshow/81488127.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ahead of BMC polls Sena floats talk of an Urdu Bhavan plan in Byculla||Mumbai:With an eye on Muslim votes ahead of next year’s BMC elections, Shiv Sena had proposed to build an Urdu Bhavan in Byculla. The Sena has earmarked Rs 1.5 crore by amending the civic budget in the Standing Committee for the Urdu Bhavan. The Sena’s pitch for the Urdu Bhavan comes after the BMC announced in this year’s budget to construct a ‘Dabbawala Bhavan’ in central Mumbai. Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav, who heads the Standing Committee said more funds would be set aside for Urdu Bhavan in the general body amendment to the budget also. “This Urdu Bhavan will have a research centre, auditorium and library. It will become a centre for Urdu language learning excellence and scholarship. We will set aside more funds for it and work will begin this year itself,” Jadhav said. “We will ask BMC to set up a panel of Urdu scholars to oversee its construction,” Jadhav said. In its 2017 BMC election manifesto, Sena had promised to construct Dabbawala Bhavan, but over four years later the promise has only remained a paper provision in the budget. Political analysts said Sena would try and woo Muslim voters, given the support it showed for the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act and National Register of Citizens last year. The Muslim community can prove to a deciding factor in almost 30 seats in the 227 strong BMC, and the community has been a prize catch for political parties. Congress and Samajwadi Party which have received support from the Muslim community over the years are now feeling that Sena is becoming increasingly acceptable to the Muslim community too. In 2017, the Sena had already managed a significant foray into several of the city’s Muslim-dominated areas, with two Muslim corporators and a sizeable vote share in many of these wards. Sena gave tickets to five Muslim candidates in Muslim pockets and polled vote share around 20% in these areas. The BJP fielded 6 Muslim candidates but all of them lost. Muslim representation in BMC also rose in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ahead-of-bmc-polls-sena-floats-talk-of-an-urdu-bhavan-plan-in-byculla/articleshow/81488761.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi families lose 4 members as truck hits bus in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: The joy of a vacation turned into a nightmare for four Delhi families, after their vehicle was hit by a truck near village Gadna in Jodhpur’s Baap. The accident happened on Saturday morning on a divider-less Bikaner-Jaisalmer highway. Five people, including the driver of the tourist bus, died on the spot; while 12 others were badly injured, including six children. The driver of the truck has been detained. Another truck near the accident spot had also overturned in an attempt to avoid the collision with the other two vehicles. Station House Officer (Baap) Hari Singh said four friends, who work in the same company in the capital, had left for Jaisalmer in a mini bus for a holiday with their families. “The tourist bus reached near village Gadna in the Baap sub-division of Jodhpur around 7am when it was hit by a truck coming from the opposite direction. The truck, loaded with heavy pipes, brushed against the bus at the driver’s side, taking off the entire metal sheet and roof off of the vehicle,” Singh said. The accident was so horrific that the limbs of several passengers were severed and the entire tourist vehicle was smeared with blood. The SHO said that the passengers were stuck inside the mangled bus and the cops and villagers had a tough time taking the bodies and injured out of the vehicle. Five people sitting on the driver’s side died on the spot while the others were badly hurt. The injured were rushed to PBM Cancer Hospital in Bikaner. Those who died have been identified as bus driver Faookh and passengers Vikas Rohilla, Devendra Choudhary, Richaa Jain and Pooja Panchal. Although the cause of the accident has not yet been ascertained, it is believed that the driver of one of the vehicles had fallen asleep at the wheel and lost control of the vehicle. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat have extended their condolences, terming the accident unfortunate and painful. They wished for the speedy recovery of the injured. The driver of the truck was detained. Another truck near the accident spot also overturned in an attempt to avoid the collision with the other two vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-families-lose-4-members-as-truck-hits-bus-in-jodhpur/articleshow/81490278.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Jaipur||Delhi families lose 4 members as truck hits bus in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: The joy of a vacation turned into a nightmare for four Delhi families, after their vehicle was hit by a truck near village Gadna in Jodhpur’s Baap. The accident happened on Saturday morning on a divider-less Bikaner-Jaisalmer highway. Five people, including the driver of the tourist bus, died on the spot; while 12 others were badly injured, including six children. The driver of the truck has been detained. Another truck near the accident spot had also overturned in an attempt to avoid the collision with the other two vehicles. Station House Officer (Baap) Hari Singh said four friends, who work in the same company in the capital, had left for Jaisalmer in a mini bus for a holiday with their families. “The tourist bus reached near village Gadna in the Baap sub-division of Jodhpur around 7am when it was hit by a truck coming from the opposite direction. The truck, loaded with heavy pipes, brushed against the bus at the driver’s side, taking off the entire metal sheet and roof off of the vehicle,” Singh said. The accident was so horrific that the limbs of several passengers were severed and the entire tourist vehicle was smeared with blood. The SHO said that the passengers were stuck inside the mangled bus and the cops and villagers had a tough time taking the bodies and injured out of the vehicle. Five people sitting on the driver’s side died on the spot while the others were badly hurt. The injured were rushed to PBM Cancer Hospital in Bikaner. Those who died have been identified as bus driver Faookh and passengers Vikas Rohilla, Devendra Choudhary, Richaa Jain and Pooja Panchal. Although the cause of the accident has not yet been ascertained, it is believed that the driver of one of the vehicles had fallen asleep at the wheel and lost control of the vehicle. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat have extended their condolences, terming the accident unfortunate and painful. They wished for the speedy recovery of the injured. The driver of the truck was detained. Another truck near the accident spot also overturned in an attempt to avoid the collision with the other two vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/delhi-families-lose-4-members-as-truck-hits-bus-in-jodhpur/articleshow/81488798.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Pune||Admin gears up to boost institutional quarantine support system in Maharashtra||PUNE: Setting up more institutional quarantine support centres for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients is the focal point of authorities at present in view of the increase in violation of home isolation norms. The state officials recently reached out to all the divisional commissioners and told the latter to make necessary arrangements and suggest institutional isolation to asymptomatic patients unable to follow the Covid-19 protocols at home. The initiative was taken following reports that family members of some patients were not taking adequate preventive measures, thereby affecting the entire family and prompting rapid spread of Covid-19. “All local officials have been told to give such asymptomatic Covid patients the option of institutional quarantine after proper counselling,” said a senior state government official. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said they had received some complaints about the violation of home quarantine norms. He said residents’ welfare associations had been roped in to help the administration monitor the home isolated patients, besides the local authorities. “We also have the ward-wise surveillance system. The ward-level officials call up the home quarantined patients for counselling and hand-holding, besides keeping a check on them,” said Rao. There were suggestions to use technology to closely monitor the home isolated patients in the district’s Covid-19 review meeting on Friday. There were talks on exploring the option of institutional quarantine for asymptomatic patients even in the chief minister’s review meeting on Sunday. Some asymptomatic Covid patients faced problems in finding a suitable institutional quarantine centre. A retired government official in his 70s had to book a hotel close to a hospital to ensure that he did not spread the infection to his wife, also in 70s. “I was being sent to a home quarantine facility almost 10-12km away from my place. I decided to opt for staying in a hotel dedicated to asymptomatic patients and close to the hospital,” said the Covid positive patient. Dr Sanjeev Wavre, the assistant health officer of the Pune Municipal Corporation, said there was a 200-bed Covid centre at Rakshaknagar at present. He said, “We are planning to have two to three more such centres.” The district officials also stated that enough institutional quarantine facilities were being readied for the asymptomatic patients who cannot be managed at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/admin-gears-up-to-boost-institutional-quarantine-support-system-in-state/articleshow/81488110.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 14, 2021||---||M K Stalin’s big-budget ‘second hero’ plays to many galleries||DMK chief M K Stalin on Saturday released the party’s election manifesto, calling it the "second hero" and promising a slew of benefits such as one-year maternity leave and free bus passes to women to travel in city and town buses. The party has promised to reserve 75% of jobs in industries for Tamils. All ration card holders would be given a one-time financial assistance of `4,000 each, he said. Party candidates were the "first hero," he said. The document also seeks to appease Hindus by promising to earmark `1,000 crore to renovate and consecrate temples and extend financial aid of `25,000 each to 1 lakh people for undertaking pilgrimage. In a balancing act, the party has promised to allocate `200 crore to maintain churches and mosques too. Stalin said, if voted to power, special courts would be set up to try AIADMK ministers facing corruption charges. The probe into Jayalalithaa’s death would be speeded up, he said. The document has 500 promises, including waiver of education loans (for those below 30 years of age) and reduction in fuel prices, which Stalin has been promising in recent campaigns. The party says price of diesel would be brought down by `4 and petrol by `5 per litre. Gas cylinder price would be reduced by `100, he said. The party has sought to appease government employees by promising them that the DMK government would revert to the old pension scheme. It has also promised first generation graduates priority in government jobs. The Centre would be urged to announce ‘Thirukkural’ a national book, Stalin said. Another promise that would have far-reaching impact is reduction in price of Aavin milk by `3 per litre. Property tax would not be increased, he said. Taking a serious view of crimes against women, the party has proposed to set up special cyber-crime police stations to investigate crimes against women. Targeting students, the party says free tablets with free data cards would be provided. Extending the scope of noon-meal scheme, the party has promised to provide milk also to school students. The manifesto said metro rail networks would be established in Coimbatore, Trichy and other cities. The party has also prepared a district-wise manifesto.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/stalins-big-budget-second-hero-plays-to-many-galleries/articleshow/81488751.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
March 14, 2021||Bareilly||‘Sugarcane tigers’ of UP’s Amaria expand footprint to one more area||PILIBHIT: The first time he heard the rustle in the sugarcane fields, he was not alarmed. But the second one, Sachin Gangwar thought, was not that of the movement of a small animal. The next moment, he froze — it was a tiger, 100m away. In two months, tigers have been spotted in the villages of Lalaurikhera six times, confirmed by pug marks in each instance. The latest sighting was on Saturday. And while it’s an unusual sight at Lalaurikhera, it is not so strange at Amaria, about 25 km away. Over the past nine years, Amaria has been home to “sugarcane tigers” — big cats who were born or have grown up on sugarcane farms and are more comfortable there than in forests. Last year, TOI reported, there were 13 such tigers — 10 in Amaria and 3 in Mohamadi, a new site. Now, they are moving further beyond, to Lalaurikhera, more than 30km from the core forest region of the Mala range. “We had heard of Amaria’s tigers, but never had one here,” Gangwar, a sugarcane farmer from Handa village who was the first to spot one, said. “We want the authorities to do something before they make this a permanent home.” The tiger he saw was a male two-and-a-half years old one. “When tigers grow up, they need their own territory and leave their mothers,” divisional forest officer Sanjeev Kumar said. “Tigers generally migrate along the river course. As the Apsara flows directly from Amaria to Lalaurikhera, they may have landed here.” The WWF has set up six camera traps at Handa village. But it is not known exactly how many tigers may have migrated so far. On Saturday, a young tigress from Amaria got entangled in a net set up around a sugarcane farm to trap wild boars. This was in Lalaurikhera’s Harchuiya village, where a tiger had also been spotted on Thursday. “The tigress is about two-and-a-half years old, 142cm long and weighs 140kg. She had been here since Friday morning, spotted last when she was entering a sugarcane field,” Kumar said. When she was not seen all of Friday night, forest teams began looking. “With high-power binoculars and drone cameras, she was found entangled in a net,” he added. A permission to tranquilise her was taken from UP chief wildlife warden Pawan Kumar Sharma and she was tranquilised by Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) veterinarian Dr Daksh Gangwar at 3.30pm. “She will be released into a protected forest area within the reserve with a low tiger density on Sunday morning,” PTR deputy director Naveen Khandelwal said. But the incident highlighted what has been a concern the forest department and locals have been flagging. “Had the Amaria tigers been translocated, this would not have happened,” said Gayasuddin Mansoori, a local farmer leader. Two years ago, member secretary of NTCA Dr Anoop Kumar Nayak had approved the translocation to non-tiger forest zones but because PTR had no rewilding enclosure, the plan was stalled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sugarcane-tigers-of-ups-amaria-expand-footprint-to-one-more-area/articleshow/81486750.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 14, 2021||Pune||Restricting crowds at weddings in rural areas tough, say ZP officials & police||PUNE: The implementation of restrictions on the number of guests at weddings has become a big challenge in rural areas of the district, spread across 13 tehsils, said senior officials from Zilla Parishad (ZP) and rural police. The district administration has reduced the number of guests to 50 at closed venues and 100 at open venues. Earlier, up to 200 guests were allowed to attend the function at an open venue. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said it would be a challenging task to implement the rule, considering the sentiments of people, loss of business for venue owners as well as other service providers. “However, we can’t afford to lower our guard when the number of cases is on the rise in the district,” Deshmukh told TOI on Saturday. “We have reactivated flying squads for effective implementation of Covid-19 norms,” Deshmukh added. There are over 2,000 marriage halls across rural Pune and most are located on major national and state highways. ZP chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “We have noticed crowding at weddings taking placed in semi-urban areas of the district. We need to take extra effort in such situations. People have become sentimental about the restriction on wedding attendance, but they need to understand the situation.” The rural police have filed six FIRs against owners of marriage halls for violating Covid-19 norms in their limits this year. “We have also carried out checks at 2,200 marriage halls. We will intensify our drive further,” said Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of police, Pune rural.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restricting-crowds-at-weddings-in-rural-areas-tough-say-zp-officials-police/articleshow/81488105.cms||Sandip Dighe
March 14, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM launches ‘kalanamak’ rice festival, hails research||LUCKNOW: Amidst multiple initiatives to promote local agri products, the state government on Saturday launched a ‘kalanamak’ rice festival in Siddharth Nagar. Inaugurating the programme virtually from Lucknow, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, even though historical records mention farming of ‘kalanamak’ rice in the area since 600 BC, its unviability forced farmers to shift to other crops. “Currently, the variety is being grown on 5,000 hectares in just Siddharth Nagar, due to efforts of our government,” he said. Earlier, kalanamak rice was grown, but yield was less. Over the years, investment costs too spiralled and farmers did not find it viable. “Research and innovation increased yield, while reducing investment,” he said. Recalling his visit to Varanasi after becoming CM, he said a Samajwadi Party MLC asked him whether he tasted ‘kheer’ made of ‘kalanamak’ rice grown in Chandauli. “I had not till then, but found it truly tasty,” he said. In 2018, the state government included ‘kalanamak’ rice in the ‘one district-one product’ scheme and provided marketing, branding and technical support to farmers to give them a bigger platform to sell their produce. PUSA Institute, Delhi, and Acharya Narendra Dev University of Agriculture and Technology, Ayodhya, have been researching on ‘kalanamak’ rice and provided significant inputs to raise its viability. The CM said, government’s initiatives helped raise the area under ‘kalanamak’ cultivation. Before Independence, 22,000 hectare was under cultivation, but before his government assumed power in 2017, it had dropped to 2,200 hectare in UP. “This rice variety is packed with nutrition with 21.5% zinc, 12% iron, Omega 3 and Omega6. Not only is it good for diabetics, but also soft and tasty,” the CM said. Encouraging research, the CM said, progressive farmers in the state had taken giant leaps like a strawberry cultivator in Jhansi and a Sultanpur farmer who grew dragon fruit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-launches-kalanamak-rice-festival-hails-research/articleshow/81488757.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Despite Covid-19, fresh investments flowing into Gujarat’s pharma sector||AHMEDABAD: A couple of weeks ago, Gujarat government accorded in-principle approval to Mankind Pharma for setting up a pharmaceutical plant in Gujarat. The company plans to invest Rs 1,100 crore in a phased manner, with Rs 500 crore being pumped in the first phase for building an export-oriented pharma plant at Vadodara. Another pharma company from Mumbai, called USV Private Limited, is looking at investing Rs 360 crore for a new facility in the state, said state government sources. Despite the nationwide lockdown last May, a European pharma major Zentiva took over a pharmaceutical plant in Ankleshwar and earmarked Rs 150 crore for its expansion. Notwithstanding the Covid-19 induced slowdown, Gujarat has continued to witness fresh investments in the pharmaceutical sector. This could be seen from the fact that the Gujarat Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA) granted 119 ‘own licences’ to different manufacturers between April 1, 2020 and March 4, 2021. This means that 119 new plants were constructed and went into commercial production. The new plants were for manufacturing bulk drugs, formulations, and medical devices. Stating that pharma and healthcare is a constantly growing sector, Gujarat FDCA commissioner Dr H G Koshia said that the state’s pharma space continued to witness fresh investment either for greenfield or brownfield projects in spite of the disruptions caused by the pandemic. According to the state FDCA, firms that received ‘own manufacturing licences’ during the period include names such as Zentiva, BDR Pharmaceutical, Concord Biotech, Corona Remedies, Emcure Pharma and Finecure Pharmaceuticals to name a few. The minimum capital requirement for building a pharma plant is around Rs 10 crore, which means the state has received fresh investment upwards of Rs 1,190 crore. There are several factors that attract pharma companies to the state for their new and expansion projects. “Noteworthy among them are good governance, better infrastructure, robust transportation with road, rail and air connectivity, availability of power and labour peace as well as good law and order situation,” added Koshia. Gujarat also has a large base for ancillary and associated industries such as packaging, chemicals, engineering and pharma plant machinery manufacturing. “The state also has ample availability of skilled manpower for the pharmaceutical industry. The work culture in Gujarat is far better than in many other states. Gujarat has built a reputation for making quality drugs. The drugs manufactured in Gujarat have minimal failure ratio when tested for quality,” he added. The commissioner further explained that India’s Drug Control General of India (DCGI) last month tested 1,016 samples of medicines from across the country. About 17 samples failed the test, of which only one sample was from Gujarat, which manufactures one-third of India’s medicines. There are several prerequisites for an own manufacturing licence, which include construction of plant as per Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) norms, qualified and trained manpower, and requirement of minimum machinery among others. According to industry players, with Goods and Services Tax (GST) narrowing down the cost differential between states having tax holidays (such as Himachal Pradesh) and states with no tax exemptions, several pharma companies started looking at Gujarat for their expansion and new projects. This trend was unhampered even during the pandemic as new plants continued to be established. “The state, at present, offers the best environment for investment in the pharmaceutical sector,” said Viranchi Shah, national senior vice-president, Indian Drug Manufacturers Association (IDMA). Currently, the Indian pharmaceutical industry size is estimated at $41 billion (approximately Rs 3 lakh crore). Market experts feel that the size of the Indian pharmaceutical industry is likely to surge three times over the next decade, given the efforts of the government and industry. The increased focus of both central and state governments on healthcare after the outbreak of Covid-19 is expected to provide a major thrust to the pharmaceutical industry. “Gujarat will be at the forefront of grabbing whatever fresh investment is attracted as part of the thrust given to the pharmaceutical sector,” Shah added. He stated that the industry is also aligned with the government’s effort to grow the sector. Being the top pharmaceutical state, Gujarat will continue to be a frontrunner in this journey. The state’s share in India’s pharma production could touch 40% from 32-33% currently. The state government’s plans to build bulk drug and medical devices parks will further boost investment in Gujarat, said industry players.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/despite-covid-19-fresh-investments-flowing-into-gujarats-pharma-sector/articleshow/81488146.cms||Kalpesh Damor
March 14, 2021||Pune||PMR records 3,073 cases, over 15,000 samples tested||PUNE: The Covid-19 daily tally dropped marginally to 3,073 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday as testing stayed on the higher side, pushing the total caseload in the region above 4.34 lakh. The region conducted 15,604 tests on Saturday as against 14,400 test on Friday. Of these, the PMC conducted over 9,700 tests while the rural and PCMC areas checked over 3,000 and 2,839 samples, respectively, on Saturday. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that the PMC areas added 1,633 new patients on Saturday, followed by the PCMC areas (811) and the rural pockets (629). A total of 1,431 patients recovered in the region on Saturday, taking the total discharge count above 4.05 lakh. Of these, over 2 lakh patients have been declared cured in the PMC limits, over 1.04 lakh in the PCMC limits and 99,408 in the rural pockets. Health authorities said they had intensified contact tracing and also declared micro-containment zones to check the spread. The region reported 16 deaths due to Covid-related complications on Saturday, including 12 deaths in the PMC areas and two each in the PCMC and rural areas. The active caseload in the region increased above 20,000 on Saturday. Of these, 13,706 patients were in home isolation, while 6,612 were being treated at various hospitals, the report stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-records-3073-cases-over-15k-samples-tested/articleshow/81488124.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 14, 2021||Pune||2,712 fined for not wearing masks||Pune: The police on Saturday fined 2,712 people in the district for not wearing masks and violating Covid-19 norms. A total of Rs 13,01,500 was collected in fines. The Pune police penalized 1,443 people and recovered Rs7 lakh, while the Pimpri Chinchwad police acted against 735 violators and collected Rs 3.68 lakh. The Pune rural police caught 534 without masks and fined them Rs 2.32 lakh. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2712-fined-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/81488130.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Lucknow||Take on hardships, Lt Gen Dr Kanitkar tells AGDC girls||Lucknow: Choose to challenge! A situation can damage you, but don’t allow it to destroy you. Remember the Japanese art of ‘Kintsukuroi’ in which broken pots are repaired using gold and adopt the same in life. A number of such motivational examples and inspirational stories of women who gave a tough fight to hardship were shared by Lieutenant General Dr Madhuri Kanitkar. Dr Kanitkar on Saturday virtually delivered the Tehrim Dass Memorial Lecture at Avadh Girls’ Degree College (AGDC). Lt Gen Dr Kanitkar is the third woman officer in the country and the first pediatrician to get a three-star rank. Addressing the students, she said, “Getting degrees is of no use if you don’t convert degrees into knowledge. Move out of your comfort zone and learn to speak up. Learn time management and always remember that a fit mind resides in a fit body; so exercise daily, dream big to bring about a change, set your own goal, never give up and be realistic.” On not giving up in the toughest of situations, Dr Kanitkar quoted the example of her grandmother Saraladevi Khot, a doctor in the 1920s. “My grandmother was orphaned at two, a child widow at nine, left to destiny, and brought up by Hingane Stree Shikshan Samstha (shelter home) in Pune. She went on to become a doctor at the age of 29; she was my inspiration,” she added. Quoting American poet Robert Frost, ‘freedom lies in being bold’ she asked girl students to be bold and speak up but also learn the art of when to remain silent. “Like a ‘map’ takes you places, draw your own ‘MAP’ in which M stands for mentor, A for attitude and P for passion,” she said. Dr Kanitkar shared she had spent time in Lucknow, studying in Kendriya Vidyalaya, RDSO branch. The lecture was followed by a question-answer session where students asked Dr Kanitkar about her career and how they could follow her footsteps. AGDC principal Upma Chaturvedi, educationist Amrita Dass and manager of AGDC Prof Nishi Pandey were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/take-on-hardships-lt-gen-dr-kanitkar-tells-agdc-girls/articleshow/81488793.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||SUV case: Police question Tihar inmate over recovered cellphones||NEW DELHI: Delhi police’s special cell on Saturday interrogated Indian Mujahideen terrorist Tehsin Akhtar for six hours in connection with two mobile handsets recovered from his barrack in Tihar Jail two days ago. One of the handsets, which was recovered from sub-jail number eight, was the one on which the Telegram account in the name of ‘Jaishulhind’ was created. It was from this account that responsibility was claimed for the explosive-laden SUV found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence and a demand for extortion money through cryptocurrency made. TOI was the first to report that the mobile phone used in the case had been recovered from Akhtar’s barrack and that he was likely to be questioned on Saturday. He denied having sent out the threat, though he confessed to having used the phone. Sources have told TOI that Delhi police are likely to arrest Akhtar next week in connection with his activities from jail and question him in custody. He will be questioned again on Monday. Police suspect Akhtar and his terror associates were behind the creation of the entity Jaish-ul-Hind. Prison sources said jail eight houses IM terrorists like Akhtar and Yasin Bhatkal, apart from some al-Qaeda and underworld-linked inmates who interchangeably used the phones. The mobile handset had a number 9311**0819, which was registered in the name of one Jayadip Lodhiya, Raghubar Pura, east Delhi and activated in July last year and later smuggled inside Tihar. Probing this number, cops also stumbled upon another number , 9711**9888, which was found switched off since September last year. This number was used to activate the main number. The Telegram channel was created on the afternoon of February 26. The message in which responsibility was claimed for placing the vehicle outside Ambani’s residence was posted on the Telegram messaging app late on February 27. In the payment demand, a Monero link for the transfer was mentioned. Another message from Jaish-ul-Hind surfaced a day later on a social media platform, claiming that the organisation did not have any role in the incident. The same entity was in news recently when a Telegram channel by this name claimed responsibility for the low- intensity blast outside the Israeli embassy in Delhi on January 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/suv-case-police-question-tihar-inmate-over-recovered-cellphones/articleshow/81488804.cms||Raj Shekhar
March 14, 2021||Delhi||NDMC hopes portal will help students not back in school||NEW DELHI: Starting July, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) will start uploading information about its 30,000 students and activities and syllabus status at all its 46 schools on its education department website. Though schools are opened, there is only 40% attendance at NDMC schools. Fearing infection by the novel coronavirus, parents who are not ready to send their kids to schools are still being helped by teachers online. “We are conducting regular as well as online classes to ensure students’ studies don’t suffer. Once the website becomes operational, it will turn easier for teachers to provide lesson updates for parents, said an NDMC official in the education department. The civic body has prepared a detailed proposal for project and is expected to finalise the tendering process in 15 days. Besides putting all information online, the project also includes issuing fresh identity cards to each student with RFID tags so that their timings for entry and exit from schools will be recorded automatically through card reader and information would be sent through message to the parents. The official said the website will be a concrete solution to resolve all issues related to students, parents and teachers on daily basis. “There will be a common website and link to access the individual website of all 46 schools,” said the official. What makes the project and this website special is that it will have information about each student, their class performance, attendance, marks in tests, their activities, etc. and can be accessed by parents/teachers through a password only. “Further, subject-wise/month-wise syllabus, pending lessons, assignments details and other details will be provided on website so that students not coming to school due to Covid or on-leave for other reasons will know their classroom status.We have huge expectation from the project and aim to improve overall performance of kids with this,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-hopes-portal-will-help-students-not-back-in-school/articleshow/81488137.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Now, MBMC puts curbs; central team says lockdown no solution||PUNE/MUMBAI: A day after Panvel, Pune, Aurangabad and Parbhani imposed restrictions to blunt the spike in Covid-19 cases, comes a similar announcement from Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation. MBMC on Saturday imposed restrictions on the timings of restaurants, bars, banquet halls and shops in seven hotspots till March 31. TimesViewThe Central team has a point when it says that the approach to the current surge may have to be different from the one in the early stages of the pandemic. At the same time, it is important to recognize that restrictions play a role in preventing overcrowding or casual movement of people which could further the spread of the virus, especially when people don’t follow mask mandates and other norms.The back-to-back measures in the state are being taken at a time when a Central team has said a total lockdown is not a solution in any region. The approach should be more surveillance centric rather than hospital centric, said the three-member expert team dispatched by the Centre, which recently toured six Maharashtra districts. State surveillance officer Pradeep Awate, who was with the central team as it toured Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Aurangabad and Mumbai, said the experts were of the opinion that random lockdowns do not curtail spread. “A lockdown was necessary in the early stages of the pandemic, when we had to shore up infrastructure. But it’s not needed at this stage,” Awate said. Instead of widespread curbs, the team suggested large-scale testing, strict monitoring of clusters and a stop to all large gatherings. The suggestions were compiled into a report and discussed during the Pune district review meeting on Friday. Sharp Covid-19 surges have been reported in most districts in Vidarbha, including Nagpur, Amravati and Akola; Pune, Thane, Mumbai in western Maharashtra; and Nashik, Dhule and Jalgaon in the north. The central team’s suggestions stated the affected districts should implement containment strategies that were in place during the August-September surge. It also called for increased door-to-door surveillance with a focus on maximum contact tracing and swab collection. The team said doctors should monitor all reports coming in from the field teams.  MBMC has adopted the containment zone strategy. Eateries in the hotspots will shut by 11pm instead of 1am and shops an hour earlier by 10pm. The hotspots are mostly residential areas. Poonam Sagar, Mira Road, Sadanana Nagar in Murdha village, Bhayander, vicinity of Hotel Sai Leela in Penkarpada and Kashimira are some of the containment zones. Restaurants and shops in other areas can function as usual. Active cases in MBMC totalled 792 on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-mbmc-puts-curbs-central-team-says-lockdown-no-solution/articleshow/81488138.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Schools grapple with two batches of X, XII||KOLKATA: It’s a never-before situation in schools, where from next week for the next one-and-a-half months, there will be two batches of classes X and XII— those who have just been promoted and those who are set to appear for their board exams. Usually by now, the Class X and XII exams start and the new boards batch start their classes, but with the pandemic pushing the exams to May, the two batches will have parallel lessons. Schools have now drawn up fresh schedules and redistributing the teachers so that they can take care of the double X and XII batches. The new Class IX batch will also be included in the fold. The only relief, schools said, was the new Class XI was yet to begin. CISCE and CBSE curtailing the syllabuses by 30% last year posed another challenge as students of Class IX, fresh Class X and fresh Class XII will have to attend bridge classes to study the untaught portions as this year, there will be no syllabus cut. Most schools said they would start off with the new classes IX, X and XII from next week, as soon as the annual exam results were out. The outgoing X and XII would attend their writing sessions, practice exams, lab sessions and special classes simultaneously, teachers said. “We are starting with the new IX, X and XII batches from Tuesday so that the untaught portions can be covered through enhancement classes. The outgoing X and XII will now appear for three-hour practice exams for which, every day there will be discussions around answer keys. Our coordinators have set separate routines for each teacher to cope with the challenge,” said Seema Sapru, The Heritage School principal. At South City International, immediately after the final exams are over on Tuesday, new IX, X and XII will start their classes without any gap, to learn the topics that had been cut off last year. The outgoing classes X and XII will continue to have their practice classes. Separate routines will be followed for simultaneous functioning of the different batches, said principal John Bagul. “We will give a short sessions break from Holi to the first week of April but these are difficult times and both teachers and children will have to give up on holidays,” he added. To tackle the challenge, DPS Ruby Park has identified teachers who will take on the fresh batch and the outgoing batch. “These two have to be handled differently. The fresh ones have to be taken through bridge sessions. Though we taught everything, we did not hold tests on portions reduced by CBSE/NCERT. The outgoing Class X will have continuous practice sessions, while the outgoing Class XII has to be handheld through lab and non-lab practicals. It’s a tall order,” said principal Joyoti Chowdhury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-grapple-with-two-batches-of-x-xii/articleshow/81487714.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 14, 2021||Pune||Most out-of-school children from ‘smart’ Aundh ward||PUNE: The statewide survey to identify out-of-school children, which ended on Wednesday, has revealed that 2,586 children in the age group of three-18 are not availing any formal education inthe Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. Among the 15 civic wards, Aundh ward has the highest number of out-of-school children at 414, followed by Yerawada ward with a count of over 312 children. PMC has been executing its Smart City project in Aundh. It is expected that the authorities will be able to enroll these children at the nearest Balwadi or school, as the case may be. A balwadi or pre-school is intended for children in the age group of 3-6 years. Shivaji Daundkar, education officer of the secondary department at PMC, said, “The main reason for the high number of out-of-school children in Aundh is probably due to the large number of construction activity in the area. It has been seen that many children at construction sites have no access to education. The lockdown has also led to many students dropping out of school. Some people have migrated to the city for work and have not enrolled their children in school because they are closed. Another significant section includes the children on the streets, who beg for money or sell trinkets at traffic signals. In this case, parents are very reluctant to send their children to school, despite living in the same area for many years.” Shilpakal Randhawe, project officer of Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan, said, “About 5,000 teachers from PMC and aided schools conducted this survey covering over 3.5 lakh households, with special concentration in slums, hotels, construction sites, among others. We avoided Covid-19 micro-containment areas and did not ask teachers aged above 55 years to participate. We have mapped each child into four different categories and we have written down the nearest school address before their names. From Monday onwards, one teacher in each school will be given the responsibility to enroll the children at school.” Meanwhile, Daundkar said that they are still compiling the figures obtained from various talukas in Pune rural. An official from the education department at Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation said that the department has not completed the survey yet. “We conducted the survey only for three days and we found over 300 children, who were out of school,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/most-out-of-school-children-from-smart-aundh-ward/articleshow/81487693.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 14, 2021||Thane||Now, MBMC puts curbs; central team says lockdown no solution||PUNE/MUMBAI: A day after Panvel, Pune, Aurangabad and Parbhani imposed restrictions to blunt the spike in Covid-19 cases, comes a similar announcement from Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation. MBMC on Saturday imposed restrictions on the timings of restaurants, bars, banquet halls and shops in seven hotspots till March 31. TimesViewThe Central team has a point when it says that the approach to the current surge may have to be different from the one in the early stages of the pandemic. At the same time, it is important to recognize that restrictions play a role in preventing overcrowding or casual movement of people which could further the spread of the virus, especially when people don’t follow mask mandates and other norms.The back-to-back measures in the state are being taken at a time when a Central team has said a total lockdown is not a solution in any region. The approach should be more surveillance centric rather than hospital centric, said the three-member expert team dispatched by the Centre, which recently toured six Maharashtra districts. State surveillance officer Pradeep Awate, who was with the central team as it toured Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Aurangabad and Mumbai, said the experts were of the opinion that random lockdowns do not curtail spread. “A lockdown was necessary in the early stages of the pandemic, when we had to shore up infrastructure. But it’s not needed at this stage,” Awate said. Instead of widespread curbs, the team suggested large-scale testing, strict monitoring of clusters and a stop to all large gatherings. The suggestions were compiled into a report and discussed during the Pune district review meeting on Friday. Sharp Covid-19 surges have been reported in most districts in Vidarbha, including Nagpur, Amravati and Akola; Pune, Thane, Mumbai in western Maharashtra; and Nashik, Dhule and Jalgaon in the north. The central team’s suggestions stated the affected districts should implement containment strategies that were in place during the August-September surge. It also called for increased door-to-door surveillance with a focus on maximum contact tracing and swab collection. The team said doctors should monitor all reports coming in from the field teams.  MBMC has adopted the containment zone strategy. Eateries in the hotspots will shut by 11pm instead of 1am and shops an hour earlier by 10pm. The hotspots are mostly residential areas. Poonam Sagar, Mira Road, Sadanana Nagar in Murdha village, Bhayander, vicinity of Hotel Sai Leela in Penkarpada and Kashimira are some of the containment zones. Restaurants and shops in other areas can function as usual. Active cases in MBMC totalled 792 on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/now-mbmc-puts-curbs-central-team-says-lockdown-no-solution/articleshow/81490289.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 14, 2021||Goa||Toddy tappers plead for inclusion in draft coastal plan||POINGUINIM: Toddy Tappers Association of Goa has urged the state government to include them in the coastal zone management plan (CZMP) for Goa. The community said it is spread in considerable numbers along the state’s coast, where they have been earning a living for generations now, just like the community of traditional fishermen. The members of the association expressed their anger at not being included in the plan despite a representation being made by the association to the state government in 2019. Association president Remy Borges said the toddy tapper or ‘render’ community is unhappy to see that there is no mention about them in the CZMP, while the fishing community has been made a part of the plan. “We are recognised as other backward class just like the fishermen. In 2019, we had provided our suggestions to the state, but now we find that nothing reflects in the draft CZMP. We had brought to the notice of the state government the ground realities about this community, who have been living along the coastal belt, especially in Canacona,” Borges said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/toddy-tappers-plead-for-inclusion-in-draft-coastal-plan/articleshow/81488812.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Pune||Pune: Timely alert helps police nab 3 robbers in minutes||PUNE: A timely tip-off by an autorickshaw driver to a police patrol team helped the personnel nab three out of five men minutes after they robbed Rs 1,100 from two youths near the state transport bus terminus, close to Pune railway station, around 3pm on Friday. A magisterial court on Saturday sent the three suspects, Raju Sarkar (21), Manoj Parate (26) and Mangesh Gavhane (32), all criminals on police records and residents of Mundhwa, in police custody till Sunday. Gautam Kumar (20) from Karad had registered an FIR with Bundgarden police soon after the incident. Kumar and his two friends had decided to take a breather on a pavement near the bus terminus after reaching Pune. In the FIR, Kumar said: “Five men travelling by an auto halted after seeing us. Alighting from the vehicle, they started hurling abuses at us and also brandishing sharp blades. They even beat up and threatened us with dire consequences before robbing Rs 1,100 and running away.” Senior inspector Yashwant Gawari, the Bundgarden police in-charge, told TOI on Saturday, “An alert autorickshaw driver, who witnessed the incident, stopped a police patrol and shared the information regarding the incident, prompting the patrol to swing into action.” The five men, seeing the patrol, panicked and tried to escape. But after a brief chase, the patrol nabbed three of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/timely-alert-helps-police-nab-3-robbers-in-minutes/articleshow/81487697.cms||Asseem Shaikh
March 14, 2021||Dehradun||Five held for siphoning off Rs 16L from ATM||Rudrapur: The Udham Singh Nagar police on Saturday arrested five people for allegedly siphoning off Rs 16 lakh from an ATM. Police recovered over Rs 12 lakh, a car and a few equipment from their possession. The accused have been identified as cash custodian Devesh Yadav, a resident of Mohalla Sabiq in Kashipur, Abhimanyu and Umesh, both residents of Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, Om Pal of Delhi and Ravi Kumar of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh. Additional superintendent of police (ASP), Kashipur, Pramod Kumar, said that on February 22, Vijay Singh, branch manager of CMS company (that handles the transportation of the cash), reported the crime to the notice. “We took Devesh into our custody and upon interrogation he told us that he managed to befool the other cash custodians while partially locking the ATM after depositing the cash. Subsequently, his gang swung into action and stole the money,” said ASP Kumar. “The accused are history-sheeters and were involved in a similar ATM theft of Rs 15 lakhs from Thakurdwra in Moradabad,” added ASP Kumar. The accused have been booked under sections 461 (dishonestly breaking open receptacle containing property) and 380 (theft in dwelling, housing etc) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/five-held-for-siphoning-off-rs-16l-from-atm/articleshow/81487695.cms||Aakash Ahuja
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Same car used in Arnab case’||The Scorpio found near the Ambani residence was the same Sachin Waze used to escort Alibaug police when they arrested Republic TV's Arnab Goswami, news channels said. ATS has found CCTV footage and the registration number is fake, channels said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-same-car-used-in-arnab-case/articleshow/81488819.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Nashik||Shops stay closed, less rush on streets||Nashik: The city and various parts of the district saw almost no violation of the restriction on shops of non-essential commodities to stay shut on the weekend. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone 1) Amol Tambe said teams of the Nashik Municipal Corporation and police jointly patrolled different parts of the city to ensure that non-essential commodities shops remained closed. Though the shops were closed, there was a good rush on the highways. Nonetheless, the rush on the city streets came down by almost 50% compared to usual. The restrictions were also strictly followed even in the textile town of Malegaon on Saturday. Additional SP Chandrakant Khandvi of Malegaon said, “The police had spread awareness among the shopkeepers about the new restrictions on Thursday and Friday. As a result, the restrictions were strictly followed by all the shopkeepers in Malegaon. Nonetheless, the police were patrolling parts of the town.” The decision to keep the shops of non-essential commodities closed on Saturdays and Sundays was taken in view of the fact that most of the people are home on weekends. They rush to the city markets to purchase various things. Overall, Nashikites adhered to the restrictions imposed by district collector Suraj Mandhare. It could be seen through the city with almost no crowding, strict use of masks among citizens and discipline also seen among vegetable vendors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shops-stay-closed-less-rush-on-streets/articleshow/81488149.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 14, 2021||Pune||Cops book manager for conning clients in Maharashtra||PUNE: The police have registered a FIR against the relationship manager of a private car showroom for cheating customers to the tune of Rs 12.46 lakh under the pretext of offering discounts on cars and delivering them early. According to the police, the 27-year-old manager had prepared forged bills in the name of the showroom with the showroom stamp and given them to customers. “He cheated 10 customers, who had come to the showroom to book four wheelers,” said the investigating officer from Hinjewadi police station. The matter came to light during the internal audit carried out by the showroom. “After enquiring with customers, it was established that the relationship manager had told them to deposit the money in his account. This was against the showroom’s contract. The human resources (HR) manager of the showroom has filed an FIR against him,” added the police officer. The police suspect that the manager may have indulged in such practices in the past as well. When contacted, the complainant refused to comment on the matter. Police sub-inspector S Ahire said, “The man hails from Kolhapur and he is presently missing. Our investigation in the case is underway. So far, we have established that he had taken money from 10 customers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-book-manager-for-conning-clients/articleshow/81487726.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Pune||Gang leader Birjusingh Dudhani, aides booked under MCOCA||PUNE: The Chatushrungi police on Thursday booked a four-member gang involved in a series of burglaries in the district under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). The gang led by Birjusingh Dudhani and his three accomplices had burgled a home at a housing society in Aundh after threatening the security guard with sharp weapons on the night of December 28 last year. The incident was reported to the police on January 4, only after the society’s residents resorted to social media to condemn the police for not taking action against the burglars on finding them speeding away in a car. An inquiry ordered into the incident led to the suspension of two policemen for dereliction of duty. The police later arrested the gang leader, Dudhani, and his accomplices Bintusingh Kalyani (24) and Sunnysingh Dudhani (21), all from Hadapsar, and booked their accomplice. Senior inspector Anil Shewale, the Chatushrungi police station in-charge, said he had initiated a proposal for invoking MCOCA against the gang after investigations established that the gang leader and his accomplices were running an organised crime syndicate in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural Pune. Additional commissioner of police (East) Namdeo Chavan considered the proposal and accordingly sanctioned the invocation of Section 3 (punishment for committing the offence of running an organised crime syndicate) of the MCOCA against the gang. Investigation of the case was transferred to the assistant commissioner of police (Khadki division), Kishore Jadhav, for taking action against the gang under the MCOCA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gang-leader-dudhani-aides-booked-under-mcoca/articleshow/81487713.cms||Asseem Shaikh
March 14, 2021||Pune||E-vehicle registrations soar in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad||PUNE: The number of e-vehicle registrations, especially that of two-wheelers, jumped 45% in Pune and over 90% in Pimpri Chinchwad last year as compared to 2019, and rising fuel prices have ensured that the trend continued in the initial months of 2021 as well. According to Pune RTO data, registrations grew 55% over a span of 10 months, between January and December, last year. Overall, e-vehicle registrations jumped 45% at Pune RTO last year a compared to 2019. “Even in January and February this year, 490 e-vehicles were registered — 205 in the first month and 285 in the second. If one compares the registrations in January 2020 with the first month of this year, there has been a rise of more than 39%,” a Pune RTO official told TOI. As many as 1,000 e-vehicles were registered in Pimpri Chinchwad in 2020. “As many as 519 e-vehicles were registered with us in 2019. There has been an increase of more than 90% in the registration of e-vehicles in 2020 when compared to 2019. In January and February this year, 400 e-vehicles have already been registered,” a Pimpri Chinchwad RTO official said. Another official in Pune said the maximum number of e-vehicles getting registered were two-wheelers. “In 2020, as many as 1,242 electric two-wheelers were registered, which is the highest among all e-vehicle categories. Comparatively, the number of cars was drastically low at 103,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/e-vehicle-registrations-soar-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/81487702.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 14, 2021||Bareilly||Project on collecting road accident data launched in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Police in association with road transport authority launched the central government’s Integrated Road Accident Database (IRAD) programme in Pilibhit on Saturday. On the occasion, police conducted mock drills at two busy crossings on Bhind-Lipulekh highway within the city area. Explaining, assistant regional transport officer, Amitabh Rai said the programme has been launched across 16 districts of the state, including Pilibhit, as a pilot project in the first phase. Under this programme, police will upload details about a road accident on the IRAD app of the government. The programme is aimed at maintaining the national database of road accidents. The road transport department, police and the road construction departments like PWD, the state highways authority and the national highways authority together will manage the programme. At a later stage, the health department will also be made an integral part of it, said Rai. Rai said in case of a road accident, police will feed the particulars of the victim, the description of injuries, details of the vehicles involved along with registration numbers and the driving licence numbers of the drivers or riders concerned, probable reason of the accident, spot of the accident, the condition of the road and traffic, any technical defect in the vehicle that is to be found by the technical inspector of the road transport authority etc within four days of the accident. These descriptions will assist the government in bringing about reforms in driving rules, the condition of the roads, ensuring safety measures on district roads and highways and creating conditions for the prompt disposal of the registered cases of road accidents, he said. Virendra Vikram, circle officer of Pilibhit city circle, said a drill was conducted of a real accident at Gauhania crossing when a bike carrying a couple was hit by a sugarcane-laden tractor-trolley. The woman riding on the pillion sustained minor injuries. A challan was issued against the tractor driver on the spot for his fault. The second mock drill was replicated at Naktadana crossing, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/project-on-collecting-road-accident-data-launched-in-pilibhit/articleshow/81487204.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 14, 2021||Dehradun||House in Almora gutted in fire after cylinder explodes, no loss of life reported||Almora: A house was gutted in fire in Chanoda village under Someshwar tehsil of Almora district at 6.15 am on Saturday after a gas cylinder exploded. Fortunately, no one was in the house when the fire broke out. A team of firefighters, led by Kunwar Singh Rana, rushed to the spot and doused the flames in time. The fire didn’t reach any other nearby house. However, the incident led to power outage in the area for three hours as the fire charred a high tension wire. According to locals, the people who live in the house left for their native village on Friday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/house-in-almora-gutted-in-fire-after-cylinder-explodes-no-loss-of-life-reported/articleshow/81487700.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Pune||Gaps in data entry trigger vaccine shortage at many Pune hospitals||PUNE: Several hospitals in Pune faced a shortage of vaccine doses on Saturday, reporting only 25% stock replenishment over the last two days, much less than what they had requested and paid for. Sources from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), which is overseeing the allocation to vaccination centres, said the supply shortage to hospitals was caused by a data-update issue in the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (or eVIN) — an indigenously developed digital database of vaccine stock that can be accessed via a smartphone application. eVIN supports the Union government’s Universal Immunization Programme by providing real-time information on vaccine stock and outflow, including that of the Covid-19 vaccines. Officials said if eVIN shows adequate vaccine stock, the state then cannot supply more. A PMC source said due to a lack of updates on doses used, eVIN was currently showing there are several thousand doses still available when in fact, Pune has substantially less in reserve. “That is why the state government has not supplied more doses. It will release more doses once the data is updated,” the source said. A health department official said, “Data on vaccine stock already supplied to private hospitals and available balance are yet to be fully updated on eVIN by officials at cold chain points. Information on stock supplied from such points and balance stock has to be updated daily on eVIN. There was a gap in data entry at this level.” The official said a district should ideally have 10 days’ worth of doses in stock, but calculations on Saturday showed that Pune district had just three days' worth of doses left. He said the data update is ongoing and will be completed soon. On Saturday, the shortage forced some hospital sites to turn away many beneficiaries. Sunil Mukhi, a professor in Pune city, said he had to visit three hospitals for his shot. He said, "I had to go from hospital to hospital for my shot. Two private hospitals said they had insufficient doses. There should be a feature on CoWIN that tells beneficiaries how much vaccine stock a site has before we get there." The state government had this week received nearly 12 lakh new Covishield doses from the Centre. But PMC officials said on Saturday evening that the civic body is yet to receive its share of almost 90,000 doses from the fresh batch. Dr Madhur Rao, deputy medical administrator at KEM Hospital, said, “We did not receive the quota of doses we had paid for and are now facing a severe shortage. On Saturday, we administered only 80 doses, compared to the average of 300 doses daily. We now hope our stock arrives on Monday." Dr Rao said the hospital had received only one-third of the supply it had placed an order for. Abrarali Dalal, COO of Sahyadri Hospitals, said, "Vaccination here is underway in four of our units. There was a shortage, but fresh supply started to come in on Saturday. We hope things will return to normal in a day or two." A source from another city-based hospital said the shortage was due to technical issues as the state government was trying to accurately determine how much stock was still available. "After a three-hour wait for our supply on Friday, we found we had received only 25% of what we had ordered. Officials from the PMC said we will get our stock by Monday." A source from Noble Hospital said, “On Friday, we too received only about 25% of what we had asked for - 1,000 doses. That should be enough for Saturday and till Monday noon."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gaps-in-data-entry-trigger-vaccine-shortage-at-many-city-hospitals/articleshow/81488151.cms||Neha Madaan
March 14, 2021||Pune||Pune: One held for snatching cellphones||PUNE: The Wakad police arrested a person and detained a minor boy on the charge of snatching cellphones in Wakad and Nigdi over the last four weeks. Arrested Mukuldev Singh is a resident of the Shrinagar area in Dehu Road. The minor boy was sent to the juvenile rehabilitation centre, the police said. Four cellphones were recovered from them. On Friday, a police team spotted the duo on a moped in Tathawade area. “We detained them on suspicion. On interrogation, they told us that they had come to snatch cellphones,” said assistant police inspector Santosh Patil. Singh was produced before the court on Saturday. He was remanded in police custody for two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-held-for-snatching-cellphones/articleshow/81487725.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||St Xavier’s unveils plans for new campus, e-courses at convocation||Kolkata: A third campus at Anandapur on EM Bypass, online courses on multi-disciplinary subjects, a new Peace Study Centre: St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) Kolkata, prinicpal Fr Dominic Savio laid out a few of their plans at the institute’s 14th convocation on Saturday. A total of 2,250 UG, PG and BEd students were awarded their degrees at the event, where the institute’s first PhD candidate, Ritun Chakraborty Chaudhuri from microbiology department, also received her doctorate degree. St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) started offering PhD courses in 2016. Calcutta University vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee and Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Educational and Research Institute pro-chancellor Swami Atmapriyananda were among those who attended the event. The Centre for Peace Studies would be founded to create awareness and understand peace for one’s own, for society and for the world as a whole, announced Fr Savio. After the campuses on Park Street and at Raghabpur, South 24 Parganas, the college would get another address on E M Bypass, which will be a communication hub where research programmes would begin, the principal said. The college will shift its multimedia, mass communication and the animation degree courses to the new campus. St Xavier’s University operates out of the New Town campus. “We plan to offer students one-year online diploma or six-month online certificate courses. Some science students, who would want to pursue a fine arts course, might not be allowed to do so under the regular programmes. But with the online programmes coming in, they can opt for such short courses in other disciplines online and even students from other institutions can get admission and earn credits,” Fr Savio added. “Some professional courses that are being held offline at the moment may also be offered online.” The institute now offers PhD programmes in physics, microbiology, biotechnology and commerce. Fr Savio said students can now research in computer science from this session and that the college would also apply for PhD programmes in Bengali and English. He pointed out 15 new PG courses—including in education, data science and history—would be introduced and PhD programmes would be offered in 15 more subjects in five years. The principal also said the campus at Raghabpur was ready to offer new courses to cater to students from the rural areas. In her address, Chakravarti Banerjee stressed on the synthesis of the Jesuit spirit with the Asian art, culture, education and a way of life. She mentioned how the Jesuit principles acted as a confluence between the east and the west. Swami Atmapriyananda, who delivered the convocation address, referred to the ancient Indian teachings that focused not only on education, but also on building character.. He also referred to Vivekananda’s views on the virtues of teachings, namely truthfulness, moral principles, sustainability, skill upgrade and the ability to appreciate wonders. Fr Savio pointed out that the pandemic notwithstanding, 600 students bagged jobs mostly through virtual campus interviews. “This year, 43 companies visited the campus. Another 27 students were recruited off-campus. The minimum salary was Rs 3 lakh, while the highest package offered was Rs. 21.5 lakh by a Hyderabad-based firm,” said the principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/st-xaviers-unveils-plans-for-new-campus-e-courses-at-convocation/articleshow/81487728.cms||Somdatta Basu
March 14, 2021||Pune||Pandemic elbows studio apartments out of favour||PUNE: Studio apartments, which were popular among small families and entry-level buyers, are losing their appeal as people are seeking bigger spaces to work from home due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a report by property consultancy Anarock stated. The report noted of the 884 projects launched in 2020 in seven major cities in India, including Pune, studio apartments were offered by only 130, a dip of about 4% over 2019. Studio apartments have traditionally been offered in the Mumbai and Pune regions, with those two cities earlier constituting up to 96% of the total studio apartment offerings across the country — from 2013 to 2020. The reduction in growth of studio apartment offerings is happening for the first time in seven years. Real estate observers stated that studio apartments were often favoured by newly-weds, bachelors, business travellers and students, among others. However, the Covid-19 pandemic has meant that people are seeking larger spaces to keep up the work-from-home regime, thus also negating the need for a central location. “In 2020, the Covid-19 pandemic hit, bringing with it the uniquely new WFH and study at home compulsions requiring larger homes. The onus also suddenly shifted from expensive central locations to the more cost-effective suburbs and peripheries. In a single year, studio apartments’ new supply share dipped to 15%,” said Anuj Puri, chairman of Anarock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pandemic-elbows-studio-apartments-out-of-favour/articleshow/81487724.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Dehradun||Matri Sadan founder on a hunger strike as Atmabodhanand taken for health checkup||Dehradun: Lashing out at the present government, social activist Medha Patkar has come out in open support of Matri Sadan seers in their move to save river Ganga from further "exploitation". The founder of Narmada Bachao Andolan had tweeted this week that the Centre may have forgotten its promise to save the Ganga, but the saints at Matri Sadan have not. Speaking with TOI from near Nandigram in West Bengal to attend a kisan rally, Patkar said, “If this government is committed towards saving the Ganga, then it should first save Atmabodhanand who is fasting for so many days to protect the river and its entire eco-system. The seers of Matri Sadan are some of the very knowledgeable group of people who have science behind their protest. It is not merely a showpiece strike or a strategic strike with an agenda. They are solely fighting to save Ganga and its riparian ecology.” Meanwhile on Saturday, the Haridwar administration took Atmabodhanand to Ram Krishna Mission hospital for medical checkup - seeing his deteriorating health condition. They informed the Matri Sadan seers that, if required, he will be taken to AIIMS, Delhi. The founder of Matri Sadan, Shivanand Saraswati, sat on hunger strike at his place against the administration's move. He threatened to even stop drinking water, if the demands are not met. Patkar further said, “This government is behaving in a complete irresponsible way. We can sense the irregularities and illegalities that are being done for sand mining in Narmada and same is the case for Ganga in Uttarakhand. It was during Jairam Ramesh ministry that it was decided that mining from river will not be conducted without due clearance. But now, it is the opposite.” She added that the "unprecedented sacrifice made by late professor GD Agrawal to save the river shouldn’t be ignored either". “Matri Sadan is not a religious-fundamental group. It is an organisation made up of learned seers, who are purely fighting for an environmental cause with an honest scientific logic. Their team had experts like professor GD Agrawal, who himself gave technical support to them regarding mining in and around river Ganga,” she said. She also laid emphasis on the need of mass awareness among the people of Uttarakhand so that "these innocent villagers and hardworking people in the hills know what the government is doing to their land”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/matri-sadan-founder-on-a-hunger-strike-as-atmabodhanand-taken-for-health-checkup/articleshow/81487718.cms||Shivani Azad
March 14, 2021||Dehradun||Previous order cancelled, no grand celebration on 4 years of BJP govt on March 18||Dehradun: A number of events had been lined up by the Trivendra Singh Rawat government for March 18 – the day when BJP completes four years in power in the Himalayan state. However, an official order issued on Saturday cancelled all the events due to “inevitable” reasons. An order issued by chief secretary Om Prakash states that due to inevitable reasons, the assembly-wise proposed programmes for March 18 stand cancelled. The order was implemented with the immediate effect. Earlier, the Trivendra Singh Rawat government had proposed events to celebrate the occasion in each assembly constituency and the legislators were directed to lead the celebrations. The main function was to be held at Doiwala – the constituency of former CM Trivendra Singh Rawat – and he was scheduled to address people live and also through video conference. On being asked over the issue, CM Tirath Singh Rawat said, “It will not be right to say all events have been cancelled but they have been mellowed down. They will be held on a smaller scale as preparations are not complete. We will certainly highlight the achievements of the Centre and the state government. In future, we will hold an event on a grand level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/previous-order-cancelled-no-grand-celebration-on-4-years-of-bjp-govt-on-march-18/articleshow/81487733.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 14, 2021||Lucknow||Key BJP meet today to set agenda for state executive||Lucknow: The state BJP will hold a meeting of office-bearers on Sunday to set the agenda for the party’s state executive on Monday. UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh will preside over the meeting and national vice-president of the party and UP in charge, Radha Mohan Singh, and state general secretary (organization), Sunil Bansal, will also be present. The party will decide on its political roadmap at the state working committee meeting. The meeting will be inaugurated by former national president of the party and defence minister Rajnath Singh and will be concluded by CM Yogi Adityanath. The current political scenario in the state and the party’s response to Opposition belligerence will be discussed in detail at the state working committee meeting. Discussions on panchayat elections and performance of the BJP government in last four years in UP will also be taken up. Assembly elections are due early next year and party wants to feel the pulse of the voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/key-bjp-meet-today-to-set-agenda-for-state-executive/articleshow/81488821.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Lucknow||Delhi: Man flees after killing live-in partner, caught||LUCKNOW/NEW DELHI: A day after a 20-year-old woman died after falling off the fourth floor of a building in northwest Delhi’s Shakurpur, her live-in partner has been arrested while trying to flee to his native place Darbhanga in Bihar. The accused, 40-year-old Mukesh Paswan, is a resident of Shakurpur, Subhash Place. Lucknow police commissioner DK Thakur said that Paswan is married, and his wife and two children live in Darbhanga. Around 1.16am on Saturday, Delhi Police received a call at Subhash Place police station about a woman falling off the fourth floor of a building. A police team rushed her to a hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead. The woman's body has been sent for a postmortem examination. Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said a case was registered and CCTV footage showed a man lifting the woman’s body and dumping it. “After questioning locals, our team managed to zero in on the suspect, who was trying to flee to his native town,” the DCP said. Lucknow police were informed about his escape route. “We checked the CCTVs of the Agra Expressway and found that around 8.30am, Paswan had crossed the toll plaza on Agra side. We laid a trap near Kakori,” said the officer, adding that the accused was spotted around 10pm and nabbed. During interrogation, Paswan told police that he worked as a driver and was going to his family in Darbhanga, Bihar where he is married to Urmila and has two sons. Police said Paswan was living with Reshma for the past two years at Subhash Place. “Late on Friday , he allegedly killed her over an altercation and pushed her down the balcony. He also tried to burn her body. But on spotting that some neighbours were awake, he fled in his four-wheeler,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-flees-after-killing-live-in-partner-caught/articleshow/81490762.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man flees after killing live-in partner, caught||LUCKNOW/NEW DELHI: A day after a 20-year-old woman died after falling off the fourth floor of a building in northwest Delhi’s Shakurpur, her live-in partner has been arrested while trying to flee to his native place Darbhanga in Bihar. The accused, 40-year-old Mukesh Paswan, is a resident of Shakurpur, Subhash Place. Lucknow police commissioner DK Thakur said that Paswan is married, and his wife and two children live in Darbhanga. Around 1.16am on Saturday, Delhi Police received a call at Subhash Place police station about a woman falling off the fourth floor of a building. A police team rushed her to a hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead. The woman's body has been sent for a postmortem examination. Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said a case was registered and CCTV footage showed a man lifting the woman’s body and dumping it. “After questioning locals, our team managed to zero in on the suspect, who was trying to flee to his native town,” the DCP said. Lucknow police were informed about his escape route. “We checked the CCTVs of the Agra Expressway and found that around 8.30am, Paswan had crossed the toll plaza on Agra side. We laid a trap near Kakori,” said the officer, adding that the accused was spotted around 10pm and nabbed. During interrogation, Paswan told police that he worked as a driver and was going to his family in Darbhanga, Bihar where he is married to Urmila and has two sons. Police said Paswan was living with Reshma for the past two years at Subhash Place. “Late on Friday , he allegedly killed her over an altercation and pushed her down the balcony. He also tried to burn her body. But on spotting that some neighbours were awake, he fled in his four-wheeler,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-flees-after-killing-live-in-partner-caught/articleshow/81488162.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Chennai||Isro launches sounding rocket RH-560 to study attitudinal variations||Chennai: The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) launched a sounding rocket on Friday from Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Sriharikota, to study attitudinal variations in the neutral winds and plasma dynamics. “Launch of sounding rocket (RH-560) to study attitudinal variations in the neutral winds and plasma dynamics carried out today at SDSC SHAR, Sriharikota,” the agency tweeted on Friday night with the images of the launch. According to Isro, sounding rockets are one or two stage solid propellant rockets used for probing the upper atmospheric regions and for space research. RH-560, the number 560 being diameter of the rocket in mm, is one of the indigenously made sounding rockets in the Rohini series with a capability of reaching an altitude of 470km. The two-stage rocket has a capacity to carry a maximum of 100kg payload, which includes instruments to conduct in-situ probing of the atmosphere. This makes the rocket ideal for studies in the ionosphere, a layer of electrons and ionised atoms and molecules, which starts at around 48km above the surface of the earth to the edge of space at around 965km. At present, Isro has three versions of Rohini rockets — RH-200, RH-300-Mk-II and RH-560-Mk-II — with capacity to carry payloads ranging from 8kg to 100kg and reaching altitudes of 80km to 470km. Besides atmospheric studies, the sounding rockets are also a platform to test or prove prototypes of new components or subsystems intended for use in launch vehicles and satellites, Isro said. The first launch of a sounding rocket was from Thumba near Trivandrum, Kerala, on November 21, 1963. The rockets were imported from Russia and France. “Isro started launching indigenously made sounding rockets from 1965 and the experience gained was of immense value in the mastering of solid propellant technology,” Isro said in its website. In 1975, the Rohini Sounding Rocket Programme was launched which brought all sounding rocket activities under it. RH-75, RH-100 and RH-125 rockets were made. “The sounding rocket programme was the bedrock on which the edifice of launch vehicle technology in Isro could be built. It is possible to conduct coordinated campaigns by simultaneously launching sounding rockets from different locations. It is also possible to launch several sounding rockets in a single day,” the agency said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/isro-launches-sounding-rocket-rh-560-to-study-attitudinal-variations/articleshow/81488826.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||‘Fellow officers trying to trap me’||Sachin Waze’s WhatsApp status read, “Fellow officers are on to falsely trap me. There is a slight difference in the scenario. Then probably I had 17 years of hope, patience, life and service too. Now I will have neither 17 years of further life nor service nor patience to live.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fellow-officers-trying-to-trap-me/articleshow/81488828.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Delhi||Target electric vehicles: 10,000 charging points by December in Delhi||NEW DELHI: As the fifth week of the “Switch Delhi” campaign concluded on Saturday, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said that with a three-pronged strategy, the Kejriwal government had taken the lead across India in installing sound charging infrastructure in Delhi for a smooth transition to electric vehicles. The fifth week of the campaign focused on raising awareness among people about electric vehicle charging infrastructure in the capital. “Delhi government is leaving no stone unturned to ensure a smooth transition to EVs for Delhiites. The vision of the Kejriwal government to establish a charging point at a distance of every three kilometres will increase confidence in people to make the switch to EV and pave the way for making Delhi the electric vehicle capital of India,” Gahlot claimed. Elaborating on the “three pillars” of the strategy to expand EV charging infrastructure in Delhi, Gahlot said the government had already floated a tender for 100 public charging stations, with 500 charging points at prominent locations, which will be operational by December this year. This is apart from the existing 72 stations already operational in Delhi, the details of which can be viewed at ev.delhi.gov.in. Gahlot said Delhi government was building a mobile application to ensure that the geo-locations of all charging stations and the status of chargers, whether they are occupied or available for use, can be seen in real-time. The minister also said that with all commercial and institutional buildings, such as malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, office spaces, hotels, restaurants, hospitals, etc, with parking capacity of over 100 vehicles mandated to set aside at least 5% space for EVs, along with suitable slow chargers, the capital will have more than 10,000 chargers by December 2021. “A suitable amendment in Delhi’s building bylaws has already been initiated to enable this,” he added. “Under the government’s EV policy, a subsidy of up to Rs 6,000 per charging point can be availed by residential and commercial complexes to set up charging points. Delhi government has taken this step to tackle range anxiety and promote faster adoption of EVs in the capital,” Gahlot said. The third step taken by the government is to rope in EV fleet operators to open their captive charging stations for public use. “This is a win-win proposition since it allows EV cab and rickshaw operators to get better utilisation and returns from their investment into EV charging infrastructure. This will add another 750 charging points at least for public use in Delhi by June 2021,” the transport minister claimed. ‘Switch Delhi’ is an eight-week mass awareness campaign by the state government to sensitise Delhiites about the benefits of switching to EVs, as well as to make them aware of the incentives and infrastructure being developed under the EV policy. The campaign aims at informing, encouraging, and motivating people to switch from polluting vehicles to zero-emission electric vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/target-ev-10k-charging-points-by-dec/articleshow/81488171.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Design plans for Metro 3 & 6 integration may not be ready’||MUMBAI: While the Maha Vikas Aghadi government has pushed for integration of underground Metro Line 3 and elevated Metro Line 6 with separate depots at Kanjurmarg, an RTI query indicates plans for the exercise may not be ready. From Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRCL) that is executing the Line 3 project to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) that is executing the Line 6 project as well as overseeing the integration of the two lines, to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) that has been appointed as a consultant for the integration project—none appear to have the designs for the integration of the two lines. In response to a Right to Information (RTI) query from activist Amrita Bhattacharjee for a copy of the alignment drawing of Metro Line 3, starting from the Seepz exit connecting till Metro Line 6 on JVLR, all the three agencies passed the query to one another, saying the information was not available with their respective office. Bhattacharjee had first written to MMRCL that informed her the information she sought was related to MMRDA and forwarded her query to the authority. MMRDA in turn wrote to DMRC, stating, “The information sought by the applicant regarding Metro Line 6 is pertaining to your office” and requested DMRC to provide it at the earliest. DMRC has now informed Bhattacharjee that the information sought by her does not pertain to its office and may be obtained from MMRDA. While designs for the merger are not available, activists said work is underway for construction of the ramp, “raising questions about what purpose it will serve”. MMRCL had confirmed in the past to TOI that there was no stay on the construction of the ramp. “I have filed an appeal with all the three agencies but so far there has been no response. The public has a right to know what exactly is the government constructing on the Aarey Metro car shed site and how the merger of the two lines will be carried out,” said Bhattacharjee. The government has proposed the merging of Lines 3 and 6 which would require the underground Metro Line 3 to emerge overground after passing Seepz to enter the Aarey Metro car shed via a ramp and then be elevated with the help of the piers. The merger is proposed between Seepz and Saki Vihar stations. The construction of the Metro Line 3 depot at Kanjurmarg has been stayed as the Centre has laid claim to the land as also certain private persons. The earlier BJP-Sena government had sanctioned an affordable housing scheme at Kanjurmarg under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has been keen to build a metro hub at Kanjurmarg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/design-plans-for-metro-3-6-integration-may-not-be-readyin-mumbai/articleshow/81487742.cms||Clara Lewis
March 14, 2021||Pune||Spring cleaning for Prabhat Studios, a first in six decades, for a fresh look||PUNE: From the main shooting floor to the iconic tank, the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) is putting final touches to the first major renovation of the Prabhat Studios in 60 years. Large sections used to store equipment will be restored too. The effort comes in good time for the FTII whose students still use the floor for their shooting exercises. The diamond jubilee celebrations of the institute are going on and the FTII’s foundation day comes later this month. “The work that we have been doing since January could not be done any time in the past 60 years due to the studios being actively used by the students and faculty for shooting exercises and their diploma films. This window of no activity has given us an opportunity to take up the work that was long overdue,” FTII director Bhupendra Kainthola said. The FTII has moved out all the old film equipment that used to be stored in an antechamber of the main Prabhat Studios. It is now housed in a smaller studio floor next door. The equipment includes lights, tracks, tripods, dollies, and other film paraphernalia that are nearly five decades old, and were used in film shoots till a decade ago by FTII students. The mass clear-out enabled the FTII to re-plaster and repaint the dilapidated chambers and put in new storage units for the antique equipment. “None of the equipment is in use any more, but they will be kept at the restored chambers so that students will have an idea of what film equipment used to be,” Kainthola said. “That applies especially to the lights, as students use new LED lamps, and earlier arc lights used to be heated up quickly in use. We also used some of the junked lights to construct an installation on our campus,” he added. The iconic tank on the FTII campus, which has been used since the days of the Prabhat Film Company to recreate scenes in films by lakes and ponds, is also getting a restored drainage system, eliminating the need for pumps to drain out water after use in a shoot. Up next on the restoration calendar, is the floor of the studios itself. “Two sets have remained on the Prabhat Studios floor, as they were constructed before the lockdown last year and had not been dismantled. Our aim now is to remove those sets and completely level the shooting floor. It will be of help to those using track and trolleys to shoot,” Kainthola added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/spring-cleaning-for-prabhat-studios-a-first-in-six-decades-for-a-fresh-look/articleshow/81487736.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Bharatnatyam was Mithali Raj's first love’||HYDERABAD: Three decades ago, a young girl had to make a tough choice between two things she was good at – Bharatnatyam and cricket. Mithali Raj picked the one less opted by girls and the rest, as they say, is history. On March 12, this Hyderabadi sportswoman scaled a new peak by crossing the 10,000-run mark in international cricket. Mithali’s 10,001 includes 663 in 10 Tests, 6974 in 212 one-day Internationals and 2,364 in 89 T20’s. “When you play for so long obviously you go through different milestones, this being one of them. I have not really given much of a thought to any of the milestones,” Mithali said, after achieving the rare feat. By her own admission, it’s a combination of moves she learnt as a classical dancer and skills she acquired as a cricketer that’s helped her sustain her two-decade-long career in cricket. And for that, she is grateful to her parents -- Dorai and Leela Raj – who've been her pillars of strength. “To be honest, Mithali loved dancing. In fact, she herself went and got enrolled for dancing classes at school when she was in class 2. I wanted her to get into the habit of waking up early, as she was a late riser, and that’s how her father started taking her to the camp,” a proud Leela Raj told STOI on Saturday. It was here that Mithali was spotted – St John’s Cricket Coaching Foundation, where her brother trained – by former Hyderabad player, Jyothi Prasad. He was also a colleague to Mithali’s father at Andhra Bank. “She used to accompany her brother but mostly slept on the scooter,” Prasad told STOI. “One day I asked her to come down and throw the tennis ball. She threw it quite a distance and I realised that she has a lot of bone strength. I tried her with the bat. I was amazed by her grasping power and concentration. I told her father to concentrate on Mithali and predicted she will reach great heights,” Prasad added. Soon, on his recommendation, Mithali found herself under the tutelage of Sampath Kumar -- St John’s was only for boys -- and after his demise, moved to former Andhra player and Railways coach, RSR Murthy. Through it all, her family and friends say, Mithali stayed dedicated and disciplined. “Even as a young girl, she was extremely hard-working. She never complained about anything; took things in her stride,” said her mother. It’s a virtue even her coaches cannot stop raving about. “On a particular day in Mysore, in 2014, (I had taken over as coach of the Indian team) it started drizzling and everyone was in their rooms. I suddenly looked out of my balcony and was surprised to see two people in the pool. They were Mithali and Jhulan Goswami. Rain or shine, Mithali was always working on herself and the game,” said former India captain Purnima Rau, who also played with Mithali in the Indian team. When not on the field training or working on her craft, Mithali is a great friend to have, say those who’ve known her from her under-19 days. “As a person, she keeps a very low-profile but is extremely fun-loving. Cricket brought us together, and the bond has grown stronger over the last two decades,” said former India player, Nooshin Al Khadeer, who is now coaches the Indian Railways team. But after all the laurels that have come here way, Mithali’s passion for the game is still undeterred. "Even after two decades of international cricket, she still does not miss a single training session. She has skipped so many social functions etc because she never wants to miss a match or training session. She also reinvented herself to stay tuned with the game. It’s not easy to compete with teenagers but she is doing it so well. She averages more than 50 despite playing over 200 ODI games. This speaks volumes of her commitment to the game,” said her proud coach, Murthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bharatnatyam-was-her-first-love/articleshow/81488173.cms||Solomon S Kumar
March 14, 2021||Pune||PMC pasted notice at inaccessible place, cheated us: Pai Path residents||PUNE: Deep Pai felt someone must have played a prank when he was told that a notice proposing the widening of the Vyankatesh Pai Path, off Prabhat Road Lane Number 9, has been pasted at a remote corner of the last building in the lane. The lane has five notice boards right where it starts. Three of them give details of the buildings and bungalows along it. The other states the lane is a “dead end”. Two of the five notice boards were installed by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). “Hence, I was under the impression that the civic body, which plans to invite citizens’ viewpoints about the road-widening, would paste the notice on any of these boards. I never thought it will try to hide the widening plan from us,” Pai said. Fifty property owners staying in eight bungalows and buildings along the lane providing an approach to the Dnyankoshkar Ketkar Road, a link between the Kalmadi Shamrao High School and Prabhat Road, have objected to the widening move last week — a month after the deadline for the same got over. The civic body promptly replied to them stating, “The time limit for accepting the suggestions and objections was over on 30 January. For further correspondence, please contact officers concerned of respective zones of the building permission department.” The residents called on the civic officials last week and handed them over a letter. “To paste a notice on an inaccessible corner of the compound wall and to expect objections within 30 days from the date of notice not only shows callousness but ulterior motive to cheat the public,” the letter stated. On why the road-widening notice was not put up on the boards at the entrance of the lane, a senior civic officer, who did not wish to be quoted, said they were put up by junior staff members. “We had not instructed them to paste the notices at inaccessible places. Also, the list of all the lanes to be widened is still available on the PMC’s website,” he said, adding that the objection had come much after the deadline. The process to hear the 1,500 objections received earlier was nearing completion then, he said. The officials also argued that Section 210 of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act stated that the notice was to be put up “on the street or a part of the street” shortlisted for widening. The act does not prevent the civic body from putting up the notice at the dead end, provided it has also been advertised through newspapers. In their objection letter, the residents argued that most of them had stopped subscribing to newspapers because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Considering the pandemic, the widening proposal should have been given proper publicity, it stated. TOI earlier highlighted the objection of Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena leaders to the move. They questioned “en block” approval to the list of roads to be widened arguing that separate advertisements for each road shortlisted for widening should have been published in newspapers as mandated by Section 210 of the MMC Act. The Shiv Sena leaders requested the state urban development department to stay the PMC’s proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-pasted-notice-at-inaccessible-place-cheated-us-pai-path-residents/articleshow/81487741.cms||Abhijit Atre
March 14, 2021||Dehradun||Trekkers from across country flock to Rudraprayag as three-day nature festival kickstarts in Chirbatiya||Dehradun: Trekkers and hikers from different parts of the country, especially from Mumbai and NCR, have thronged Rudraprayag districts of Uttarakhand to participated in the much-awaited Chirbatiya Nature Festival. Organised by the forest department, the three-day event — concluding on Sunday — offers various eco-tourism activities to adventure lovers, ranging from bird watching to the half marathon in the hills to trekking. Chirbatiya is famous for its serene environment and picturesque beauty. The forest department had organised its first-ever birdwatching festival in 2019, wherein over 150 different species of birds were identified by noted ornithologists of the country. Speaking with TOI, Rudraprayag forest division DFO Vaibhav Singh said, “The aim is to invite outsiders to experience nature’s beauty in Uttarakhand and, at the same time, generate livelihood for the locals through eco-tourism activities and revenue for the state. So it’s a win-win situation for all.” The three-day event is being organised in collaboration with different departments, including Rudraprayag administration and Reliance Foundation and India Hikes organisation. On the second day of the event on Saturday, more than two dozen trekkers trekked a new stretch from Chirbatiya to Patangniya. On the first day, a puppet show spreading the message to conserve nature was organised. It was followed by a live music show. On Sunday, the participants can enjoy hot-air balloon, a village tour and the experience of “living with leopards”. Notably, the Rudraprayag forest division is the first forest office in the state that has converted its entire building into a wall art giving the message to conserve nature and wildlife, a step replicated by other forest officers in their respective offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/trekkers-from-across-country-flock-to-rudraprayag-as-three-day-nature-festival-kickstarts-in-chirbatiya/articleshow/81487752.cms||Shivani Azad
March 14, 2021||Mumbai||Man wanted in WB held in kidnap case in Mumbai||Thane: Crime branch arrested an accused in a kidnapping case in West Bengal. Mohammad Billa Mohammad Manik Mulla has two wives, and the second, in Bengal, has a five-year-old son, who he kept with the first in Mumbai without her consent, WB police said. When he got the boy to his wife in Mumbai, the second wife filed a case. The court told WB police to start a probe and an abduction case was filed, but he was absconding. Bengal police got information he is hiding under jurisdiction of Thane police, so they sought help. He was caught in Ambernath. Nishikant Karlikar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-wanted-in-wb-held-in-kidnap-case-in-mumbai/articleshow/81488847.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Delhi||GBs at 2 colleges okay use of ‘extra’ funds for salaries||NEW DELHI: In a move that could widen the gulf between Delhi government and the 12 colleges it fully funds, the governing bodies in two of the institutions have passed a resolution stating that they would adhere to the pattern of assistance followed for the release of grant-in-aid by the state government. Under this, the colleges have been directed to use the surplus grants-in-aid and the excess amounts drawn and available to pay pending salaries and meet some recurring expenses. On Saturday, Maharishi Valmiki College and Indira Gandhi Institute of Physical Education and Sports Sciences adopted the resolution, which says that University Grants Commission guidelines and financial norms will henceforth not be followed by these 12 colleges. It states, “Further resolved that the government of NCT of Delhi is only liable to the deficit only after the utilisation of the reserves as per policy. In the sponsored college affiliated to Delhi University, special audits show that all 12 colleges have surplus grants-in-aid in excess drawn and available with them. Consequently, the 12 member-colleges are directed to use the same and the Student Society Fund for the purpose of salary allowance and other approved and admissible recurring expenses.” However, the issue of the Student Society Fund, which the government wants the colleges to use to pay salaries, is being heard in Delhi High court. Also, the government will now release grants only on the submission of utilisation certificates. The resolution also added, “Since the college is fully funded by the government, hence no appointments (to teaching and non-teaching posts) shall be made unless the post creation is approved by the competent authority.” The resolution barred the institutions from undertaking infrastructure projects costing over Rs 2 crore without the government’s approval. On Saturday, the chairpersons of the governing boards of 12 colleges, most of them Delhi government nominees, held a press conference and highlighted the adoption of the resolution. “Even if we did not include the Student Society Fund in the calculation of surplus funds, the colleges have surplus amounts in their bank accounts,” claimed Prabhanjan Jha, GB member, Aditi Mahavidyalaya. Criticising the resolution, DUTA president Rajib Ray said, “The provisions of this pattern of assistance are designed to redefine the association of these 12 colleges with Delhi University and divest Delhi Government of its funding responsibility by coercing the colleges to gradually become self-sufficient and self-sustaining. The attempt to change the nomenclature has to be seen in the light of Delhi government’s plea to the central government to amend the DU Act in consonance with National Education Policy 2020.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gbs-at-2-colleges-okay-use-of-extra-funds-for-salaries/articleshow/81488187.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||TSPSC lodges cybercrime complaint over spoof mail||Hyderabad: Based on the alert given by a social media organisation, TS Public Service Commission authorities lodged a complaint with cybercrime sleuths of Hyderabad police claiming that someone had sent a spoof mail to the social media organization at the behest of the commission. Cybercrime sleuths said that the spoof mail was sent by an unknown accused to make his Twitter account a verified handle. In the mail to the social media organization, the accused sent seven accounts, requesting to make them as verified handles. But the social media organization found that six of these accounts belonging to the commission were already verified and the remaining one was an unverified account. Suspecting it to be a fraud, they alerted the concerned authorities in IT department, who came in touch with the commission members. After verifying their mailbox, the commission authorities found that none of its authorities had sent any mail requesting to verify their official handles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tspsc-lodges-cybercrime-complaint-over-spoof-mail/articleshow/81488186.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kochi||Reduce waste heap size at Brahmapuram plant: Report||Kochi: In its report to Kochi corporation following the massive fire outbreak at Brahmapuram waste management plant last week, the fire and rescue department in Ernakulam has asked the local body to implement a slew of measures to bring down the impact of fire, if it happens again, on environment, social and financial sectors. Though the fire and rescue department had submitted a report after the fire in February 2019, the local body had failed to implement the recommendations fully. As per the report submitted this week, the department has asked the corporation to create a 10metre-wide motorable road on the borders of the plant so that fire engines can reach the spot in case of an emergency. It has also been asked to bring down the size of waste heaps to 750m square and to make seven-metre-wide motorable roads in between waste heaps and install fire separation (non-combustible construction materials to prevent spread of fire) around each heap. “Following the fire in 2019, waste has been piled-up in large quality in separate heaps with fire lines in between. But once the waste is dumped beyond its limit on each heap, workers dump it on fire line making it difficult to move forward. Lack of proper road facility also made fire extinguishing effort at the plant a harrowing experience. Our vehicles got stuck many times on the fire line and earth movers were pressed into action to lift our vehicles. Since there are no proper roads, waste was seen littered everywhere in the plant. The new facilities arranged at the plant were also not adequate to meet any emergency situation,” said district fire officer A S Joji. Fire officials said lakhs of tonnes of waste are currently piled up in less than 20 heaps, leading to thousands of tonnes of waste in each heap. “If they restrict the size of a waste heap to 750m square, around 60 waste heaps will pop up in the plant. Currently, there is only hydrant monitors in five points and a fire pump to pump water. They have not fully implemented the earlier recommendations,” said K K Shiju, regional fire officer. The fire at Brahmapuram had cost huge monetary losses on both the fire force and the local body. Fire force had incurred an expenditure of Rs 8.43 lakh, besides the rent expenses incurred by the local body for hiring earth movers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/reduce-waste-heap-size-at-brahmapuram-plant-report/articleshow/81487760.cms||T C Sreemol
March 14, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra: Educational institutes shut till March 31 in 2 Nandurbar towns||NASHIK: Nandurbar district collector Rajendra Bharud has ordered the closure of all educational institutions, students’ hostels and tutorials in Nandurbar and Shahada towns with immediate effect till March 31. Bharud said the decision was taken in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district — about 80% of all cases are from the two talukas. There are 730 active cases in the district, of which, over 600 are from Nandurbar and Shahada talukas. “The authorities of these educational institutions can conduct online classes for their students during this phase of restrictions,” added Bharud. The district administration has already imposed restriction on shops and commercial establishments in the municipal areas of the district. All shops have to remain shut between 7pm and 6am. However, shops selling essentials like medicines, milk etc. are allowed to function beyond these timings. From March 18, no marriages would be allowed in mangal karalayas, lawns etc. Till March 17 written affidavits have to be given by parties to local police promising to follow Covid safety protocols during functions at these establishments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/edu-institutes-shut-till-march-31-in-2-nandurbar-towns/articleshow/81488189.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Agra||Cop attached to police line for celebrating birthday of SP worker in police station||Agra: A video of policemen cutting cake and celebrating birthday of a Samajwadi Party worker at Naseerpur police station of Firozabad district went viral on social media on Saturday.Mohit Yadav, a resident of village Tatapura resident, has been identified as the Samajwadi Party worker whose birthday was celebrated at the police station.Following primary investigation, SSP Firozabad removed the station in-charge Pravendra Yadav from Nasserpur police station. He was attached to the police line. SSP said that the matter will be investigated in detail by a gazetted officer. The video of the birthday celebration was uploaded on social media by a friend of Mohit Yadav. The video showcasing the inspector cutting the cake and feeding it to Mohit Yadav went viral on social media on Saturday. Mohit was also seen sharing the cake with other policemen. SSP Firozabad Ajay Kumar said, “Taking cognizance of the viral video, inspector Pravendra Yadav has been removed from the Naseerpur police station. The act of the police officer in uniform was found unethical in primary investigation. He has been asked to submit a written clarification. The matter will be investigated in detail. Further action will be taken on the basis of the probe report".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cop-attached-to-police-line-for-celebrating-birthday-of-sp-worker-in-police-station/articleshow/81487259.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Delhi||JNU begins phased reopening||NEW DELHI: As part of its phased reopening, Jawaharlal Nehru University has decided to open ground floor reading rooms inside the central library. Mughal Durbar and 24x7 food court are also allowed to reopen, but with take away facility only. The dean of school and chairpersons of special centres have been asked to review the process and provide feedback to the committee. They have also been told to look into reopening of reading rooms in their respective school/centre.“NSS student volunteers may be engaged to create social awareness on the campus, including library, for maintaining social distancing and wearing face mask,” said the circular. The entry of vehicles with JNU sticker will be allowed through Saraswati Puram and east gates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jnu-begins-phased-reopening/articleshow/81488207.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Nehru Bridge closed for 45 days from today||AHMEDABAD: Do you take the Nehru Bridge to travel to work? Then, start leaving your home early for the next 45 days. The bridge which connects Ashram Road to Lal Darwaza, Relief Road and the walled city is being closed to traffic for repair working beginning from Sunday. The bridge, which was constructed in 1960, needs urgent repairs. The 442-m long and 22.6-m wide bridge will undergo maintenance at the cost of Rs 3.25 crore. A senior civic official said, “With traffic, including AMTS, being diverted on to Ellis Bridge, it will lead to congestion on the bridge which already sees heavy traffic. If commuters use the Income-Tax Crossroads, they will face traffic hassles due to ongoing metro work.” In 2019, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation had closed Subhash Bridge for 20 days. The same technology will be used to repair Nehru Bridge. AMC will begin second phase of its repairs on the bridge. The first phase involved grouting (filling and repairing cracks in the concrete) on the piers and carriage way, followed by maintenance of the bearings of the bridge. The 12 piers of the bridge have 12 bearings each, which needs to be cleaned and greased. Officials said that bearings that are badly damaged will be replaced by the contractor. Another 162 bearings which are part of the seven-suspended span will also be given maintenance. Of the seven spans, five are 18.9-m long while two are 11.3-m long. The bearings act as a resting surface between bridge piers and the deck so as to reduce stress caused by movement. The officials said that the AMC has already issued notices announcing the closure of the bridge till April 27. Civic engineers will lift various sections of the carriageway using 20-odd hydraulic jacks simultaneously, before replacing the expansion joints with more efficient systems. Grouting work also needs be carried out on all bridges, AMC officials said. In coming months, AMC will fix Chimanbhai Patel flyover built in 1994, Dakshini railway flyover built in 2009, and Prabodh Raval flyover built in 2001.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nehru-bridge-closed-for-45-days-from-today/articleshow/81488254.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Ranchi||Hyderabad-bound flight makes emergency landing in Ranchi||RANCHI: A Hyderabad-bound Indigo flight from Bagdogra in West Bengal made an emergency landing at the Birsa Munda International Airport here on Saturday morning after a 21-year-old passenger on board suffered a fit of seizure. The patient is now shifted to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) and doctors treating her said she is critical. According to airport officials, the patient was travelling alone from Bagdogra to Hyderabad and had developed anxiety midway. She was given first aid and oxygen support by the airline staff on board and as her condition had deteriorated, the captain of the flight decided to make an emergency landing at the airport here. Talking to TOI, airport director Vinod Kumar Sharma said, “The Bagdogra-Hyderabad Indigo flight (6E-619) landed at our airport around 11:30 am after the air traffic control (ATC) was alerted about the medical emergency of a passenger. Our ATC officials ensured that the flight was given a safe passage to land and our operations team ensured that all necessary arrangements were made at the airport to shift the patient to a hospital immediately.” A team of doctors along with an ambulance took care of the passenger at the airport and she was shifted to Rims immediately after the doctors suggested immediate hospital treatment. According to doctors at Rims, the patient was brought in an unconscious state and was under treatment. Talking to TOI, assistant professor of the cardiology department, Dr Prashant Kumar who attended to the patient, said: “The patient was brought in an unconscious state. She has a history of seizure and was administered medicines for the management of the disease. A CT scan has also been done and there are chances that the patient has a history of brain oedema.” He added, “She is still critical and under constant medical supervision. We have informed the patient’s family members and they will be reaching Ranchi soon.” According to Indigo officials, the Hyderabad-bound flight took off from Ranchi airport around 11:50 am and reached its destination around 1:48 pm after a delay of around 18 minutes. The flight’s captain appreciated the efforts of the Ranchi ATC and operation officials who allowed the landing on a short request and also made arrangements for transportation of the patient to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hyderabad-bound-flight-makes-emergency-landing-in-ranchi/articleshow/81487584.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 14, 2021||Ranchi||‘75% job reservation without skilled workforce death knell for industries’||RANCHI: The state government’s plan to reserve 75% jobs for locals in the private sector has evoked a mixed response from Jharkhand Inc with many saying that even if the move has a noble objective of addressing unemployment, it could pose problems for industrial growth and investments if such a law is enacted without proper skilling of the workforce. To fulfil its poll promise, the Jharkhand cabinet on Friday decided to reserve jobs for locals in private firms for up to a salary of Rs 30,000. A formal bill will soon be placed in the state assembly. The move follows a similar one made by the BJP-led government in Haryana which recently reserved 75% jobs for its residents. The Manohar Lal Khattar-led government’s decision was severely criticised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) which had asked the former to reconsider its decision as it would affect the productivity and competitiveness of industries. CII’s local unit in Jharkhand had a similar reaction when asked to comment on the cabinet decision. “At a time when the state government is working on a new industrial policy to woo investors, such a decision will have a negative impact on the industrial growth,” a CII representative here said. The regional director of Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India, Bharat Jaiswal, said, “Although the move will provide the youngsters with ample employment opportunities and help them become financially stable, the government should make sure that the quality of the workforce isn’t comprised. It should ensure that there is a minimum qualification criterion enshrined in the law so that there is no compromise on quality.” He added, “The government’s focus should also be on ease of doing business to attract more investment in Jharkhand.” The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), the state’s apex trade body which is affiliated to FICCI, is of the view that such a law should not be enacted in haste. FJCCI president Praveen Kumar Jain said, “While we are not against the decision to give preference to locals when it comes to jobs, the move should be balanced and must not hamper industrial growth. The workforce in any industry comprises two aspects — skilled and unskilled labour. The reservation clause in the unskilled category won’t make much of an impact from an industry’s point of view, but it will be fatal if the reservation is made mandatory in the skilled category as well.” He added, “To reserve jobs in the skilled category, the state must first ensure that there is a large number of skilled workers across all those sectors in which it intends to reserve the jobs. Otherwise, investors will not prefer to put in their money there.” Philips Mathew, the president of Jharkhand Small Industries Association, expressed concern with the reservation plan and said the government must clearly define who the locals are. “There are many who are working in different industries here from Bihar, Chhattisgarh, etc., for the past 20-25 years. Will they be called locals? If not, what will be their fate? Industries in Haryana are currently facing similar problems. Till the government unveils its final plan, it is difficult to say what impact it will have on industrial growth,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/75-job-reservation-without-skilled-workforce-death-knell-for-industries/articleshow/81487624.cms||ASRP Mukesh
March 14, 2021||Ranchi||Education dept warns para-teachers of disciplinary action for agitation||RANCHI: In a bid to prevent the agitating para-teachers from storming the Jharkhand assembly from March 15 to 19 as part of their agitation programme, the state education department has issued a direction to all district education officers (DEO) to ensure the presence of all para-teachers on the school premises during the period. The agitators are, however, adamant and said they would go ahead with their plan, irrespective of government’s action. Director of Jharkhand Education Project Council, Sailesh Chaurasia, has asked the DEOs to submit daily reports on the presence of para-teachers in schools of their jurisdiction. Chaurasia said any para-teacher from work and taking part in the agitation would be penalised under the “no work, no pay” policy and would also face disciplinary action. He said permission for leave would be granted only in special situations like serious illnesses. Notably, the para-teachers under the banner of Ekikrit Para Sikshak Sangharsh Morcha have drawn a district-wise plan to gherao the Vidhan Sabha from March 15. Representatives from Giridih, Ramgarh, Deoghar, Lohardaga and East Singhbhum will take part in the agitation on March 15, while those from Chatra, Garwah, Simdega, Godda and West Singhbhum will march on March 16. While para-teachers from Hazaribag, Latehar, Pakur, Ranchi and Khunti will take part on March 17, representatives from Palamu, Dhanbad, Koderma and Saraikela Kharsawan will take part on March 18 and Gumla, Dumka, Jamtara, Sahebganj and Bokaro on March 19. Claiming that the government has initiated action on the majority of the demands raised by the para-teachers' body, the education department has said repeated demonstrations, strikes and other forms of agitation have adversely impacted education work. It added that since the schools have reopened after a prolonged closure due to the lockdown, it is improper that the para-teachers neglect the education of children and take part in the agitation. Reacting to the state government order, a member of the para-teachers’ group, Sanjay Pandey, said, “The education department directives is dictatorial. All of us will take casual leave on the day of agitation and converge in Ranchi. Let the government do what it wants, we have been agitating for the past many months for regularization of our services. The government should look for ways to address our demand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/education-dept-warns-para-teachers-of-disciplinary-action-for-agitation/articleshow/81487518.cms||Sanjay Sahay
March 14, 2021||India||Govt makes it easier for users to get drinking water tested||NEW DELHI: Leveraging the technical capacity built for Covid-19 testing and surveillance, the National ‘Jal Jeevan Mission’ (JJM), in partnership with ICMR, on Saturday launched an online portal that will make it possible for users to get quality of drinking water tested through a network of nearly 2,000 labs across the country. The Water Quality Information Management System’ (WQMIS) will ensure that any adverse test report will be automatically flagged up to state and central-level authorities for corrective action at source of the supply of drinking water. The system will work the way ICMR’s robust online portal for Covid-19 test monitoring is functioning -- with a clear data flow protocol where testing laboratories provide results to the person requesting the test, state and national databases. Union Jal Shakti minister, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said ‘Har Ghar Jal’ (water to every household) is not just a one-time infrastructure programme. “It will go a long way in building the capacity of the frontline workers, empowering women and creating employment in villages,” he said. The preliminary testing of drinking water at village-level will be done by trained women workers using field kits (FTK). One among the five women trained to perform the FTK test in every village in the country would be registered on the portal by the block / sub-divisional laboratory in-charge to upload the FTK test results. The sample will be sent to nearest laboratory for confirmatory test, if required. As per an estimate, testing will cost Rs 180 - 600 for 12 identified parameters, including arsenic and fluoride content, and the cost would be borne by village water and sanitation committee (Pani Samiti or User Group). The cost of basic 8-10 parameters will not be more than Rs 200 per sample. “Idea is to bring the state authorities on board to bear the cost in a manner that the network of laboratories across the country function on a no profit, no loss mode,” said an official. There is currently, a network of 1,933 active lab linked to WQMIS. The Centre has earmarked 2% of its entire JJM budget (Rs 1,000 crore out of nearly Rs 50,000 crore in 2021-22) for testing so that the quality of drinking water supply is ensured along with required quantity under the ongoing JJM -- a flagship programme of the central government for providing tap water connection in every rural household by 2024. The Jal Shakti (water resources) ministry on Saturday discussed the modalities of the testing system under the WQMIS and released a testing framework during a review meeting of the JJM through virtual conference of water resources ministers from states. Ever since the JJM was announced by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the ramparts of the Red Fort on August 15, 2019, more than 3.77 Crore rural households have been provided with tap water connections. In total, more than 7 crore rural families (36.5% of total) have now started getting clean water in their homes. “Every family living in 52 districts, 670 blocks, 42,100 panchayats and 81,123 villages are getting assured tap water supply in their homes now,” said Shekhawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-makes-it-easier-for-users-to-get-drinking-water-tested/articleshow/81490228.cms||Vishwa Mohan
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||Record 2,261 Covid cases in Nagpur District||Nagpur: The worst-hit Amravati district and nearby districts in Amravati division reported less number of cases on Saturday while Nagpur district reported a record-breaking 2,261 cases in a day, hinting that Covid is now shifting its base from Amravati to Nagpur. On March 13, Nagpur district conducted 11,019 cases out of which 2261 tested positive which means the sample positivity rate was more than 20% which used to be the scenario in Amravati earlier. On the other hand, Amravati conducted 2,604 tests on Saturday with 383 of them (15%) testing positive, a slight relief. In Akola, 473 out of 2,180 tested positive which is still 21%, which means conditions are still alarming there. The sample positivity rate was above 10% also in Yavatmal (346 cases and 2,668 tests), Buldhana (362/1,364), Wardha (234/1,589) and Washim (155/1,041). Other districts in Vidarbha, though reported more cases, the prominent reason was more tests. The sample positivity was less than 10% in Chandrapur (104/1,965), Bhandara (65/1,054), Gondia (15/2,886), and Gadchiroli (38/650). Deaths due to Covid-19 continued to raise concerns in Vidarbha. On Saturday, 27 people died of Covid-19. Nagpur, Amravati and Wardha reported 7 deaths each while Akola and Yavatmal reported 3 deaths each. In Wardha, two of the seven deceased were under 40 years of age. In Amravati, one deceased out of 7 was under 40. In Akola and Yavatmal, all who died of Covid-19 were above 65 years of age, majority of them over 75 years. Total death toll of Vidarbha reached 7,730. With 3.23 lakh patients out of total 3.66 lakh cases recovering till date, Vidarbha’s recovery rate is 88.2% now. Overall, the recovery rate is coming down daily as the number of cases is more and recoveries are less. Vidarbha’s recovery rate is less than the state as well as national average. Akola: The district reported three deaths – a 70-year-old woman, an 85-year-old man and 65-year-old man. This took Akola’s total death toll to 400. The district reported 473 new cases, highest in Amravati revenue division on Saturday. Total 335 patients recovered from Akola. Now, the district has 21,062 cases, 15,628 recoveries and 5,034 patients under treatment. Buldhana: At 535, recoveries were more than the 362 new cases in Buldhana on Saturday. No death was reported. Now the district has 24,469 cases, including 20,958 recoveries and 215 deaths. Total 3,296 patients are undergoing treatment. Washim: Number of recoveries (245) was more than the number of new cases (155) in Washim too. Total case load reached 11,059, including 9,757 recoveries and 164 deaths. Total 1,137 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 15 new cases and 24 recoveries on Saturday. This took the total caseload of Gondia to 14,665 and recoveries to 14,290. With 187 deaths reported till date, the district has 188 patients under treatment. Bhandara: Day’s load increased to 65 in Bhandara, but more than 1,000 tests were also conducted. With 25 recoveries and no death reported on Saturday, the district now has 14,258 total cases, 13,444 recoveries and 328 deaths. Total 486 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 38 new cases and 13 recoveries on Saturday. Total caseload of Gadchiroli reached 9,855, with 9,516 recoveries, 108 deaths and 231 patients under treatment. Yavatmal: Three deaths took the toll to 504. Out of 2,668 reports, 346 tested positive. Currently, there are 2477 active positive patients undergoing treatment. Amravati: With seven deaths, the toll is now seven short of the 600 mark. In all, 383 new cases were detected. The recoveries were 36478. Wardha: Seven deaths made the toll 384. With 234 positive, the caseload reached 14,632. After 45 discharged, total recoveries are 13,033. Chandrapur: There were 104 positive cases. In all, 43 patients were discharged, leaving 857 active patients on Saturday. There was no death reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/record-2261-covid-cases-in-nagpur-district/articleshow/81488280.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||Rewilded Avni cub dies||NAGPUR: The 3-year-old tigress PTRF-84 — cub of Pandharkawda tigress Avni — died during treatment in an enclosure at Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR) late Saturday night. The cub was captured on December 22, 2018, when it was an year old. It was rewilded in a 5-hectare enclosure in Pench for over two years and was released in the wild on March 5 evening. The tigress was recaptured on March 8, after it was attacked by another tigress. It finally succumbed to the wounds inflicted during the fight. She was being treated inside a treatment cage in the enclosure at Titralmangi and was monitored daily by the veterinary officers. “On Saturday evening, her health deteriorated and wildlife vets suggested shifting her to Gorewada Rescue Centre in Nagpur. Immediately, preparations were made but she succumbed around 10pm. The veterinary team tried its best to provide emergency treatment. The post-mortem as per the NTCA SOP will be conducted on Sunday,” said Pench field director RS Govekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rewilded-avni-cub-dies/articleshow/81488288.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 14, 2021||India||Treat flyers without masks as ‘unruly’, says DGCA||NEW DELHI: India’s aviation regulator on Saturday directed security agencies not to allow airport entry to passengers without masks. Passengers refusing to wear masks properly before takeoff will now be deboarded before departure, and those not masking properly as per norms on flights despite repeated warnings will now be treated as “unruly passengers”. Once classified as unruly, a person can be barred from flying for anywhere up to a lifetime, depending on the gravity of the violation of safety norms. “In case, any passenger is not following Covid-19 protocol, they should be handed over to security agencies after warnings. If required, they may be dealt as per law,” the Directorate General of Civil Aviation on Saturday said in an order to all airlines, airport operators and security agencies. The order came after a high court judge observed blatant violation of Covid-19 norms by passengers on a domestic flight recently. It directed airlines, airport operators and CISF to ensure that passengers wear masks and maintain social distancing norms at all times during air travel||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/treat-flyers-without-masks-as-unruly-says-dgca/articleshow/81490229.cms||---
March 14, 2021||India||26 verses plea: Shia board ex-chief gets death threats||LUCKNOW: After former chairperson of the UP Shia Central Waqf Board Waseem Rizvi raised a storm amid various sections of Muslims across the world with his petition in Supreme Court demanding its intervention for removal of 26 verses in the Quran pertaining to alleged ‘violent nature’, he has gathered various forms of reactions. While clerics from both Shia and Sunni sects are demanding his arrest and a street protest is planned in Lucknow on Sunday, Rizvi has also been receiving threats from various quarters. On Saturday, ex-chairperson Moradabad Bar Association, advocate Haji Amirul Hasan Jafri, announced a reward of Rs 11 lakh to the one who executes Rizvi. The person who cuts off Rizvi’s head will get this prize money,” he said. After his move to file this PIL in SC has triggered a storm, Rizvi has switched off his phone and has limited his outings to minimal even with his already provided Y+ security cover. “I have informed authorities but haven’t made a complaint yet. I’m scared for my family,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/26-verses-plea-shia-board-ex-chief-gets-death-threats/articleshow/81490230.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||Covid patient escapes from GMCH, police bring him back from Hinganghat||NAGPUR: A 27-year-old Covid-19 patient from Hinganghat in Wardha district escaped from the GMCH Covid Hospital on March 13 creating an atmosphere of panic. After a frenetic search, police finally traced him at Hinganghat, his hometown, later in the day. How a Covid-19 patient could escape and travel 76km to Hinganghat is still not known. Hospital authorities are also claiming that the person has a history of head injury and may be mentally unstable. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande told TOI that the patient was earlier admitted for a head injury on February 23. He was discharged on March 3. However, as he started feeling some kind of discomfort while speaking, his relatives took him to a local doctor. Doctors advised them to take the patient back to Nagpur. Before that, his Covid-19 test was done as per the protocol in which he tested positive. On March 12, he was admitted to the Covid Hospital (Trauma Centre) in GMCH. On Saturday, doctors realized that the youth was missing. As security guards and on-duty health workers were unaware of the youth’s whereabouts, the GMCH administration informed the police. Ajni police took all the details of the patient and began a search. Hinganghat police were also alerted. As team of Hinganghat police reached the residence of the patient and found him there. They immediately took him into custody and later handed him over to a team of Ajni police that travelled to Hinganghat. Police brought the patient back to Nagpur and re-admitted him to GMCH. After an iinternal inquiry, a police case will be filed against the patient, said authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-patient-escapes-from-gmch-police-bring-him-back-from-hinganghat/articleshow/81488306.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 14, 2021||India||Sunni board to defend Places of Worship Act, 1991||AYODHYA: The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board has vowed to defend the provisions of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, within the legal framework, a day after the Supreme Court asked the Centre to respond to a PIL challenging the law which prohibits reclaiming of disputed shrines. The Sunni Board, which controls 1.3 lakh mosques and mausoleums in UP, has been dragged into legal battles over Kashi’s Gyanvapi masjid and Shahi Eidgah mosque in Mathura, months after the November 2019 Ayodhya verdict. On Saturday, the Board decided to back the mosque committee of Tile Wali Masjid, Lucknow, to move SC against the petition. Talking to TOI, Sunni Waqf Board chairman Zufar Farooqui termed the petition filed by BJP member Ashwini Upadhyay a direct challenge to Supreme Couts’s Ayodhya verdict that upheld the Places of Worship Act while stating it provides confidence to every religious community that their places of worship will be preserved and their character won’t be altered as they existed on August 15, 1947. “The petitioner has challenged the Ayodhya verdict. We are ready to fight and legally defend the Act, which upholds secularism that forms the basic framework of the Constitution. We won’t allow any move to alter the status of any mosque, including those in Kashi and Mathura,” he told TOI. Raising questions over the petition in SC, Athar Hussain, secretary of Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation, said, “Now Hindutva forces are coming out openly against Ayodhya judgment by challenging the constitutional validity of Places of Worship Act, 1991. Muslim hardliners too were against the verdict. Did they have an understanding with Hindu hardliners on this,” he asked. Vinod Bansal, VHP’s national spokesperson, told TOI, “Kashi and Mathura are not on our immediate agenda. Our focus is on the Ram temple at Ayodhya.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sunni-board-to-defend-places-of-worship-act-1991/articleshow/81490231.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
March 14, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: 14-year-old boy brutally assaulted for entering temple to drink water||GHAZIABAD: “Badhiya se donon ka chehra aana chahiye (our faces should be clearly visible)”, Shringi Narayan Yadav instructs his aides before beating a 14-year-old boy black and blue. With blows raining on him, all the boy can mutter through the pain is a faint, “Paani peene aaye thhe uncle (I had come here to drink water)”. But the beatings did not stop. Shringi didn’t just want to teach him a lesson. He also wanted to set an example. The man from Bhagalpur in Bihar, a worker at the Dasna Devi temple in Ghaziabad, had on Friday evening flown into rage at the sight of the boy drinking water from a tap on the premises of the temple. Shringi asked the boy his name, before ripping into him. Habib Ahmed, the boy’s father, told TOI on Saturday they were returning home after the day’s work when his son had felt thirsty and stopped to drink water. “My son helps me with my work. We had stopped near the temple to drink some water from the tap,” said Ahmed, who is a scrap dealer. As the video hit messenger apps and social media, where assault on the minor drew wide condemnation, police stepped in. Shringi was taken into custody. SP (rural) Iraj Raja told TOI, “We got to know about the incident from a video clip that was circulating, which the accused had filmed. He was arrested on Saturday from the area.” A case was filed against Shringi under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the IPC and provisions of the IT Act. In the 27-second video clip of the assault, Shringi is seen holding the boy by his right arm and twisting it, making the teenager grimace. He then shoves the boy to the ground and thrashes him, mouthing abuses. “No sooner had my son finished drinking water than the man called him inside. He asked what his name was and his father’s name. Even before he could say our names, he started thrashing him. My son was bleeding from the head when he came out,” added Ahmed, who said they went back home and did not file a police complaint. Shringi’s Facebook timelines give an insight into his thoughts. He regularly posts photos and videos, which advocate controlling the “rising population” of the minority community. His timeline mentions he moved to Delhi in October 2020. In a photo uploaded on October 26, 2020, he is seen holding a rifle in one hand, with a bullet belt slung across his other shoulder. Shringi also calls for “punishing” women who make friends from other communities. In November, he shared a post by another user who asked members of the majority community to embrace the principles of Nathuram Godse, “who did not stop at anything to ensure justice for Hindus”. Fact check website Alt News co-founder Mohammed Zubair also posted screenshots of Shringi’s Facebook timeline, highlighting how the youth had been “radicalised” after allegedly listening to the ‘hate speeches’ of a local mahant. Another video, posted by Zubair, showed Shringi threatening another man from the minority community while holding a butcher knife in his hand. Shringi constantly keeps telling the man he is a Bangladeshi, which the man denies. He then lets the man go suddenly without causing any physical harm to him. The chief priest of the temple is Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati, who could not be reached for a comment. There is a board outside the temple, which prohibits anyone from a specific minority community from entering the premises. (Additional reporting by Anam Ajmal in New Delhi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/clip-of-assault-on-boy-for-drinking-water-on-temple-premises-goes-viral-man-arrested/articleshow/81488362.cms||Abhijay Jha
March 14, 2021||Hubballi||Language row erupts again: Karnataka-Maharashtra buses halted||BELAGAVI: Bus services between Karnataka and Maharashtra stand suspended until further notice after the Marathi-versus-Kannada row erupted yet again in the border areas, leading to stone-pelting and ink-smearing campaigns on both sides over the past two days. After protesters threw stones at Maharashtra state transport buses in Kolhapur late Friday night, corporations in both states deemed the environment unsafe and withdrew their buses. The latest round of protests is believed to have started two days ago as alleged Shiv Sena members blackened Kannada signboards at the famed Mahalakshmi temple in Kolhapur, which draws thousands of devotees from across the border. Citing Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray’s claims on Belagavi, the vandals reportedly abused shop-keepers from Karnataka. Videos of the incident went viral, and within 24 hours, pro-Kannada outfits in Belagavi smeared Marathi signboards with black paint. Govt urged to take up issue with MahaPro-Kannada outfits and the rival Shiv Sena and Maharashtra Ekikarna Samiti staged protests in Belagavi and submitted memoranda to local police. The stoning of Maharashtra state buses in Kolhapur on Friday reignited the chaos. As a precautionary measure, the Belagavi division of North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation suspended 400 buses plying to Maharashtra, and the latter suspended 58 buses.Belagavi division controller Mahadevappa Munji said all Maharashtra buses have been sent back. “We got a call from our counterparts in Kolhapur saying Shiv Sena activists there have intensified their protest over the language row and it would not be wise to ply buses till the situation improves,” said Munji. Condeming the vandalism in Kolhapur, Karnataka Border Area Development Authority chairman C Somashekar urged the Yediyurappa government to intervene and take up the matter with Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kannada-vs-marathi-row-turns-violent-stalls-bus-services/articleshow/81490232.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||Four cops suspended for letting injured man die||NAGPUR: In heart-wrenching incident, an injured 74-year-old Bhaiyyalal Bais was left to die for almost seven hours without medical treatment by cops who did not react despite being informed. After the glaring apathy came to the fore, where a life was lost due to sheer negligence, city police chief Amitesh Kumar suspended an officer and three constables in a first of its kind action. Bais, who had several internal injuries, was found motionless near the Military Ground at Gorewada on March 9. Mankapur police had come to know about Bais lying in an injured condition at around 8.45am but did not turn up to help till 3.30pm when he had already died without being attended to. His complicated death was later registered as murder at Mankapur police station with cops still groping for tangible proof of the crime. The cops were also in the dark over the unexplained death for more than 24 hours before the episode of negligence had surfaced. Kumar placed sub-inspector Amol Lakde, constable Rahul Botre, naik constable Roshan Yadav and head constable Sanjay Pande under suspension on Friday after learning about their shocking insensitivity and dereliction of duty. It’s learnt that Bais, who left his home at Lokhande Layout in Godhni on March 8, was found in an injured condition at the ground at 8.38am by Pande who had gone to play cricket. Pande is now posted at the police headquarters. He is said to have alerted the police control room at 8.42am following which he had also enquired about Bais’ injuries and also offered him water. At 10am, Pande had got a call from sub-inspector Lakde from Mankapur police station but no one turned up. Pande too left the place without offering Bais any further help. CP Kumar said it was the responsibility of Pande too to offer help under the tenet of ‘Good Samaritan’ and rush the injured to hospital following which he could have shared more information with Mankapur police who were baffled by the mysterious death. “It does not matter whether it is the police or civilians but rendering life-saving help is an ethical practice which cannot be shirked,” said the CP who had been camping at Mankapur police station to supervise the murder probe. It was around 3.30pm when Lakde and his team reached the spot to shift Bais’s body to the hospital for the post-mortem. Mankapur police are probing the incident from different angles, including a property dispute and some family matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/four-cops-suspended-for-letting-injured-man-die/articleshow/81488386.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 14, 2021||World||UK opens new window for students to get funded int’l work & study placements||LONDON: Indian students enrolled at UK colleges and universities full-time or part-time can now access funded study and work placements in any country in the world during or after their course thanks to the launch of a new post-Brexit global programme. The Turing scheme — named after Alan Turing, famed for cracking the Enigma code during the World War II — was launched on Friday by the British government to replace the Erasmus+ scheme, which Britain is no longer part of owing to Brexit. Study or traineeship placements can be in any country in the world, lasting from four weeks to one year, during the student’s course, for which he/she will receive a grant from the British government towards travel and living expenses. They can also get funded work placements for up to one year after graduating. Unlike the Erasmus+ scheme, which is EU-focused, every country in the world, including India, is eligible to partner with UK universities, schools and colleges under the Turing scheme — launched to boost the UK’s “Global Britain” image. “It’s open to international students, including Indian students who are studying in the UK,” universities minister Michelle Donelan said. Thirty-five thousand placements are up for grabs on the scheme. The first funded placements will commence in September. The scheme has received £110 million in UK government funding in its first academic year. The scheme gives funding to eligible providers in Britain — whether they be schools, colleges or universities — to offer a range of different opportunities. Work placements might be at a private company, public body, research institute, foundation, educational centre or NGO in any country and study placements will be at foreign universities and colleges. British schools will even be able to partner with schools in India to allow school student exchanges for anywhere from three days to six months. The aim of the scheme is to help young people gain international experience and language skills, boost employability and develop new skills and understanding of other cultures. Students and schoolkids in India will be able to come to the UK on study placements if their institutions in India partner up with UK education providers. “India students won’t pay additional tuition fees to come to the UK apart from what they are already paying in India to their primary institution,” Donelan said. “This’ll be an exchange as UK universities will broker relationships with universities overseas and each one will waive their fees. Many Indian universities already have relationships with UK universities,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-opens-new-window-for-students-to-get-funded-intl-work-study-placements/articleshow/81490235.cms||NAOMI CANTON
March 14, 2021||Nagpur||Soon, land lease holders to pay 8% of RR value||NAGPUR: The plot owners who have taken land of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (MNC) on lease for dwelling purposes have to very soon pay 8% RR (ready reckoner) value per annum of the leased plot instead of .02% as the civic body has decided to revise its land lease policy and reduce the tenure of lease agreements. If the revised policy is okayed at the general body meeting scheduled to be held on March 19, revenue of the cash-strapped NMC will increase manifold as there are approximate 4,300 plot owners who have taken the civic body’s lands on lease for dwelling purposes. The development has, however, already started getting flak from several quarters even before being implemented. A few lease holders requesting anonymity said the NMC has already recovered the cost of the plot as premium from the lessee while leasing out the plot. “The plots were given on nominal lease as there was no policy for allotting government plots on ownership basis then. Now, it’s unfair on part of the NMC if it wants to charge lease rates based on market value of the plot,” one of the lease holders said.  Recently, the state government, while allowing the civic body to implement seventh pay commission recommendations, had suggested some financial reforms, including revision in lease rules, said an NMC official of the estate department. As per the state government’s notification, the lease rates will match market prices. According to the official, the NMC will levy 8% of RR value on lease agreement. “The NMC land in Nagpur can be given on lease for only 10 years as against the much longer tenures of 30 to 99 years at some places like in Gandhi Nagar. The government has modified the eligibility criteria to renew and gave the option to transfer the rights of lease deed,” the official said. Further as per government notification, NMC is supposed to lease out its property or to renew the lease agreement for only 10 years period. Sources said besides this, many lease holders had violated the terms and conditions of the lease agreement. “Many of them have allegedly handed over the plots to developers. As a result, many multistorey buildings have replaced the single unit dwelling even in areas like New Colony in Sadar, Congress Nagar etc. In most of the cases, the NMC has not been informed,” sources said. Referring the new notification, the official said the estate department can regularize all such activities by levying revised penalties. According to officials, the state government has revised the lease transfer or renewal rule more stringent. As per the notification, if any holder found violating the lease transfer or renewal norms, the NMC can directly cancel the lease agreement. Now, the administration has submitted the state government’s notification having new rules on leasing of the NMC lands and the old norms. The House will take a call on this, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/soon-land-lease-holders-to-pay-8-of-rr-value/articleshow/81488401.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
March 14, 2021||Vijayawada||New tech for AP police to help reduce response time||VIJAYAWADA: Always at the forefront of adopting new technology, the Andhra Pradesh police department is developing a new system that will integrate all emergency response vehicles with the central command centre through GIS and GPS technologies. Once fully operational, senior police officials expect response time to reduce by 50 per cent in rural areas, which is currently around 20 minutes, and 25-30 per cent in urban areas, which is currently around 6–8 minutes. G Palaraju, deputy inspector general (DIG) for technology services, said that the response time in urban areas is already fairly good compared to international standards. “However, we are lagging in rural areas. With technology adoption, there is scope to reduce response time by half,” he said. As part of this project, all emergency response vehicles will be fitted with GIS and GPS technology-enabled gadgets. These vehicles will be notified as soon as any distress call is received through the ‘100’ helpline or the national emergency response number 112. The nearest vehicle will rush to the spot to attend the call. According to DIG Palaraju, the entire system will be automated right from the origin of the call. The system will notify the nearest three vehicles and will send details and location of the caller. There will be minimum human intervention and the system will have greater transparency and accountability. As all vehicles will be visible on the map, they will be bound to respond immediately once they receive a notification, the DIG said while adding that the system also alerts the superior officer of the designated vehicle if the vehicle did not attend a call. Concerned personnel will be held accountable, he said. The new technology-enabled system is expected to improve operational efficiency of police personnel especially in case or road accidents and crimes against women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/new-tech-for-ap-police-to-help-reduce-response-time/articleshow/81487394.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 14, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Daughter booked for cheating old parents||VIJAYAWADA: An elderly couple, living at Brahmapuram in Pedana town of Krishna district, lodged a complaint against their daughter on Saturday for allegedly cheating them by taking their land under the pretext of taking care of them in their old age. As per information provided by Pedana police, complainant Konda Brahmanandam (70) has been living with his wife in municipal ward number 21 in the town. Recently, his only daughter Malluri Lakshmi and her husband, who reside at Eluru in West Godavari district, offered to take care of them in their old age. Feeling reassured that they can live the rest of their lives under the care of their daughter and son-in-law, Brahmanandam registered his property, including a 473-yard plot in Brahmapuram area of Pedana town, in his daughter’s name. But for the past several months, Lakshmi neither called nor attended to Brahmanandam’s calls. As Brahmanandam does not have any regular income, he has been struggling financially to take care of himself and his wife. In his complaint, he stated that when he confronted his daughter she went back on her promise that she would take care of them and has left them to fend for themselves. Police said they have registered a case under relevant sections of Senior Citizens Act, 2007 at Pedana police station and would summon Lakshmi for questioning soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/daughter-booked-for-cheating-old-parents/articleshow/81487405.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
March 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||IIM-Visakhapatnam adds four new research specialisations||VISAKHAPATNAM: Indian Institute of Management, Visakhapatnam (IIM-V) has launched four more ‘new-age’ specialisations to its list of doctoral programmes from this academic year. The four new courses are: strategy, information systems, organisational development and human resource management and economics. The premier management institution started offering doctoral programmes in 2019. IIM-V was the first IIM to introduce a doctoral programme among the seven new IIMs established after 2015. Initially, two programmes were on offer — finance and accounting and production and operations management. The programmes began with three students. In 2020, two more doctoral programmes were added: decision sciences and marketing, which saw six more students enrol. Now, with the aim to become a premier centre of interdisciplinary research in various areas of business management, IIM-V has decided to roll out four more specialisations. Speaking to TOI, IIM-V director Prof M Chandrasekhar said that there has been an overwhelming response to the doctoral programmes offered by the institute. “The institute aspires to emerge as one of the leading schools of management research in the country,” he added. Discussing the features of IIM-V’s doctoral programmes, Prof Chandrasekhar said that the institute frequently conducts research seminars for scholars. “Renowned faculty from India and abroad enlighten students on current research trends and challenges confronting businesses,” the director said. He informed that a management faculty from University of Wisconsin-Green Bay, USA recently participated in a research seminar of the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/iim-v-adds-four-new-research-specialisations/articleshow/81487416.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
March 14, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Co-operative society director held for fraud||VIJAYAWADA: Police on Saturday arrested the chairman of Amaravati Mutually Aided Cooperative Society (AMACS) for allegedly cheating customers to the tune of Rs 20 lakh. According to Nuzvid police, the chairman Prakash Rao, is accused number one in the FIR which also mentions other directors of the bank. Police said that Rao formed the society along with a few others in 2018 and appointed agents to find depositors. AMACS promised high returns to depositors which led people from the middle-income group to take up the scheme. So far, more than 100 depositors are said to have pledged their savings with the society across Vijayawada, Tiruviru, Visannapeta and Nuzvid branches in Krishna district. Cops said that they received a complaint from 34 people across these branches alleging fraud as the society shut down operations a few days ago. The fraud came to light after the society’s management failed to repay the deposits even after tenure. On Saturday morning, depositors staged a dharna in front of the society’s office in Nuzvid demanding repayment. “I had paid around Rs 1 lakh and completed my tenure on October 1. Even after that, I did not get my money back. The society kept postponing my claims,” said one of the protesting depositors. Protestors said that they lodged a formal police complaint on March 12. Police have booked a case under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) of IPC and section 5 of the Andhra Pradesh Protection of Depositors of Financial Establishments Act of 1999. Apart from the main accused, police are also interrogating other directors involved in the society’s operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/co-operative-society-director-held-for-fraud/articleshow/81487426.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Home guard helps out 55-year-old||Vizianagaram: A woman home guard from Bobbili town helped out a 55-year-old woman who was moving around with ropes tied to her neck. The woman, said to be battling psychological issues, was found roaming the streets with ropes around her neck which were choking her when home guard Jhansi Rani found her. Upon seeing the woman, Rani rushed to help. "She was roaming on the Bobbili main road for the last few months with ropes gathered from garbage dumps. The home guard noticed her and cut all the ropes," said Allu Sanyasi Rao, a local businessman. The home guard not only untied the ropes but also provided her with food and clothes. Police officials praised Jhansi Rani for her sense of humanity and service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/home-guard-helps-out-55-year-old/articleshow/81487433.cms||Siva G
March 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Srikakulam to curb referrals to Vizag hospitals||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following reports of patients dying in transit from Srikakulam to Visakhapatnam, the Srikakulam district administration has decided to stop referring patients to King George Hospital (KGH) or other corporate hospitals in Visakhapatnam for medical cases that can be treated locally. "No cases should be referred except the most urgent cases when there is no way to provide medical treatment locally," Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said while adding, "We have doctors who are experts in treating all kinds of medical emergencies. Why should we depend on others?" The collector further said that Srikakulam has the medical equipment needed for surgeries and medical tests and the administration is ready to provide more. Reacting to Srikakulam district administration’s decision, KGH chief Dr PV Sudhakar said, "Other districts should follow Srikakulam, although we are not against emergency cases." The KGH chief said that the while the hospital has a capacity of 1,097 beds, nearly 1,500 patients receive treatment at the hospital daily. Nearly 10 per cent of these patients are from outside Visakhapatnam. Talking about the practice of patient referrals, the KGH chief said that referring patients to other hospitals is ‘defensive medical practice’. He said that patients sometimes force doctors to indulge in such practice and doctors oblige to protect themselves against attacks and other untoward incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/srikakulam-to-curb-referrals-to-vizag-hosps/articleshow/81487445.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
March 14, 2021||India||Pvt jobs: Jharkhand plans 75% quota for locals||RANCHI: The Jharkhand government’s plan to reserve 75% of private sector jobs for locals has evoked a mixed response from the industrial circles here, with many saying that even though the move has a “noble objective” of addressing unemployment, it could pose problems for industrial growth and investments if such a law is enacted without proper skilling of the state’s workforce. To fulfil its poll promise, the Jharkhand government on Friday decided to reserve jobs with a monthly salary of Rs 30,000 in private firms for locals. A formal bill will soon be placed in the assembly. The move follows a similar one made by the BJP-led government in Haryana, which recently reserved 75% jobs for its residents. The decision was severely criticised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), which had asked it to reconsider its decision. CII’s local unit in Jharkhand gave a similar reaction when asked to comment on the cabinet decision. The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), the state’s apex trade body, which is affiliated to FICCI, is of the view that such a law should not be enacted in haste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pvt-jobs-jharkhand-plans-75-quota-for-locals/articleshow/81490259.cms||ASRP Mukesh
March 14, 2021||India||In U-turn, C’garh mantri ready for Covaxin||RAIPUR: Covaxin has breached the final frontier. Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo, who had refused to use it in the state until it clears human trials, has said he will take Covaxin once he recovers from Covid-19. The booster shot for Covaxin came from Singh Deo. “We are proud of our Swadeshi vaccine, but I firmly believe that due process needs to be followed as per international norms before it is put into general use,” tweeted Singh Deo. “DCGI has upgraded Covaxin from the clinical trial phase, and although the final data for Phase III trials are yet to be published, we are considering to allow Covaxin for those who wish to take it,” Deo added. Chhattisgarh has received 72,540 doses of Covaxin recently. Deo said Covaxin use will be “optional” in Chhattisgarh, and initially it will be allowed only in government medical colleges and district hospitals. Countering opposition allegations, he said, “I want to remind everyone that the health of the people is top priority.” The state health department said that 90% of its health workers and 78% frontline workers have received the first dose of Covid vaccine. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-u-turn-cgarh-mantri-ready-for-covaxin/articleshow/81490262.cms||---
March 14, 2021||---||Tamil Nadu villages that keep netas at arm’s length||MADURAI: Electioneering is all about loud slogans, colourful festoons and rallies by politicians. But there are a few villages in the south where such activities are not allowed in an effort to ensure communal harmony and peace even after the election. One such village is Othaveedu, located next to Karuppayurani, on the outskirts of Madurai in TN. The village has around 250 houses and 650 voters. People from villages near Thirumangalam, T Kallupatti and Perungudi in the district migrated here around 100 years ago. It has been a tradition here not to allow people to stick posters and erect banners as it would create a rift among themselves. Erecting flag masts, installation of loudspeakers, entry of politicians or candidates for canvassing and distribution of money to influence voters is also not allowed. “We welcome candidates at the village entry point with shawls, listen to their poll promises and send them back. We have been following this for three generations now. All parties know it and respect the village rules,” said R Muthu, a resident. “We’ll put forth requirements of basic amenities to the candidates when they approach us. This time we are planning to raise the issues such as distribution of salty water and bad roads,” said G Ilangovan, a retired TN State Transport Corporation employee. Until a few years back, people would not approach police stations for petty quarrels as the issues would be solved by village elders at the mandhai (public space) in the presence of parties involved and general villagers. However, it has changed now, villagers say. There are a few such villages in Theni and Virudhunagar districts too. In Maruthangulam village in Virudhunagar, candidates are allowed to conduct campaigns without loudspeakers, flex banners or festoons. “They have to park their vehicles at the village mandhai and walk the streets,” village president N Kasirajan said. Badrakalipuram village in Theni district allows campaigns, but villagers say a strict no to flag masts, wall graffiti or campaign stages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/tn-villages-that-keep-netas-at-arms-length/articleshow/81490268.cms||V Devanathan
March 14, 2021||---||After 25 years, IUML fields a woman||KOZHIKODE: Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), the second largest constituent in UDF in Kerala, on Friday announced its first list of 25 candidates for the assembly elections. In a surprise move, the 73- year old party has decided to field a woman candidate in an assembly election after a gap of 25 years. The party, which will contest 27 seats, has dropped six sitting MLAs, including gold scam accused M C Kamaruddin and ex-PWD minister V K Ebrahim Kunju, arrested on corruption charges. But it has given a ticket to Kunju’s son V E Abdul Gafoor. Women’s wing and ex-state women’s panel member Noorbina Rasheed has been fielded in Kozhikode South, marking a break from the tradition of coming up with an all-male list except for the lone instance in 1996 when it fielded Khamarunnisa Anwar from Calicut II (currently Kozhikode South).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/kerala/after-25-years-iuml-fields-a-woman/articleshow/81490270.cms||K R Rajeev
March 14, 2021||India||Daily Covid cases cross 25,000 mark||Daily Covid-19 cases in India crossed the 25,000 mark on Saturday for the first time since December 23, even as the day’s deaths from the virus rose to a 44-day high of 161. India recorded 25,326 fresh cases on Saturday, the highest count in 84 days since December 19 as the pandemic continued to surge in several parts of the country. On Saturday, the death toll crossed 150 for the first time since January 28. Maharashtra accounted for over half of the fatalities with 88 deaths reported in the state in past 24 hours. Kerala recorded 12 fatalities, followed by Chhattisgarh (6), Tamil Nadu and Haryana (4 each). Maharashtra continued to report by far the highest tally of fresh cases at 15,602. Other states where the number of cases spiked on Saturday include Karnataka, which reported 921 new infections, Tamil Nadu (695), Madhya Pradesh (675) and Chhattisgarh (543). Delhi reported 419 cases and three deaths in the past 24 hours. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/daily-covid-cases-cross-25000-mark/articleshow/81490276.cms||---
March 14, 2021||India||Now, UN body terms Jamia student Zargar’s arrest ‘arbitrary’||NEW DELHI: Calling the arrest last year of Jamia Millia University student Safoora Zargar arbitrary, a UN panel has recommended that India ensure for Zargar an enforceable right to compensation and other reparations, in accordance with international law. The Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (WGAD), which works under the UN Human Rights Council, requested India to take steps necessary to remedy Zargar's situation without delay and bring it into conformity with the relevant international norms, including those set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Zargar had been arrested last year by Delhi Police under under anti-terror law UAPA in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. She was released later as the government didn't oppose her bail plea apparently on humanitarian grounds. The government though had claimed that its decision to not oppose bail for Zargar should not be seen as a reflection on the merits of the case. "The Working Group urges the Government to ensure a full and independent investigation of the circumstances surrounding the arbitrary deprivation of liberty of Zargar and to take appropriate measures against those responsible for the violation of her rights," said the panel. "The Working Group considers that, taking into account all the circumstances of the case, the appropriate remedy would be to accord Zargar an enforceable right to compensation and other reparations, in accordance with international law," it added. The WGAD had another run-in with India last month when it sought the immediate release of UK national and chopper scam accused Christian Michel saying he had been arbitrarily detained. The government had responded by saying that the UN panel's conclusions were based on limited information, biased allegations and an inaccurate understanding of its criminal justice system. India has also sought to highlight that the Working Group is not a judicial body, and therefore, its opinions are not legally binding on the member states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/now-un-body-terms-jamia-student-zargars-arrest-arbitrary/articleshow/81490283.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||Didi’s Kandahar ‘hostage offer’ on lips, Yashwant joins TMC||Kolkata: Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s finance minister, Yashwant Sinha, joined Mamata Banerjee’s party at the Trinamool Bhavan in Kolkata on Saturday, disclosing that the Bengal CM — who was the railways minister in 1999 — offered herself as a hostage during the Kandahar hijacking crisis. “She (Banerjee) has always been a fighter. I want to tell you today, that when the Indian Airlines flight (IC-814) was hijacked by terrorists and they flew it to Kandahar, Mamataji offered to go there as a hostage,” Sinha said on Saturday, adding that the offer was made in “a cabinet meeting”. “Her condition was that the other hostages had to be released. She was ready to make the ultimate sacrifice for the country,” Sinha said. Sinha and Banerjee were colleagues in the National Democratic Alliance cabinet under PM Vajpayee. “I have worked with Mamataji in Vajpayeeji’s government and we will again work together to save democracy,” he said, expressing doubts over the role of the Election Commission. “I say it with a lot of responsibility that the EC is no longer a neutral body,” he said. Sinha, who quit the BJP in 2018, took the Trinamool flag from three party seniors: Sudip Bandyopadhyay, Derek O’Brien and Subrata Mukherjee. He went to Banerjee’s Kalighat residence with O’Brien and stayed there for over 45 minutes before formally joining the Trinamool. “The tipping point was the attack (the Nandigram incident). This (BJP) government can do anything to win an election,” Sinha said. It remains to be seen what impact Sinha’s joining the Trinamool will have. Party seniors, however, saw it as “a big morale booster” before the polls, “given his standing among people from Bihar and Jharkhand”. “The country is facing an unprecedented situation. The strength of democracy lies in the strength of the institutions of democracy. All these institutions, including the judiciary, have become weak now,” Sinha said on Saturday. His 2018 book, ‘India Unmade’, explained how the Modi government had contributed to “unmaking” India on the economic front. The former union minister felt the Bengal assembly poll was crucial not only for the state only but for the entire country. “PM Vajpayee could add to the BJP family. He believed in consensus. But today’s government believes in crushing and conquering. The Akalis, the BJD have left the BJP. Who stands with the BJP today?” he asked. His son, Jayant Sinha, remains a BJP MP from Hazaribagh (Jharkhand). Bengal BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya was guarded in his response to Sinha’s joining the Trinamool. “Sinha was a senior minister and made significant contributions to the government,” he said. Asked about Sinha’s comments on the EC’s current role, Bhattacharya said: “The Trinamool has the ability to make people speak its language. I hope the veteran politician realises that soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didis-kandahar-hostage-offer-on-lips-yashwant-joins-tmc/articleshow/81489729.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 14, 2021||Ranchi||1st post-winter rain cuts forest fire impact||RANCHI: The two-day rain and thundershowers in most parts of the state has not only given respite to people from the heat, but has mitigated forest fires since beginning of the month. Both maximum and minimum temperature is likely to come down further on Sunday, though a steady rise in mercury is predicted thereafter. In the last 24 hours, 18 of 24 districts received light to moderate rainfall. While Chatra recorded the highest with 45mm rain, Simdega, Seraikela-Kharsawan and East Singhbhum also recorded more than 21mm. Of the 85 Automated Weather Stations across the state, most recorded rainfall. The effect of rainfall was evident on the incidents of forest fire reported in the past few days. While 1,086 incidents of forest fires were reported in the state on Monday, the figure fell to 547 on Saturday. Nodal officer for forest fires and additional principal chief conservator of forests Kulwant Singh said, “This season, a higher nu8mber of fire incidents have been reported from different parts and we believe that the rain will be effective in controlling them.” Lack of moisture in the soil and layer of dry leaves left during fall often result in fires, especially when temperature rises. Abhishek Anand, weather scientist at IMD, said the first week of March was entirely dry. “Though the temperature is not too high to trigger natural fires in forests, soil moisture reduced considerably because there was no rain after the winter,” he said. Singh said intermittent rain in March and April is often helpful in controlling forest fires. “Last year, there was rainfall all through the pre-monsoon season and fewer incidents of forest fires were reported, which indicates that long dry spells often make the ground vulnerable,” he said. The convective rain on Friday and Saturday brought respite from heat and forest fire as well, but Garhwa and five northeastern districts, including Godda, Jamtara, Dumka, Sahebganj and Pakur, were not as lucky.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1st-post-winter-rain-cuts-forest-fire-impact/articleshow/81487364.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
March 14, 2021||Ranchi||Yashwant is a spent force with no political relevance: State BJP president||RANCHI: Rajya Sabha MP and Jharkhand BJP president Deepak Prakash on Saturday called former Union minister and ex-BJP stalwart Yashwant Sinha a “spent force” and one “with no political relevance”. Prakash’s jibe came after Yashwant, who earlier held the Union external affairs and finance portfolios during the erstwhile BJP regime, joined the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Saturday noon in Kolkata in the presence of senior leaders of TMC — Derek O Brien, Sudip Bandopadhyay and Subrata Mukherjee. After his induction, Yashwant said, “I was forced to come out of the self-imposed political exile after shunning BJP in 2018 because of the fast degrading political situation in the country.” Speaking to TOI from Bengal, where he is currently camping for the assembly election, Prakash in reaction to Yashwant’s joining said, “His induction in TMC will not hurt BJP’s poll prospects. We (BJP) have a strong foothold in Bengal and people clearly want a change in governance this time. As far as Yashwantji is concerned, he wasn’t with the BJP since 2018 and has been critical of the party. So, it makes no difference to us.” Yashwant represented the Hazaribag seat in Parliament on several occasions and in 2014, his son Jayant replaced him and became a minister in the first Narendra Modi cabinet. However, he wasn’t retained in the Modi 2.0 cabinet. According to Prakash, Yashwant’s attraction towards TMC could be because of his urge to stay relevant in politics, but he doesn’t enjoy mass support anymore. “After losing relevance in Jharkhand, he is probably hunting for a place for himself in West Bengal. However, by joining TMC, he lost whatever credibility and respect he had. I am sure even the handful of BJP members, who were his followers until today, have deserted him by now,” said Prakash. Meanwhile, mocking JMM’s decision to lend its support to TMC in West Bengal, Prakash said, “The party chose to run away from the poll battle because it was aware of the ground realities in Bengal where JMM would not have been able to open its account. Although the party managed to win the Jharkhand election by making false promises, voters are now repenting considering the spate of lawlessness and policy paralysis in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/yashwant-is-a-spent-force-with-no-political-relevance-state-bjp-prez/articleshow/81487351.cms||ASRP Mukesh
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||Door-to-door visits on campaign trail||Kolkata: Candidates across parties hit the campaign trail on Saturday to make most of a weekend in the run-up to the Bengal assembly elections. While director-actor and Trinamool nominee from Barrackpore Raj Chakrabarty went from door to door in ward 1 of the local municipality, actor and CPM candidate from Tollygunge Debdut Ghosh visited ward 114 and later met people in Netajinagar under ward 98. CPM politburo member and candidate from Hooghly’s Chanditala Mohammad Salim kicked off his poll campaign from Janai Bazar. Salim was accompanied by Congress and ISF workers. He walked from Hatpukur to Kumirmora, speaking to people and telling them how the Left stood by them during the pandemic while Trinamool and BJP “engaged in a dharma yuddha”. Sujan Chakraborty, the CPM hopeful from Jadavpur, held mass contact programmes in ward 109 and later a general body meeting with party sympathisers in the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/door-to-door-visits-on-campaign-trail/articleshow/81488825.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Ranchi||3 PLFI operatives held in Chatra||CHATRA: Three PLFI extremists, including a wanted area commander, were arrested on Friday night in Chatra by a special team under SDPO Avinash Kumar, SP Rishav Kumar Jha said on Saturday. “We received a tip-off that the extremists were planning to commit a big crime, but timely action managed to avert it and subsequently, resulted in their arrest,” said Kumar. Police seized one pistol, 12 live bullets, one magazine, a bike, seven sim cards and four mobile phones from their possession. Sources said on Jha’s instruction, the team raided Mayapur Mor in Jajlo bazar in Huntergunj police station area to arrest the rebels. One of them was identified as PLFI area commander Ashish alias Ritesh Tiger, a native of Gaya in Bihar. The others are Ajay Yadav and Ashish Yadav. Kumar said, “The trio was threatening contractors, stone crusher unit owners and those involved in sand business for levy. They had created a reign of terror in the area and the arrest is a big respite for police and the people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-plfi-operatives-held-in-chatra/articleshow/81487372.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||Fresh report on West Bengal CM's injuries sent to EC, poll body decision soon||KOLKATA: Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on Saturday sent a “supplementary report” to the Election Commission on the events leading to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s injuries in Nandigram on March 10. It is likely that the poll panel will take an early decision on the matter. The EC had made a couple of specific queries based on reports sent by Bandyopadhyay, special observer Ajay Nayak and special police observer Vivek Dubey. The nature of the queries was not immediately known. A senior state official said: “The report addressing the EC queries have been sent.” Sources said the EC had sought more “specific information” on the “nature of the incident” and to “pinpoint lapses”. TOI carried that the reports sent to the EC on Friday cited “lack of coordination” between the state security wing and the district police. Trinamool Congress has already complained to the EC that the incident was “pre-planned” and part of a “larger conspiracy” to hurt the CM, citing several examples and “tutored eye-witnesses”. BJP has also demanded an “independent and thorough probe”.  The East Midnapore police have been asked to identify and trace the people in the video seen thronging the CM’s vehicle and record their statements, a senior official said on Saturday. To increase problems, the official videographer trailing the CM could not “take images” of the event when she was hurt, sources claimed. A source added the Nandigram officer-in-charge was at the spot, questioning claims that the CM’s travel itinerary shared with district police didn’t mention the Birulia leg of her campaign. No senior police official was willing to speak on the record on the developments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fresh-report-on-cm-injuries-sent-to-ec-poll-body-decision-soon/articleshow/81489696.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: BJP MP Locket pays ‘courtesy visit’ to Suvendu Adhikari’s father in Kanthi||TAMLUK: BJP MP Locket Chatterjee paid a “courtesy visit” to Trinamool veteran and Suvendu Adhikari’s father Sisir Adhikari at his ‘Santikunj’ residence on Saturday, a week ahead of PM Narendra Modi’s public meeting at Kanthi on March 20, fueling speculation that the Trinamool MP from Kanthi might make it to the PM’s meeting in his constituency. A video clip going viral on social media whose authenticity has not been verified by TOI, shows the BJP MP while having lunch asking: “But why she (Mamata) has to contest from Nandigram?” Sisir replies: “She wants to finish off Suvendu.” TMC’s Purba Midnapore president and minister Saumen Mahapatra has intimated party higher-ups about the “courtesy visit”. As coincidence would have it, Mahapatra on Saturday purged as many as 10 block-level leaders of Sahid Matangini panchayat samiti adjoining Kanthi municipality. They include the panchayat samiti leader and an influential contractor in the Kolaghat-Kanthi belt, Dibakar Jana, and his wife Tanusree Jana, a zilla karmadhyaksha. Chatterjee, who was at Kanthi to oversee preparations for the PM’s rally, went to meet Sisir and invite him to Modi’s meeting. “I was here to monitor the progress of work for Modiji’s rally. How can I not visit ‘Santikunj’ if I am around? I came here to seek Sisir Adhikari’s blessings. I can’t think of East Midnapore without the Adhikari family. But this was absolutely a courtesy visit,’ she said. Sisir raised some issues related to Suvendu’s safety, sources close to the family indicated. Sisir had earlier complained that no one from the party kept in touch with him. The TMC veteran has not been attending party programmes for the past few months citing health reasons. His younger son and Trinamool Tamluk MP Dibyendu has also been staying away from TMC programmes. Ghatal organisational district vice-president of BJP Debasish Chatterjee on Saturday defected to Trinamool Congress, citing “disillusionment” with the saffron party and his keenness to “work for Mamata Banerjee”. Trinamool secretary-general Partha Chatterjee, who handed Debasish the party flag at his Naktala residence, said: “He had applied to work for our party. This has been ratified by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. I will speak to West Midnapore district (party) president Ajit Maity on how best to engage him and his workers in TMC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-mp-locket-pays-courtesy-visit-to-suvendu-dad-in-kanthi/articleshow/81488763.cms||Suman Mandal
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||How Covid ruined our sleep and turned us into chronic insomniacs||KOLKATA: The pandemic-induced disruption in life and the consequent stress have robbed people of a good night’s sleep leading to more cases of insomina than ever before, say experts. According to sleep specialists, there has been a 20%-25% jump in cases of sleep disorder caused by anxiety in the past 12 months. Speaking to TOI ahead of World Sleep Day on March 19, specialist Sourav Das said sleep problems had set in during the early days of the pandemic, aggravated during the lockdown and has become chronic after normal life resumed. “When the first Covid cases began to be reported, anxiety led to palpitation, hysteria and insomnia. During lockdown, people were confined to their homes and binged on food to overcome depression. This turned them obese and many developed obstructive sleep apnea. When work from home began, screen time shot up. Instead of 2-3 hours before the screen, people began spending 12-15 hours in front of digital gadgets to study, work, watch movies, play games and chat. The blue-light these devices emit inhibits generation of melatonin, a sleep-inducing hormone. This messed up the body clock, leading to circadian rhythm sleep disorders,” said Das. Studies have shown that children are now retiring to bed 57 minutes later on weekdays and 30 minutes later on weekends than what they used to in the pre-pandemic days. Also, they are waking up two hours later on weekdays and an hour later on weekends. “The pandemic has dramatically altered the sleeping pattern of many following isolation, loss of work, economic and health worries. Disruption in work, school and home life has increased stress, anxiety, and depression. This in turn has played havoc with the quality of sleep. Many toss and turn at night, unable to sleep no matter how tired they are; or wake up in the middle of the night and struggle to get back to sleep. Some people report being plagued by bad dreams, others find they’re waking up late and yet feel groggy and not refreshed,” sleep apnea surgeon Uttam Agarwal said. Doctors say tiredness after waking up, irritability, mood swings and short-term memory disruption are symptoms of sleeplessness and need to be addressed before they turn into long-term complications and lead to medical conditions like diabetes, body inflammation, obesity and mental health problems. Those working from home need to step out during the day, either for morning walk or simple chores like shopping for provisions, to get exposed to light, medical experts advise. “Light affects the bodyclock. If we don’t receive the light/dark cues at consistent times, the bodyclock goes haywire. It is important to make an effort to get out in the daylight by factoring in outdoor activities in one’s daily routine,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/how-covid-ruined-our-sleep-and-turned-us-into-chronic-insomniacs/articleshow/81489739.cms||Subhro Niyogi
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||Now, cashless benefit up to Rs 1L for CAPF at pvt hospitals||Kolkata: The Bengal government on Saturday allowed cashless, indoor treatment up to Rs 1 lakh at private hospitals for central force personnel on poll duty in the state. The government order, which comes into effect immediately, said: “All private hospitals enlisted under West Bengal Health for All Employees and Pensioners Cashless Medical Treatment Scheme, 2014, are hereby requested to extend cashless medical facilities as per norms of the said scheme to the CAPF/security personnel engaged in the election to the Bengal legislative assembly, 2021.” The eight-phase polling in Bengal this year will see significantly more deployment of central forces than previous elections. Phase-5 alone will be manned by 955 companies of CAPF, the highest ever in the state. Phase-3 will see the lowest deployment of 695 CAPF companies. According to the circular, if any sick or injured CAPF jawan is admitted to a private hospital, treatment cost up to a lakh will be covered. If the cost exceeds the said amount, the balance will have to be settled by the patient party. “Most private hospitals are covered under the scheme. There are package treatment rates, which the hospitals must adhere to. This facility is already available to all state officials, who will be officiating during the polls and to those under the All India Services (AIS). Central forces are being included in a special measure that will be applicable till poll duty is over,” an officer said. Usually, a cashless card is provided to central forces. “However, their supervisors have to send in a requisition to the hospital concerned in a prescribed format this time. This will work as a cashless card,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/now-cashless-benefit-up-to-rs-1l-for-capf-at-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/81488845.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||Modi to visit Matua cradle Orakandi in Bangladesh||Kolkata: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to visit the Matua temple at Orakandi in Bangladesh on March 27, the second day of his two-day trip to the neighbouring country. During his visit at the invitation of Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina, Modi will join the 50th anniversary celebrations of Bangladesh’s independence, the birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and the 50th year of Bangladesh-India ties. Matua leader and BJP Bongaon MP Shantanu Thakur will be at Orakandi during Modi’s trip, the first such visit by an Indian PM. Orakandi is the birthplace of Matua gurus Harichand Thakur and Guruchand Thakur and the cradle of the Matua Mahasangha that largely comprises the Namasudras. “The PM will offer prayers at the Matua temple,” said Thakur. Matua is a Hindu religious sect that has been determining the fates of candidates in at least seven assembly constituencies in North 24 Parganas and Nadia. They have been migrating to Bengal, particularly the Thakurnagar area, since Independence. Most seats where the community has influence will go to polls on 17th April (fifth phase) and 26th April (7th phase). Matuas largely shifted towards BJP during the 2019 LS polls after Modi promised them citizenship. Banerjee showered bounties on the community, saying that Matuas were already citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/modi-to-visit-matua-cradle-orakandi-in-bangladesh/articleshow/81488816.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Ranchi||Legal experts divided over trying minors as adults in crimes under Pocso Act||RANCHI: A recent proposal by a central panel to try 16-year-old accused of committing crimes under the Pocso Act as adults evoked a mixed reaction from legal experts in Jharkhand. A senior government lawyer on condition of anonymity said, “While undergoing trial in the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB), the offenders would get a maximum term of three years which is very less considering the heinous crimes that they commit. In many cases, the age of the offender is reduced in his/her matriculation certificate.” He added, “These days children are becoming mature early and so it would not be ludicrous to reduce the age limit of adults from 18 years to 16.” Former general secretary of Ranchi District Bar Association Sanjay Vidrohi said, “There is a need to decrease the age limit since these days children are aware of rapes and its consequences from a very early age. Laws, which were framed years ago, need amendment. Also, kids’ use of social media needs regulation as it is spoiling their minds.” JJB’s public prosecutor Jaya Topno, however, said that instead of reducing the age limit of adults, more stress should be given on educating children. “Those living in rural areas are particularly lagging behind in this regard. Moreover, the misuse of social media has also led many children to commit heinous sexual crimes,” she added. Jharkhand has witnessed numerous cases in which youngsters aged below 18 were involved in heinous crimes. For instance, one minor was detained in connection with the gang-rape of a law student in an area under Kanke police station in November, 2019. In another instance, in December last year, a 16-year-old boy was detained in connection with the gang-rape of a 35-year-old tribal woman in Dumka. Once detained, JJB makes an assessment of the age and mental and physical condition of the minor person before deciding whether to send him/her to the children’s court or conduct the proceeding itself, in which case the offender would get a maximum term of three years for the crime. Sources said that the number of boys under the age of 18 detained and sent to JJB saw a sharp rise during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/legal-experts-divided-over-trying-minors-as-adults-in-crimes-under-pocso-act/articleshow/81487377.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee may address Hazra rally today in wheelchair||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee may address party workers at Hazra crossing in the city in a wheelchair on Sunday, senior party leaders said. Banerjee has not met party workers in public since her injury in Nandigram on March 10. She was released from hospital on Friday evening. According to party leaders, Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee will lead a rally from Gandhi statue on Mayo Road to Hazra crossing. The rally is likely to start at 3pm. Once it reaches Hazra, the CM is likely to address it. Sunday is also Nandigram Diwas, a day which the CM observes every year to mark the March 14, 2007 police firing in Nandigram that killed 14 anti-land acquisition protesters. The widow of one such protester has also endorsed Banerjee’s nomination from Nandigram. It was largely believed that the party manifesto, which was originally scheduled to be declared on March 11, will be declared on Sunday. “The CM will take a final call. The party has already endorsed it,” a senior party leader said. Banerjee was initially scheduled to leave for her district campaign, beginning Monday. “While the CM is reluctant to change her schedule, she is under medical advice with her restricted movement. Her travel plans must factor in these aspects. She will head for the zones slated to go to polls on March 27,” a leader said. To party workers, if an injured Banerjee makes her first public engagement in Hazra, it is likely to stir up memories of the attack on her at the same place 31 years ago. She had to be hospitalised for 11 days after the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-may-address-hazra-rally-today-in-wheelchair/articleshow/81488883.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Kolkata||Do not vote for BJP, Rakesh Tikait tells Nandigram mahapanchayat||KOLKATA/NANDIGRAM: The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, which on Saturday kicked off its campaign in the districts, said that an end to the farmers’ stir in New Delhi depended largely on the people in Bengal, which is going to polls in a fortnight. While it left the choice of the party to vote for to the voters, it urged people not to vote for the BJP. “Farmers have not gone back home from the protest places around Delhi for the last one-and-a-half months. When will the protesting farmers struggling on the borders of Delhi meet their families, depends to a great extent on the citizens of Bengal,” said Swaraj India’s Yogendra Yadav. Appealing to farmers, Yadav said that only a farmer will understand the pain and suffering of another farmer and that’s why they were travelling to the districts. On Saturday morning, Bharatiya Kisan Union chief Rakesh Tikait reached Kolkata airport, where he was greeted by Trinamool Congress leader Dola Sen. Tikait, who has been spearheading the farmers’ movement against the Centre’s farm laws, took part in a mahapanchayat organised at Nandigram from where CM Mamata Banerjee is contesting. He said Nandigram — known for the farmers’ agitation during the Left Front regime — will give a new direction to the movement against the farm laws. Tikait said if BJP had fixed its eyes on Bengal, then it was also a target of farmers across the country. “Bengal is farmers’ target as well. We will travel across Bengal and talk to farmers. We will appeal people not to vote for BJP, which has ruined the country,” said Tikait. Addressing the rally in Nandigram, Tikait said, “I will tell you ki khela hobe (what the game will be). Whenever they come to ask for a fistful of rice from you, you ask them about the Rs 1,850 (per quintal) price they had promised. Our movement in Delhi is to ensure that for farmers in all states. The big corporates are coming even to procure fish and fishermen won’t be spared too.” Condemning the attack on Banerjee, Tikait said: “A woman is fighting alone from here… it should not have happened.” Tikait is likely to take part in a mahapanchayat at Singur on Sunday — the epicentre of the farmers’ movement against land acquisition led by the Trinamool. “We are not trying to tell the people of Bengal whom to vote for, but we appealed not to vote for the anti-farmer BJP. We are not advocating for any special party. We have only one appeal — do not vote for the lotus symbol even by mistake,” Yadav said at a meeting in Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/do-not-vote-for-bjp-tikait-tells-nandigram-mahapanchayat/articleshow/81488749.cms||Rohit Khanna
March 14, 2021||World||Police clash with participants of UK vigil for slain woman||LONDON: Clashes broke out Saturday between police and people who gathered in defiance of coronavirus restrictions at an unofficial vigil for a London woman whose killing has spurred a national conversation in the UK about violence against women. The hundreds who gathered on Clapham Common, near where marketing executive Sarah Everard last was seen alive on March 3, defied a police request to disperse and a judge's order to honor her and to draw attention to the fear and danger many women see as a daily part of British life. Everard disappeared while walking home from a friend's apartment and was found dead a week later. The slaying sent shockwaves across the U.K. because a police officer is charged with her kidnapping and murder. Video of the informal vigil turned rally showed showed officers tussling with participants. Male officers grabbed hold of several women and led them away in handcuffs to screaming and shouting from onlookers, Britain's Press Association reported. Many participants laid flowers at a bandstand in the park. Among them was Kate, the Duchess of Cambridge, who was seen pausing for a moment in front of the sea of flowers. Other people held signs reading “We will not be silenced” and “She was just walking home,” and the crowd chanted, “Sisters united will never be defeated.” The gathering happened hours after Metropolitan Police constable Wayne Couzens, 48, appeared in court for the first time since his arrest in Everard's death. As Metropolitan Police officers approached the Clapham Common bandstand on Saturday evening, boos, jeers and shouts of “Shame on you” came from the crowd, according to the Press Association. Organisers had hoped to hold “Reclaim the Streets” vigils in Everard's memory at the south London location and in other U.K. cities on Saturday but canceled the in-person events after a judge refused to grant an order allowing them to go on despite despite coronavirus restrictions that bar mass gatherings. Hundreds of people showed up nonetheless. London Mayor Sadiq Khan decried the police response. “The police have a responsibility to enforce Covid laws, but from images I've seen it's clear the response was at times neither appropriate nor proportionate,” Khan said on twitter. Home Secretary Priti Patel tweeted that he had asked Metropolitan Police for a full report on what happened. In the wake of Everard's disappearance and killing, many women have taken to social media to share their own experiences of being threatened or attacked while walking outside. A 33-year-old nurse who works in the Clapham area, Mel Clarke, said she felt “very conflicted” about attending Sturday's gathering because of pandemic restrictions, but in the end "just felt that I needed to be here.” “I'm really pleased that there are a lot of men here. I hope that this is kind of an opportunity for men to learn how women feel, how vulnerable we are," Clarke said. “I hope that this is the start of justice being served for Sarah.” The Metropolitan Police has expressed shock and horror that one of its own was a suspect in the case. The London police force said Couzens joined its ranks in 2018 and most recently served in the parliamentary and diplomatic protection command, an armed unit responsible for guarding embassies in the capital and Parliament. During his court appearance earlier in the day, Couzens stood wearing a gray tracksuit as the charges were read to him. He was remanded into custody and has another appearance scheduled Tuesday at London's Central Criminal Court. Everard was last seen walking home from a friend's apartment in south London at about 10:30 p.m. on March 3. Her body was found hidden in an area of woodland in Kent, more than 50 miles southeast of London, on Wednesday. A post-mortem examination is underway, police said Friday. TV and radio presenter Sandi Toksvig said at the start of a vigil held online that a “cultural shift about how women are viewed and treated both in the public and private space” was needed. “I am filled in equal measure with profound sorrow and rage, and I know there are many who share this rage, and I think it is entirely justifiable," Toksvig said. "But I also know that it will harm rather than help us if we don't try and direct that anger to good purpose.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/police-clash-with-participants-of-uk-vigil-for-slain-woman/articleshow/81490300.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka has seen five post-jab fatalities||BENGALURU: Twenty-seven people who took the Covid-19 vaccine experienced serious adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) between January 16 and March 12. Twenty of them recovered and two are in the hospital, while five people passed away. The most recent death occurred in Bengaluru on February 28. The details of this case — a 71-year-old man who worked as a security guard at a private clinic near Konanakunte — were not publicly known until now. STOI gathered the information from the state’s AEFI data. The man died 18 days after taking the first dose. Civic officials said that he had comorbidities and his death had nothing to do with vaccination. The man took the jab on February 10 and developed breathing problems, cough and fever the next day. “He was admitted to the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, where he was treated for a few days before being shifted to Victoria Hospital. He suffered from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The case was discussed at the AEFI committee meetings and the conclusion was that the death was not linked to vaccination,” said a BBMP official overseeing the vaccination drive. BBMP chief health officer Dr BK Vijendra confirmed the death, which is reportedly the first post-vaccination fatality in city limits. According to the AEFI data with the health department, no post-mortem or verbal autopsy was conducted in the man’s case. “We are yet to get a report about this case from BBMP. The report is awaited,” said Dr BN Rajani, state deputy director, immunisation, health department. The other four deaths took place in Ballari, Shivamogga, Belagavi and Chikkaballapur. In these cases, too, the health department ruled out the Covid-19 vaccine as a factor, saying it was only a coincidence. The state Covid-19 media bulletin did not reflect the exact number of serious AEFI cases. As of March 12, it showed 23 instances instead of 27. According to the government data, two women from Chikkaballapur had serious adverse events after the second dose, suffering convulsions. Both have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/state-has-seen-five-post-jab-fatalities/articleshow/81490342.cms||Sunitha Rao R
March 14, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Pallavaram residents plan protest for water||CHENNAI: With less than a month to go for the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, a group of 745 households in a gated community in Pallavaram municipality has planned a relay hunger fast and will raise black flags at their homes on Sunday to highlight issues of water connections and sewage treatment. The Olympia Grande Apartment Owners Welfare Association (OGAOWF) of the eponymous gated community in GST colony had planned their protest for Saturday evening but the local police convinced the group to postpone it. “We had even invited local politicians to get a solution for our issues,” said Dr H Narayanamurthi, OGAOWF president. There are at least 2,000 eligible voters in this gated community. Residents are irked that the Pallavaram municipality and TN Pollution Control Board failed to take action against the builder for not ensuring water supply connection and operation of the sewage treatment plant in the complex. The STP was to supply grey water to the homes. The association said residents are forced to spend around Rs 12,000 a day on water tankers alone. “On some days, water is not available,” Narayanamurthi said. On Saturday, police played mediator and the developer gave an assurance to resolve the issues, Narayanamurthi said. Drinking water pipes from connection points will be completed by April 13, said an email on Saturday from A J Balaji of Olympia Tech Park to the association. The STPs were working properly and any issue would be checked and resolved by March 31, the email added. A municipal engineer at Pallavaram municipality told TOI that as far as water connections are concerned, many residents are yet to pay property and water tax. “We have written to Chennai Metro Water Supply and Sewerage Board to see what best can be done,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-pallavaram-residents-plan-protest-for-water/articleshow/81490354.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Erode||42% of Tamil Nadu's active cases reported in Chennai||CHENNAI: At least 42% of TN's active cases are from Chennai. On Saturday, the city recorded 271 of the total 695 fresh cases in Tamil Nadu. As cumulative Covid-19 case tally rose to 8,58,967, there were 4,662 active cases in the state's registry with 1,980 in Chennai. The city reports new clusters almost every day. On Friday, for instance, Greater Chennai Corporation reported 31 new cases from seven clusters in Perambur, Ambattur, Alandur and Perungudi zones. On Saturday noon, there were 15 new cases from four clusters in Tondiarpet, Royapuram and Alandur. "We have intensified fever surveillance, contact tracing and testing across the city," said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. "For every index case, at least 30 close contacts are being tested. On occasions, we find faster spread among people in apartment complexes, gated communities and housing societies," he said. As a cascading effect, new cases and clusters are increasing in Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts, adjoining Chennai. After Chennai, the highest number of cases on Saturday was reported by Chengalpet (65). Tiruvallur had 40 new cases and Kancheepuram 24. While Coimbatore reported 54 new cases, its neighbour Tiruppur had 27. Besides weddings, funerals and parties, clusters are being identified at work places and educational institutions. Two days ago, there was cluster of cases at a school in Papanasam, Thanjavur district. "This clearly shows the need for implementation of Covid protocols in institutions and crowded places," said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. Flying squads have been asked to collect spot fines from individuals and institutions violating protocol. On Saturday,19 districts reported a single digit increase in cases, while Kallakurichi was the only district with no new cases. There were four deaths reported until Saturday noon - two in Chengalpet and one each in Chennai and The Nilgiris. This pushed the cumulative toll to 12,543. On Saturday, the northern districts together reported 428 new cases, while the west recorded 132 cases. The central zone reported 62 cases. Cases in the south went up from 47 on Friday to 72 on Saturday. Meanwhile, 85,933 people, including 30,578 people above 60 years and 26,188 people above 45 years, took the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday. As of 7pm on Saturday, TN had vaccinated 13,86,379 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/42-of-tamil-nadus-active-cases-reported-in-chennai/articleshow/81491846.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Chennai||42% of Tamil Nadu's active cases reported in Chennai||CHENNAI: At least 42% of TN's active cases are from Chennai. On Saturday, the city recorded 271 of the total 695 fresh cases in Tamil Nadu. As cumulative Covid-19 case tally rose to 8,58,967, there were 4,662 active cases in the state's registry with 1,980 in Chennai. The city reports new clusters almost every day. On Friday, for instance, Greater Chennai Corporation reported 31 new cases from seven clusters in Perambur, Ambattur, Alandur and Perungudi zones. On Saturday noon, there were 15 new cases from four clusters in Tondiarpet, Royapuram and Alandur. "We have intensified fever surveillance, contact tracing and testing across the city," said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. "For every index case, at least 30 close contacts are being tested. On occasions, we find faster spread among people in apartment complexes, gated communities and housing societies," he said. As a cascading effect, new cases and clusters are increasing in Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts, adjoining Chennai. After Chennai, the highest number of cases on Saturday was reported by Chengalpet (65). Tiruvallur had 40 new cases and Kancheepuram 24. While Coimbatore reported 54 new cases, its neighbour Tiruppur had 27. Besides weddings, funerals and parties, clusters are being identified at work places and educational institutions. Two days ago, there was cluster of cases at a school in Papanasam, Thanjavur district. "This clearly shows the need for implementation of Covid protocols in institutions and crowded places," said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. Flying squads have been asked to collect spot fines from individuals and institutions violating protocol. On Saturday,19 districts reported a single digit increase in cases, while Kallakurichi was the only district with no new cases. There were four deaths reported until Saturday noon - two in Chengalpet and one each in Chennai and The Nilgiris. This pushed the cumulative toll to 12,543. On Saturday, the northern districts together reported 428 new cases, while the west recorded 132 cases. The central zone reported 62 cases. Cases in the south went up from 47 on Friday to 72 on Saturday. Meanwhile, 85,933 people, including 30,578 people above 60 years and 26,188 people above 45 years, took the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday. As of 7pm on Saturday, TN had vaccinated 13,86,379 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/42-of-tamil-nadus-active-cases-reported-in-chennai/articleshow/81490355.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Bengaluru||Tourism sector in Karnataka lost Rs 5,000 crore every month because of pandemic disruption||BENGALURU: Tourism was one of the hardest-hit sectors in Karnataka last year, suffering estimated losses of Rs 5,000 crore every month during the pandemic-induced lockdown starting March 2020. The state government has mentioned this in its economic survey for 2020-21. “Industry stakeholders have estimated nearly Rs 5,000 crore of potential loss per month during the lockdown period due to the impact of Covid-19,” it states. The disruption put at least 1 lakh jobs at risk, but tourist activities are now picking up, the government has noted. As the government focused on battling Covid-19, initiatives to develop the tourism sector slowed down drastically last year. Only 154 out of 1,609 projects proposed for the fiscal were completed till December 2020. A tourism investment summit was suggested before the pandemic, but the plans remain on hold. Recounting the efforts to ease the economic pain, the government said that Karnataka was the first state to prepare a Covid-19 exit strategy for the sector, helping it navigate evolving challenges. Tourism minister C P Yogeeshwar said that the industry was still reeling under losses, but things were slowly moving towards normalcy. “In another two to three months, the sector will bounce back,” he added. The performance of staterun Jungle Lodges and Resorts has raised hopes of a revival in the sector. According to government officials, once the Unlock phase kicked in, it started receiving large bookings. Last month, the booking level was at 85-90 percent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/tourism-sector-lost-5000-crore-every-month-because-of-pandemic-disruption/articleshow/81490357.cms||---
March 14, 2021||World||Three Indian-origin brothers convicted of murdering a man in London||London: Three Indian-origin brothers have been convicted of stabbing a man to death in west London. The brothers — Kamal Sohal (23), from Acton and Sukhminder Sohal (25) and Michael Sohal (28) from Southall — were found guilty of murder following a trial at Croydon Crown Court. A fourth man, of Black Caribbean descent, Antoine George of Northolt (24), was found guilty of manslaughter. All four will be sentenced at a later date. Osvaldo de Carvalho (22) was stabbed to death following a fight in Acton on September 24, 2019 relating to an ongoing dispute. The court heard how the Sohal brothers and George, armed with knives, with Kamal brandishing a hunting knife, chased Carvalho and two friends down the road. Two of his friends went one way and Carvalho went another. The group caught up with Carvalho and surrounded him and stabbed him, and then ran off leaving him on the ground to die. In a bid to cover their tracks, later that evening Michael and Sukhminder set fire to the clothes they had been wearing. A post-mortem examination revealed that Carvalho had suffered multiple stab wounds, including one to his back which was so deep it nearly passed through his body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/three-indian-origin-brothers-convicted-of-murdering-a-man-in-london/articleshow/81490365.cms||NAOMI CANTON
March 14, 2021||Madurai||Doctor dies hours after hubby gives her injection in Madurai||MADURAI: The Madurai city police are probing the death of a postgraduate medical student, who died within four months of her marriage. Since the death happened within a few months after the marriage, a revenue divisional officer inquiry has also been ordered. A Hari Harini, 26, was pursuing her postgraduation in anaesthesia at the Madurai Medical College. She got married to P Ashok Vignesh from Mela Anupanadi in November 2020. Vignesh is also pursuing his postgraduation in the same college. Meanwhile, Harini developed health problems on March 5 with fever and body pain. Police sources said that Vignesh treated her at his house and gave her an injection for the body pain. However, within a few hours, she vomited and fainted. Vignesh with the help of his family members, shifted her to a private hospital near Kamarajar Salai. As she went unconscious, he and Harini's family members shifted her to another private hospital at Mattuthavani. However, she died on Saturday. Based on a complaint from her father Raveendran, a case was registered with the Avaniyapuram police station under the IPC section (174) - suspicious death and an inquiry was carried out. The body was shifted to the Government Rajaji Hospital for an autopsy. A police officer said that they did not find any foul play during the course of preliminary inquiry, while the postmortem report also ruled out the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/doctor-dies-hours-after-hubby-gives-her-injection-in-madurai/articleshow/81490373.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Bengaluru||Covid vaccine side effects seen more among women: Study||BENGALURU: An in-house study conducted by Bangalore Baptist Hospital found that female staffers faced more side effects following vaccination than their male counterparts. The cohort comprised 218 employees who had taken their first dose of Covishield. The majority of the employees are women (172). Side effects were seen in 75.5 per cent of the women and 45 per cent of the men. The most common ones were pain at the injection spot (76.1 per cent), body ache (46.8 per cent), headache (30.3 per cent) and fever (22 per cent). The respondents also complained of stiffness in the arm (11.5 per cent), swelling in the arm (16.5 per cent) and GI and vomiting (4.1 per cent). But there was no case of serious adverse event following immunisation (AEFI). Dr Carolin Elizabeth George, head of the hospital’s community health and research division, led the study titled ‘How safe is Covishield vaccine? Experience from a tertiary care hospital in South India’. Dr Leeberg Inbaraj and Dr Nirupama Franklyn from the community medicine department at the hospital were part of the effort. The study is under review for publication in an international journal. The researchers said that the exact reason for the higher incidence of side effects among women was not known. “It could be that women are more likely to report symptoms than men. Anxiety might be more in women; many side effects are related to anxiety. The female immune system is more reactive compared to men’s, which is why autoimmune diseases are reported more among women. Hormonal differences may also be at play,” said Dr George. According to Dr George, the vaccine reactogenicity is more in the younger population than in the older, and this was seen in the cohort. Seventy-six cohort members are more than 40 years old and 142 are aged below 40. Side effects were seen among 34 members aged below 40 and only in five aged above 40. “The reason could be the reaction of the immune system, which is more active in the young. The phase 3 trials of Covishield also said that younger people had higher reactogenicity,” she added. In Karnataka, 27 people have experienced serious AEFI so far. Twenty-one of them are women who work as healthcare and frontline workers. “Most of the healthcare workers are women. That could be one reason for more instances of AEFI among women. But we have not done any genderbased assessment of AEFI. No serious adverse events have been seen among senior citizens so far,” said Dr Arundhathi Chandrashekar, mission director (Karnataka), National Health Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/side-effects-seen-more-among-women-study/articleshow/81490385.cms||Sunitha Rao R
March 14, 2021||India||J&K Police release list of 9 wanted terrorists||SRINAGAR: Jammu and Kashmir Police on Saturday released a list of nine wanted terrorists active in Srinagar and its outskirts, promising a suitable reward for anyone who provides information on the ultras. The nine terrorists are Wasseem Qadir Mir of Srinagar’s Nowgam (active since December 20, 2020); Shahid Khursheed of Srinagar’s Chanapora (active since February 6, 2021); Irfan Ahmed Sofi (active since December 14, 2020) and Bilal Ahmed Bhat of Srinagar’s Natipora (active since February 14, 2020); Saqib Manzoor Dar of Srinagar’s Old Barzulla (active since August 5, 2020); Abrar Nadeem Bhat of Budgam’s Eidgah (active since December 12, 2018); Muhammad Yousuf Dar alias Iss Kantroo (a recycled terrorist who picked up arms in 2012 and again in 2015); Muhammad Abbas Sheikh of Kulgam, and Ubaid Shafi Dar of Srinagar’s Batamaloo. The lookout notice mentioned landline and mobile numbers to be contacted to provide information on the wanted ultras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-police-release-list-of-9-wanted-terrorists/articleshow/81490400.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 14, 2021||India||56-day-long Amarnath Yatra to begin from June 28: Shrine Board||SRINAGAR: After a year’s gap, the annual pilgrimage to the holy cave shrine of Amarnath in South Kashmir Himalayas will commence on the auspicious day of Ashaad Chaturthi on June 28 this year and conclude after 56 days on Shravan Purnima (Raksha Bandhan) on August 22, the Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB), which is headed by J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, decided at a meeting in Jammu on Saturday. The yatra will be held with strict adherence to Covid protocol and no one below 13 years and above 75 years of age will be allowed to participate in the pilgrimage, an SASB official said. The pandemic had played spoilsport with the yatra last year, leading to its cancellation. In 2019, the yatra was called off mid-way following nullification of Article 370 on August 5 that year. To keep religious sentiments alive, the Board will continue live telecast/virtual darshan of morning and evening aartis, while traditional rituals will be performed as per practice, the official said. Situated in a narrow gorge at the farther end of Lidder Valley, the Amarnath shrine stands at 3,888 metres above sea level. It’s 46km from Pahalgam and 14km from Baltal. Advance registration of pilgrims will commence from April 1 through 446 designated branches of Punjab National Bank, Jammu and Kashmir Bank and YES Bank in 37 states and UTs. The Board deliberated at length on the number of yatris (pilgrims) who would be allowed to register — date-wise and route-wise — for this year’s yatra. Considering the carrying capacity of the existing tracks and other available infrastructure in the yatra area, the Board decided to enhance the daily route-wise yatri ceiling from 7,500/day/route to 10,000/day/route, excluding yatris who would travel by helicopters. During the meeting, the Board approved enhancement of remunerations for pujaris (priests) from the existing Rs 1,000 per day to Rs 1,500 per day for the next three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/56-day-long-amarnath-yatra-to-begin-from-june-28-shrine-board/articleshow/81490407.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 14, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow records month-high of 28 Covid cases||LUCKNOW: The city recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases in a single day in a month on Saturday when 28 persons tested positive for novel coronavirus infection. The figure was also the highest in the state. The number of recoveries was lower than new cases for the fifth consecutive day. Among the fresh cases, five each were recorded in Alambagh, Indiranagar and Hazratganj, while two each were reported from Jankipuram and Gosainganj. At present, the city has 251 patients with active infection status. Of these,101 are in home quarantine. With this, the total case count since the outbreak in March last year touched 82,113. Of these, 80,674 (98.2) have recovered, while 1,188 (1.4%) died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-records-month-high-of-28-covid-cases/articleshow/81490402.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Lucknow||Over 4,000 seniors get first dose of Covid vax in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The number of 60-plus people and those above 45 with comorbidities who have taken their first shot of Covid vaccine breached the 40,000-mark in the city, with 4,081 more beneficiaries turning up at different centres on Saturday. The enthusiasm among seniors for Covid shots has been high since the start of the phase 3 on March 1, which is dedicated to the elderly and people with comorbidities. The excitement continued on Saturday, with 3,295 taking the first shot of the two-dose vaccine given 28 days apart. A moderate 786 people with comorbidities also took the shots. Eleven rounds have been held so far in Phase 3, in which altogether 40,863 elderly and people with comorbidities have got vaccinated with the first dose. Of them, 8253 were comorbid and 32,610 were elderly. The drive was conducted at 61 centres — 49 private and 12 government — in which 5,480 people were inoculated. These beneficiaries also included 548 healthcare and 851 frontline workers who took first or second shots. Vaccination at private centres was less than government centres. As many as 2,349 beneficiaries were vaccinated at private hospitals and 5,480 at government centres. District immunisation officer Dr M K Singh said no case of adverse reaction was reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-4000-seniors-get-first-dose-of-covid-vax-inlucknow/articleshow/81490420.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
March 14, 2021||---||DMK vows 75% locals quota, one-year maternity leave||CHENNAI: DMK chief M K Stalin on Saturday released the party’s election manifesto, calling it the “second hero” — party candidates being the “first hero” — and promising a slew of benefits like one-year maternity leave and free bus passes to women to travel in city and town buses. The party has promised to reserve 75% of jobs in industries for Tamils. All ration card holders would be given a one-time financial assistance of Rs 4,000 each, he said. The document also seeks to appease Hindus by promising to earmark Rs 1,000 crore to renovate and consecrate temples and extend financial aid of Rs 25,000 each to 1 lakh people for undertaking pilgrimage. Stalin said, if voted to office, special courts would be set up to try AIADMK ministers facing corruption charges. The probe into Jayalalithaa’s death would be speeded up, he said. The document has 500 promises, including waiver of education loans (for those under 30) and reduction in fuel prices, which Stalin has been promising in recent campaigns. The party says price of diesel would be brought down by Rs 4 and petrol by Rs 5 per litre. Gas cylinder price would be reduced by Rs 100, he said. Another promise that would have far-reaching impact is reduction in price of Aavin milk by Rs 3 per litre. In a balancing act, the party has promised to allocate Rs 200 crore to maintain churches and mosques too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/dmk-election-manifesto-2021-dmk-vows-75-locals-quota-one-year-maternity-leave/articleshow/81490206.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
March 14, 2021||India||DMK vows 75% locals quota, one-year maternity leave||CHENNAI: DMK chief M K Stalin on Saturday released the party’s election manifesto, calling it the “second hero” — party candidates being the “first hero” — and promising a slew of benefits like one-year maternity leave and free bus passes to women to travel in city and town buses. The party has promised to reserve 75% of jobs in industries for Tamils. All ration card holders would be given a one-time financial assistance of Rs 4,000 each, he said. The document also seeks to appease Hindus by promising to earmark Rs 1,000 crore to renovate and consecrate temples and extend financial aid of Rs 25,000 each to 1 lakh people for undertaking pilgrimage. Stalin said, if voted to office, special courts would be set up to try AIADMK ministers facing corruption charges. The probe into Jayalalithaa’s death would be speeded up, he said. The document has 500 promises, including waiver of education loans (for those under 30) and reduction in fuel prices, which Stalin has been promising in recent campaigns. The party says price of diesel would be brought down by Rs 4 and petrol by Rs 5 per litre. Gas cylinder price would be reduced by Rs 100, he said. Another promise that would have far-reaching impact is reduction in price of Aavin milk by Rs 3 per litre. In a balancing act, the party has promised to allocate Rs 200 crore to maintain churches and mosques too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dmk-election-manifesto-2021-dmk-vows-75-locals-quota-one-year-maternity-leave/articleshow/81490223.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
March 14, 2021||Lucknow||Woman shot at in loot bid in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: A 55-year-old woman was shot at by a youth, said to be her son’s friend, who barged into her house in Hasanganj with the intention to commit loot on Saturday. Police said the woman, Raunak of Madehganj, is out of danger The accused, Kalam, has been arrested. “Kalam forcibly entered the house and opened fire at the woman. Neighbours rushed to the spot and saw Kalam fleeing the house. They thrashed him and handed him over to the police,” said DCP, North, Raees Akhtar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-shot-at-in-loot-bid-in-uttar-pradesh/articleshow/81490431.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: No exceptions, occupants of private vehicles must wear masks, says BBMP||BENGALURU: People travelling in private vehicles or on two-wheelers must continue wearing masks and there is no exception to the healthsafety rule, BBMP said on Saturday. But it added that teams of marshals enforcing the rule had been instructed to focus more on yellowboard rides (taxis and commercial vehicles). The clarification follows complaints from marshals that they face fierce resistance from occupants of private vehicles while enforcing the mask mandate. The occupants argue that they are from the same family and there is no risk if they don’t wear a mask inside their vehicle. The issue was discussed at a meeting called by BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad on Friday. “The state government and BBMP have not stated that occupants of private vehicles, including two-wheeler riders, are exempted from wearing masks. I have instructed marshals to concentrate more on crowded places like markets, malls and religious gatherings, and vehicles with yellow boards,” Prasad said, adding that safety rules cannot be relaxed as Covid-19 cases had gone up in recent weeks. On average, 600 people are fined daily for not wearing a mask. According to data accessed by STOI, Gandhinagar leads with 40 cases, followed by KR Puram (35). A BBMP official said that violations were common in shopping zones of Basavanagudi, Chickpet, Malleswaram and Yeshwantpur. “Markets pose a challenge because of the high movement of people. We are doing everything we can to ensure that people use masks and maintain social distancing,” said Colonel Rajbir Singh, chief of marshals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-no-exceptions-occupants-of-private-vehicles-must-wear-masks-says-bbmp/articleshow/81490457.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Vijayawada||AP municipal polls: First result likely to be out by 10am||VIJAYAWADA: The stage is set for the counting of votes for municipal bodies on Sunday. The counting process will start at 8 am and the first result is likely to be out by 10 am. Polling was held on March 10 for 71 municipalities and 12 municipal corporations in the state. The state election commission said arrangements have been completed for counting of votes across the state. As many as 2,204 counting tables have been set up for 12 municipal corporations, while 2,376 counting supervisors and 7,412 counting personnel are deployed to count the votes. Similarly, 1,822 counting tables have been arranged at 71 municipalities where 1,941 counting supervisors and 5,195 counting staff are deployed. Before start of counting, the strong rooms would be opened and ballot boxes shifted to the counting tables. Results of nagar panchayats and municipalities are likely to be declared early. As many as six municipalities registered less than 15,000 votes each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-municipal-polls-first-result-likely-to-be-out-by-10-am/articleshow/81490480.cms||Venu Lanka
March 14, 2021||Vijayawada||AP man dies 2 days after taking vaccine||ELURU: A 64-year-old man died two days after taking Covid-19 vaccine in West Godavari district. P Kutumba Rao, who was working as a watchman in Vanguru village under Pedavegi mandal in West Godavari, had received the vaccine on March 10. Two days later, on March 12, he fell ill and was shifted to Eluru government hospital where he breathed his last. The body was handed over to his family members after post-mortem examination. Death not related to vaccination: OfficialHis visceral samples have also been sent to regional forensic science laboratory in Vijayawada to ascertain the exact cause of death. Hospital authorities said Kutumba Rao had chronic ailments like diabetes. He had also suffered a paralytic stroke. Eluru II Town police have registered a case under section 174 of CrPC based on a complaint lodged by the deceased’s family, who alleged that he developed fever and other complications after taking the vaccine. However, AVR Mohan, district coordinator for health services in West Godavari, said Kutumba Rao was suffering from long-term ailments like paralysis on the right side besides diabetes and other diseases. “The death is not related to vaccination. It was a hypertensive case,” he said, adding that many old people have been administered Covid vaccine and all are doing well. He further said that Rao’s samples have been sent to the forensic laboratory for clinical confirmation. Report is expected within a week, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-man-dies-2-days-after-taking-vaccine/articleshow/81490491.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Noida||Waste to wonder: This plant could be a pointer||NOIDA: With a spurt in post-lockdown construction activity since October, the daily disposal of construction and demolition (C&D) waste in Noida has nearly doubled now. A waste processing plant in Sector 80, which had signed up for processing only 300 tonnes per day, is now treating double its daily capacity, officials said. Moreover, the good news is that the city has been able to recycle its ‘legacy waste’. The C&D plant is being operated by Ramky Reclamation and Recycling Ltd on a public-private-partnership model on a five-acre plot of the Noida Authority land. The initial agreement with the Authority is for 15 years. The Authority has agreed to pay a total of Rs 495 for each tonne of processed waste to Ramky. While Rs 347 will be paid as transportation cost, Rs 148 per tonne will be paid as processing fees to the agency. Mukesh Dhiman, project manager of Ramky’s C&D waste recycling plant, told TOI, “The amount of construction waste Noida is generating is huge now. While the big projects dump their waste on their own, for others, we have created 14 locations in Noida where construction waste can be left for collection and recycling at our plant.” “Though the installed capacity of the plant is 300 tonnes, we are now stretched to process 600 tonnes of waste daily by non-stop operation,” he added. The plant has a helpline — 18008919657 — for anyone who wants to dispose of their construction waste and the same will be picked from the spot within 24 hours, officials said. Ramky has also asked the Noida Authority to consume at least some portion of the recycled materials for government construction activity. “In Delhi, 10% of the materials in government projects is now mandated to be recycled C&D waste. It is a green product and also half the price of regular materials. We are currently selling such materials for road construction, drain construction and other purposes. The price for coarse recycled aggregates is Rs 250 per tonne and Rs 750 per tonne for fine recycles aggregates,” Dhiman said. According to the latest report released by CSE, daily construction waste being generated in the NCR region is one of the pressing concerns for both pollution control and waste management purposes. “The C&D Waste Management Rules 2016 mandates the recycling of construction waste. C&D waste not only causes air pollution but also chokes green spaces, drains, water bodies and needs urgent attention in the fast-urbanising spaces,” said Avikal Somvanshi, an architect and urbanologist with CSE. However, Authority officials said that the city has been able to recycle its ‘legacy waste’. “The plant is functioning well and we have been able to process all old concrete waste in the city. The green areas, and other dumping grounds, which were previously misused for C&D waste, have all been cleaned up,” said senior project engineer of Noida, Subhash Mishra. Builders’ body Credai sees the enhanced operation capacity of the waste processing plant as a positive development. “All major construction projects that were stalled during lockdown due to migration of workers reopened towards the end of the year. So, there is now a spurt in construction activity in the city,” Amit Modi, vice president, Credai (western UP), said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/waste-to-wonder-this-plant-could-be-a-pointer/articleshow/81488579.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
March 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Six most urbanised Punjab districts see 60% caseload in 30 days||CHANDIGARH: Barely a month after civic body polls were held in Punjab, the state’s top six most urbanised districts accounted for almost 60% of the total caseload reported in the last one month. Overall, congested urban areas have become the epicenters in Covid-19 spread. A sharp rise in positivity rate -- percentage of people who are Covid-19 positive out of the total tested – from 1.6% to 3.4% was witnessed in municipal areas where civic polls were held on February 14, indicating a faster spread in the urban areas. Punjab is the fifth most urbanised state in the country after Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra.. Positivity rate in urban areas up from 1.8% to 3.7%It has 37.48% of its population concentrated in urban areas, which is much higher than the national average of 31.6% according to Census 2011. An analysis of the 30-day period (February 10 to March 12) data reveals that of 19,501 cases, the contribution of six districts – Ludhiana, Mohali, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Kapurthala – is11,380 cases. Jalandhar having 53.18% urban population had 2,470 cases and 69 deaths, while Ludhiana, the most urbanised districts of the state comprising 59.13% of urban population, reported 2,302 cases. Every fifth urban dweller in Punjab resides in Ludhiana. As many as 1,838 cases surfaced in Mohali, which has 55.16% urban population while Patiala (40.26%) -- home district of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh -- and Kapurthala (34.90%) contributed 1,477, 1708 and 1,585 cases, respectively.The positivity rate has gone up from 1.6% to 3.4%, pointing to a faster spread of the virus in the urban areas, especially where municipal elections were held recently. The positivity rate in MC areas has shot up from 1.8% to 3.7% while it has risen 0.7% to 1.7% in non-MC areas, which is significantly low as compared to MC areas. Large gatherings in these areas and people not following the Covid appropriate behaviour are being given as the reasons for the surge in cases in the densely populated urban areas. With the government paying little attention to strict enforcement of safety guidelines, people are violating the safety norms with impunity said Dr Ram Kumar, president of Society for Promotion of Ethical and Affordable Healthcare. "Social gatherings, religious and political functions with huge gathering are taking place and no one follows Covid appropriate behaviour, that is, maintaining distance and wearing a mask," said Dr Kumar, who does not see lockdowns as a viable measure to control the spread as it affects economic activities. He asserted that people voluntarily adopting Covid appropriate behaviour is the only way to contain the spread. Regular meetings are being held with the deputy commissioners and civil surgeons of districts where cases are increasing, and necessary instructions are issued to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/six-most-urbanised-punjab-districts-see-60-caseload-in-30-days/articleshow/81490569.cms||Vinod Kumar
March 14, 2021||Gurgaon||GMDA to chalk out policy for electric vehicles charging infra in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: In order to give a push to the use of electric vehicles (EV) in the city, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is drafting a policy for developing charging infrastructure for such vehicles. The policy is also expected to include pricing for charging and land availability for charging stations. As of now, the city doesn’t have a robust infrastructure for electric vehicles. Maqsood Ahmed, GMDA additional CEO (mobility), said the Centre has been pushing for electric vehicles for a while now, but due to lack of adequate infrastructure for charging the vehicles, not many people in the city have opted for EVs. “Identifying land for the charging stations and setting up the required infrastructure is a part of GMDA’s mandate and we are in talks with two central government-approved agencies on the matter,” said Ahmed. He added that they are in talks with providers working under the Union ministry of power for setting up the charging infrastructure. “As of now, two agencies have shown interest, including Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd, which already has some charging centres in Gurugram , and Energy Efficiency Services Limited, which is a Public Sector Undertaking (PSU),” said Ahmed. GMDA had introduced a policy for the use of EVs by its staff a couple of years ago in order to promote clean transport. The scheme has been working well, except for some hiccups with the charging of vehicles. Once these agencies give their approval, GMDA will work with the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram to identify land and then set up charging stations. The policy will talk about the terms and conditions related to the charging of electric vehicles, the pricing and the kind of vehicles which will be identified under the EV policy. Asked about subsidies on EVs, Ahmed said it will have to be decided by the state government. The neighbouring state of Delhi already has a policy for EVs, which was launched in 2020. Delhi also offers a subsidy of up to Rs 1.5 lakh on the purchase of electric cars and an incentive of up to Rs 30,000 for e-rickshaws, electric scooters and goods carriers. The Haryana government’s EV policy states that it will develop charging infrastructure as a commercially viable business venture in the state. It aims to convert 100% of the bus fleet owned by state transport undertakings in Haryana into electric buses by 2029, with the first phase of 100 % conversion of bus fleet in Gurugram and Faridabad by 2024. The policy also aims to phase out all fossil-fuel based commercial fleet and logistics vehicles in Gurugram and Faridabad by 2024. Officials within GMDA said the comprehensive mobility plan too talks about the need for introduction of electric and hybrid vehicles in the city which will require charging infrastructure. The mobility plan proposes that electric hybrid buses should be deployed to take advantage of reduced carbon emissions. “It is also recommended to identify low emission zones (LEVs) in the city, wherein only low emission vehicles such as electric goods vehicles will be permitted to operate, which shall bring down the likely emission load in the area,” says the report with regards to the freight distribution in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gmda-to-chalk-out-policy-for-ev-charging-infra-in-gurgaon/articleshow/81488601.cms||Shubhra Pant
March 14, 2021||Noida||Noida: 70-year-old jumps off 7th floor flat, dies||NOIDA: A 70-year-old retired engineer died after he jumped off the seventh floor of an upscale society in Noida’s Sector 75 on Saturday, according to police. He was from Chandigarh and had been staying in Noida with his wife for the past one year. He was under depression, said a police officer, adding that he did not want to stay in Noida. A police officer said the former engineer jumped off the building around 1pm on Saturday. “When questioned, his wife said they were working in Ranchi and for around one year back, they have been staying in Noida. He didn’t want to stay in Noida and used to share it with his family members. Possibly, this was why he took the extreme step,” additional DCP (Noida) Ranvijay Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/70-year-old-jumps-off-7th-floor-flat-dies/articleshow/81488589.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Faridabad||GMDA to chalk out policy for electric vehicles charging infra in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: In order to give a push to the use of electric vehicles (EV) in the city, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is drafting a policy for developing charging infrastructure for such vehicles. The policy is also expected to include pricing for charging and land availability for charging stations. As of now, the city doesn’t have a robust infrastructure for electric vehicles. Maqsood Ahmed, GMDA additional CEO (mobility), said the Centre has been pushing for electric vehicles for a while now, but due to lack of adequate infrastructure for charging the vehicles, not many people in the city have opted for EVs. “Identifying land for the charging stations and setting up the required infrastructure is a part of GMDA’s mandate and we are in talks with two central government-approved agencies on the matter,” said Ahmed. He added that they are in talks with providers working under the Union ministry of power for setting up the charging infrastructure. “As of now, two agencies have shown interest, including Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd, which already has some charging centres in Gurugram , and Energy Efficiency Services Limited, which is a Public Sector Undertaking (PSU),” said Ahmed. GMDA had introduced a policy for the use of EVs by its staff a couple of years ago in order to promote clean transport. The scheme has been working well, except for some hiccups with the charging of vehicles. Once these agencies give their approval, GMDA will work with the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram to identify land and then set up charging stations. The policy will talk about the terms and conditions related to the charging of electric vehicles, the pricing and the kind of vehicles which will be identified under the EV policy. Asked about subsidies on EVs, Ahmed said it will have to be decided by the state government. The neighbouring state of Delhi already has a policy for EVs, which was launched in 2020. Delhi also offers a subsidy of up to Rs 1.5 lakh on the purchase of electric cars and an incentive of up to Rs 30,000 for e-rickshaws, electric scooters and goods carriers. The Haryana government’s EV policy states that it will develop charging infrastructure as a commercially viable business venture in the state. It aims to convert 100% of the bus fleet owned by state transport undertakings in Haryana into electric buses by 2029, with the first phase of 100 % conversion of bus fleet in Gurugram and Faridabad by 2024. The policy also aims to phase out all fossil-fuel based commercial fleet and logistics vehicles in Gurugram and Faridabad by 2024. Officials within GMDA said the comprehensive mobility plan too talks about the need for introduction of electric and hybrid vehicles in the city which will require charging infrastructure. The mobility plan proposes that electric hybrid buses should be deployed to take advantage of reduced carbon emissions. “It is also recommended to identify low emission zones (LEVs) in the city, wherein only low emission vehicles such as electric goods vehicles will be permitted to operate, which shall bring down the likely emission load in the area,” says the report with regards to the freight distribution in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/gmda-to-chalk-out-policy-for-ev-charging-infra-in-gurgaon/articleshow/81492479.cms||Shubhra Pant
March 14, 2021||Ghaziabad||Over 4,000 get jabs in Noida, Ghaziabad||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Nearly 2,000 people were vaccinated across four government hospitals and seven private centres in Gautam Budh Nagar on Saturday. Sharing details, health officials revealed that a total of 1,969 people got the jabs through the day. Among them, 1,176 were 60 plus while 308 were in the age bracket of 45 to 59 years with comorbidities. Others were frontline workers who were administered the second dose on Saturday. Meanwhile, 2585 people were inoculated across 32 private centres and two government facilities in Ghaziabad on Saturday. At the two government centres — the District Combined hospital and District Women Hospital — 385 people were administered vaccines, which included 301 senior citizens and 60 people in the age group of 45 to 59 years with comorbid conditions. The remaining were those who were administered a second dose. In 32 private centres, a total of 2,200 people were administered vaccines on Saturday which included 1,672 60 plus people and 435 in the age group of 45 to 59 years with comorbidities. Ghaziabad sees 7 new Covid cases, Noida reports 17 Ghaziabad reported seven cases of Covid-19 on Saturday and nine people were discharged in the past 24 hours. The total active cases as on Saturday stand at 98. Meanwhile, 17 cases of Covid-19 were reported in Noida on Saturday while eight people were discharged in the past 24 hours. Till date, 25,489 have people have been discharged and the total active cases were 84.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/over-4k-get-jabs-in-noida-gzb/articleshow/81491100.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Noida||Over 4,000 get jabs in Noida, Ghaziabad||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Nearly 2,000 people were vaccinated across four government hospitals and seven private centres in Gautam Budh Nagar on Saturday. Sharing details, health officials revealed that a total of 1,969 people got the jabs through the day. Among them, 1,176 were 60 plus while 308 were in the age bracket of 45 to 59 years with comorbidities. Others were frontline workers who were administered the second dose on Saturday. Meanwhile, 2585 people were inoculated across 32 private centres and two government facilities in Ghaziabad on Saturday. At the two government centres — the District Combined hospital and District Women Hospital — 385 people were administered vaccines, which included 301 senior citizens and 60 people in the age group of 45 to 59 years with comorbid conditions. The remaining were those who were administered a second dose. In 32 private centres, a total of 2,200 people were administered vaccines on Saturday which included 1,672 60 plus people and 435 in the age group of 45 to 59 years with comorbidities. Ghaziabad sees 7 new Covid cases, Noida reports 17 Ghaziabad reported seven cases of Covid-19 on Saturday and nine people were discharged in the past 24 hours. The total active cases as on Saturday stand at 98. Meanwhile, 17 cases of Covid-19 were reported in Noida on Saturday while eight people were discharged in the past 24 hours. Till date, 25,489 have people have been discharged and the total active cases were 84.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/over-4k-get-jabs-in-noida-gzb/articleshow/81488609.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Cook spits on dough, held after video goes viral||GHAZIABAD: A 22-year-old cook has been arrested after a video showing him spitting on the dough while making rotis went viral on social media. Mohammad Mohsin had been engaged by a caterer for an engagement ceremony in Bhojpur. The video clip, which was shot on March 11, elicited strong responses from social media users, many of whom demanded the arrest of the accused. The caterer was hired by Shiv Kumar, a Bhojpur resident, for the engagement ceremony of his nephew. “The video was shot by one of my relatives. It can be clearly seen that the cook is spitting on the dough before preparing rotis. We had objected to it then and the cook was asked to leave,” said a relative of Kumar. “We had no knowledge that the video had gone viral. Police dropped by our place to verify the authenticity of the video. The cops noted down the caterer’s address and left,” added the relative. Mohsin has been booked under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and other relevant provisions of the IPC. “We investigated the matter and found the video to be authentic. The caterer was questioned and we got the address of the accused. But by the time we reached his house in Muradnagar, he had fled,” said Iraj Raja, SP (rural). “He was tracked down and arrested later,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/cook-spits-on-dough-held-after-video-goes-viral/articleshow/81488615.cms||Abhijay Jha
March 14, 2021||Gurgaon||Over 3,500 get jabs at 52 session sites in private hospitals||GURUGRAM: A total of 3,400 senior citizens and people aged over 45 years with comorbidities received their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the third phase of inoculation on Saturday. As many as 551 healthcare workers and 9 frontline workers also got the jab. On Saturday, 52 session sites were set up at private healthcare facilities across the city. Officials from the health department said the state has set a target of vaccinating 1 lakh people across Haryana on Monday, while the target for Gurugram is 10,000 recipients. “We have increased the number of session sites for Monday’s vaccination drive. There would be 37 session sites set up at government health facilities and 52 session sites at the private health facilities. We will have a total of 105 booths set up for vaccination on Monday since we have two booths at some session sites,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. Private and government health facilities have vaccinated 41,503 recipients in the third phase so far, out of whom 36,997 are above 60 years of age and 4,506 are people between 45 years and 59 years with comorbidities. Gurugram has also vaccinated 5,531 healthcare workers and 5,598 frontline workers. “We have collaborated with panchayats, block development officers and other village heads to ensure that the senior citizens and those aged over 49 with comorbidities get vaccinated,” Singh added. Meanwhile, Gurugram reported 72 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally of cases to 59,770. With 45 recoveries on Saturday, the total number of recoveries stood at 58,833. The number of active cases is 578. A total of 3,090 Covid tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/over-3500-get-jabs-at-52-session-sites-in-private-hospitals/articleshow/81488628.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Gurgaon||Haryana Roadways seeks government land near Dwarka Expressway for a new bus stand||GURUGRAM: The Haryana Roadways has proposed to build a new inter-state bus stand in Siri near the Dwarka Expressway for the residents of new sectors in the city. The department has sent a proposal to the government, demanding allotment of around 15 acres of land which is now in HSIIDC’s possession. Once built, the bus stand will bring the much-needed relief to the residents as the current depot near Mahavir Chowk in old Gurugram is housed in a dilapidated building. There’s no waiting area for passengers, forcing them to find alternatives in the open or nearby food stalls. The pillars of the corridors look visibly frail and in many places, chunks of concrete are eroded. The administrative block of the building also lacks enough rooms for the staff. Moreover, the movement of buses from the old Gurugram bus stand leads to chronic jams, and shifting the base near the Dwarka Expressway will also ease the traffic flow, officials said. Haryana Roadways Gurugram depot general manager Kulbir Singh Dhaka told TOI, “HSIIDC has over 100 acres of land meant for public utility purposes. We want around 15 acres of land from that to build a new bus stand. The district population and ridership have increased but we don’t have enough resources to accommodate that.” Roadways employees say they have been demanding a new bus stand for years. “The existing building in old Gurugram is useless now. For several years, we have been demanding for a new building but the government is yet to take our demands seriously. Even renovating this building won’t work as the bus stand was built in 1959 and at that time this area wasn’t as crowded,” said a Roadways employee. In 2015, the public works department declared the city’s sole bus stand as structurally unsafe after conducting a safety audit. In 2018, the state government announced that a new bus stand would be built on a public-private partnership model. Three years on, nothing has moved on the ground. The roadways department had initially identified land at Rajiv Chowk for a new bus stand. But, the proposal couldn’t move ahead as a portion of the land had to be kept for the proposed metro station there. The department, however, is hopeful about the new proposal. It has asserted that the new location is favourable as it will be very close to the Dwarka Expressway and Southern Peripheral Road (SPR), ensuring easy accessibility for the passengers. “Once our proposal gets a nod from the government, we’ll prepare a detailed project report,” Kulbir Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-roadways-seeks-government-land-near-dwarka-expressway-for-a-new-bus-stand/articleshow/81488645.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
March 14, 2021||Gurgaon||Session almost over, funds for uniforms, books to be released now||Gurgaon: When the first lockdown was announced in March last year, 45-year-old Urmila would often turn up at Kadipur government school to ask about the money her daughters were supposed to get for buying uniforms and stationaries. She hoped to use that money to buy food from that money.However, her hopes were dashed as the government didn’t release the funds committed under the Right to Education Act. “I had to go back to my village as surviving the lockdown had become tough here. We didn’t even get the money for books and uniforms,” said Urmila, who returned to the city two months ago.With the academic session nearly over, she now hopes to get the money as it is only now that the state education department has decided to transfer the money directly to the accounts of the guardians of the students.Earlier this week, the state education department asked all the schools to submit the data of all the students in classes 1 to 8.“We have asked all the schools to update the data of all the students from classes 1 to 8 on the portal as the money for bags, uniforms and writing materials have to be released via the public financial management system. Based on the data, we’ll release the funds. The money will be directly transferred to the accounts of the students or their parents by this month-end,” said an education department official.Every year around May, the government releases the fund for the free education of the students from classes 1 to 8. As per the free education guaranteed for students under the RTE Act in the state-run schools, the education department is supposed to release around Rs 1,020 per student of classes 1 to 5 — Rs 800 for uniform, Rs 120 for bags, and Rs 100 for writing materials. Similarly, for students of classes 6 to 8, around Rs 1,300 per child are given — Rs 1,000 for uniform and Rs 150 each for bags and writing materials.Last year, however, the state government did not release the funds due to the closure of the schools in the wake of the Covid-induced lockdown. The department claimed that the schools for the secondary section opened in February, while for the primary section in March. Thus, the government will now directly transfer the money committed under the free education scheme.“Last year, the state revenues were very low and all the departments didn’t get their required share of funds. Also, schools were closed due to Covid and it was only in March that schools reopened for all the students. We are committed to releasing the funds and will ensure that within this month all the eligible students receive the money directly in their accounts,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/session-almost-over-funds-for-uniforms-books-to-be-released-now/articleshow/81488811.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh hits new Covid case record for 2nd day in row||CHANDIGARH: Covid-19 cases continue to spiral. On Saturday, the city reported the highest single-day surge this year with 144 cases, pushing the count to 22,976, with 1,032 active cases. On Friday, 135 people had tested positive. The death toll rose to 358, with a 51-year-old woman from Dhanas having hypertension, heart and kidney diseases succumbing to the virus at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. A total of 47 patients were discharged, taking the tally to 21,586. In Mohali, the toll touched 401, with the deaths of three people. As many as 125 people contracted the virus, raising the tally to 21,656, with 1,237 active cases. A total of 120 cases were from Mohali urban, three from Derabassi, and two from Gharuan. As many as 64 patients were discharged, taking the recovery count to 20,018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-hits-new-covid-case-record-for-2nd-day-in-row/articleshow/81490632.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Bhopal||Six more vaccines on the way: Harsh Vardhan||BHOPAL: Half a dozen more vaccines are on the horizon and will be introduced in the fight against Covid-19, said Union minister of health and family welfare, Dr Harsh Vardhan, in Bhopal on Saturday. “Six to eight months ago, lack of testing was an issue. Today, we are carrying out over 1 million Covid-19 tests per day. And more than half a dozen vaccine are coming,” he said after visiting the new campus of National Institute for Research in Environment Health (NIREH), AIIMS-Bhopal, and CSIR-AMPRI. Phase 3 trials of ‘Sputnik’ conductedExplaining the expanse of Covid testing in India, he said, “Travel 3km anywhere in 97% of India and you can get a Covid-19 test. Before 2014, for such tests, the sample had to be sent to CDC USA. Our professionals continue to work with dedication to ensure India has the best performance against Covid-19 anywhere in the world.” Currently, two vaccines are available to the public — Covishield, made by Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca, and Covaxin, being indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech. Russia’s Sputnik vaccine seems to be next in line. Phase-3 trials, carried out by its Indian partner Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, are over, and it’s awaiting Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/six-more-vaccines-on-the-way-harsh-vardhan/articleshow/81490638.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Girl abducted from house in Mohali||MOHALI: An 18-year-old girl was allegedly abducted from her house in Kandala village in broad daylight on Saturday. The Class XII student was with her family when three of the four accused rang the doorbell at 2pm. “They claimed to be officials of a courier company. One of them was holding a box. As the girl’s mother reached the gate, one of the accused pointed a pistol at her. They took the girl and left in a car in which another accused was waiting,” alleged a relative.  Neighbours followed the vehicle and pelted stones, damaging the rear windscreen of the car. Police denied any gun was used. “The girl knew one of the accused. They used to chat with each other on a social networking site. Her parents got to know four days ago and took away her phone. The accused had called up the girl’s mother’s and threatened to take her away,” sources said. Police registered a case. One of the four accused has been identified as Raja of Moga. No arrests have been made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/girl-abducted-from-house-in-mohali/articleshow/81490649.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||MLC polls: Aspirants seek second preferential vote||HYDERABAD: Contestants in the graduate MLC polls changed their tack while seeking votes in the dying moments of the campaign. Showing desperation, candidates, including those belonging to major political parties, pleaded with voters to ‘at least’ give them their second preference vote. This happened especially when it was clear the voters they approached had either made up their mind to vote for a candidate of their choice or were associated directly or indirectly with a political party. Since they would anyway cast their first preference vote to their choice, the contestants sheepishly urged them to at least give them their second preference vote. In the MLC polls, the contestant must get 50% votes to win the poll, or else, according to the procedure, the second preference votes would be counted. The second preference vote also matters and therefore workers of political parties and supporters of candidates made a request to voters for their second preferential votes. With the number of candidates in the fray are much more than on previous occasion, the contestants were going all out for support. While on record all contestants were seeking the first preference votes, in campaigning at the ground level and in conversations with individuals, they were not hesitating to ask for the second preference vote, in case the voter had already made up his/ her mind to voter for another candidate. In 2015 polls, TRS candidate Palla Rajeshwar Reddy had won the Khammam-Warangal-Nalgonda graduates MLC poll with second preference votes .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlc-polls-aspirants-seek-second-preferential-vote/articleshow/81490651.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 14, 2021||Gurgaon||School session nearly over, funds to be given now||GURUGRAM: When the first lockdown was announced in March last year, 45-year-old Urmila would often turn up at Kadipur government school to ask about the money her daughters were supposed to get for buying uniforms and stationeries. She hoped to use that money to buy food. However, her hopes were dashed as the government didn’t release the funds committed under the Right to Education Act. “I had to go back to my village as surviving the lockdown had become tough here. We didn’t even get the money for books and uniforms,” said Urmila, who returned to the city two months ago. With the academic session nearly over, she now hopes to get the money as it is only now that the state education department has decided to transfer the money directly to the accounts of the guardians of the students. Earlier this week, the state education department asked all the schools to submit the data of all the students in classes 1 to 8. “We have asked all the schools to update the data of all the students from classes 1 to 8 on the portal as the money for bags, uniforms and writing materials have to be released via the public financial management system. Based on the data, we’ll release the funds. The money will be directly transferred to the accounts of the students or their parents by this month-end,” said an education department official. Every year around May, the government releases the fund for the free education of the students from classes 1 to 8. As per the free education guaranteed for students under the RTE Act in the state-run schools, The education department is supposed to release around Rs 1,020 per student of classes 1 to 5 — Rs 800 for uniform, Rs 120 for bags, and Rs 100 for writing materials. Similarly, for students of classes 6 to 8, around Rs 1,300 per child are given — Rs 1,000 for uniform and Rs 150 each for bags and writing materials. Last year, however, the state government did not release the funds due to the closure of the schools in the wake of the Covid-induced lockdown. The department claimed that the schools for the secondary section opened in February, while for the primary section in March. Thus, the government will now directly transfer the money committed under the free education scheme. “Last year, the state revenues were very low and all the departments didn’t get their required share of funds. Also, schools were closed due to Covid and it was only in March that schools reopened for all the students. We are committed to releasing the funds and will ensure that within this month all the eligible students receive the money directly in their accounts,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/school-session-nearly-over-funds-to-be-given-now/articleshow/81488814.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
March 14, 2021||Bhopal||Ken-Betwa project: MP to give extra water to UP||BHOPAL: The stalemate over the country’s first river-linking project — Ken river in Madhya Pradesh with Betwa in Uttar Pradesh — has apparently been resolved to an extent with MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s nod to give 50 million cubic metres (MCM) extra water during rabi season. Sources in the water resources department (WRD) said that a revised memorandum of agreement is being prepared for the two states to sign. This project was in limbo for over two years due a disagreement between the two states over quantum of water to be shared. Both rivers originate in MP and flow into UP. In the previous agreement, the Union Jal Shakti ministry had reduced UP’s share of water from the rivers during the lean season, while putting aside MP’s demand to allow its usage of surplus water available at the dam site. The first thaw in the long-standing dispute had come in a meeting chaired by Union minister Nitin Gadkari two years ago. After getting additional charge as water resources minister, Gadkari had invited Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath for a meeting to settle the issue. Apart from sharing of water, there is also a disagreement between the two states over finance and execution of the project. It has been decided that the Centre will bear 90% of the project cost, while MP and UP share the rest, said sources. Also, environmental clearance for this project is still pending. The biggest hurdle is the final wildlife clearance that is pending with the central empowered committee (CEC) appointed by Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ken-betwa-project-mp-to-give-extra-water-to-up/articleshow/81490659.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: 10 days after Covid jab, GMC professor tests positive||BHOPAL: 10-days after getting the second dose of vaccine, a Gandhi Medical College (GMC) professor has tested posted for Covid-19. The faculty member of the medical college, after investigation, is under home isolation, according to GMC dean Dr Aruna Kumar. “The faculty in question, tested positive for the infection 10-days after getting the second dose. Antibodies develop 15-days after administration of the second dose of vaccine. The faculty member was diagnosed as Covid-19 positive on the day 11. The medical condition is in the clear and was suitable to be advised home quarintine,” said Dr Kumar. “I think vaccine gives protection. Severity of the infection reduces,” she added. “Looking at the scenario, everyone should get vaccinated,” she said. GMC session sites administer Covisheild. Meanwhile, 118 new infection cases of Covid-19 were diagnosed in the state capital, here on Saturday. Covid-19 death toll in Bhopal is 621. No deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, according to health bulletin. Till date, 45197 people have been infected with the virus since pandemic began. On Thursday, 107 people recovered from the infection; till date 43759 people have recovered from the infection. There were 817 active cases of Covid-19 in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-10-days-after-covid-jab-gmc-professor-tests-positive/articleshow/81490670.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Khaps, farm stir gaining from each other||GURUGRAM: About 70 to 80 tractor-trolleys bring villagers from Uchana and Narwana to the Khatkar toll plaza on National Highway-71 every day. This has been the ritual here for a month, the supply line that sustains one of the largest protests in Haryana’s Jat heartland against the new central farming laws. The crowd ebbs and flows. Sometimes, a small group of 50 holds fort, at other times, the gathering swells to 1,000. They sing, clap and raise a chorus against the laws, like protesters have been doing at the Singhu and Tikri borders with Delhi. READ THE STORY ON TOI+ Forget Disha, khap toolkit is driving farmer protests||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/khaps-farm-stir-gaining-from-each-other/articleshow/81488904.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
March 14, 2021||Bhopal||Miraculous escape for MP junior archery team||BHOPAL: The coach and 10 junior archers from Madhya Pradesh team had a miraculous escape after the coach of New Delhi-Dehradun Shatabdi express in which they were travelling caught fire. Coach Ashok Kumar was among the first to have noticed the fire in the C-5 coach. Kumar was travelling with 10 junior players to participate in the national championship from Sunday. The MP team lost all their equipment in the incident. Talking to TOI Kumar said that he will never forget the incident in his life. “I went to the washroom after the train left Haridwar. When I opened the door, I saw smoke and fire,” said Kumar. I had seen the Burning Train movie, but faced it today. It was terrifying and the first thing that came to my mind was the safety of team members,” said Kumar. “I immediately asked everyone in the coach to move towards the coach C-6. Later, the train stopped and the passengers were evacuated from the burning coach and it was detached from the train. Sports minister Yashodhara Raje Scindia said, “It was a tragic incident. Thankfully, all our players are safe. We have arranged new equipment and clothes that they will get tomorrow.” She added that the coaches have been asked to get the players connected with their families on phones. “We have also informed the families about the incident and safety of all players. The players are self-motivated and they have said that they will compete in the event,” said Scindia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/miraculous-escape-for-mp-junior-archery-team/articleshow/81490691.cms||Ramendra Singh
March 14, 2021||Bhopal||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan must resign after SC rap: Congress||BHOPAL: State Congress general secretary (media) K K Mishra on Saturday demanded the resignation of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan after the Supreme Court rapped the government for inaction and failure to arrest the accused in the murder of Congress leader Devendra Chourasia. The accused in the case is Govind Singh Thakur, husband of BSP MLA Rambai from Patharia assembly seat, in Damoh district. The Supreme Court bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah, while hearing a plea filed by Somesh, the son of the deceased, on Friday said, “This is jungle raj. Is there any rule of law in the state?” Speaking to TOI, Mishra said, “The Supreme Court’s rap on the working of this government is a strong Constitutional blow and proof of incompetence of the regime. We demand the resignation of the chief minister because after the strong observation of the apex court bench, there is no need for a debate on the issue.” Congress also mentioned that the additional sessions judge, Damoh, R P Sonkar in his order dated February 8, 2021, had claimed that the SP and his subordinates could conspire and trap him with serious and false allegations because he issued an arrest warrant against Govind Singh Thakur. “This kind of an observation that the police superintendent could be a threat for a sitting judge raises serious questions about the law-andorder situation in Madhya Pradesh,” Mishra said. “Chouhan being the chief minister, is directly responsible for this kind of a grave crisis in the state where cops threaten sitting judges. He should take moral responsibility and resign,” Mishra added. Congress said that the Supreme Court took serious note of the fact that the additional sessions judge was threatened by police for issuing an arrest warrant against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-must-resign-after-sc-rap-congress/articleshow/81490704.cms||---
March 14, 2021||India||Sachin Waze arrested by NIA for 'role in placing explosives-laden car' near Mukesh Ambani's house||THANE/MUMBAI: The National Investigation Agency on Saturday night arrested assistant police inspector Sachin Waze in connection with the SUV explosives case. “Sachin Waze was arrested under the case RC/1/2021/NIA/MUM (relating to the seizure of explosives-laden SUV found parked near Mukesh Ambani’s residence) at 2350 hrs,” an NIA statement said. In the afternoon, Waze reached the NIA office in Mumbai to record his statement. On Friday, the Thane sessions court refused to grant interim protection to Waze in the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, saying his custodial interrogation, as asked for by the ATS, is necessary. The court has posted Waze’s anticipatory bail plea for hearing on March 19. The ATS filed a case of murder after the body of Hiran was found in a Mumbra creek on March 5 and his wife Vimla in her statement to ATS alleged she suspected Waze had killed him. "The informant (Vimla) is directly making allegations against the applicant in her FIR. Hence, this court came to the conclusion that the investigation is at the initial stage by the ATS.” Sessions judge Shailendra Tambe noted, “The offence is under Section 201 of IPC (causing disappearance of evidence i.e. body of Mansukh Hiran) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy). The offence under Section 302 (murder) is serious. The accused is unknown hence, there is criminal conspiracy and thorough investigation is necessary by ATS. Hence, this court is not agreed to grant interim bail to the applicant because there is prima facie evidence and material against the applicant.” “Hiran’s weight was around 100 kg. Suspicion is there were more than two people involved,” an ATS officer said. ATS is yet to conclude how Hiran was killed. “The postmortem report is inconclusive,” the officer said. Appearing for Waze, counsel K M Kalekar argued the applicant himself joined in the investigation to allay any apprehension of commission of any offence, as alleged. Read AlsoTihar link to Mukesh Ambani plot revealed: Cell, sim seizedTihar Jail officials on Thursday evening conducted a massive search operation inside sub-jail number 8 and recovered a mobile handset and sim card on which a Telegram account in the name of ‘Jaishulhind’ was created. This account had claimed responsibility for the explosive-laden SUV found abandoned “The applicant has been extensively interrogated for about eight hours on March 8. The applicant has inter alia explained that since he was in South Mumbai/Dongri at the relevant time, there is absolutely no reason to have even any remote suspicion of the applicant committing murder of the deceased.” Read AlsoThreat to Mukesh Ambani: New unanswered questionsThere was chaos in the state assembly on Tuesday with leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis demanding the immediate suspension and arrest of assistant police inspector Sachin Waze in the murder of car accessories dealer Mansukh Hiran whose Scorpio was found with gelatin sticks outside industrialistHe argued that even earlier, in 2002, the applicant was framed in a false case and had suffered arrest, harassment and mental agony, including 17 years of undue suspension. The bail was granted in 2004 after custody of 58 days and “the applicant has scrupulously abided by the bail conditions without any blemish.” He further pointed out that in the FIR, there are only two lines against Waze where Vimla stated in Marathi, “I suspect that the murder is done by Sachin Waze” and that except these two lines, there are no allegations against the API. The ATS have so far recorded statements of over 20 people. Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis had said in the assembly that the last location of Hiran’s cellphone was near Gawde’s house in Vasai. The investigation suggests Hiran was killed in Thane itself. Watch Ambani terror scare: NIA arrests Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze after 12 hours of questioning||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sachin-waze-arrested-by-nia-for-role-in-placing-explosives-laden-car/articleshow/81489619.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
March 14, 2021||Noida||After arrest row, safety boost for Yamuna e-way||GREATER NOIDA: Jaypee Infratech, the company managing the Yamuna Expressway, has decided to infuse Rs 108 crore to make the speedway safer for commuters and introduce FASTags at the three tolls that fall on the 165km-long stretch. The move comes close on the heels of the arrest of the company’s interim resolution professional following an accident that killed seven persons last month. The IRP was released later. Senior officials of Jaypee said the money would be used to set up crash barriers or impact attenuators between the two carriageways and introduce the tag system. The Yamuna Expressway, a modern speedway where vehicles hurtle down at almost 100kmph, has been notorious for accidents. Several road experts have pointed out flaws in the design of the expressway Ashok Khera, senior vice-president of the company, said a tender document to begin work on setting up the metallic crash barriers was likely to be floated in the next few days. “The FASTag system will also be set up within a few weeks,” he added. Khera said earlier too, Rs 25-30 crore had been spent on improving safety measures on the expressway in keeping with recommendations of an IIT-Delhi audit team. Following a series of accidents, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) had in August 2018 asked IIT-Delhi to carry out a safety audit of the entire stretch. The expressway passes through six districts — Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Mathura, Hathras and Agra. Officials said the crash barriers would be installed along both sides of the median to prevent vehicles from toppling over to the other side. On February 24, an oil tanker had crashed into a divider and toppled onto an SUV on the other side. Seven persons who were in the SUV had died in the accident, which had taken place in Naujhil area of Mathura. The freak accident had prompted YEIDA to lodge an FIR against the Jaypee IRP and a monitoring committee that manages the speedway. Arun Vir Singh, the chief executive officer of YEIDA said it was important to set up crash resistant barriers along the median. “Vehicles move at high speed on the expressway. Many times, vehicles have rolled over to the other side of the carriageway, which resulted in fatalities. Also, the FASTag system will be placed soon. This will reduce long queues at the three toll plazas of the expressway,” he added. While putting up the crash barriers is likely to take several months, the tag system should be operational by the end of April, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/after-arrest-row-safety-boost-for-yamuna-e-way/articleshow/81488321.cms||Shalabh
March 14, 2021||Noida||Noida: Woman chases man, slaps him for groping her||NOIDA: A man in his late forties was thrashed by a 24-year-old woman after the former allegedly touched her inappropriately while she was crossing the road near the Sahara red light on Friday. The accused, who allegedly grabbed her chest, was trying to flee the spot on his cycle when the woman chased him and caught hold of his shirt before slapping him. The woman, who works at a petrol pump in Sector 12 in Noida, said that the incident took place when she was walking towards the petrol pump early on Friday. She told TOI that while she was walking towards the Sahara red light, she noticed a man on a cycle stopping at different spots and staring at her repeatedly. “He kept staring at me all the way and when I reached the crossing, I saw a car approaching in my direction. I tried to reach a safe spot but the cyclist came from behind, groped me and tried to escape. I was shocked but I ran behind him,” she said. The woman then caught hold of the accused and started slapping him. Soon after onlookers gathered around her and some started making a video. The one-minute-long video is now viral on social media. She alleged that no one came forward to help her and in fact, the onlookers kept asking her to stop beating the accused. “I have been staying here for the past six years but this was the first time when I felt unsafe. People think that they can do such things and get away with it. Even though he said sorry later, such an act is totally unacceptable,” said the woman, who is a BA student. She added that due to the absence of CCTV cameras, such crimes are rising. The safe city project under which CCTV cameras are supposed to be installed at different locations, is yet to gain pace in Noida. Meanwhile, Ranvijay Singh, additional DCP (Noida), told TOI that they have called the woman to give a statement and an FIR will be registered against the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/woman-chases-man-slaps-him-for-groping-her/articleshow/81488384.cms||Shikha Salaria
March 14, 2021||Noida||Bike Bot scam: Petition in SC seeks CBI probe||NOIDA: The Supreme Court has accepted the plea of the All India Bike Bot Taxi Union which demanded a CBI probe into the Bike Bot fraud. The plea alleges that around two lakh defence personnel and six lakh other citizens have been duped by the firm floated by former BSP leader Sanjay Bhati and that many high-profile names, including ministers, politicians, actors and bureaucrats are involved in the case and the local police would be incapable of acting against them. The union which filed the criminal writ petition in July 2020, has alleged that a total of 1,200 ex-servicemen and serving defence personnel have died of suicide due to losing their lifetime savings after investing in the scheme. The plea further alleges that in 2018, the accused had organised a blood donation camp for defence personnel and collected 62,100 units of blood from them. Madanlal Azad, the convenor of the All India Bike Bot Taxi Foundation, told TOI that their outfit has a total of 4,200 investors who invested their savings in the different schemes floated by Garvit Innovative Promoters Limited (GIPL). “Most of the investors are former and serving defence personnel. We had approached the Supreme Court in July 2020 with a petition,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/bike-bot-scam-petition-in-sc-seeks-cbi-probe/articleshow/81488393.cms||Shikha Salaria
March 14, 2021||Noida||Noida: As builders await pay plan, registry logjam continues||NOIDA/GREATER NOIDA: The registry logjam in the city is far from over even after the state chief secretary’s directions. Developers in the twin cities say that they have not received any communication from the two authorities yet over the revised payment plan as per the State Bank of India’s marginal cost of funds-based lending rate (MCLR). However, some special camps organised by the Noida and Greater Noida authorities have resulted in the registry of 300 flats in the twin cities over the past one week. Sources told TOI that officials are waiting for March 22, when the review petition filed by the Noida Authority against the dropping the interest rate will be taken up by the Supreme Court. However, managing director of the Gaurs Group and chairman of CREDAI’s affordable housing committee, Manoj Gaur said that the delay tactics will cause more hardships for buyers. “Senior officials have given directions to the two authorities to recalculate dues as per SBI’s MCLR. In case the apex court decides otherwise, additional payment can be sought later on. But we have not got any new demand letter or payment terms from the two authorities,” he said. Additional chief executive officer of the Noida Authority, Neha Sharma said that it’s a tedious process to switch over to the new interest regime and several hurdles have to be crossed. “But we are working on the matter. At the same time, the registry of flats is being conducted in proportion to the money developers have deposited with the Authority,” she said. Almost 45 private group housing projects in Noida and 55 in Greater Noida have been granted completion certificates. But more than 150 projects in the two cities have inventory which is yet to be registered under the tripartite agreement (between buyer, builder and the authority concerned). In the absence of a comprehensive survey, there is no clarity on the numbers of flats which have been sold to buyers and the ones which have been given out to them without executing registries in Noida and Greater Noida. While the Noida Authority has set a target of more than 5,000 flats, the Greater Noida Authority is yet to set any target. “A lot of buyers who were approached said that they were out of town and will need time to come to the city and execute the registry. Those who are available and willing to pay the stamp duty charges are being called. Around 300 registries have taken place in the past one week,” said an official from the authority. Meanwhile, people who bought flats in the Sports Cities are still waiting for an outcome. Din Bandhu Nayak, who bought a flat in one of the stuck projects in Sector 79 Sports City, said, “Nobody is responding to our queries. Both the builder and the Noida Authority are evading the buyers at this point. We heard about the formation of the consortium but nothing after that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/as-builders-await-pay-plan-registry-logjam-continues/articleshow/81488404.cms||---
March 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Water, MMTS, property tax major issues in MLC polls||HYDERABAD: Daily water, MMTS phase-II connectivity and property tax are the three major issues which have to be addressed by the candidates of Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar Graduate constituency polls. The fate of TRS candidate Surabhi Vani and BJP candidate Ramchander Rao will be decided on these issues. Residents of these GHMC periphery circles, mainly Malkajgiri, allege that water woes are still haunting them, even after all drinking water sources are full to the brim. “Our demand is to increase the supply to at least two hours and provide water on alternate days, on the lines of Greater Hyderabad,” United Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (UFERWAS) general secretary, B T Srinivasan, told TOI. Another major issue is fund allocation for MMTS phase-II.The Union railway ministry had given its nod to take up MMTS phase-II jointly with the Telangana government on the basis of cost-sharing. The project had started in 2014 with an estimated cost of Rs 817 crore. “The state government, however, has released ?129 crore as of 2019, and Rs 439.07 crore remains due from the state for the project,” said Srinivasan. “We are urging the candidates to take this up as a prestigious project and ensure its completion for the benefit of lakhs of passengers,” UFERWAS demanded. The BJP candidate, Ramchander Rao, assured to take up the issue to the state government’s notice, said Srinivasan. Property owners of new residential colonies in GHMC periphery are distressed about ‘abnormal’ property tax rates. “The civic body should follow a uniform system across the city and GHMC periphery too, but owners are getting demand notices with higher amounts,” a RWA member of Safilguda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-mmts-property-tax-major-issues-in-mlc-polls/articleshow/81490794.cms||Sunil Mungara
March 14, 2021||Delhi||Fake exports: Man held for cheating his business partner in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has arrested a 51-year-old man who had allegedly cheated one of his business partners by creating fake firms. The man is a proclaimed offender. The accused has been identified as Tej Bahadur Rai, a resident of Kalkaji Extension. According to the police, Rai, proprietor of Falcon India, had approached one Ashwani Dewan, proprietor of Rose International, and told him that he had an order from some foreign buyer for export of home furnishing items. Rai said that as it was a big order, he wanted to get it supplied through various vendors and therefore got into an agreement with Dewan who was to supply him various home furnishing items worth about 12 lakh US dollars (around Rs 8 crore). Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bisham Singh said Dewan paid over Rs 2 crore to Rai. “This amount was misappropriated by Rai by opening different accounts in the name of his employees. Statements of accounts also showed that out of Rs 5.8 crore collected by a firm of Rai during January 2003 to May 2003, Rs 4.5 crore was transferred to Falcon India. The firms, Triata Silk Textile and Braj Trading Company, were also found to be fake and bogus created by Rai in conspiracy with Lalit Mishra and Sanjay Tiwari,” Singh said. The DCP said, after an investigation, a chargesheet had been filed in court. Rai was declared a proclaimed offender in December 2013. “While police were keeping an eye on Rai’s movements to arrest him, information was received recently about his whereabouts. A raid was conducted in Lucknow and Rai was arrested. He confessed his role in more than eight cases of cheating and 31 other cases,” the DCP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fake-exports-man-held-for-cheating-his-business-partner-in-delhi/articleshow/81490825.cms||---
March 14, 2021||India||J&K: Terrorist killed in Shopian encounter||NEW DELHI: One terrorist has been killed in an on-going encounter in the Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir. His identity and affiliation is being ascertained. The encounter in the Rawalpora area of the district began on Saturday. Jammu and Kashmir: One terrorist killed in Rawalpora area of Shopian, in an encounter with security forces that beg… https://t.co/xZGm1VVjA1— ANI (@ANI) 1615687832000Security forces had launched a cordon and search operation after being tipped about the presence of terrorists in the area on Saturday. The encounter began after the forces were fired upon by hiding terrorists. (With agency inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-terrorist-killed-in-shopian-encounter/articleshow/81490843.cms||---
March 14, 2021||World||Benjamin Netanyahu: Master politician fighting for survival||JERUSALEM: Benjamin Netanyahu has remained in power as Israeli prime minister for a record 12 consecutive years, partly by convincing some voters that only he can keep the Jewish state safe while defending it on the world stage. But on March 23, the 71-year-old wily politician faces his fourth re-election contest in less than two years, after repeatedly failing to unite a coalition behind him, despite his devoted right-wing base. Polls indicate that this master political survivor, widely known as Bibi, could again struggle to forge the necessary 61-seat parliamentary majority. Since Israelis last voted a year ago, support for Netanyahu's Likud may have even dipped, despite clinching historic normalisation agreements with four Arab states and unrolling a world-beating Covid-19 vaccination campaign, the envy of many nations. One reason why his political standing remains fragile is that his dealings with coalition partners are so often undermined by mistrust, said Colin Shindler, a leading Israel scholar at London's SOAS University. "You trust people insofar as you can use them, as you can pretend to forge friendships and alliances with them," said Shindler, author of "The Rise of the Israel Right: from Odessa to Hebron." "But at the end of the day your core belief is to protect yourself and survive," Schindler told AFP. "That is how I perceive Netanyahu." Yet despite being the first sitting Israeli premier indicted while in office over corruption allegations which he denies, Netanyahu may well survive the ballot box again. That is because part of the electorate still sees him as the safest available pair of hands to guide the nation, Shindler said. "That's the reason he's still in power. He's the national goalkeeper and he doesn't let in any goals." He is the son of a historian who was active in right-wing Zionist groups, an ideological inheritance that helped shaped the premier's political career. Addressing the World Holocaust Forum last year, Netanyahu said the Jewish people had a mandate "to always take seriously the threats of those who seek our destruction". "To confront threats even when they are small; and above all, to always have the power to defend ourselves by ourselves." An occasional cigar smoker with a husky voice and greying comb-over, the broad, burly and square-jawed Netanyahu has two sons with his wife Sara and a daughter from a previous marriage. His brother, Yonatan, was the only Israeli soldier killed in a commando raid to free hostages at Uganda's Entebbe airport in 1976. It was an experience which was to mark him deeply and Netanyahu called the event "one of great personal consequence". He was raised partly in the United States and graduated from the prestigious Massachusetts Institute of Technology. His perfect English made him a fixture on US television channels defending Israel through the late 1980s and early 1990s, exposure that raised his political profile both at home and abroad. A sceptic of the Oslo Peace Accords, Netanyahu became Likud's leader in 1993 and led the party to victory as Israel's youngest-ever prime minister in 1996, aged 46. He lost power in 1999, but regained it 10 years later and has not relinquished it since. Netanyahu has not engaged in substantive peace talks with the Palestinians while overseeing a boom of Jewish settlement expansion in the occupied West Bank. He frequently cites the risks Israel faces from the Lebanese Shiite Muslim group Hezbollah and has called Iran's regime the greatest threat to the Jewish people since Nazi Germany. Thwarting Iran's alleged nuclear weapons programme has become a centrepiece of his foreign policy. In one of the most controversial diplomatic episodes of his tenure, Netanyahu addressed a joint session of the US Congress in 2015 without having been invited by then president Barack Obama to condemn Obama's nuclear negotiations with Iran. Netanyahu's "vision of himself as the chief defender of the Jewish people against calamity allowed him to justify almost anything that would keep him in power," Obama wrote in his presidential memoir, "A Promised Land." Following three inconclusive elections in 2019 and 2020, Netanyahu agreed to a unity government with his rival, the centrist Benny Gantz. The three-year coalition formed in May called for Netanyahu to hand power to Gantz after 18 months. But Netanyahu experts widely predicted he would find a way to sink the coalition before allowing Gantz to become prime minister. And as a deadline approached to either pass a government-saving budget or let it collapse, forcing a fourth election, Netanyahu baulked. Gantz said "he had no illusions" about Netanyahu when he entered the coalition, but had hoped that the pandemic and the economic crisis it wrought would compel the premier to opt for political calm over another vote. "Much to my dismay, that didn't happen," Gantz said, days before the government fell. "Netanyahu didn't lie to me. He lied to all of you."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/benjamin-netanyahu-master-politician-fighting-for-survival/articleshow/81491000.cms||---
March 14, 2021||World||Netanyahu eyes vaccine victory as Israel heads for fourth vote||JERUSALEM: Israel this month will hold its fourth election in under two years, with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hoping goodwill from a world-beating coronavirus vaccination campaign can finally secure him an elusive majority government. When Israelis last went to the polls a year ago, they delivered a result that had become familiar: neither the right-wing Netanyahu nor his centrist challenger Benny Gantz had enough support to form the necessary 61-seat parliamentary majority. The world, and Israeli politics, have been upended since then. Just weeks after the last election, Israel entered the first of three coronavirus lockdowns. In May, Netanyahu and Gantz formed a unity government, declaring that the unprecedented health and economic threats from the pandemic required political stability. Their coalition, which had been set to last three years, collapsed in December when Netanyahu's refusal to approve a 2021 budget forced new elections, to be held March 23. Netanyahu, Gantz, other political leaders and voters have all expressed frustration with the seemingly endless cycle of campaigns that have mired the Jewish state in grinding political gridlock. But Netanyahu, a wily political veteran with a long record of out-manoeuvring his rivals, is hoping he can sneak over the line this time thanks to the inoculation drive. The 71-year-old, Israel's longest serving premier, has also clinched historic normalisation deals with four Arab states. He claims the agreements with the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Morocco and Sudan mark a new era in the Middle East and silence those who insisted Israel's Arab world ties would not improve until the Palestinian conflict was resolved. But despite Netanyahu's apparent successes, polls point to another indecisive result, with the premier lacking a clear path to form a government. Israel, a country of about nine million people, has given the two recommended jabs of the Pfizer/BioNTech coronavirus vaccine to around four million residents. That pace, widely described as the world's fastest per capita, is the envy of many nations, including wealthy ones still struggling with vaccine procurement. "Do you know how many presidents and prime ministers call Pfizer and Moderna? They don't answer. But when it's me, they take the call," Netanyahu said this week, referring to drug-makers with approved vaccines. "I convinced them that Israel would be a model country to roll out the vaccine: who else will do that? Definitely not (Yair) Lapid, (Naftali) Bennett and Gideon (Saar)," he proclaimed, referring to his main election challengers. Israel secured a large vaccine stock from Pfizer because its highly digitised medical system enabled it to offer the company fast, precious data on the product's impact, in what medical experts have called the largest-ever human clinical trial. Seeking credit, Netanyahu has repeatedly visited vaccination centres and adopted the phrase "Vaccine Nation", a play on the "Start-up Nation" tag Israel acquired because of its burgeoning high-tech sector. But some voters also blame Netanyahu for the protracted, economically painful lockdowns. His political allies, ultra-Orthodox Jews, have flouted restrictions -- often with a muted police response -- fuelling transmission while many others were following the rules. As the vaccine edges Israel out of the pandemic, its political landscape is shifting. Gantz was punished by his supporters for entering a Netanyahu-led government and his fractured Blue and White party may not get enough votes to qualify for a presence in parliament. His former Blue and White partner, Yair Lapid of the Yesh Atid party, has emerged as Netanyahu's main challenger, multiple polls show. And a former prominent member of Netanyahu's Likud, Gideon Saar, has formed his own party to challenge the premier and may peel away some Likud supporters. But, for all that has changed since the last election, a single question has again dominated this year's campaign: are you for Netanyahu or against him? "This latest round of elections has almost completely eviscerated the left-right ideological divide," the head of the Israel Democracy Institute think-tank, Yohanan Plesner, told AFP. The electorate is "divided between those who want Netanyahu to continue to another term in office and those who hope to see him finally head home after 12 straight years (in power)".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/netanyahu-eyes-vaccine-victory-as-israel-heads-for-fourth-vote/articleshow/81491038.cms||---
March 14, 2021||World||Russian police detain dozens of opposition deputies at forum||MOSCOW: Russian police on Saturday arrested around 200 opposition politicians and municipal deputies at a Moscow conference as authorities tighten the screws on Kremlin critics ahead of parliamentary elections. A police raid on an opposition conference dedicated to running for municipal office came after President Vladimir Putin's top critic Alexei Navalny was jailed for two and a half years last month and more than 10,000 protesters detained across the country. While Russian police routinely break up opposition protests, the mass arrests of municipal deputies at a conference in Moscow were unprecedented. Participants from more than 50 of Russia's regions had gathered to discuss parliamentary and local elections in September at a forum organised by a project backed by prominent Kremlin critic Mikhail Khodorkovsky. Forty minutes into the conference police broke up the event and detained the participants. "The ENTIRE forum of Russian municipal deputies has been detained in Moscow!" Khodorkovsky said on Twitter, calling the detentions "unconstitutional". As news of the detentions emerged, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken called for an end to "persecution of independent voices", noting the Kremlin had detained these people "on dubious grounds". A number of well-known opposition figures including Ilya Yashin, Vladimir Kara-Murza, Yulia Galyamina, Yevgeny Roizman and Andrei Pivovarov as well as journalists have been detained. "A very symbolic end to a short forum: deputies in police vans, and masked police are twisting people's arms," Yashin said on Facebook. Moscow police said in a statement that around 200 people had been detained. Many of the conference participants did not wear masks, while some were members of an organisation whose work had been declared "undesirable," police said. Pivovarov, speaking to AFP from a police station, said the forum participants had been detained because authorities believe the conference was organised by Open Russia, a movement founded by Khodorkovsky and designated as an "undesirable organisation". The municipal forum -- the first of its kind -- was organised by United Democrats, another project backed by Khodorkovsky, Pivovarov said. The authorities had appeared to look for a pretext to interrupt an opposition event, he said. A number of the detained activists said Saturday evening they had been released but ordered to appear in court at a later stage. Kara-Murza said he had been freed, adding that a probe had been opened into the work of an undesirable organisation. Taking to Twitter Saturday night, Pivovarov said police admitted to him that they had been under pressure to clamp down on the Kremlin critics. "Cops are laughing at what they are doing," Pivovarov said. Khodorkovsky's Open Russia was banned in Russia in 2017 in line with a controversial law targeting foreign groups accused of political meddling. People cooperating with "undesirable" entities could be hit with fines and Russian entry bans. Khodorkovsky, who owned the oil giant Yukos before he was convicted in two controversial cases and spent a decade behind bars, now lives abroad. The team of jailed Kremlin foe Navalny accused authorities of seeking to further intimidate critics ahead of the September elections. "It is clear why the forum has been broken up -- authorities are afraid of any competition during elections," the team said on the Telegram messaging app. The ruling party United Russia was getting increasingly unpopular, it claimed, adding: "Winning even rigged elections is becoming ever more difficult." Kremlin critics accuse Putin of steadily ramping up pressure on critics during his two decades in power, sidelining the opposition and tightening control on everything from the main television stations to parliament. The mass detentions of local deputies could mark a new chapter in the authorities' crackdown on dissent, political observers said. "Politics in Russia is a crime, now it's official," tweeted Kirill Martynov, politics editor at Russia's top independent newspaper Novaya Gazeta. Analyst Abbas Gallyamov said the forum could have gone unnoticed if it were not for Russia's law enforcement. "No one is really interested in the subject of local governance," Gallyamov wrote. "Now it's a full-fledged political event."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/russian-police-detain-dozens-of-opposition-deputies-at-forum/articleshow/81491068.cms||---
