March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Man dies after assault over ‘petty issue’ in Andheri, four arrested||MUMBAI: A man in his fifties was murdered and his son and daughter were assaulted over a trivial row by a group of men at Sakinaka, Andheri on Saturday. Police arrested four of the accused on Sunday while they were making preparations to leave for their hometown in Uttar Pradesh. Raees Khan, the deceased, was walking near a tea stall with his son, Firoz, and daughter, Zeba, around 11am on Saturday. The accused turned up and started assaulting them over an old dispute. Kicks and blows were rained on Raees. The prime accused, Shakir Khan, hit him with a wooden plank. Firoz and Zeba were also bashed up. When Raees collapsed from the injuries, the accused fled. Raees was rushed to the Rajawadi Hospital at Ghatkopar where he succumbed to his injuries. The Sakinaka police then registered a murder accused and tracked down four of the accused-- Shakir, 32, Nasir Ali Khan, 33, Gulfam Sayyed, 28, and Rabi-ul Sayyed, 35-- by Sunday. More arrests are likely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-elderly-man-beaten-to-death-kin-assaulted-over-old-dispute-at-sakinaka/articleshow/81497868.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Kolkata||Tea-loving Kolkata develops a taste for artisanal coffee||With pastel-hued walls, French windows and a decor dominated by European aesthetics – coffee shops mushrooming all over the city are luring young coffee drinkers with not just a host of fancy drinks to choose from, but the option to learn about what all goes into making that perfect cup of coffee and how to brew one at home. The coffee culture in a city traditionally known for its love for cha is no longer confined to run-of-the-mill cappuccinos and mochas. Young coffee enthusiasts have moved on to artisanal coffee like stovetop moka pots, pour-overs and French press – discussing their drink’s origin, bean roasting methods, acidic content and brewing techniques. Youngsters bring good coffee homeGone are the days when coffee lovers would depend on instant coffee to get their day started. From percolators to French press and fancy coffee machines – markets are now filled with different equipment to help them make real coffee at home. “Thanks to the new wave of coffee literacy, nowadays a lot of young people have a perfect coffee set-up at home. The sale of coffee machines has gone up in recent months. Moka pots, French press, plungers and pour-over drippers are in great demand. I see many youngsters joining barista courses just to learn the methods of making a good cup of coffee. At our cafe, a lot of customers end up buying coffee beans or freshly ground coffee so that they can go back home and get involved in coffee making themselves,” said chef Urvika Kanoi of The Daily. Millennials know their coffee: cafe ownersHistorically, the so-called intellectual Bengali college-goers around College Street would get their first taste of bitter-sweetness in a freshly brewed infusion through the quintessential black coffee served at the Indian Coffee House. While today’s cafe crowd is full of young college students too, they are decidedly more hip compared to their seniors. Along with hot, freshly brewed coffee, they also look for Instagram-worthy corners and specially crafted brewing apparatus to enjoy their beverage. “When I started in 2009, there was no Instagram. The coffee-drinking millennials are way more educated now compared to that time,” said Nikhil Chawala of Marbella’s, adding, “Our customers between 25 and 35 know their coffee. They have shifted from the humble cappuccino to the new-age, manual brewing techniques, including pour over, French press, cold brew and so on.” Nishant Sinha of Roastery, which has outlets in Kolkata, Hyderabad and Delhi, also presented a similar picture. “Of all the places, our black coffee sales are the highest in Kolkata. At our Delhi and Hyderabad cafes, most people opt for cappuccino and cold coffee. It seems Kolkata is more enthusiastic about single-estate coffee. I also think that since a large number of the population here is hooked to black tea, their transition to black coffee is smoother. Our coffee cherry tea is pretty popular too,” he said. Roasteries galore across the cityThe city has seen a meteoric rise in the number of roasteries and craft coffee shops in the past few years. The speciality of these cafes is that they source and roast coffee beans as per demand. Blue Tokai, which has cafes all around the country, recently opened its third outlet in Kolkata despite the wrath of the pandemic and lockdown. In-house roasting too has its degree of intensity and coffee lovers take great care to ensure if their coffee is light-bodied, acidic or bitter. There are four kinds of roasts – light, medium, medium-dark and dark. “The most popular roast is perhaps medium-dark. Besides the single-estate coffees that we procure from Karnataka, we also get green beans directly from the farmers and 80% of our coffee is roasted in-house,” said Nikhil. “Only micro batches of other estate coffees come to our shop for delicate brewing,” he added. Grant Walsh, owner of 8th Day Cafe & Bakery, which has two outlets in Kolkata, takes equal pride in his roasting process. “We roast our beans at our Hindustan Park outlet to ensure the freshest quality. We use what is regarded as one of the best coffee roasters, which we imported from Germany. Our staff roasters are also professionally trained in the art and science of roasting,” he said. Indian coffee a hitIndia is the third-largest producer and exporter of coffee in Asia, and the sixth-largest producer and fifth-largest exporter of coffee in the world. The country accounted for 3.14% of the global coffee production in 2019-20*. Hence, most craft coffee places in the city highly depend on south Indian hill plantations. “We source green coffee beans from Karnataka. The main coffee farms we source from include Balanoor, Thogarihunkal Estates and Travancore. These are arabica beans, which are more popular across the globe,” said Grant. Other city cafes also source most of their beans from Chikmagalur and Coorg. *https://www.ibef.org/exports/coffee-industry-in-india.aspx||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tea-loving-kolkata-develops-a-taste-for-artisanal-coffee/articleshow/81496719.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
---||India||Renowned Goan painter Laxman Pai dead||PANAJI: Renowned painter and Padma Bhushan awardee Laxman Pai died at his residence in Goa on Sunday evening, sources close to him said. He was 95. He breathed his last at his home in Dona Paula, they said. Born in Goa in 1926, Pai was honoured with several prestigious awards, including Padma Bhushan, Padma Shri, Nehru Award and Lalit Kala Akademi Award. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant expressed grief over Pai's death. "Deeply saddened by the passing away of renowned Goan artist Padma Bhushan Shri Laxman Pai. Goa has lost a gem today. We will always remember his immense contribution in the field of art. My heartfelt condolences to his family. Om Shanti," he said on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/renowned-goan-painter-laxman-pai-dead/articleshow/81500200.cms||---
March 15, 2021||World||At least 39 reported killed in Myanmar as Chinese factories burn||Security forces killed at least 22 anti-coup protesters in the poor, industrial Hlaingthaya suburb of Myanmar's main city on Sunday after Chinese-financed factories were set ablaze there, an advocacy group said. A further 16 protesters were killed in other places, the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) said, as well as one policeman, making it the bloodiest day since the Feb. 1 coup against elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi. The Chinese embassy said many Chinese staff were injured and trapped in arson attacks by unidentified assailants on garment factories in Hlaingthaya and that it had called on Myanmar to protect Chinese property and citizens. China is viewed as being supportive of the military junta that has taken power. As plumes of smoke rose from the industrial area, security forces opened fire on protesters in the suburb that is home to migrants from across the country, local media said. "It was horrible. People were shot before my eyes. It will never leave my memory," said one photojournalist on the scene who did not want to be named. Martial law was imposed in Hlaingthaya and another district of Yangon, Myanmar's commercial hub and former capital, state media announced. Army-run Myawadday television said security forces acted after four garment factories and a fertiliser plant were set ablaze and about 2,000 people had stopped fire engines from reaching them. A junta spokesman did not answer calls requesting comment. Doctor Sasa, a representative of elected lawmakers from the assembly that was ousted by the army, voiced solidarity with the people of Hlaingthaya. "The perpetrators, attackers, enemies of the people of Myanmar, the evil SAC (State Administrative Council) will be held accountable for every drop of blood that shed," he said in a message. The latest deaths would bring the toll from the protests to 126, the AAPP said. It said more than 2,150 people had been detained by Saturday. More than 300 have since been released. CHINA CALLED FOR ACTION China's embassy described the situation as "very severe" after the attacks on the Chinese-financed factories. It did not make a statement about the killings. "China urges Myanmar to take further effective measures to stop all acts of violence, punish the perpetrators in accordance with the law and ensure the safety of life and property of Chinese companies and personnel in Myanmar," its statement said. No group claimed responsibility for burning the factories. The embassy's Facebook page was bombarded with negative comments in Myanmar language and more than half the reactions - over 29,000 - used the laughing-face emoji. Anti-Chinese sentiment has risen since the coup that plunged Myanmar into turmoil, with opponents of the army takeover noting Beijing's muted criticism compared to Western condemnation. Only two factories had been burnt for now, protest leader Ei Thinzar Maung posted on Facebook. "If you want to do business in Myanmar stably, then respect Myanmar people," she said. "Fighting Hlaingthaya, we are proud of you!!" Britain was appalled by the use of deadly force by security forces against innocent people in Hlaingthaya and elsewhere on Sunday, its ambassador said in a statement. "We call for an immediate cessation of this violence and for the military regime to hand back power to those democratically elected by the people of Myanmar," Ambassador Dan Chugg said. The army said it took power after its accusations of fraud in a Nov. 8 election won by Suu Kyi's party were rejected by the electoral commission. It has promised to hold a new election, but has not set a date. Suu Kyi has been detained since the coup and is due to return to court on Monday. She faces at least four charges, including the illegal use of walkie-talkie radios and infringing coronavirus protocols. Away from Hlaingthaya, at least 16 deaths were reported elsewhere in Myanmar, including in the second city of Mandalay and in Bago, where state television MRTV said a police officer had died of a chest wound after a confrontation with protesters. He is the second policeman reported dead in the protests. The violence took place a day after Mahn Win Khaing Than, who is on the run along with most senior officials from the Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy Party, said the civilian government would give people the legal right to defend themselves. It announced a law to that effect on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/at-least-39-reported-killed-in-myanmar-as-chinese-factories-burn/articleshow/81500439.cms||---
---||Pune||Different strokes: Pune painter is giving women a platform to share their stories and be his muse||Nestled in one of the narrow lanes at Tilak Road, an advertising office, located in a sleepy building, doubles up as a ‘safe space’ by the evening where painter, filmmaker and communcations designer Prasad Bhardwaja, and his muses find an outlet to express themselves. Prasad, who is popularly known as Painter on The Go on social media, is fascinated by the human body and loves to paint nudes, however, emotional isolation, and a desire to create a safe space for conversations and confessions nudged him to paint women’s emotions rather than just their bodies on canvas, as part of his series ‘Alone and Uninterrupted.’ What started an experiment with his friend, soon turned into a series where women are finding outlet to their feelings. He invites women to be his muse and share their feelings while he paints them. He has already conducted the session with about 10 women in the past few months. “Women are carrying the weight of so many unfulfilled expectations and desires and all I want them to do is throw out everything that they have swept under the carpet, clean out their closets, and shed off a hell lot of a burden that they are carrying unknowingly through this series,” he explains. 'They take pride in themselves when they walk out of the studio'For centuries, women depicted in paintings have ticked all boxes that defined society’s conventional standards of beauty, but Prasad invites women of all body types, ages, and skin colour to be his muse. “You look at portraits of women painted, you see they are fair, have sharp features and a certain body-type and size that are ‘society-approved.’ Unfortunately women who met society’s standard of beauty were muses for painters and poets, and those looking at them either wanted to become them or be painted like them. In the modern world, magazine covers and celeb shoots do the same damage. So when I invite women to be my muse, I want to embrace their bodies with pride and be comfortable in their own skin. If they can bare it all — body and emotions without inhibitions — and be a muse, although anonymously, they take pride in themselves when they walk out of the studio.” says Prasad. 'My intention is to make these women see themselves as they are — unexplored and raw'He describes his project as “not just posing for a painting, but sharing life experiences.” “The series is all about exploring your hidden self and sharing experiences that you have never spoken about,” says Prasad, adding, “We are alone in some ways, not necessarily for the lack of company. My intention is to bring these women to the present moment and space and see themselves as they are — unexplored and raw. I don’t want to paint a portrait of a person, but that of a raw soul that she and I are willing to discover together. When I look at them and paint, I will look at all the thoughts, emotions, instincts, and pieces that make them, and not just their bodies.” 'The idea is to get women to vent out, express, and talk about it without being judged'His muses have stepped out of their comfort zone, in both appearances and expressing their thoughts. When the muses and the Prasad sit down for the session, women share horrid, and rarely happy, experiences from their lives, as he paints a picture of them on his canvas, albeit not focusing not on how their lips or eyes look or move as they speak, the size of their breasts — some choose to go completely topless, while others pose in their undergarments — or how their hair appear. “What you wear is completely your choice because ultimately, burqa or bikini, there’s more to you than just clothes. I am fascinated, touched, and almost always overwhelmed by their anecdotes and stories. I try to capture their feelings, desires, longing, and often anger on canvas and give them forms and shapes with my oil colour palette and knife. Some of the muses have opened up about childhood trauma, sexual abuse, sexuality, sexual desires, mental health issues, being in toxic relationships, or victims of domestic/physical violence. For years, they have managed to bottle up their feelings, suffering, and yet going about living their lives. The idea is to get them to vent out, express, and talk about it without being judged,” says Prasad. 'Such experiences are too overwhelming for me at times'The artiste ensures that the identity of all his muses is kept secret. While the paintings are portraits of these women, they don’t necessarily have a resemblance to their real selves. “The colour on the canvas depicts their emotions they are talking about during the four-hour-long session. The palette ranges from black to navy blue, dark reds, yellows and dark greens depending on what they are telling and their memories are,” says Prasad, adding, “There have been times when the muses have wailed and howled during the session because they had kept a dark, ugly and a painful secret for too long with themselves. Such experiences are too overwhelming for me and their impact stays with me for a long time. However, the session doesn’t end with them telling me their stories and me painting them — we continue to talk, communicate, and share,” says Prasad. For the painter, the sessions are a way of seeking inspiration from his muses and their stories and journeys, which help him tell better stories and enhance his art. “As a painter, I can live many lives and experiences by listening to my muses. At the end of each session, I dedicate a ghazal written for them, based on what they've shared with me,” says Prasad. The painter wants to exhibit the paintings from the series, sometime this year, however, currently, he wants to speak with and paint as many women as he can ‘alone and uninterrupted,’ and keep their secrets safely locked in his heart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-different-stroke-pune-painter-is-giving-women-a-platform-to-share-their-stories-and-be-his-muse/articleshow/81498281.cms||Amrita Prasad
---||India||Rights bodies downgrading India are hypocrites, says Jaishankar||NEW DELHI: Foreign minister S Jaishankar hit out at western human rights and democracy institutions that have downgraded India in “democracy rankings” by describing them as “hypocrites”. Speaking at an India Today conclave, Jaishankar said the downgrade reflected the frustration of those in the West who have arrogated unto themselves the right to pass verdicts and are feeling frustrated that the current dispensation in India does not crave testimonials from them. “It is hypocrisy. We have a set of self-appointed custodians of the world who find it very difficult to stomach that somebody in India is not looking for their approval, is not willing to play the game they want to play. So they invent their rules, their parameters, pass their judgments and make it look as if it is some kind of global exercise,” he said. In a trenchant response to a question about India sliding in the “rankings” by western institutes, the minister referred to the description “nationalist” used by many abroad for the Modi government, the challenge to the legitimacy of the US presidential polls as well as the tradition of newly-elected presidents beginning their tenure by swearing by the Bible. “We are supposed to be the ‘Hindu nationalist party’, right? We have given vaccines to 70 countries in the world. Tell me, how many vaccines have the internationalist countries given? Which one of these countries have said that while I vaccinate my own people, I will inoculate other people who need it as much as we do. Where are these people?” he asked, adding that in India, there was no questioning of election results unlike in some western countries, pointing to the January 6 invasion of the US Capitol by Trump supporters. US NGO ‘Freedom House’ accused the Modi government of “driving India toward authoritarianism” with a “hamfisted lockdown”, scapegoating of Muslims and a crackdown on critics, and downgraded India’s status from ‘free’ to ‘partly free’. “Under Modi, India appears to have abandoned its potential to serve as a global democratic leader, elevating narrow Hindu nationalist interests at the expense of its founding values of inclusion and equal rights for all,” the report said. Sweden’s V-DEM described India as an “electoral autocracy”. On China, the foreign minister gave a more sobering assessment. Making it clear that it could not be business as usual between the two countries until there was total disengagement and peace on the border, he said, “We went through a very difficult period and I think we are still not past it.” Disengagement, he said, happened in the “most close-up friction area”, but there were some areas that needed resolving. “The fact is that if the integrity and sovereignty of a country are threatened, as a government official you will do what it takes to face up to the challenge,” he added. Jaishankar said the border stand-off with China had some tense moments but “we had belief in the military, we trusted them professionally to do what was required”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rights-bodies-downgrading-india-are-hypocrites-says-jaishankar/articleshow/81500698.cms||---
March 15, 2021||---||Election Commission suspends SP, shunts DM for ‘lapses’ leading to Didi’s injury||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission on Sunday ordered the removal of Vivek Sahay, West Bengal director security, the suspension of Purba Medinipur SP Pravin Prakash while transferring district magistrate Vibhu Goel for poor police bandobast last week when CM Mamata Banerjee received injuries during campaigning in Nandigram. The EC acted on reports of the incident received from the West Bengal chief secretary and its own special poll observers that pointed to non-adherence of laid-down security protocols for Banerjee, a ‘Z-plus protectee’. The EC has asked charges to be framed against Prakash for “major failure of bandobast” and has also taken a serious view of Sahay “grossly failing in discharge of his primary duty to protect” the CM. In fact, Sahay was found sitting in the bulletproof vehicle for the CM in the convoy when she sustained her injury. The reports with the EC noted there were no significant pointers to suggest a premeditated or planned attack on the CM. Its special observers Ajay V Nayak and Vivek Dube cited the Nandigram returning officer’s inputs that made no mention of any attack on the convoy or person of the CM. They said as an investigation was ongoing, would be premature to come to any further conclusions regarding the incident. The EC asked the chief secretary, in consultation with the DGP, to post a suitable successor to Sahay against whom charges are to be framed in a week. Smita Pandey will be the new DM and Sunil Kumar Yadav the police chief of Purba Medinipur. The observers said there was lack of coordination between security arrangements by the police headquarters and the local SP due to frequent changes to the chief minister’s tour programme, no approval was taken from the returning officer for the place where the incident happened and that there was blatant disregard of security protocols. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, in his report to the EC, said the presence of police force at the incident spot was not adequate given the stature of the protectee and deployment of additional police personnel could have averted the incident. He, however, maintained that all Z-plus protocols were followed. The officer also pointed to the lack of overall coordination between the directorate of security and the local/district police for the chief minister's visit in the countryside. While underlining that the district administration had overall responsibility for providing foolproof security arrangements for Banerjee’s visit, the special observers said the district police were required to provide a strong route bandobast for the VVIP’s travel, especially when they posted a contingent of 18 police personnel at the nearby temple for the CM’s expected visit. Among other decisions was the constitution of a committee of the chief secretary and the DGP to identify within three days the other proximate security personnel below director security, “who failed in their duties to prevent the incident and protect the Z+ protectee VVIP and take suitable action”. The chief secretary was asked by the poll panel to ensure that investigation of the police case relating to the Nandigram incident was completed and action taken as per law in the next 15 days. It sought a report by March 31. The EC also wrote to all chief electoral officers reiterating its instructions seeking strict compliance of security protocols by ‘star campaigners’ as per their category of protection. Meanwhile, the EC appointed ex-IPS officer and former DGP (Intelligence) of Punjab Anil Kumar Sharma as the second special police observer in West Bengal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/ec-suspends-sp-shunts-dm-for-lapses-leading-to-didis-injury/articleshow/81501230.cms||Bharti Jain
March 15, 2021||India||Election Commission suspends SP, shunts DM for ‘lapses’ leading to Didi’s injury||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission on Sunday ordered the removal of Vivek Sahay, West Bengal director security, the suspension of Purba Medinipur SP Pravin Prakash while transferring district magistrate Vibhu Goel for poor police bandobast last week when CM Mamata Banerjee received injuries during campaigning in Nandigram. The EC acted on reports of the incident received from the West Bengal chief secretary and its own special poll observers that pointed to non-adherence of laid-down security protocols for Banerjee, a ‘Z-plus protectee’. The EC has asked charges to be framed against Prakash for “major failure of bandobast” and has also taken a serious view of Sahay “grossly failing in discharge of his primary duty to protect” the CM. In fact, Sahay was found sitting in the bulletproof vehicle for the CM in the convoy when she sustained her injury. The reports with the EC noted there were no significant pointers to suggest a premeditated or planned attack on the CM. Its special observers Ajay V Nayak and Vivek Dube cited the Nandigram returning officer’s inputs that made no mention of any attack on the convoy or person of the CM. They said as an investigation was ongoing, would be premature to come to any further conclusions regarding the incident. The EC asked the chief secretary, in consultation with the DGP, to post a suitable successor to Sahay against whom charges are to be framed in a week. Smita Pandey will be the new DM and Sunil Kumar Yadav the police chief of Purba Medinipur. The observers said there was lack of coordination between security arrangements by the police headquarters and the local SP due to frequent changes to the chief minister’s tour programme, no approval was taken from the returning officer for the place where the incident happened and that there was blatant disregard of security protocols. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, in his report to the EC, said the presence of police force at the incident spot was not adequate given the stature of the protectee and deployment of additional police personnel could have averted the incident. He, however, maintained that all Z-plus protocols were followed. The officer also pointed to the lack of overall coordination between the directorate of security and the local/district police for the chief minister's visit in the countryside. While underlining that the district administration had overall responsibility for providing foolproof security arrangements for Banerjee’s visit, the special observers said the district police were required to provide a strong route bandobast for the VVIP’s travel, especially when they posted a contingent of 18 police personnel at the nearby temple for the CM’s expected visit. Among other decisions was the constitution of a committee of the chief secretary and the DGP to identify within three days the other proximate security personnel below director security, “who failed in their duties to prevent the incident and protect the Z+ protectee VVIP and take suitable action”. The chief secretary was asked by the poll panel to ensure that investigation of the police case relating to the Nandigram incident was completed and action taken as per law in the next 15 days. It sought a report by March 31. The EC also wrote to all chief electoral officers reiterating its instructions seeking strict compliance of security protocols by ‘star campaigners’ as per their category of protection. Meanwhile, the EC appointed ex-IPS officer and former DGP (Intelligence) of Punjab Anil Kumar Sharma as the second special police observer in West Bengal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ec-suspends-sp-shunts-dm-for-lapses-leading-to-didis-injury/articleshow/81501260.cms||Bharti Jain
March 15, 2021||India||PM Modi will be worshipped in future: Tirath Rawat||HARIDWAR: New Uttrakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat has compared PM Narendra Modi to Lord Ram. He was speaking at ‘Netra Kumbh’, an event organised by a social outfit at the Rishikul Government PG Ayurvedic College auditorium on Sunday. “Today leaders of different countries line up to get their pictures clicked with the Prime Minister. This is in stark contrast to earlier times when no world leader used to bother about our head of state. The situation has changed now because of Narendra Modi. This is a New India that he has created,” Rawat, who visited Haridwar twice since taking charge of the state four days back, said. Amid slogans of ‘Modi zindabad’, the CM further said, “Just like during earlier times, Lord Ram had done good work for society and so people started considering him as god, similarly, in future, the same thing will happen with our beloved Prime Minister too.” Rawat reiterated that no RT-PCR report or registration of pilgrims would be required for visiting the mega festival. He, however, added the guidelines issued by the Central government would be followed. “A negative environment was being created around the Kumbh mela. We have now cleared the air, so that people feel confident coming to the mela. Officials have been instructed to not unnecessarily stop anyone from entering Kumbh premises,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-will-be-worshipped-in-future-tirath-rawat/articleshow/81501696.cms||MS Nawaz
March 15, 2021||India||Covid-19: Weekly cases increase 33%, sharpest surge since July||NEW DELHI: In the past week, India recorded the highest number of fresh Covid-19 cases since mid-December, registering a sharp 33% rise over the previous week. Deaths from the virus too rose by 28% to a six-week high of 876 during the week (March 8-15). In percentage terms, this was the sharpest weekly surge of infections since July. In absolute numbers, nearly 1.56 lakh (1,55,912) Covid-19 cases were recorded in these seven days, the highest in 12 weeks since December 14-20. The weekly case count has doubled in the past four weeks since the second surge of the pandemic began in the country. The spike in infections continued on Sunday with 26,386 fresh cases, the highest single-day total in 85 days since December 19. Read AlsoMaharashtra logs 16,600 cases, most since October 1, Mumbai nearly 2,000Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra spiked above 16,000 on Sunday, indicating that the daily incidence is almost catching up with the September-October peak. Maharashtra reported 16,620 cases, the highest since October 1. The overall tally touched 23,14,413, while active cases raced past 1.26 lakh.Total Covid-19 cases reported during the March 8-15 week were 38,714 more than the previous week's count, making it the highest weekly rise in cases since September 7-13. Weekly cases in the country had dipped to its lowest number since June 8-14 last year in the February 8-14 week, when a little over 77,000 cases were recorded. Since then, infections have been steadily rising. Read AlsoMaharashtra’s vaccine wastage dips to 3.2%; BMC plans 1 lakh jabs/dayVaccine wastage in the state has dropped to 3.2% since the second phase of senior citizens and people above 45 years with comorbidities began on March 1. Earlier, it was hovering around 5%, when only healthcare workers and frontliners were taking the shots.Deaths related to the virus have also surged in the past week although the case fatality rate remains low. This week's toll of 876 was the highest since 975 fatalities were reported in the January 25-31 week. The seven-day rolling average of daily cases rose to 22,282 on Sunday, having doubled since hitting a low of 11,426 on February 12. The average has moved up sharply this week, rising by nearly 5,500 from last Sunday's tally of 16,744. Read AlsoAmid shortage, all 1st doses to be Covaxin in PMC limitsMany private hospitals in Pune city limits were forced to declare a Covid-19 “vaccination holiday” on Sunday after the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) ran out of vaccine doses. Hospital administrators said the civic body has promised a fresh supply on Monday.Meanwhile, India's total Covid-19 count of 11,385,519 put it at third place in the world, having been overtaken by Brazil, which has been recording the highest daily number of cases for several weeks now. Maharashtra recorded another big spike in cases, with 16,620 new infections recorded in the state on Sunday. This was Maharashtra's highest single-day tally since September 30. On Sunday, cases continued to surge in at least six other states. Karnataka recorded 934 fresh infections, the highest since January 8. Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 628 infections. Gujarat reported 810 cases, the highest since December 27. Read AlsoMarch 7-14 saw highest Covid +ves of pandemicThe number of Covid-19 positive cases in March second week was the highest in the year-long pandemic in the district.The count in Tamil Nadu was 759, in Madhya Pradesh 743, Andhra Pradesh 298, Bengal 283 and Rajasthan 250 — all highest in the respective states since January. Punjab reported 1,501 cases, around the same as Saturday's total of 1,515. There were 119 deaths reported from across the country in the past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/weekly-cases-increase-33-sharpest-surge-since-july/articleshow/81502007.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
March 15, 2021||India||Innova linked to Waze’s unit led NIA to him||MUMBAI: The Innova which was seen shadowing the gelatine-stick-laden Scorpio car in CCTV footage and had remained untraceable for many days, ultimately proved to be the element in the case that paved the way for assistant police inspector Sachin Waze’s arrest. For, the Innova car was found to be attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) headed by Waze. On February 25, industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s security detail alerted the police about an abandoned Scorpio parked outside Ambani’s residence Antilia. The case was handed over to the CIU. During preliminary investigations it transpired that the Scorpio car belonged to Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, who alleged that someone had stolen his car after he had parked it on February 17 when it had developed a glitch in its steering. CCTV cameras outside Antilia showed videos of an unidentified person parking the vehicle. The driver of the Scorpio later left in the Innova. The ATS officials discovered that the Innova car bore a fake registration number and had unpainted bumpers. “This led us to understand that such unpainted vehicles are normally granted to government departments and police,” an official said. The CCTV footage showed the Innova leaving police headquarters at 12.45pm on February 24. It later drops the driver at Thane and returns to the city with a different number plate. When the ATS and NIA were looking for the Innova, Waze’s team had sent it for repair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/innova-linked-to-wazes-unit-led-nia-to-him/articleshow/81502054.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 15, 2021||India||Is Mukesh Ambani being used as a shield, asks Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut has said recent controversies, including the suicides of Puja Chavan and MP Mohan Delkar and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran followed by police officer Sachin Waze’s arrest have affected Maharashtra’s “dignity”. Writing in the party’s mouthpiece Saamna under a headline which said, “Is someone trying to use Ambani as a shield?”, he alluded to conspiracies against the state government. Speaking to the media on Sunday, Raut also criticised the NIA’s action in taking over the probe into the death of Hiran and the explosives-laden vehicle found near the Ambani residence. He said it amounted to demoralising Mumbai Police and creating instability in Maharashtra. “They (Mumbai Police) are capable and professional. They can’t be pressured,” he said. Defending Waze in the same breath, the Rajya Sabha MP described him as an “honest, successful officer and a good investigator”. Read AlsoAmbani security scare: How Sachin Waze, suspended for 16 years, got 2nd innings, and top casesControversial officer Sachin Waze was reinstated in the Maharashtra police force after 16 years of suspension following a review conducted by senior officials during the lockdown in Mumbai. Adverse court observations had gone against him in the past.However, some of Raut’s comments in the Saamna piece seemed at odds with his defence of Waze. Hunger for “easy money” has lowered standards of morality in the police department, he wrote. “It’s no longer surprising that the police indulge in corruption, extortion and protection money. People have accepted the fact that this is how the police force functions across the country. However, the nation will be in grave peril if policemen indulge in violence and try to strike a pot of gold in drug trafficking and rampant extortion... police cook up a case and get some big names implicated in it and extort money,” said the piece. Read AlsoMukesh Ambani security scare: Innova linked to Sachin Waze’s unit led NIA to himThe Innova which was seen shadowing the gelatine-stick-laden Scorpio car in CCTV footage and had remained untraceable for many days, ultimately proved to be the element in the case that paved the way for assistant police inspector Sachin Waze’s arrestThat a suspicious vehicle should be found parked near Ambani’s residence is nearly impossible given the stringent security offered to the tycoon, observed Raut and expressed doubt if there was a deliberate breach of security at Ambani’s residence so that the car could be parked in the vicinity. Read AlsoMukesh Ambani security scare: How suspended cop came back into the force after 16 yearsSachin Waze was reinstated in the Maharashtra police force after 16 years of suspension following a review conducted by top officials during the lockdown. Adverse court observations had gone against him in the past.Without elaborating, he said a clique which does not belong to the police force but wields controls over the Mumbai-Thane unit could have scripted the Hiran-Waze episode. Read AlsoMukesh Ambani security scare: NIA likely to take over investigation of Mansukh Hiran’s murder too from ATSThe NIA may take over the murder case of Mansukh Hiran, the owner of the Scorpio car that was found laden with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in south Mumbai on February 25. The murder is still being investigated by the ATS, which was handling the case of threat to AmbaniRead AlsoMukesh Ambani security scare: For ageing widow from Parbhani, Sachin Waze’s arrest means ‘poetic justice’For Asiya Begum, Sachin Waze’s arrest seems like “poetic justice”. The 73-year-old mother of Khwaja Yunus, a bomb blast suspect who disappeared in 2003, has waited patiently for years for the tide to turn against the erstwhile encounter specialist.That the police and the state administration should provide every bit of information to leader of the Opposition and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis during the recently concluded state assembly session does not augur well for the government, Raut said. He heaped praise on Fadnavis for his speech on the floor of the state assembly last week, piecing together the Hiran murder story with factual details. However, Raut accused BJP of exerting pressure on the state administration in the matter. This demoralises the police force, he said. The Saamna article is an indication of the turmoil and consternation within the Maha Vikas Aghadi regime over l’affaire Waze. The Sena, at loggerheads with the Centre since Matoshree severed ties with BJP and teamed up with NCP and Congress to form MVA in the state, is struggling to contain the political fallout of the episode. The case has taken a crucial turn with Waze’s arrest. The body of Hiran, who was reportedly in possession of the explosives-laden car found near the Ambani residence, was found in the Mumbra creek. Hiran’s wife has accused Waze of killing her husband. To a question on sections under which Waze has been charged, Raut said, “There is a difference between charges being levelled and the charges being proved.” He said, “The state government’s prestige is at stake in this case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/is-mukesh-ambani-being-used-as-a-shield-asks-sena-mp-sanjay-raut/articleshow/81502059.cms||Ambarish Mishra
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Ambani security scare: How Sachin Waze, suspended for 16 years, got 2nd innings, and top cases||MUMBAI: Controversial officer Sachin Waze was reinstated in the Maharashtra police force after 16 years of suspension following a review conducted by senior officials during the lockdown in Mumbai. Adverse court observations had gone against him in the past. The decision to revoke his suspension was taken at a meeting called on June 5, 2020, where files on suspended policemen were scrutinised. A committee headed by then chief secretary Ajoy Mehta and comprising police commissioner Parambir Singh and others studied cases including those of assistant inspector Waze and three constables who were suspended along with him for the alleged killing of Khwaja Yunus in police custody. Read AlsoIs Mukesh Ambani being used as a shield, asks Shiv Sena MP Sanjay RautWriting in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamna under the headline, “Is someone trying to use Ambani as a shield?”, party leader Sanjay Raut said that recent controversies, including the suicides of Puja Chavan, MP Mohan Delkar and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran followed by police officer SachinWaze, once known as an “encounter specialist” for his reputation in eliminating alleged gangland suspects, had been suspended from 2004 to 2020. He had resigned from service in 2007 and joined Shiv Sena a year later. Apart from political hobnobbing, he was a familiar face on television debates in the interim years. Waze also kept himself busy by collaborating on books on crime and terror and by running a social media portal. Since the criminal case linked to Yunus’s disappearance was pending before a trial court, the department had not initiated any other action against him. While his case had come up for review in the past, the previous government had chosen not to reinstate him in the light of court observations in the Khwaja Yunus case, according to former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Read AlsoSachin Waze arrested by NIA for 'role in placing explosives-laden car' near Mukesh Ambani's houseThe National Investigation Agency on Saturday night arrested assistant police inspector Sachin Waze in connection with the SUV explosives case. On Friday, the Thane sessions court refused to grant interim protection to Waze in the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, saying his custodial“When I was CM as well as home minister, a section of Shiv Sena leaders had approached me… then I had sought the opinion of the advocate general. I was told that since Waze was suspended following directives of the (Bombay) high court, it would be wrong to reinstate him… it would have amounted to contempt of court,” Fadnavis told the media on Sunday. The review panel which cleared him recommended that given the shortage of personnel due to the pandemic, Waze should be reinstated. An affidavit subsequently filed by joint police commissioner Nawal Bajaj before the Bombay high court in July 2020 said the government had in 2011 decided that “based on facts and circumstances… where even after 2 years of filing a chargesheet, if case is pending, a review committee may recommend ending the suspension of the delinquents and to post them to non-executive branch.” This reply was in response to a contempt petition by Yunus’s mother Asiya Begum, who had objected to Waze’s reinstatement. Asiya Begum, who has fought a long legal battle questioning the circumstances of her son’s death, had filed it against Mumbai police chief Parambir Singh, IPS officer Amitabh Gupta, the Maharashtra government, the review committee and the state CID, Nashik unit. Bajaj’s reply said the allegations made in the contempt petition were “totally incorrect” and sought its dismissal but, “in any event” he tendered an “unconditional apology” to the court. Bajaj’s reply also said that the police commissioner had taken into consideration the “large scale infection” of Covid among policemen as a vital point before taking the decision. The “overwhelming scenario” of the pandemic had prompted the move, it said. Following his reinstatement, Waze was shifted to the elite investigation wing known as Mumbai Crime Branch and posted to its Crime Intelligence Unit. High-profile cases linked to car designer Dilip Chhabria, actor Hrithik Roshan, fake TRPs, the business of boosting followers on social media, were among those handled by him despite the long hiatus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/how-cop-suspended-for-16-years-got-2nd-innings-and-top-cases/articleshow/81502073.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Vijayawada||YSRC reigns supreme across Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The YSRC continued its winning streak in Krishna district, winning two municipal corporations and all five municipalities. The ruling party sailed past TDP with comfortable majorities in all urban local bodies in the district while the Jana Sena-BJP alliance failed to make a dent in YSRC’s fortunes and could not win a single seat in the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC), the second-largest civic body in the state after Greater Vishakapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). Of the 64 divisions in Vijayawada city, the YSRC secured 48, TDP 13, CPI(M) 1, while CPI and Jana Sena failed to win a single division. TDP mayor candidate Kesineni Swetha who contested from the 11th division, won with a majority of 1,800 votes. YSRC candidate Avuthu Sailaja Reddy from ward number 58 got the highest majority in the city and won with a majority of 3,991 votes. Vijayawada MP Kesineni Nan accepted the party’s defeat and said he would respect the public’s verdict. Endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas thanked Vijayawada’s voters for keeping their trust in CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and giving the party its victory. He also targetted TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu for his comments during the election campaign. “TDP tried to create unrest by creating regional disparities in the name of capital city. Naidu personally targeted me and made allegations. But people trusted me and gave me an opportunity. Jana Sena, BJP and Left parties have no future,” he said. In Machilipatnam Municipal Corporation (MMC), YSRC won 44 divisions. The ruling party repeated its performance in municipalities. Of the 115 wards that went to polls, the party won 92 wards, TDP 21 wards and Jana Sena two wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/party-bags-48-divisions-in-vmc/articleshow/81499303.cms||Venu Lanka
March 15, 2021||Vadodara||Wife, in-laws booked for abetting man’s suicide||Vadodara: Six days after he committed suicide at his home, cops have booked Shishir Darji’s wife and in-laws for abetment to suicide. The police have already taken Monika Darji, Kailashnath Jaiswal and Geeta Jaiswal into custody and are awaiting their Covid-19 report for formal arrest. “Darji had left a note before taking his own life blaming the trio for his suicide. We investigated the case and booked the three accused,” said J I Patel, police inspector, Jawaharnagar police station. Monika was picked up from Dabhoi where she was staying with her brother, while Geeta and Kailashnath were taken into custody from their home in Vyara. The cops scanned Monika’s mobile phone and found several chats with Shishir who hung himself at his home in Bajwa area on March 9. “Shishir had written a suicide note a day before he committed suicide. On the morning of March 9, he decided to make one more effort to resolve the problem. He first went to meet his in-laws in Vyara, but they misbehaved with him. He then went to meet Monika at Dabhoi but there too he faced humiliation,” Patel said. Shishir then came home and ended his life. On the same day, his mother Jyotika too tried to commit suicide by jumping in a canal but the locals saved her. Shishir, who worked as a salesman in a private firm, had written in his suicide note that his wife and in-laws harassed him and they should be punished for his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/wife-in-laws-booked-for-abetting-mans-suicide/articleshow/81498424.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Rajkot||Parents booked for killing infant girl in Mehsana||Palanpur: Death of a 33-day-old baby girl in Kadi town of Meshana in December 2019 has turned out to be a cold-blooded murder allegedly executed by none other than her own parents, who were yearning for a male child.Baby girl Mishti’s parents had hospitalized her in a local hospital in December and told the doctors that she died due to suffocation while breast feeding. However, doctors there noticed some marks on Mishti’s neck and informed police that registered a case of accidental death.The postmortem conducted in Ahmedabad revealed that she had been strangulated.On Sunday, police lodged a complaint of murder against her parents Hardik Patel and Reena along with his parents.“The postmortem was done by doctors at BJ Medical College and the report confirmed that she was strangled to death. Along with Hardik and Reena, we have also booked the infant’s grandparents Upendra Patel and Neeta Patel on charges of murder and crimnal conspiracy,” said R R Aahir, deputy superintendent of police, Mehsana, who is the complainant in this case.Hardik works with a private company in Kadi and all four are on the run.The couple, who lives in Karanpura area in Kadi, has a four-year-old girl Kreya. Reena gave birth to another girl child in November 2019 and she was named Mishti. Aahir said the couple was unhappy with the second girl child as they wanted a boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/parents-booked-for-killing-infant-girl-in-mehsana/articleshow/81498539.cms||---
---||Vijayawada||Jubilant YSRC workers celebrate landslide win||Amaravati: YSRC leaders and workers burst into celebration as the results of municipal elections were announced on Sunday. As soon as the counting began at 8 am it was clear by initial trends that the YSRC was heading towards a major victory in civic body polls. The party bagged 11 municipal corporations and 73 out of 75 municipalities. The party is most likely to win the councils in the two towns where the TDP scored more number of seats, thanks to the support YSRC has from ex-officio votes of local legislators and an MP. Soon after results started coming out, party leaders and cadre held celebrations in all towns and cities. The surroundings near the party’s head office in Tadepalle reverberated with bursting of fire crackers for nearly an hour by the party workers. Party senior leader and government advisor Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy and Rajya Sabha member Mopidevi Venkata Ramana joined the celebrations at the party office. “We anticipated the results much ahead of polls. It is a positive vote for chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s welfare agenda,” said Ramakrishna Reddy. Party spokesperson Ambati Rambabu lashed out at TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu and TDP general secretary Lokesh for “disappearing” from the state when the results were declared. He said the municipal election results were historic as no party in the country had achieved such a success rate even two years after coming to power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jubilant-ysrc-workers-celebrate-landslide-win/articleshow/81499384.cms||Samdani MN
March 15, 2021||Visakhapatnam||TDP stronghold in north Andhra falls to YSRC||VISAKHAPATNAM: The TDP lost ground to YSRC in north Andhra and the two Godavari districts, managing to win a mere 135 of 765 wards across 22 urban local bodies in the region. The YSRC secured 579 wards and the Jana Sena, 16 wards. In Nidadavolu, Narsipatnam, Ramachandrapuram, Yalamanchili and Vizianagaram, TDP managed to win one seat each. In Tuni municipality in East Godavari, the YSRC made a clean sweep of all 30 wards. Senior TDP leaders such as TDP state president K Atchannaidu (Srikakulam), former speaker Yanamala Ramakrishnudu (Tuni), former deputy chief minister Nimmakayala Chinnarajappa (East Godavari) and former Union minister P Ashok Gajapathi Raju (Vizianagaram) were left red-faced with the party’s poor show in their respective districts. Similarly, TDP could secure only two seats in Peddapuram in East Godavari, with YSRC winning 26 of 29 seats. The party also lost two municipalities and a nagar panchayat in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram. YSRC national secretary V Vijayasai Reddy said the TDP’s chapter in the state has closed with the results of the urban bodies elections. The TDP had pinned its hopes in urban areas, but the people instead showed their confidence in chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and his welfare schemes, Vijayasai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tdp-stronghold-in-north-andhra-falls-to-ysrc/articleshow/81499410.cms||Siva G
---||Kolkata||The unkindest jab: Vaccination promise leads to money stolen from bank in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Despite police trying to create awareness against fraudsters targeting senior citizens amidst the mad rush for vaccination, the city has reported at least two cases of cyber fraud where cheats promised vaccination and duped the elderly.  One person was offered the vaccine in the “comfort of home”, another was asked to “confirm participation by confirming the OTP before coming down to the nearest police station to get vaccinated”. Kalachand Karmakar (66) of Nayapatti in New Town-Rajarhat has lodged a complaint with the Electronic Complex police station claiming he lost Rs 1.4 lakh to a gang that offered to get him vaccinated. “On March 10, I received a call around 2pm. I never entertain any pesky call in the name of banks, but the caller said he was calling from Sector V police station. He asked me whether I was a senior citizen and when I confirmed, he told me I had to go to the police station around 5.30pm on Sunday to get vaccinated. I am not very good with technology and was happy I did not have to get myself registered through the central government website. At the end of the conversation, he said he was sending me a message and I needed to do as instructed. I was a driver for most of my life before my children helped me retire and live a better life. I was a bit nervous and I handed the phone to a fellow young driver who I thought was tech savvy,” he told TOI. Karmakar said his aide did as instructed and he soon forgot about the call. “A few hours later, my daughter called to ask if I had shared any bank details with anyone. She told me Rs 1.4 lakh had been withdrawn in three instalments and someone had shared an OTP. I contacted Sector V police who asked me to contact my nearest police station at the earliest,” said Karmakar. The Electronic Complex police has registered an FIR pertaining to cheating and criminal conspiracy and are investigating the case. At Tangra, small-time trader Nishit Bagh (62) received a similar call around 2pm on March 12. “I was in Garia and was told that I have to pay Rs 250 to get the vaccine. When I asked, the caller claimed he was attached with a reputable Bypass hospital. I told him that I was nearby and ready to go to the hospital if a slot was available. They sent me a link and I followed the instructions. Within minutes, I realized I had lost Rs 12,000. But I managed to stop further transactions by blocking my account. The bank has told me they can retrieve the money,” said Bagh. The police said adequate public awareness is the need of the hour. “We will request everyone to keep an eye on the website www.cowin.gov.in for regular updates. Using unsolicited apps can be a risk,” said an officer. The caution, sources said, was to preempt any monetary loss in the eagerness to get registered for the vaccination. “The self-registration link on the Co-WIN website is essentially meant for the general population wherein an individual can register himself or herself by providing her or his basic demographic details like name, date of birth, permanent and current address and details of co-morbidities, if any,” the Union health ministry document states. An individual interested to register will be required to provide a photo identity, which can either be uploaded on the Co-WIN system (in PDF, JPG or PNG file format) or pulled from the existing DigiLocker account of the individual. In case an individual chooses to provide Aadhaar as photo ID, Co-WIN system will perform an Aadhaar authentication. Individuals can select the method of authentication from biometric, OTP authentication and demographic authentication. “If you find any deviation from these rules, you should be cautious and there might be a chance that you are being conned,” said an officer. The messages circulating on social media have direct links for the download, the developer cannot be verified nor are the ratings available, making them dangerous to use, cops said. The cyber police cell authorities said the key information of passwords for other apps, especially finance-related apps, may be stolen through such malicious apps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/the-unkindest-jab-vax-promise-leads-to-money-stolen-from-bank/articleshow/81500193.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 15, 2021||Patna||Over 13 lakh vaccinated in Bihar so far, says health department||PATNA: Over 13.9 lakh people, including more than 4.06 lakh senior citizens, have so far been vaccinated in the state. Thanks to continuous efforts of the government, the daily vaccination figure has significantly increased in Bihar and crossed 80,000-mark in last few days. On Saturday, 80,185 people had taken vaccine shots in the state. Of them, 61,902 individuals had received their first dose and 18,283 second dose. As per the latest data provided by the health department, 4,06,306 senior citizens and 62,333 people in the age group of 45 to 59 years with comorbidities have taken the vaccine jab in the last 13 days. Altogether 50,251 individuals above 60 years of age had taken vaccine shots on Saturday. Only 91 adverse event cases have been reported in the state so far. In Patna, 41,959 people have received their first dose, including 28,953 senior citizens. Also, 21,090 healthcare and frontline workers have got their second dose in the district. In a bid boost inoculation coverage in the state, all the districts have started mobilising workers, local representatives and officials to motivate eligible people to get the shots. The Bihar State Health Society recently hired 75 e-rickshaws to spread awareness about vaccination. 50 more test +ve for Covid: The state’s Covid tally rose to 2,63,025 on Sunday with 50 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. The state’s recovery rate, meanwhile, has touched 99.28%. There were 338 active cases in the state on Sunday. One fresh death on Sunday took to state’s virus toll to 1,551. The victim was from Madhubani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-13-lakh-vaccinated-in-bihar-so-far-says-health-department/articleshow/81498632.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 15, 2021||Patna||PMC officials take up brooms, launch cleanliness drive in Patna||PATNA: Senior officials of Patna Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) on Sunday took brooms in their hands as part of the civic body’s ‘One dream, Patna clean’ campaign. The move, according to PMC officials, was aimed at motivating people to join the campaign and keep the city clean. The initiative is also aimed at getting good scores in the Centre’s Swachhata Survekshan 2021. After taking oath to keep the city clean, the civic body officials, including additional municipal commissioners Devendra Prasad Tiwari and Sheila Irani, Kankarbagh circle’s executive officer Sushil Mishra and councillor of ward number 44 Mala Sinha participated in the campaign. They swept the roads in the slum areas of Hanuman Nagar. The civic body officials collected garbage from roadside and appealed to the residents to join the drive. Vegetable vendors in the nearby market were asked to leave road. The PMC officials also requested the vegetable vendors to keep separate dustbins for organic waste, including rotten vegetables and fruits, dry leaves, timbers and papers. The campaign was also organised in other PMC circles – Bankipore, Azimabad, New Capital, Patliputra and Patna City. Water was sprinkled through jetting machines on different roads like Ashok Rajpath, Makhaniya Kuan, Kali Ghat Road, Khazanchi Road and near Darbhanga House. Bleaching powder and fogging was also done. The civic body employees raised slogans like ‘Patna ki beauty, hum sab ki duty’ to raise awareness among the residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-officials-take-up-brooms-launch-cleanliness-drive-in-patna/articleshow/81498905.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 15, 2021||Visakhapatnam||TDP cedes ground to YSRC in VZM district||Visakhapatnam: In a historic victory, the YSRC swept urban bodies elections in Vizianagaram district to win the first Vizianagaram municipal corporation, as well as Parvathipuram, Bobbili and Salur municipalities and Nellimarla nagar panchayat, emerging as the biggest party in a district that was known to be a TDP bastion. For the first time in over three decades, the TDP lost nine assembly constituencies and one Lok Sabha constituency in the 2019 general and state election to YSRC, in what has traditionally been the party’s stronghold in the north Andhra region. TDP had expected to win Bobbili municipality but 19 of 31 wards went to YSRC. TDP could secure 11 wards while one ward went to an independent candidate. YSRC also won the first ever VMC elections by bagging 48 out of 50 wards. The party’s candidate will be the first mayor of the corporation. The other two wards went to TDP and an independent candidate. In Parvathipuram municipality, YSRC emerged victorious in 22 segments, including six in which it was unanimously elected. The TDP won in five segments and independent candidates in three segments. Repeating its performance, YSRC secured Salur municipality by winning 20 of 29 wards. TDP won in five segments, the Congress in one and independent candidates in three segments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tdp-cedes-ground-to-ysrc-in-vzm-district/articleshow/81499509.cms||Nalla.Babu
March 15, 2021||Kolkata||Friendly youths lend tech help to elderly neighbours||Kolkata: From helping them register for the vaccination on the Co-Win portal to booking an appointment and even assisting senior citizens to the vaccination centres, some youths have come to the rescue of their elderly neighbours. This assistance has ensured that the not-so-tech-savy senior citizens are not left out of the vaccination programme. “I have been home throughout this pandemic. But I live alone and was at a loss as to how to get the vaccine after the rollout for senior citizens began. Luckily, my neighbour’s daughter got my registration done and I got inoculated at RG Kar Medical College a few days ago,” said septuagenarian Hemanta Biswas, a Dum Dum Park resident. Registration on the Co-Win app is the first step towards getting the vaccination. Once it is completed, recipients have to book an appointment. Since the procedure is done on a digital platform, it caused a lot of anxiety to the elderly, most of whom are not well versed in either technology or the internet. “The commencement of the community vaccination drive brought a lot of cheer and hope among the elderly and those above 45 with co-morbidities. But we came across many who did not know how to enrol themselves. That is when we started reaching out to the elderly who live alone, starting from our known circles,” said Ajay Mital, an environmental activist. During the lockdown, Mital and his friends, like Manoj Periwal, had reached out to many senior citizens in different pockets of the city with food and essential commodities. Many of these elderly citizens who live alone started asking them about how to get vaccinated. The duo then got more youths from different localities involved and formed WhatsApp groups to coordinate with each other in assisting the elderly residents in their respective localities. “The other day, someone who lives near Sambhunath Pandit Hospital informed in the group about a very small queue at the vaccination centre. I rushed there with four-five neighbours and they got vaccinated smoothly,” said recruitment consultant Pewiral, a Russell Street resident. “The registration issue is gradually easing out due to spot registration facilities at most centres. But many times, these elderly people have to wait a long time. We are trying to help them get proper slots so the wait is shorter,” said Periwal. These youths have also maintained data on the dates of vaccination of the elderly they have helped, so that they can be reminded of their second dose. They are also calling the recipients up to check whether any of them are facing any health issues post the vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/friendly-youths-lend-tech-help-to-elderly-neighbours/articleshow/81500208.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 15, 2021||Business||36 MF schemes exceed Sebi’s 10% AT1 bond investment cap||MUMBAI: Banks that depend on additional tier-1 (AT1) bonds to meet their capital needs may not be out of the woods yet. This, despite a finance ministry memo “requesting” Sebi to hold back part of its directive on these bonds’ valuations. According to Crisil Fund Research, as many as 36 mutual fund (MF) schemes have more than the Sebi-prescribed 10% investment in these bonds. Last week, the markets regulator came out with a set of directives that would have the effect of reducing appetite for AT1 bonds among MFs. These bonds, although debt instruments, have loss-absorption features that result in their being treated as quasi-equity. The write-off of these bonds issued by Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank, following the RBI action to protect depositors, had highlighted the risk that investors face in them. Sebi’s March 10 circular caps investments by a fund house under all its schemes in bonds with special features (primarily AT1 and AT2) to not more than 10% from one issuer. It also specifies that no MF scheme can hold more than 10% of its net asset value (NAV) of its debt portfolio in such bonds, and not more than 5% of the NAV of the debt portfolio should be due to such bonds from one issuer. According to the finance ministry memo, MFs hold Rs 35,000 crore of the outstanding AT1 bond issuances of about Rs 90,000 crore. While the finance ministry had asked Sebi to withdraw the revised valuation norms to treat all perpetual bonds as 100-year instruments, it said that the 10% ceiling for MFs could be retained as the fund houses have enough headroom. Crisil’s analysis of February 2021 MF portfolios shows that none of the fund houses crosses the threshold of 10% of such instruments at the asset management company (AMC) level. However, 36 schemes spread across 13 fund houses breach the cap of 10% per scheme in securities. “The regulator’s move to ‘grandfather’ limits previously held is a positive move. In the medium to long term, with the restrictions in place, it could reduce appetite among MFs for these securities, thus limiting the risk for investors,” said Crisil Funds Research director Piyush Gupta. “This is also prudent given the advent of hordes of individual investors into debt funds. They may not have the ability to understand MF portfolios and gauge risk, especially in such types of bonds — we saw how they were caught unawares by the recent write-offs,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/36-mf-schemes-exceed-sebis-10-at1-bond-investment-cap/articleshow/81500681.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Patna||ECR: Covid rail coaches not required now||PATNA: In a move to streamline passenger traffic movement, the East Central Railway (ECR) will now utilize Covid-19 coaches into passenger trains as Covid cases in Bihar has declined and there is no requirement of those coaches for patients. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, “Railways had converted 269 air conditioned (AC) and sleeper coaches into Covid-19 quarantine wards in July 2020. Altogether 4,800 isolation beds were created by railways in the state to cater to the needs of Covid-19 patients or suspects. As these isolation beds are no longer required, railways has started pressing these coaches into passenger train services again to provide additional berths in special passenger trains ahead of Holi rush.”  According to sources, Covid-19 care isolation coaches were placed at 15 railway stations which include Patna Junction, Sonepur, Narkatiaganj, Jayanagar, Raxaul, Barauni, Muzaffarpur, Saharsa, Siwan, Samastipur, Darbhanga , Sitamarhi, Chhapra, Katihar and Bhagalpur. Out of 269 Covid coaches, 22 of them were requisitioned by the district administration in Patna only during peak time of the pandemic, sources said. According to a railway official in Danapur, railways had incurred huge amount in converting each coach into isolation beds. ECR had spent about Rs 72.8 lakh on conversion of these coaches into Covid isolation beds, while railways had incurred an expenditure of about Rs 40 crore in converting 5,600 coaches into isolation beds across the country. According to ECR CPRO, railways had faced a severe brunt of lockdown as 663 passenger trains were cancelled, out of which 274 were mail and express and 389 other passenger trains running in the ECR jurisdiction. Railways used to carry about eight lakh passengers per day during pre-Covid period in Bihar and earned Rs 9crore revenue each day. However, railways is yet to start its normal regular passenger train services. Meanwhile , railways has decided to run a special train between Barauni and Lucknow (05203/05204) from March 22 to cope with the passengers’ rush during festival. It will leave Barauni everyday at 8.25pm and reach Lucknow next day at 12.45 pm. On its return it will leave Lucknow at 3.15 pm and reach Barauni next morning at 7.55 am, the CPRO said adding the load combination of this special train will be of 24 coaches including AC, sleeper , general bogies and brake vans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-covid-rail-coaches-not-required-now/articleshow/81498879.cms||Kumod Verma
March 15, 2021||Patna||Bihar’s patient zero, doctors recall horrible days||PATNA: It was around this time last year when 45-year-old Anitha Vinod from Patna’s Digha locality had developed Covid-19 symptoms. She was among the first in the state to test positive for Covid on March 22. Two others had also tested positive for the virus on the same day. Anitha was also the first in the state to recuperate from the virus. Anitha has described her 11-day quarantine period as ‘horrible times of her life’ when she spent sleepless nights at All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P). “I was scared because I was the first one to contract the virus in the state. The most painful part was to remain away from family for 11 days in hospital and 14 more days in isolation after recovery,” she said, adding her kids and husband helped her a lot during isolation. “I am happy that the stigma attached to the virus has vanished,” Anitha said. Another patient zero, Faiyaz Ahmed (30), said people were initially scared and they maintained distance with those contracting the virus. “I and my family also faced the stigma. However, things have changed now and people are no more scared of the virus,” he said. Faiyaz, who works in machine maintenance unit of the engineering department of railways in Bhavnagar, Gujarat, said since he is a frontline worker, he would soon take the vaccine jab. “Everyone should take vaccine jab without fear. People also need to take precautions as the cases of Covid are on the rise in some states,” he said. Treating the Covid-19 patients in the initial days was the toughest job for the medical fraternity, when the scientists and researches were unsure about the nature of the virus and treatment. Dr Nishant Sahay of AIIMS-P, said, “July and August were the toughest months for us when the virus was at its peak in the state. We were afraid of the safety of our family members. Many doctors suffered emotional breakdowns. Psychiatric counselling was also done for the health workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihars-patient-zero-doctors-recall-horrible-days/articleshow/81498890.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Keep all beds ready, BMC tells 5 civic jumbo hospitals||MUMBAI: BMC’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani on Sunday instructed five civic jumbo hospitals in the city to activate all their beds. Of the patients testing positive, around 5% require admission, he said, adding: “Over 8,000 beds are available, but we are still activating all jumbo beds.” Mumbai currently has more than 451 critical Covid patients. Maharashtra’s contribution to country’s daily caseload crossed 62%. A state official pointed out that while Maharashtra may be reporting as many cases as October, deaths are not comparable. On October 1, for instance, the state had reported 394 deaths compared to 50 fatalities on Sunday. Of the 50 deaths, 26 had occurred in the last 48 hours and rest were from previous weeks. The highest number of deaths was recorded from Mumbai circle with the BMC contributing to seven fatalities. Of the seven deaths in the city, five had comorbidities, but all seven were above 60 years of age. Maharashtra’s total Covid toll rose to 52,861, while Mumbai’s reached 11,535. Dr Rajesh Dere, dean of the BMC jumbo facility in Bandra, said that the bed occupancy has started to go up. “Even ICU numbers are rising, but deaths are not high,” he added. On Saturday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had held a meeting in which he directed hotels, restaurants, malls and places witnessing heavy footfall to follow Covid-appropriate procedures and not force the state to declare a strict lockdown. The state has added over 1.6 lakh cases, while Mumbai has recorded over 18,000 cases since the beginning of March. Dr Pradeep Awate, state’s surveillance officer, said that non-adherence to home isolation norms is a key reason why the infection was spreading. In Mumbai, a ward-level health volunteer concurred that even people who have Covid positive patients at home are stepping into the common areas of their housing societies like gym, swimming pool and lobby. Currently, 5,83,713 people are in home quarantine and 5,493 in institutional quarantine in Maharashtra. On Sunday, Mumbai circle registered the highest cases (3,676), while Pune region saw the highest deaths (16). Pune region recorded 3,609 new cases, followed by Nagpur region that reported 2,862 new cases and 12 deaths, of which six were from Wardha alone. From Mumbai metropolitan region, for the third consecutive day, Kalyan-Dombivli reported over 400 Covid cases. On Sunday, 404 new cases and three deaths took the tally to 66,957 and 1,214, repectively. The number of active patients crossed 3,040. Of the 404 new patients, 133 were from Dombivli (E) and 127 from Kalyan (W). (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-keep-all-beds-ready-bmc-tells-5-civic-jumbo-hosps/articleshow/81500477.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
March 15, 2021||Business||India beats Russia to no.4 spot on forex kitty rankings||Mumbai: India overtook Russia to become the nation with the fourth-largest foreign exchange reserve despite a drop in its international investments in dollar terms. While India’s forex holdings fell by $4.3 billion to $580.3 billion as of March 5, Russia’s drop was even sharper, resulting in its numbers coming down to $580.1 billion according to data from Bloomberg. According to data released by the RBI on Friday, after rising by $689 million during the last week of February to a record $584.5 billion, the central bank’s foreign holdings fell in the first week of March. The forex reserve rises when the RBI buys dollars to prevent a sharp appreciation of the domestic currency. The rupee had come under pressure on February 26 following a surge in government bond yields worldwide, closing 104 paise lower. When the currency comes under pressure, the RBI ends up selling its forex reserve to defend the rupee. A high forex reserve gives the RBI more leeway in maintaining monetary policy. According to a report by ICICI Securities, the RBI has added $130 billion in forex reserves (spot and forward markets) in the last 12 months and part of these can be spent to ensure stability in forex and interest rate markets. The report points out that the high forex reserve puts the RBI in a position where it can actually gain from some outflows. “While in the short term, forex outflows could lead to some liquidity drain, the RBI wouldn’t mind it as that would open up space for liquidity replenishment via open market operation purchases later in the year. One other reason to be sanguine about impact of global interest rate movements on domestic rates is the near absence of FPI inflows in bond market over the past year. As such, narrowing interest rate differentials shouldn’t trigger any outflows,” the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-beats-russia-to-no-4-spot-on-forex-kitty-rankings/articleshow/81500662.cms||---
---||Ahmedabad||217 dead in 373 hit-and-run cases in Ahmedabad in 2 years, no arrests yet||AHMEDABAD: In the last two years, ending December 2020, Ahmedabad’s municipal limits as well as its peripheral areas in the district together registered a total of 373 hit-and-run cases.  In these accidents, 217 people lost their lives. But in none of these incidents have the police been able to make any arrest. This was revealed by the state home department in the Gujarat assembly. If in 2013 the Vismay Shah hit-and-run case was a wake up call for the police, then this revelation of a large number of unsolved hit-and-run incidents piling up in police file racks only reflects the apathy of the state police. A senior state home department official admitted that in the majority of the 373 hit-and-run cases, there were a few where CCTV footage was available, but these were inconclusive. In a majority of cases there was no CCTV footage available. “All state highways that approach or exit the city now require high resolution infra-red cameras for better detection,” he said. The information was revealed in the state assembly after Jamalpur-Khadia Congress MLA Imran Khedawala sought details of hit-and-run cases reported within the district in the last two years till December-end last year. Deputy commissioner of police (admin), Ahmedabad city traffic, Tejas Patel said that in many cases, they have found that the accused abandons the vehicle on the spot and flees. “We usually seize the vehicle involved in the accident and send it for FSL and RTO examination. The process takes time. Later, the vehicle owner can claim it back from the court,” said Patel. Joint commissioner of police, traffic, Mayanksinh Chavda was not available for comment. A senior officer in the home department also claimed that there were 156 cases where the injured could not identify the accused or the vehicles involved in the accident. The officer claimed that in many cases the victim failed to note down the vehicle registration number, which led the investigation to hit a dead end. According to the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), Ahmedabad city ranked 24 among 42 -other million-plus population cities in 2019 when it came to total number of accidents. However, when it came to road fatalities the city ranks 12. In 2019 Ahmedabad registered 1,375 accidents in which 439 people lost their lives. Also the number of accidents in 2019 had registered a 13% drop as compared to 2018, but the fatalities have increased by 38% in the same period. In 2018 the city reported 1,585 accidents in which 316 persons had lost their lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/217-dead-in-373-hit-and-runs-in-abad-in-2-years-no-arrests-yet/articleshow/81500280.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
---||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Parents booked for killing infant girl in Mehsana||PALANPUR: Death of a 33-day-old baby girl in Kadi town of Meshana in December 2019 has turned out to be a cold-blooded murder allegedly executed by none other than her own parents, who were yearning for a male child. Baby girl Mishti’s parents had hospitalized her in a local hospital in December and told the doctors that she died due to suffocation while breastfeeding. However, doctors there noticed some marks on Mishti’s neck and informed police that registered a case of accidental death. The postmortem conducted in Ahmedabad revealed that she had been strangulated. On Sunday, police lodged a complaint of murder against her parents Hardik Patel and Reena along with his parents. “The postmortem was done by doctors at BJ Medical College and the report confirmed that she was strangled to death. Along with Hardik and Reena, we have also booked the infant’s grandparents Upendra Patel and Neeta Patel on charges of murder and crimnal conspiracy,” said R R Aahir, deputy superintendent of police, Mehsana, who is the complainant in this case. Hardik works with a private company in Kadi and all four are on the run. The couple, who lives in Karanpura area in Kadi, has a four-year-old girl Kreya. Reena gave birth to another girl child in November 2019 and she was named Mishti. Aahir said the couple was unhappy with the second girl child as they wanted a boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parents-booked-for-killing-infant-girl-in-mehsana/articleshow/81500277.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Patna||Patna, seven other cities brace to face water crisis||PATNA: Come summer and the residents of most cities, including the ones of the state capital, start getting scared of an impending water crisis. With water table declining owing to indiscriminate exploitation of groundwater, the people’s agony increases considerably during the summers. Preliminary investigations carried out by some government agencies, including the state public health engineering department (PHED), have indicated decline in groundwater level in certain pockets of the state even though the summer is yet to fully set in. These studies have certainly set alarm bell ringing in the minds of common men who have been feeling the pinch of drinking water scarcity over the years. According to experts, at least eight cities, including the state capital, are likely to face severe water crisis soon. Gaya and Bhagalpur are already experiencing declining groundwater levels and consequent water scarcity. Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Ara, Munger and Biharsharif are likely to face the crisis in near future, they said. Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) former director Shambhu Nath said in the last few years, many shallow tube wells have got dried up during the summers with sands filling the pipes, leading to complete breakdown of tube wells. “Though the average annual rainfall over Patna is fairly high (about 1000mm per annum), the bulk of the rainwater is lost through surface run off,” Shambhu said, adding things have come to such a pass due to the gradual disappearance of ponds and other open surface water bodies that helped recharge the groundwater reservoir through slow seepage. According to another study carried out by CGWB, groundwater reservoirs in as many as 11 blocks of the state are in semi-critical condition. These blocks are Gaya Sadar, Rajgir, Nagar Nausa in Nalanda, Meskaur in Nawada, Kurtha in Arwal, Birpur and Naokothi in Begusarai, Masaurhi and Sampatchak in Patna, Mushhari in Muzaffarpur and Tajpur in Samastipur district. These blocks would be in critical condition as soon as the development stage exceeds 90%, the study suggested. State PHED secretary Jitendra Srivastava, however, asserted that at present there is no water crisis as such. Water table has recorded only minimal decline at some places in Bhagalpur and Banka districts this year. The situation in all other districts is much better. In Gaya district, the water level has increased by eight feet as compared to that of last year. Moreover, the district magistrates have been asked to constantly monitor the water table in their respective areas so that necessary remedial measures could be taken well in time. “The department is prepared to tackle any crisis of sort in coming months. The work of repair of defective handpumps in different districts has already been started on February 15 much ahead of the advent of summer,” Srivastava said, adding, more than 500 repairing teams have been deputed in different districts to get the faulty handpumps repaired after contacting the local authorities and the people’s representatives. “The government schemes launched under the ‘Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali’ scheme have started yielding positive results and the overall scenario in respect of water availability is likely to improve considerably soon,” he added. CGWB regional director A K Agrawal appreciated the steps taken by the PHED for mitigating the water woes and suggested that public awareness must be created to stop wastage of groundwater. “People should be encouraged to adopt rainwater harvesting techniques and school children should be taught lessons in water conservation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-seven-other-cities-brace-to-face-water-crisis/articleshow/81499659.cms||B K Mishra
March 15, 2021||Patna||Drunk mukhiya, 2 others held in Muzaffarpur||PATNA: A mukhiya’s decision to sing songs and enjoy a liquor party at home landed him behind bars as a police team, which had gone to Dardha village under the Sakra police station area in Muzaffarpur district to raid the house of another person, got to know about it and arrested him along with two others on Saturday. SHO of Sakra police station Ram Nath Prasad said the police arrested mukhiya Anant Shyanam (45) and his two supporters – Naresh Kumar (40) and Nawal Ram (35). The three were remanded in judicial custody on Sunday. Prasad said Shyanam is mukhiya of Muhammadpur Badal panchayat. He is all set to contest the upcoming panchayat election too. “The party was organised by the mukhiya at his home-cum-office. He wanted Naresh and Nawal to campaign for him,” SHO said. The SHO said a joint team of police and excise officials had gone to the village to raid the house of a 25-year-old liquor smuggler. “The police heard the mukhiya singing song. Smelling foul play, police raided his house and found him enjoying liquor party with two others. A half-consumed liquor bottle and a sealed liquor bottle were recovered from the mukhiya’s house. At least 28 empty liquor bottles were also recovered from the vicinity of the mukhiya’s house,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/drunk-mukhiya-2-others-held-in-muz/articleshow/81499692.cms||Debashish Karmakar
---||Patna||Bihar: Two-day bank strike from today||PATNA: Around 40,000 bank employees in Bihar, including 10,000 in Patna, will join the two-day nationwide bank strike called by the United Forum of Bank Union (UFBU), an umbrella body of bank unions, from Monday to protest against the Centre’s proposed privatisation of two public sector banks. Since the employees of most PSBs will be on strike, banking and ATM services are likely to be affected. B Prasad, joint convenor of UFBU-Bihar, said the bank employees would protest outside their branches and a demonstration would be held near Biscomaun Bhawan in Patna at 1.30pm in which members of seven bank associations will participate. These associations include All India Bank Officers’ Confederation, All India Bank Employees Association, National Confederation of Bank Employees, Bank Employees Federation of India (BEFI), All India Bank Officers’ Association, Indian National Bank Officers Congress and National Organisation of Bank Officers. Prasad, also the president of BEFI-Bihar and Bihar Provincial Gramin Bank Employees Association, said all banking services, including cash transactions, cheque clearances, loans and other dealings would be affected. “ATMs will not be replenished with cash for two days. Even the electronic cash flow will be affected as the data operators will also join the protest,” he said. Anirudh Kumar, general secretary of Bihar Provincial Bank Employees’ Association, said, “We are against the privatisation of two public sector banks as announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Union Budget. The employees of SBI and old generation private sector banks like Federal Bank would also join the strike,” he claimed. Indian National Trade Union Congress, Bihar Truck Owners’ Association and Bihar State Auto Chalak Sangh (BSACS) would also support the strike in the state. INTUC state president Chandraprakash Singh said the Centre’s job is not only to collect taxes and run the government, but also to build infrastructure from the profits of public sector undertakings as well as providing education and free health services. “However, the Centre is trying to free itself from the obligations and only help corporate houses in making money,” he said. BSACS members held ‘nukad sabhas’ at different places in the city, including Agamkuan, Gaighat, Gandhi Maidan and Mithapur Sunday. BSACS general secretary Raj Kumar Jha said the autorickshaws would stay off the roads across the state from 12 noon to 2pm on Monday to protest proposed privatisation of two PSBs and rise in fuel prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-day-bank-strike-from-today/articleshow/81498541.cms||Faryal Rumi
---||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: Mother of three elopes with Class VII student||GORAKHPUR: A married woman, a mother of three kids, eloped with a teen boy, a student of Class VII, in Gorakhpur causing ripples in police circles. The boy’s family lodged a complaint at Campierganj police station after which an FIR was registered and probe initiated, but the two had not been traced. A 29 years old married woman and a 15 years old boy went missing after they went to a Shivratri fair on Wednesday. Their families informed police on Friday evening when they didn’t reach home. They had an affair since the last one year but no one suspected them due to their age gap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mother-of-three-elopes-with-class-vii-student/articleshow/81496069.cms||Arjumand Bano
March 15, 2021||Patna||RLSP-JD(U) merger: It’s second ‘homecoming’ for Upendra Kushwaha||PATNA: When former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha merged his Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) with the JD(U) on Sunday, it was his second “homecoming”. Senior JD(U) and RLSP leaders said Kushwaha was once dismissed from the JD(U) in 2007. He then went with Chhagan Bhujbal, the then deputy CM of Maharashtra. He had also joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). After remaining in the NCP for around a year, Kushwaha founded the Rashtriya Samata Party (RSP) in February 2009. The RSP was formed in the backdrop of alleged marginalisation of Koeri caste in the state’s politics. Then, Bhujbal had extended his support to the formation of the RSP. However, Kushwaha merged his RSP with the JD(U) in November 2009 after he improved his relations with CM Nitish Kumar. Consequently, Kushwaha was sent to the Rajya Sabha as JD(U) nominee, However, on January 4, 2013, Kushwaha, who was then a member of the Rajya Sabha, resigned from the JD(U), alleging that Nitish’s model of governance had failed in Bihar and the overall law and order scenario had become as worse as it had been before November 2005 when Nitish came into power in Bihar. Kushwaha had also accused CM Nitish Kumar of running his government autocratically and making JD(U) his “pocket organisation”. After quitting the JD(U) for a second time, Kushwaha formed Bihar Navnirman Manch with former Jehanabad MP Arun Kumar. Within a few months, Kushwaha launched the RLSP at a political rally held at Gandhi Maidan here on March 3, 2013. While launching the RLSP, Kushwaha had claimed that the party would attempt to overthrow the Nitish-led NDA government in Bihar. However, a few months later, Nitish distanced himself from ally BJP and walked out of the NDA. As Nitish and his JD(U) walked out of the NDA, RLSP became part of the NDA in Bihar. In the 2014 Lok Sabha election, the RLSP contested three parliamentary seats – Karakat, Jehanabad and Sitamarhi – as part of the seat-sharing among the NDA allies. Luckily, the RLSP won all the three parliamentary seats. Kushwaha became an MP from Karakat seat. Subsequently, Kushwaha was made minister of state for human resources in the first NDA government of Narendra Modi in 2014. In 2015 Bihar assembly polls, the RLSP contested 23 seats as an NDA ally. However, it could manage to win only two seats — Chenari and Harlakhi. In December 2018, Kushwaha declared that RLSP has become a part of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA). Kushwaha also resigned from the Union cabinet ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In the 2019 general election, the RLSP contested five parliamentary seats as UPA ally. Kushwaha had contested from two seats. However, the party could not win any of the five seats. In 2020 Bihar polls too, the RLSP could not win even a single seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/its-second-homecoming-for-kushwaha/articleshow/81499651.cms||Madan Kumar
March 15, 2021||Kanpur||Rahul , Kashish to lead UP men, women athletics team in 2nd North Zone Athletics Championship||REVISED Done/ALVI Rahul , Kashish to lead UP men, women athletics team in 2nd North Zone Athletics Championship Times News Network Kanpur : Rahul Shama of Lucknow and Kashish Singh of Kaushambi will lead UP state men and women athletics team in 32nd North Zone Junior athletics championships-2020-21 to be held at Kailash Prakash Sports stadium, Meerut under the auspices of District Athletics Association Meerut , UP Athletics Federation and Athletics Federation of India from March 20 to March 22. Members of the UP team as announced by PK Srivastava, honorary secretary, UP Athletics Association are as under: MEN (U20): Rahul Sharma- captain & Ravinder Paswan (Both from Lucknow) Sagar Nayak (Muzaffarnagar) Lavish Sharma (Saharanpur) Anshul Kumar, Dharmedra, Rikant Nagar, Satyam Singh (All from Meerut), Sharvan Kumar (Sitapur), Chandan Bharadwaj (Varanasi), Ganesh Kumar Bind (camp) Krishna Kumar Pal (both from Mirzapur) Uzair Khan, Anil Kumar Yadav, Avneesh Kumar, Deepak Yadav, Saurabh Mishra, Rudra Narayn Pandey & Vipin Kumar (All from Prayagraj), Salman Khan (Pratapgarh), Ayush Mishra (Unnao), Krishna Chaudhary, Suraj Kumar & Jay Kumar (All from Mathura) Ajit (Agra), Suraj Yadav (camp), Afsar Ahmed (Both from Kaushambi). MEN (U18): Ravi Rai (Gorakhpur), Ashish Rana, Pankaj Kumar, Ashu &, Ankit Kumar (All from Bulandshahr), Himanshu Jwala (Ghaziabad), Abhishek Gurjar (Hathras), Vijay Kashyap (Saharanpur) Sultan Ahmed, Chain Pal, & Akshit Kumar (All from Etawah), Himanshu Nagar, Arnav Tyagi, Rajat Kumar & Anurag Patel (All from Meerut), Ankush Dangi (Baghpat) Shivam Singh (UPSC Lucknow) Viksit Kumar (Muzaffarnagar) Shyam Kaushik (Hathras) Neeraj Kumar, Ankit Yadav, Abhishek Chaurasia, Pradeep Kumar, Mohd. Shaban, Mohd. Nadeem & Izhar Ahmed (All from Prayagraj), Rajat (Agra) Priyansh Deol (Amroha)  Aman Singh (Amethi) Harish Kumar (Mathura) Jayesh Gupta (Kaushambi). BOYS (U16): Harsh Singh & Chandra Shekhar (Both from Etawah), Ritik Chaudhary & Abhishek Pal (Both from Moradabad), Abhay Singh (Lucknow), Rahul Maurya (Etawah) Amit Chaudhary (Aligarh) Sharukh Khan & Nitin Pal (Both from UPSC Lucknow) Divakar Yadav (Barabanki) Rudra Pratap (Unnao) Harsh Rawat, Kuldeep Kumar, Ashutosh Dubey, Mohd. Aman & Abdul Rahman (All from Prayagraj) Chandra Shekhar (Etawah) Anurag (Sambhal) Aazib Rizvi (Meerut) Nikhi Yadav (Baghpat) Tanvir Ahmad (Kaushambi), Karan Kumar (Mathura). BOYS (U14): Arvind (Mathura) Krit Yadav (Meerut) Prinshu Yadav (Prayagraj) Anurag (Siddharthanagar) Aditya Singh Chauhan (Etawah) Vishal Rao (Lucknow Anirudh Pratap Singh (Amethi). WOMEN (U20): Kashish Singh-captain (Kaushambi), Joshika Pal (Barabanki) Shivi Sharma, Manshi & Monika (All from Meerut) Shrishti Singh, Rebi Pal, Ashika Yadav & Varsha Verma (All from Varanasi) Sapna Rai (Lucknow) Nisha Lodhi (Bulandshahr) Ruby Kashyap (Muzaffarnagar) Ratna Devi & Nitika Verma (Both from Prayagraj) Archana Singh (Rae Bareli) Anuradha Ranic (Pratapgarh) Anshika (Unnao), Vandana (Kushinagar) Aakanksha Sandhu (Amroha) Sakshi Sharma (Ghaziabad). WOMEN (U18): Pooja (Ghaziabad) Shaili Srivastava c(Deoria) Anu Yadav, Rupal, Khyati Mathu & Vidhi (All from Meerut) Rinki Pal, Pushpa Yadav, Kalyanika & Meenakshi Kumari (All from Lucknow) Sapna Rai & Bhavana Upadhyay (Both from Prayagraj) Anamika Devi  (Kaushambi) Neha Panwar (Muzaffarnagar) Mamta Pal & Bandana Pal (Both from Kushinagar) Dolly Sonkar (Rae Bareli)c Kajal (camp) cSeema Kumari c(Both from Saharanpur) Tanya Chaudharyc (camp; Meenakshi c(Both from Baghpat), Akanksha Patel (Varanasi). GIRLS (U16): Roshnai Yadav & Shalini Yadav (Both from Varanasi) Riya Attri (Mathura) Garima Yadav (Kushinagar) Bhumi Singh (Ghaziabad) Sunita Devi (Lucknow) Sonam Chaudhary (Hathras) Akanksha Verma (Ayodhya) Anjun Chaudhary (Shamli) Neha Raghav (Mathura) Jhalak Chahal & Nancy (Both from Amroha) Ujjwal Kasana  (Meerut) Komal & Archana Yadav (Both from Kaushambi). GIRLS (U14): Aayushi Rawat (Bulandshahr) Aanchal Yadav (Jaunpur) Arkita Verma (Ayodhya) Nancy Katiyar (Ghazipur) Alka Singh (Kaushambi). Team Managers: Chief- Sanjeev Kumar (Muzaffarnagar) i Virendra (Meerut) & Nidhi (Bulandshahr). Team Coaches: Chief- Gaurav Tyagi (Meerut), Yogendra Singh (Bulandshahr) & Bimal Rai (UPSC Lucknow) & Amita Saxena (Meerut). The athletes who have not submitted their AFI UID till date must submit the same latest by March 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/rahul-kashish-to-lead-up-men-women-athletics-team-in-2nd-north-zone-athletics-championship/articleshow/81499209.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Kolkata||From trips abroad to protecting kin, seniors have different reasons for taking the vaccine||Kolkata: It is not merely the fear of Covid that’s making hundreds of senior citizens queue up for the vaccine at hospitals across Kolkata every morning. Many have their own reasons to scurry for the shot and they are varied and curious — some want it to travel abroad to be with their children, some are desperate to resume normal outdoor activities and others are anxious to protect younger family members suffering from co-morbidities. Some even said they are under pressure from neighbours. Sixty-four-year-old Sanjukta Basu, a Tollygunge resident, waited two-and-half hours at EEDF Hospital to get the vaccine along with her sister last week. “I was supposed to visit my daughter in Rotterdam last summer but the pandemic sent all plans haywire. Unless I am vaccinated, I will not be allowed into Holland. Now that the situation has improved somewhat, I am desperate to visit her,” she said. The wait for the vaccine was a long one and, being diabetic, she was left exhausted. “But I hung on till I got it for I didn’t want to miss my turn and prolong the wait,” she said. Brijbhushan Singh, 63, took the shot on the very first day inoculations started for senior citizens. He took his 93-year-old mother Phulwati along. “I have been worried about my mother who is obviously more susceptible than me. I was keen that she took the vaccine as quickly as possible,” said Singh, who is the principal of Bhawanipore High School. It now lets him return to work without fear, said Singh. “It’s frustrating to live with the spectre of Covid lurking at the back of your mind. I felt restricted and was always wary of the virus. More than myself, I was scared of infecting my mother and the other family members. Now, I feel confident,” said Singh. Sixty-year-old golfer Brendon D’Souza had to cut down on professional travel, which hurt him. “My profession demands that I travel frequently, which had come to a halt. So I was keen to get the vaccine in the first week so that I could return to the course without a worry. Many are wary of the shot, but even if it offers 70% protection, there’s no reason why you shouldn’t take it. Now that I have got the vaccine, I feel safer and free. I will soon resume travel,” said D’Souza. A 79-year-old Ballygunge resident said his neighbours had been asking him to take the vaccine. “My children live abroad so I was a bit worried about my health. It was, in fact, my neighbours who urged me to go and get it,” he said. Wood Street resident Arun Malhotra took the vaccine last week at an EM Bypass hospital. “This is the best preventive measure that one can take. Apart from the fact that the vaccine now gives me some freedom to lead a normal life, I am also keen to protect my family members. Though I don’t think you can throw caution to the wind even after the shot,” said Malhotra. Madhav Adige, 72, and wife Sheela, 65, have rarely left their home in the last year. The couple said they have been feeling stifled and mentally exhausted. “We didn’t venture out unless it was necessary. But it left us mentally jaded. Now that we have got the vaccine, we can go out without fear, though I still won’t be wading through a crowd,” said Adige.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/from-trips-abroad-to-protecting-kin-seniors-have-different-reasons-for-taking-the-vaccine/articleshow/81500214.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
March 15, 2021||Patna||Cases of mass suicide on the rise in state||PATNA: The suicide committed by five members of a family in Supaul district on Friday night allegedly due to financial stress has left people in utter dismay. Even senior police officers who visited the spot on Saturday were virtually rendered speechless. “The scene was heart rendering. Five bodies, including those of three minor children, were found hanging in a room locked from inside. I have not come across such a tragic incident in my professional career so far,” Supaul SP Manoj Kumar said. Preliminary police investigations revealed that the head of the family, Misrilal Sah (52), had sold a major portion of the ancestral land he had got as his share after partition of the family. His coal business had been closed due to technical reasons. He was rendered jobless, an investigating officer said. Local mukhiya Md Tasleem said Misrilal’s two younger brothers – Ram Kisun Sah and Vishnudeo Sah – had opposed his move to sell off a plot which was being used for bamboo plantation. “This made him more disappointed,” the mukhiya said. Misrilal was so depressed that he had even stopped visiting his two younger brothers. “The family was in seclusion after the elopement of Misrilal’s eldest daughter with a youth working at a brick kiln two years back,” local sarpanch Yuvaraj Mandal said. This is not an isolated case. A 25-year-old woman, Ruksana Khatoon, had committed suicide with her two minor kids – Riyaz and Miraz – at Posatama village in Jamui district earlier this year allegedly over a family dispute. In January, a 45-year-old man, Awadhesh Choudhary, killed his four children with a sharp-edged weapon and made murderous attack on his wife Rita Devi (40) and a daughter. He also attempted to commit suicide by consuming poison, but was saved and subsequently arrested. In Nawada, one Sushma Devi had committed suicide along with her two kids by jumping into a village pond in August last year. She was in acute financial stress after the death of her husband Vijay Rajbhar. In addition, the incidents of mass suicide were reported from Rohtas, Vaishali, Muzaffarpur, Siwan and Saran districts. In Vaishali, one Suman Devi and her husband Ramesh Sah had committed suicide due to acute financial crisis in May last year. D M Diwakar, a social scientist and former director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, said, “Financial constraints, crisis at professional front and relationship issues, often lead to depression, prompting people to take extreme step.” However, financial hopelessness is a prime reason and a man kills his entire family and then commits suicide. In many cases, a man kills himself or his family members when he loses his job or is in huge debt. But he fears that his wife and children would not survive as he is gone force, he kills them as well, he opined. Pramod Kumar, a social worker and a keen observer of changes happening in the society, said, “Stress levels have increased manifold in the society these days. Priorities have changed and so have the strength to cope up with difficult situations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cases-of-mass-suicide-on-the-rise-in-state/articleshow/81499701.cms||Ramashankar
March 15, 2021||Kolkata||Pvt security guards ask for vaccination||Kolkata: Private security guards, who are an important constituent of the city’s security setup, have now demanded that they be treated as frontline workers and vaccinated at the earliest. At present, the state employs 5 lakh security guards — the city alone employing 3 lakh. Present at the hospitals, malls and even the airport, these guards have been trained in handling bio-medical waste, a crucial exercise in these Covid times. Ironically, lakhs of guards have been roped in for the successful rollout of the vaccination drive, said stakeholders wondering why they were left out of the vaccination list covering essential service workers in the first place. Central Association of Private Security Industry (CAPSI) has written to the state and Centre requesting them to bring security guards under the mass vaccination programme. “We wrote to the state on March 3. Letters have been written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, minister of state (health) Chandrima Bhattacharya and the principal secretaries and secretaries of the health department. Similar letters have been written to the central home ministry,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, secretary general (West Bengal chapter). “About 90% of our workforce is aged between 25 and 45. This is the section we are worried about,” he said. Shyamal Karmakar, MD of S&IB, a major agency, said their men had worked in some of the most high-risk zones during lockdown. “The banking sector is one area where several of our employees got infected. At least 25 people from my own organization were among them. We had hoped that given the work we did, we would be considered for immunization,” said Karmakar. A representative of another big agency, NIS, said they have made special arrangements to ensure anyone above 60 in their organization will be vaccinated. “We think that there is a practical need for us to be part of the vaccination drive,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-security-guards-ask-for-vaccination/articleshow/81500212.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
---||Vijayawada||TDP wins Tadipatri but YSRC secures Rayalaseema on a trot||Tirupati: With the exception of Tadipatri municipality in Anantapur district, YSRC swept the municipal polls with a resounding majority on Sunday across the four districts of Rayalaseema, proving that the region continues to be the party’s stronghold. TDP suffered a setback in Chittoor where the results of the municipal polls were no different from the recent panchayat polls, which also went in favour of YSRC. In Tirupati municipal corporation, YSRC bagged 48 out of 50 divisions, while TDP could win just one division in the temple city. The ruling party also managed to secure a resounding win in Chittoor municipal corporation as well as five other municipalities in the district, altogether securing 228 wards, miles ahead of TDP’s 17 wards. The ruling party also won 24 out of 26 wards under Kadapa municipal corporation while two other wards went to TDP and an independent candidate, each. YSRC also secured Proddatur, Mydukur, Jammalamadugu, Yerraguntla, Rayachoti and Badvel municipalities. Tadipatri in Anantapur district turned out to be the lone municipality in the region where the TDP secured a higher number of wards than the ruling party. Of the 36 wards, YSRC won 16, TDP won 18, while two wards were won by independent candidates and others. YSRC, however, won Anantapur municipal corporation and in Hindupur, Madakasira, Puttaparthi, Kalyandurg, Guntakal, Rayadurg, Kadiri, Dharmavaram and Gooty municipalities. The ruling party also won Kurnool municipal corporation as well as all six municipalities in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tdp-wins-tadipatri-but-ysrc-secures-rayalaseema-on-a-trot/articleshow/81499470.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
March 15, 2021||Allahabad||More properties of Atiq Ahmadto be attached||Prayagraj: Continuing the crackdown against jailed mafia don-turned-politician Atiq Ahmad’s illegal assets, Prayagraj police is gearing up to further tighten noose around the former MP. Police have identified some more properties associated with Atiq, including his house and office in Chakia area, cold storage land in Jhunsi and two other properties near a hotel in Civil Lines, under the Gangster Act. SP Crime, Ashutosh Mishra said, “We have identified certain properties which are associated with former MP Atiq Ahmad. Suitable action will be taken following all the legal aspects.” District police has sent a report to the district magistrate to attach the illegal properties. This would be in addition to the action being taken against Atiq and his associates by the Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), in which several unauthorised buildings owned by Atiq and his relatives have been demolished. Till now, police have taken action on properties worth more than Rs 150 crore. The action was taken against Atiq under the Gangster Act. A joint team of PDA and the district administration has undertaken 58 drives against the illegal constructions in the district and many of them had direct or indirect links to the mafia don-turned former parliamentarian. Along with demolishing the buildings illegally raised by Atiq and his men, district administration has attached several of the properties of Atiq and his associates. Earlier, action was taken against several properties owned by Atiq, including his office in Chakia. Part of this office was also demolished under the BSP rule, but construction was again done on the demolished area. Last year, a large part of the same building was demolished by the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/more-properties-of-atiq-ahmadto-be-attached/articleshow/81498969.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Goa||Artist, Freedom Fighter, Teacher: The Colourful Life Of Pai||Panaji: Ninety-five-year-old Padma Bhushan awardee Laxman Pai painted until recently, using his walker to move around the house until his death. He advocated the Covid-19 vaccine but didn’t live to take the second dose. Speaking to TOI after taking the vaccine less than a fortnight ago, Pai had said he wasn’t afraid of injections. “I didn’t feel a thing. If I can do it easily, then you all can also do it,” he had said. Read the full story on TOI+ Laxman Pai: The man who put Goa on the art map||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/artist-freedom-fighter-teacher-the-colourful-life-of-pai/articleshow/81501243.cms||Lisa Monteiro
---||Kolkata||Victory Flame reaches Barrackpore Cantonment||Kolkata: The ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal: Victory Torch’ lit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 16, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of India’s 1971 victory over Pakistan, has travelled to four cardinal directions of the country. The one travelling in the eastern direction has reached Barrackpore Cantonment on March 11 and was received by Brigadier A K Kutty, Stn Cdr, Barrackpore, amidst much fanfare. The flame was welcomed by the NCC cadets, school children and serving personnel lined up along the route of the Victory Flame to the RCTC. Various events such as felicitation of the veterans, military pipe band display and Khukri dance by the army personnel were organised to commemorate the occasion. As a curtain raiser to the event, a documentary on the war in 1971 was screened. A painting competition was also held on March 10 for schoolchildren on the theme ‘Swarnim Vijay: 1971 War’. The events included a brief review of 1971 War felicitation of Veteran Sepoy Haridas Pal of valiant 2nd Battalion The Rajput Regiment, who took part in both in the 1965 and 1971 wars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/victory-flame-reaches-barrackpore-cantonment/articleshow/81499674.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Delhi||Trader shot outside his shop in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 47-year-old man was shot dead by an unidentified gunman in northeast Delhi’s Khajuri Khas on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Shorab Ansari, who owned a clothes shop in the area and was shot right outside it. Police received a call about the incident around 8.40pm. Ansari was rushed to Jag Pravesh Chand Hospital where he was declared brought dead. The cops said an FIR had been registered. Family dispute or personal rivalry is suspected to be the motive behind the murder. Two other firing incidents were also reported from the same district but no deaths were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/trader-shot-outside-his-shop/articleshow/81500481.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Aurangabad||Treated water from STPs to become potable soon: AMC||Aurangabad: In what could be a sustainable solution to the water woes of Aurangabad, the civic body has decided to set up a plant that will convert the treated water from sewage treatment plants (STPs) to potable water. Anil Tanpure, the deputy engineer of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), on Sunday said the proposed plant would come up at Kanchanwadi with a designed capacity of 161 MLD. “Aurangabad will be the first city in Maharashtra to have such a plant that will harness potable water from the STPs. The treated water will get tertiary treatment that involves physico-chemical treatment and other steps to further reduce unwanted elements. Thus, the recycled water from STPs will become potable,” he said. Tanpure said the Detailed Project Report (DPR) of the plant is ready and tenders for appointment of a project consultant would be invited shortly. “The plant is designed in keeping with the anticipated increase in population over a period of next 30 years. It will have a financial outlay of around Rs 150 crore,” he said. Notably, as reported by TOI in the past, around 7 crore litre of treated water from four STPs goes to drain in Aurangabad on a daily basis. A considerable volume of this water will be made potable now through the new plant at Kanchanwadi. “The proposed facility will cater to the industrial demand of water in the initial phase followed by that of villages located in the fringe areas. Such proposed usage will automatically ease the burden on domestic water supply,” Tanpure said. The AMC has STPs operational at Kanchanwadi, Zalta T-point, Padegaon and near Salim Ali Lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/treated-water-from-stps-to-become-potable-soon-amc/articleshow/81498069.cms||Prasad Joshi
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Passing rate of first-year medical batch dips||MUMBAI: The performance of medical students in the first year MBBS exam (2019-20 batch) held physically amid the pandemic took a hit this year. While over 85% students usually cleared the exam in the first year, this year the success rate dropped to 73% and in some private colleges, results are worse. Among all courses, only medical exams were held offline in the pandemic. Students and parents attribute poor performance to classes moving online, lack of preparation, losing practice of writing, anxiety during pandemic and the new pattern. In city government and civic colleges, around 12-35% students failed in first year. In HBT College (Cooper Hospital), 5-10% students usually failed in first year, but the number rose to 34% this year. A student from the college said results could have gone down for many reasons this year. “Prelims were also taken online. Some of us faced difficulty in writing after a six-month gap. There was also a lot of anxiety with exams postponed many times. Ours was the first batch to appear in the new paper pattern that is more practical-oriented. While colleges did their best to train us online, it’s not the same,” said a student. Maharashtra University of Health Sciences held first-year MBBS exam for 6,600 pupils in December, ahead of all other states. “The exam was supposed to be held in September and got postponed due to the pandemic. This was also the first batch to appear in the new exam pattern prescribed by Medical Council of India,” said Ajit Pathak, exam controller. At Government Medical College, Latur, success rate was mostly around 80-90%, this year it dropped to 72%. At Dhule, an official said many did not appear for the exam, causing drop in success rates. Activist Chaitanya Prabhu who received complaints from many students said classes were held online for five months and exams were fully offline. “Students said online practical sessions were not enough. Many claimed they failed for just three to four marks. Everyone was under much pressure, and the university could have been a bit considerate,” he said, adding that most failed in anatomy and biochemistry. The long break from college may have impacted learning levels, said dean of GS Medical College, Dr Hemant Deshmukh. He said students were also relaxed a bit, adding that a change in pattern should not affect studies. Sudha Shenoy, a parent representative, said many felt exams will not be held in December and took it lightly. She added that poor results could also reflect quality of students getting into MBBS. Director of Directorate of Medical Education & Research Dr TP Lahane, however, said students who failed will not lose the whole year and they are being allowed to attend classes in the new term. They will take the supplementary exam, and most clear it later, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaipassing-rate-of-first-year-medical-batch-dips/articleshow/81500492.cms||Yogita Rao
---||Delhi||Residents of east, northeast Delhi rue extended water cut||NEW DELHI: Residents living in parts of east and northeast Delhi were anguished as water supply shortage woes extended on Sunday. The delay was brought on by the interconnection work of 1,200mm water supply pipeline. However, DJB said that the work had been completed and water supply would be restored soon. DJB officials said that several residents of Vikas Marg had reported major leakage in the main supply line, which had led to water entering the basement of their homes, causing a threat to buildings. To avoid any disasters, the task of interconnection and repair was taken up. The supply was initially expected to be restored on Saturday evening, but complications led to an additional day of misery for residents, with several people complaining they had to purchase drinking water. Many people expressed anguish on the water supply getting affected for three days, non-responsive helplines and non-availability of tankers. Sonu Kumar Gond from Mandawali said that he did not even have a litre of water at his home and even bottled water was unavailable at shops. Neha Sachdeva, another east Delhi resident, complained that no one was picking up helpline phone numbers and there was no information of when the supply will resume. Many people were wary about supply woes as peak summer season has not even arrived yet. The supply from Bhagirathi Water Treatment Plant was curtailed in east and northeast Delhi and estimated repair time of 12 hours was informed to all the residents of the affected areas. The list of affected areas included Laxmi Nagar, Chitra Vihar, East Azad Nagar, Gazipur, Dallupura, Trilokpuri, New Kondli, Shahdara, Mandawali and Patparganj area, Mayur Vihar Phase-1 and 2, Shalimar Park, Vishkarma Park, Pandav Nagar and neighbouring areas. “The actual complexity was fully known only after digging at the site, following which the interconnection work got delayed by 24 hours. The entangled cables beneath the concrete road and backflow of water hampered the welding process the lines was a major set-back in completing the task in the given time frame,” the official said.  DJB claimed it had deployed many water tankers from other emergencies at the impacted areas of east and northeast Delhi. A senior DJB official said, “I would like to thank the affected residents for their cooperation and assure them that our team of officers and engineers are working day and night to ensure Delhi residents’ water woes stay at a minimum.” The official added that the work of interconnection and repair was completed by 4.00pm on Sunday. “Areas that receive waters by direct tapping will receive supply from Sunday evening while UGRs will be first be levelled with water from the Bhagirathi Plant and then will be distributed to the areas in its command,” DJB stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/residents-of-east-northeast-delhi-rue-extended-water-cut/articleshow/81500674.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Chennai||TNRERA fines 2 builders Rs 10L for misleading home buyers||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) has imposed a penalty of Rs 10 lakh on two developers for factual misrepresentation of RERA registration number in their portals. A complaint was filed with the TNRERA over usage of the same RERA registration number for two housing projects at Athipattu and Perumbakkam. The TNRERA, in its order, said that mentioning Nolambur as the location for a project situated at Athipattu in Ambattur Taluk amounted to misleading prospective homebuyers. Similarly, for another project at Vengaivasal, the location was mentioned as Medavakkam. While imposing a penalty of Rs 10 lakh, the TNRERA directed developers to immediately remove all factual misrepresentations. However, the developers, Dawning Developers LLP and Casagrand Builder Private Limited, told the TNRERA that they were using the website, referred by the complainant, only for surveying activities at the time of page construction and the portals were under construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tnrera-fines-2-builders-rs-10l-for-misleading-home-buyers/articleshow/81500494.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Chennai||18-month-old girl ‘drowns’ in bucket of water||Chennai: An 18-month-old girl was found dead in a bucket full of water at her house in Mannadi on Saturday. The deceased was Iniyasree, daughter of Kumaresan, 23, and Kalaivani, 20, of Subbu Pillai Street. Kumaresan is a daily wage labourer. The incident happened on Saturday afternoon, when Kumaresan and Kalaivani were sleeping. When the couple woke up, they found their daughter missing. After they could not find her outside, they searched their house only to find Iniyasree’s body inside a bucket full of water in the bathroom. Police said the girl used to play in the bathroom by turning on the tap. The girl’s body was found upside down in the 1.5ft-tall bucket. On information, North Beach police rushed to the spot and sent the body to the Government Stanley Hospital for postmortem. A case of suspicious death has been registered. Police are also trying to find out if there were any external injuries. The child’s parents are being questioned, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/18-month-old-girl-drowns-in-bucket-of-water/articleshow/81500490.cms||---
---||Hyderabad||MLC polls: Voters vexed as poll booths split families||HYDERABAD: The election authorities came under fire from a large number of graduates for splitting up their family members to different polling booths despite the address of all the residents being the same. They said the election officials involved in allotment of voters to each booth did not do their homework properly, as a result of which family members were divided between different polling booths causing inconvenience to them. Santosh Rai and his wife Pallavi are residents of Monda Market. “While I had to vote in the polling booth located in the government boys school in Kalasiguda, my wife had to vote in the polling booth located in Wesley College, Secunderabad zone. We first went to my polling booth and after casting my vote, came here to Wesley college so that my wife could cast her vote. A closer look into the voters list by the officials is enough to avoid such goof-ups,” said Rai. P V Kumar, a 63-year-old retired central government officer, said the officials involved in enrolment and allotment of voters to polling booths should not take the voters for granted and do their work properly. “I am a resident of new Bholakpur area. There are six voters in my family. Quite shockingly, only I was allotted to a polling booth located near Paradise and the remaining five family members were allotted to polling booths located in Sardar Patel College, Padmarao Nagar. I had to travel from Bholakpur to Paradise because I wanted to cast my vote. I am ready to go the distance to cast my vote but this is not the way to divide family members,” rued Kumar. These are not isolated cases as a large number of complaints poured in from various parts of Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar MLC constituency where members of a family were allotted different booths, located 3 to 5 kilometres away from each location. Chief electoral officer Shashank Goel, speaking to TOI, admitted members of the same family could have been allotted different polling booths at some places as part of Covid guidelines to ensure that no polling booth had more than 1,000 voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/family-members-allotted-different-polling-booths/articleshow/81500499.cms||Roushan Ali
March 15, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Behind those colours hides Kannagi Nagar’s dark side||CHENNAI: After the devastating December 2004 tsunami, when thousands of people from various slums were shifted to Kannagi Nagar, they hoped for a better life. Seventeen years on, the quality of life of more than one lakh people in 23,704 houses in the resettlement colony off the IT Corridor (OMR) is, if anything, worse. A recent study by Voluntary Health Services (VHS) found high incidence of violence, both physical and sexual, against women and children, with more than 85% of the women victims of domestic violence ‒ more than double the 37% found in the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-4, 2015-16). “In Kannagi Nagar, 62% of women have faced sexual violence, 53% are forced into child marriage, 71% experience child abuse and 79% face sexual harassment,” said VHS director Dr Vijayaraman. The study was undertaken after outreach workers involved in the urban slum community found issues around gender-based violence. “We set up a group of 40 volunteers, Nanban, in September 2020. Later, we brought an advocate to the hospital to counsel the women on their legal rights.” With 13 focus group discussions, each with 10 women participants, 16 key informant interviews were conducted. The stories that tumbled out after a visit by TOI to the area on Sunday revealed the situation is worse. Most cases go unreported due to the lack of an all-women police station. Manimeghalai*, a volunteer with Nanban, is fighting a case against her husband for domestic violence, Kavitha, a resident, has reported a case of sexual assault against her neighbour and a mentally challenged girl was found pregnant at the ICDS centre in the area a few months ago. “Children watch their fathers beat up their mothers and sexually assault them. Many girls drop out of school as parents force them into marriage fearing sexual violence,” said Arul Sahayam of SPAN, an NGO. Vanessa Peter of the Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities (IRCDUC) says Kannagi Nagar is an artificial habitation of people drawn from 66 different slums and set up without any community consultation. “People resettled here were sometimes allotted homes next to those of criminal gangs. This colony is poorly planned and completely unsafe.” A senior police officer said they were doing their best. “We have an active police boys and girls club. We have tied up with postal department, set up post boxes and gave them post cards to report sexual violence. After the election, we will work on setting up an AWPS.” Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) officials said they were only responsible for construction. Greater Chennai Corporation officials say they are working on making the place an art district. “We plan to set up a library and a coaching centre for civil services exams,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/behind-those-colours-hides-kannagi-nagars-dark-side/articleshow/81500495.cms||Komal Gautham
March 15, 2021||Bareilly||In a first, Pilibhit cane tigress released in wild||PILIBHIT: In a first, a tigress living amid the sugarcane fields of Pilibhit district was tranquilized, translocated to the core forest area of Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) and released on Sunday morning. The two-and-a-half-year-old tigress was tranquillized at Harchuiya village under Lalaurikhera block on Saturday afternoon after it had got entangled in a net placed to trap a wild boar in a sugarcane field. A check of the database showed that the young tigress’ stripes did not match with any of PTR’s big cats, said Naveen Khandelwal, deputy director of PTR. So the tigress must have come from the adjoining cane belt of Amaria tehsil, 25 km away, he said. Now, experts will try to find a match with Amaria tiger database, set up after the first census of cane tigers in Pilibhit in 2020, Khandelwal added. This is the first-ever tiger translocation carried out by the PTR authorities since a tigress and its three cubs had moved into Amaria, 18 km from PTR, in November 2012. Over the years, the tiger population has increased in Amaria. Today, an estimated 10 tigers live amid the cane fields of the area. Now, the felines have started venturing into other areas to mark out new territories for themselves. At least three are said to have moved to Mohamadi, “The tigress was safely released in a low big cat density region of the core forest keeping in mind the need to protect it from territorial infighting,” said Khandelwal. To foil possible bid by the tigress to stray towards human habitat, Khandelwal said, “We have installed over two dozen camera traps to monitor its movement and behavior in the forest.” Two teams of field forest force have been deployed to keep a watch on the activities of the tigress and ensure its safety, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/in-a-first-pilibhit-cane-tigress-released-in-wild/articleshow/81497704.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 15, 2021||Madurai||Woman injured in chain snatching incident||Madurai: A 43-year-old pillion rider from Madurai city fell down from the vehicle and suffered injuries when bike-borne chain snatchers grabbed her two chains in Theni Road on Saturday. The injured woman identified as P Selvi, 43, from Thirumalairayar Padithurai in Simmakkal, went to a temple on Saturday along with her husband P Pandiarajan,51. While returning, her chains weighing around 26 sovereigns worth about Rs 7.8 lakh was taken away by the chain snatchers. The woman suffered injuries on her face and hands and was taken to a hospital for treatment. Based on a complaint from Pandiarajan, a case was registered with the Checkanurani police station and an inquiry was carried out. In another snatching incident, a gold chain weighing two sovereigns was taken from a woman identified as A Dharani from Nagamalai Pudukottai. Police said she was returning home in Chinnakannu Nagar from a bank on Saturday by walk when an unidentified person, followed her, snatched the jewel and ran away. Based on a complaint from her, a case was registered with the Nagamalai Pudukottai police station and an inquiry was underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-injured-in-chain-snatching-incident/articleshow/81500498.cms||---
---||Aurangabad||Over 6,000 register under RTE Act||Aurangabad: Around 6,859 student have registered for admissions under the Right to Education Act 2009 (RTE) in Aurangabad district by Sunday ahead of the stipulated deadline of March 21. The district had witnessed 16,587 applications for admissions for the academic year 2020-21. Educational activist Prashant Sathe said the second-wave of Covid-19 may delay the enrolment process. “Most of the students’ parents cannot follow the online registration process on their own so they take help from private players at cyber cafes and other such facilities to carry out the enrolment. As curbs are in place during weekends, the registration process may be affected to some extent,” he said, adding that enrolment may pick up before the deadline of March 21. The total number of registered schools from Aurangabad district has gone up marginally to 603 this year as compared to 584 during the last academic year, as per official data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-6000-register-under-rte-act/articleshow/81498079.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Varanasi||Progress of tribals is key to nation’s development: Ram Nath Kovind||VARANASI: President Ram Nath Kovind said on Sunday that the progress of tribal population is must and the country cannot be considered developed without the development of tribal and forest dwellers. Speaking at ‘Vanvasi Samagam’ after inaugurating buildings of Seva Kunj Ashram at Chapki in Sonbhadra, the President said, “Tthe soul of the country is in rural and forest areas. If anyone wants to get acquainted with the roots of India, then one should spend some time at places like Sonbhadra.” “The central and state governments are implementing various schemes for the development of rural and forest dwellers. The CM also announced the setting up of a medical college in Sonbhadra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/progress-of-tribals-is-key-tonations-development-prez/articleshow/81499006.cms||---
---||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath asks officials to expedite work on Delhi-Meerut RRTS||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the officials to expedite the work on the ambitious Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor to ensure its completion by 2023. Soon after coming to power in 2017, the state cabinet approved the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor to increase regional mobility in NCR. The proposal was sanctioned by the central government in March 2019 and its foundation stone was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 8, 2019. According to officials of the housing and urban planning department, RRTS will provide regional connectivity to NCR with an operational speed of 160km per hour. “The growth of any state is recognised by its best infrastructure and connectivity, which in turn attracts investment and expedite development,” officials said. Under the RRTS project, the central government has identified eight corridors to connect the major regional centres of the country. Of these, the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor is on the top priority to be implemented in phase-1. The 82-km-long Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor is the first RRTS corridor in the country. It is included in the 17km priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai of the corridor. A total of Rs 30,274 crore is estimated to be spent on this project. The state government and the Centre have so far released Rs 1,550 crore and Rs 2,138 crore respectively for the project. The Centre has also made a provision of Rs 4,472 crore in the financial year 2021-22. The corridor is targeted to start operations by March 2023 and the entire Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor is scheduled to be completed by 2025. The other two RRTS corridors of Phase-1 are Delhi-Gurugram-Alwar and Delhi-Panipat. The pre-construction activities for the Delhi-Gurugram-Alwar corridor are underway. According to officials, metro services will also be operated in Meerut under this project. For this, 13 metro stations will be built in Meerut while multimodal integration action is being taken in Ghaziabad. The project is aimed at providing speedy transport while getting rid of traffic jams and reducing pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pace-up-delhi-meerut-rrts-work-yogi/articleshow/81500805.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Allahabad||Country being run by private firms: Rakesh Tikait||PRAYAGRAJ: Raising the pitch against the new farm laws, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said that had there been a government in the country, private companies would not have been ruling the roost and such anti-farmer ordinances would not have been introduced. “The movement will continue as the government is not willing to accept our demands despite several rounds of talks... A large number of farmers are still present at the Delhi border and the agitation will continue till the agricultural bill is withdrawn and legislation on minimum support price is not enacted,” said the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson, who was in the city while on the way to Rewa from West Bengal as part of his nationwide tour to garner support for a legislation on MSP. He said, a handful of rice is being sought from voters in Bengal. In his tour of West Bengal, he has appealed to the farmers that while giving rice, they must demand that its MSP should also be enacted. He demanded that MSP of paddy should be Rs 1,850 per quintal. The farmer leader said, 4.5 crore small traders would be ruined by the new farm laws as weekly markets will be closed. Today, airport, LIC and banks are being privatised and the government is being run by private companies. The government is saying that by enacting a law on MSP, the trader will be at a disadvantage, he claimed. Asked on the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, he said: “We are not political people. If the government accepts our demands, we can also support the government. The basic purpose of this yatra is to connect the farmers across the country with the movement,” On funding the farmer movement, he said there is no need for it. “There are farmers in the movement who just eat pulses and roti. What do they need funding for,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/farmers-agitation-to-continue-till-farm-laws-are-withdrawn-tikait/articleshow/81498980.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Corruption in land lease for Kamla Nehru Trust||LUCKNOW: Investigators on Sunday blew the lid off mammoth irregularities in leasing out government land in Rae Bareli to Kamla Nehru Educational Society. Twelve persons, including former officials of the educational society, revenue officials and then additional district magistrate (ADM) were booked for fraud, tampering with government documents and damage to public property. The case was lodged by ADM (finance & revenue) Prem Prakash Upadhayay, who stated in his complaint that land in Ahmadpur village was illegally handed over to the society as freehold property in connivance with revenue department employees. Those under investigation include then ADM (finance and revenue) Madan Pal Arya, deputy registrar, revenue department (Sadar) Ghanshayam, revenue clerk Ram Krishna Srivastava, administrative officer in collectorate, Vindhyavasini Prasad. Kamla Nehru Educational Society members under the radar include Vikram Kaul, son of Late Congress MP Sheila Kaul, secretary Sunil Dev, Rae Bareli resident and Trustee Sunil Kumar and the then chairman. Earlier, city magistrate Yugraj Singh had conducted a probe into irregularities in allotment of the plot. Complainant Upadhayay stated members of the society had paid off a clerk and head of the nazul department to bag a recommendation for freehold possession of land. “No deed was signed and the Trust’s application for allotment was sent on February 6, 2001, and the approval was received within six months,” he said. The probe also revealed that clerks and other officials of revenue and administration overlooked their legal obligation and forwarded the file which was replete with overwriting and content smudged with whiteners to make it a fit case for freehold allotment. Upadhyay pointed out that the society had deposited Rs 5.37 lakh as fee instead of Rs 9.48 lakh, causing huge losses to the exchequer. Talking to TOI, Congress MLA from Rae Bareli (Sadar), Aditi Singh, said, she had written to Economics Offences Wing and sought a probe into financial discrepancies in the Kamla Nehru Trust. “I would like to thank chief minister Yogi Adityanath for pushing for an investigation and registering a case against officials and members of the Trust. The Gandhi family has huge stakes in the Trust with Vikram Kaul and Salman Khursheed being members. The land which was allocated for education of girls, but was never used for this purpose,” she told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corruption-unearthed-in-leasing-out-govt-land-to-kamla-nehru-educational-society/articleshow/81500590.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
March 15, 2021||Kanpur||Mum defeats UP by 6 wickets in final||Kanpur: Aditya Tare’s unbeaten century and his two useful partnerships helped Mumbai to fulfill its dream of lifting the Vijay Hazare trophy fourth time on Sunday when they defeated UP by 6 wickets in a high scoring final held at Arun Jaitley stadium in New Delhi. UP, batting first, scored a total of 312 for 4 in 50 overs with the help of opener Madhav Kaushik’s unbeaten knock of 158 runs. The score board gave an indication that the tie would be contesting but Mumbai proved it wrong when they successfully chased the target scoring 315 for 4 in 41.3 overs. UP bowlers got rid belligerent Prithvi Shaw in just 39 balls, but before that he tore the attack hammering 10 boundaries and four sixes in his 79 runs. They could have got rid him earlier if Karan Sharma had not dropped him of Aquib Khan. Shaw thereafter became aggressive. Another opener Yashaswai Bhupedra too attacked and scored 29 runs in 30 balls hitting 3 boundaries and a six. This aggressive batting disturbed the UP attack. By the time bowlers could reunite Aditya Tare, SZ Mulani added 88 runs for the third wicket in 93 balls before separation. Yash Dayal broke their partnership claiming Mulani for 36 runs. But this was not the end of trouble as Shivam Dubey supported Tare in the middle and the two batsmen played another significant partnership of 88 runs. Though Sameer Chaudhary broke their partnership but it was too late as the score was 303 for 4 in 40.2 overs. Mumbai now required just 9 runs in the remaining 9.4 overs with six wickets in hand and their star batsmen Tare was in the middle who had completed his century off 91 balls during this partnership. Tare along with SN Khan completed the formality in the very next over dropped by Yash Dayal. He scored 118 runs in 107 deliveries sending the ball 18 times to the fence. UP, in the morning, decided to bat first and got a flying start from opener Madhav Kaushik and Samarth Singh as they collected 122 runs in 26 overs. Thereafter UP got two setbacks. Karan Sharma returned without score in the very first ball he faced and Priyam Garg fell prey to Tanush for 21 runs. In form, Aksh Deep Nath once again played a solid inning of 55 runs before being adjudged as run out. In an effort to rotate the strike, he fell short from the crease on direct throw of Prithvi Shaw. Two batsmen added 128 runs for the fourth wicket and in between Kaushik completed his century in 125 balls. Kaushik returned unbeaten on 158 runs in 156 balls plundering 15 boundaries and 4 sixes. After the match was over, UP coach Gyanendra Pandey said that the score of 312 was good one and could be defended. But the bowlers failed to do so. He praised the innings of Madhav Kaushik and Aksh Deep Nath. Brief score: UP- 312 for 4 (Madhav Kaushik 158no, Samarth Singh 55, Priyam Garg 21, Aksh Deep Nath 55, Tanush Kotian 2 for 54, PH Solanki 1 for 71), Mumbai - 315 for 4 (Prithvi Shaw 73, Yash Bhupendra Jaiswal 29, Aditya Tare 118no, SZ Mulani 36, Shivam Dubey 42, Yash Dayal 1 for 71, Shivam Mavi 1 for 63, Shivam Sharma 1 for 71 and Sameer Chaudhary 1 for 43).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mum-defeats-up-by-6-wickets-in-final/articleshow/81499253.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
March 15, 2021||Varanasi||Union govt hiked agribudget manifold: MoS||Gorakhpur: The BJP government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is continuously working to double the income of farmers and has increased budget for agriculture many times, said Union minister of state for agriculture and farmer welfare, Kailash Choudhary on Sunday. Addressing a seminar as chief guest during Kalanamak Mahotsav in Siddharthnagar virtually, Choudhary said, “The Union Government led by PM Modi is continuously making efforts to double the income of farmers. Previous governments used to allocate Rs 23,000 crore for agriculture, but now Rs 1,23,000 crore has been allocated of which Rs 75,000 crore is going directly in the accounts of farmers.” “Both Union and state governments will take steps to promote Kalanamak rice in the world and very soon a grand Kisan Mela would be organized to bring farmers, agriculture specialists, scientists and big businessmen on one platform,” Choudhary added. The government is working to bring good change in the lives of farmers and had hence enacted the farm laws, said the minister, adding, “The new laws give farmers the freedom to sell their produce to anyone and to prevent their exploitation by middlemen and select traders. But the Opposition has been misleading farmers by making wrong claims.” “For Kalanamak rice production, such blocks in the districts would be selected where farmers can themselves make seeds ready. The government will offer full support and will coordinate with farmers to ensure the aroma of Kalanamak rice spreads to different parts of the world,” Choudhary said. The minister also launched a biscuit made of Kalanamak rice and a scented mask on the occasion. MP Jagdambia Pal and state minister Dr Satish Chandra Dwivedi threw light on the history of Kalanamak rice and also the benefits after it was included in the one district one product (ODOP) scheme. District magistrate Deepak Meena delivered the vote of thanks and presented a packet of Kalanamak rice to the guests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/union-govt-hiked-agribudget-manifold-mos/articleshow/81499008.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Chennai||No compensation if agreement doesn’t provide for it: TNRERA||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) has said a homebuyer will not be eligible for compensation after accepting the terms and conditions of the promoter that rule it out for delay in delivery. The case pertains to a deal without any construction agreement between the promoter and homebuyer, with the brochure not having details about delivery of the dwelling unit. A clause in the brochure, which deals with the delay in construction, lays down that if construction was delayed for any reason, no interest or compensation is payable. "Accepting the terms and conditions, the complainant applied for allotment of the dwelling unit. Therefore, the claim of compensation for delay is not sustainable," said TNRERA adjudicating officer G Saravanan. The housing project in the city was by the Indian Railway Welfare Organization, a not-for-profit organisation. The complainant, a primary member of the organisation, applied for an allotment. Though the project was launched in 2006, possession was given only in 2019 without car parking. The complainant sought compensation for the failure to provide open car parking and delay in delivery.  In a counter affidavit, the promoter denied all allegations, saying the delay was on account of approvals from local bodies, which was beyond its control. The complainant had no right to demand open car parking space as it was optional and based on the availability of land, the promoter said. After hearing both sides, TNRERA said no amount was collected for provision of car parking. The complainant had not opted for dedicated car parking either. "In view of the circumstances, the complainant cannot be said to have suffered any mental agony," the TNRERA said, adding that the complainant was not entitled to any compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-compensation-if-agreement-doesnt-provide-for-it-tnrera/articleshow/81500497.cms||---
---||Chennai||Chitlapakkam locals start ‘know your candidate drive’||Chennai: Resident welfare associations in Chitlapakkam, which falls under the Tambaram constituency, have begun a 'know your candidates' drive, and are meeting candidates who are contesting from the constituency in the assembly elections. On Sunday, the residents met Siva Elango, candidate for Makkal Needhi Maiam, at Chitlapakkam Lake to air their grievances. The residents have prepared an affidavit, containing the top ten issues of the constituency. They plan to submit the affidavit to all candidates contesting from Tambaram. “We will try to meet all the candidates contenting from Tambaram and explain them the issues. We will seek their promise to fulfil all the demands during their tenure,” said Sunil Jayaraman, a resident. Some of the issues mentioned in the affidavit include implementation of a comprehensive waste management system, underground drainage system, adequate drinking water supply, underground cable for electricity, improving existing facilities such as government schools and healthcare clinics within two years. Several residents called for the candidates to ensure that the waterbodies are maintained regularly and help increase public transport facilities in the suburbs. Chitlapakkam residents also wanted their town panchayat to be upgraded to municipality or merge with the Tambaram municipality. The interactive session with the candidates got off to a good start as representatives from various resident welfare associations gathered at Chitlapakkam Lake, said Sunil Jayaraman. “Several residents asked interesting questions to MNM candidate Siva Elango, who listened to their concerns and told them how legislators have neglected the constituency over the years,” Sunil said. DMK candidate S R Raja too met some of the residents at a park in Muthulakshmi Nagar on Sunday. In the coming week, resident welfare associations have planned to meet candidates from other parties, including the ruling AIAMDK (T K M Chinnayya) and candidates from Naam Tamilar Katchi and AMMK. “Ideally, we would like all candidates to come together for a debate before the election so that our residents can make an informed choice,” said a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chitlapakkam-locals-start-know-your-candidate-drive/articleshow/81500496.cms||---
---||Chennai||Covid-19 hits vacation travel to Kerala||Chennai: The spurt in Covid-19 cases in Kerala has hit the vacation travel plan of Chennaities. Cancellations are up this month, though the trade hopes for a revival in May. There has , however, been a rise in bookings to Kashmir. A Basheer Ahmed of Chennai Metro Travels and national committee member of the Travel Agents Federation of India said cancellation of Kerala trips was about 50 per cent. "These trips were pre-booked but the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases led vacationers from Chennai to have second thoughts. Tour operators had hoped for 65 per cent revival of domestic, but the spike in cases has come in the way," he said. However, he expects the situation to improve. "Gone are the days when people plan their vacations months ago. We except that May could be better," Basheer Ahmed said.  A fortnight ago, the state government announced that passengers coming to Tamil Nadu from Maharashtra and Kerala must remain in home quarantine for seven days. Last week, the Tamil Nadu government made e-pass mandatory for all international and domestic passengers arriving to the state except those from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry. Sriharan Balan of Madura Travel service and Travel Agents Association of India chairman (tourism sub-committee) said Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh have emerged as alternatives.  A travel agent based at Kashmir, who handles groups from Chennai, said that the number of inquiries from Chennai has increased this March when compared to February, though the volume of conversions was minimal. "While there were no cancellations on bookings from Chennai, it was not clear whether the upcoming assembly elections in TN or increasing number of Covid-19 cases was the reason. Our company has 300 people visiting Kashmir from Chennai till April, an increase from 175 in January and February this year," Farooq Ahmad Bhat, proprietor of a travel agency in Kashmir said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-19-hits-vacation-travel-to-kerala/articleshow/81500500.cms||---
---||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman assaults CISF staffer at airport, arrested||MUMBAI: A woman passenger was arrested by the Sahar police for manhandling a CISF staff at Terminal 2 of Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport in Mumbai on Sunday. The passenger wanted to take a GO Air flight to Bengaluru, but reached Terminal 2 instead of 1. A police officer said, “The passenger had reached T-2 well in time, but wasn’t told by the CISF staff that boarding for GO Air flight would be from Terminal 1.” When she entered T-2 and couldn’t find GO Air check-in counter, she lost her cool and started to argue with the CISF staff. “The CISF staff told her she still had enough time to reach T-1 but she argued and latter slapped a CISF constable, Umashankar Shukla. When a female constable was summoned, she spat on her. The passenger was handed over to Sahar police and booked,” She missed her flight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaiwoman-assaults-cisf-staffer-at-airport-arrested/articleshow/81500504.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Lucknow||‘Architecture in cinema adds context to a story’||LUCKNOW: Architecture gives context to a story. Literature and cinema are interconnected through storytelling and what creates this connection is the architecture – the setting in which a story is narrated to the audience, according to Snehanshu Mukherjee, who has designed sets for several plays. Speaking during a panel discussion on ‘Architecture of Storytelling’ at the spring edition of Metaphor Litfest, Mukherjee and fellow architect Srinivas Murthy discussed scenes from director Satyajit Ray’s ‘Aparajito’ and ‘Charulata’, and Akira Kurosawa’s ‘Throne of Blood’ to elaborate how architecture helps in giving a physical shape and add dimensions to written works of fiction in cinema. “Characters from a book have to be shown as real and in authentic settings in cinema. Ray did the same in his works. He ran his imagination, drew illustrations and put it on the screen for the audience to see. In a scene in ‘Aparajito’ where the father, Harihar, is dying. The setting beginning from the room where he is lying to the flight of stairs to the ghats of Varanasi and later to the flock of pigeons flying away when he finally takes his last breath, all heighten the emotions of the audience,” he said. “This is what architecture does and to make this happen, the director needs to have a sound knowledge of it,” said Mukherjee. The session was moderated by author and entrepreneur Meenakshi Upadhyaya. “I personally believe architecture in its lone setting is only geographical. But, architecture coupled with cinema, stories and music is something which transcends globally. It can be made to serve different ends, just like literature,” added Srinivas Murthy. On the fourth day of Metaphor Litfest on Monday, a virtual poetic meet will be organised which will be followed by a conversation with celebrated Urdu poet Khushbir Singh Shaad, singer Kavita Seth and poet Manish Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/architecture-in-cinema-threatreadds-context-dimension-to-story/articleshow/81500628.cms||Aditi Singh
---||Lucknow||Only 50% beneficiaries have received kisan credit card; govt begins drive to cover all||LUCKNOW: Nearly seven months after the state government decided that farmers covered under PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme will be given kisan credit cards (KCC), recent data shows that the sop has reached only half the beneficiaries. While the state government had raced to include 2.4 crore farmers under PM Kisan scheme, it could manage to provide KCCs to only 1.56 crore farmers in the state. The state agriculture department has now dashed off a missive to all district magistrates to carry out a drive till April 15 to ensure that the benefits reach the benefciaries. Additional chief secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturvedi told TOI that farmers who have been left out are mostly from east UP where land holdings are smaller in comparison to west UP. “As a result, banks are not taking requisite interest in issuing KCC to farmers,” he said. Chaturvedi added that the drive would ensure that cases of the intended farmers are taken up by the government. “As per the guidelines of the Centre, the farmers will be provided KCC within 15 days of filing the application,” he said. Sources said the state government also seeks to get the credit cards issued, mainly from cooperative banks. Data shows that there were just over 1.3 crore farmers who were provided KCC when chief secretary RK Tewari had given orders for the same in August. This means that seven months since, only about 25 lakh farmers have been added. This was despite the CS’s directions to officials to ensure that forms of farmers are timely filed for submission in banks. Tewari had also asked DMs to organise special camps where not only officials of the agriculture department, but also those from the rural, revenue and Panchayati Raj departments would be present. According to sources, pandemic also affected the process. The KCC scheme was introduced to ensure that credit requirements of farmers in the agriculture, fisheries and animal husbandry sectors were being met. This was done by helping them avail short-term loans and providing them with a credit limit to purchase equipment. Besides, under KCC, farmers are exempt from high interest rates on loans. Interest rate for KCC starts as low as 2% and averages at 4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/only-50-beneficiaries-have-received-kisan-credit-card-govt-begins-drive-to-cover-all/articleshow/81500852.cms||Pankaj Shah
March 15, 2021||Lucknow||Aviation varsity VC selection process cancelled over delay||Lucknow: After failing to complete the selection process in 11 months, the Union civil aviation ministry has cancelled the selection process for the post of vice-chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi National Aviation University (RGNAV), Amethi. The cancellation of the advertisement, issued on March 15, 2020, comes at a point when the top three administrators of the university are not permanent. The cancellation notice (TOI has a copy of it) was issued by under secretary, Union civil aviation ministry, Kameshwar Mishra, on February 16. Mishra told TOI: “Time was very short. Had the new VC been recruited he/she would have served only till June 30, 2021. It takes a long time to select a VC. By the time we could finalise, there were less than six months to serve. I think no VC would join for such a short time. Fresh advertisement will be issued soon.” The search-cum-selection committee constituted on June 4, 2020, comprised five persons — former secretary, civil aviation ministry, MM Nambiar; IIM-Lucknow director Prof Archana Shukla; executive secretary, civil aviation ministry, KN Srivastava; former chairman, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, RK Tyagi, and IIM-Bangalore director Prof Rishikesha Krishnan. The first zoom interview was conducted on June 15. Sources said only four people were called for the interview. As per the university’s Act, the first chancellor and VC of RGNAU will be appointed by the President of India for a five-year term each. Though the university was established in 2013, it took three years to set up the infrastructure and on July 1, 2016, the first VC Air Vice-Marshal (Retd) Nalin Tandon took over. Tandon resigned in November 2019 when his tenure of about 18 months was left. The charge was given to joint secretary, civil aviation ministry, Amber Dubey. Dubey continues to be the acting VC. Dubey told TOI: “Due to Covid pandemic, the security clearance of the person shortlisted by the panel last year took a long time. That left just 7-8 months in the term of the first VC up to June 30, 2021. Hence the competent authority advised that the official from civil aviation ministry to continue to hold additional charge of first VC and initiate the selection process so that the new VC is in place by July 1 2021.” The case of the first registrar Jitendra Singh is equally interesting, Singh, who was selected by the President, joined RGNAU in April 2019 and was sacked on January 8, 2020. No reason was cited by the civil aviation ministry for Singh’s termination. The matter is pending before the high court. Post Singh’s sacking, the charge of registrar was handed over to Garima Singh who holds the director’s position in the civil aviation ministry. University’s finance officer (FO) Santosh Kumar, too, is on extension till May 31 this year. The first FO Rajeev Talwar was appointed in August 2017 and resigned in January 2018. However, he was relieved of his duties in May 2019, after which Jitendra Singh was given additional charge of FO. Post the sacking of the registrar, Santosh joined in January 2020 for a period of six months. He was given first extension till November 2020 and the second one till May this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aviation-varsity-vc-selection-process-cancelled-over-delay/articleshow/81500812.cms||Isha Jain
March 15, 2021||Lucknow||‘Aarogya Vatikas taking us closer to our tradition’||Lucknow: Aarogya Vatikas not only provide the goodness of medicinal plants to residents but also take us closer to our culture and tradition that believes in Ayurveda. Addressing the gathering during setting up of an Aarogya Vatika, an initiative of Navbharat Times, in Eco Park at Vishesh Khand in Gomtinagar, MLA Avinash Trivedi said such gardens should not be confined to the city only but should come up across the state. Residents said they felt fortunate to have such a medicinal corner in their locality that would help them fight a number of diseases. “Aarogya Vatika makes one aware that the cure is in kitchen garden. The use of medicinal plants like tulsi, giloi and Ashwagandha in our food not only helps in building immunity but also cures existing health problems,” said Suman Mehrotra, a resident. Another resident, Manoranjan Dwivedi, said: “Aarogya Vatika should be set up in every locality. Where NBT cannot reach, people should set up one on their own.” NBT is laying Aarogya Vatikas in different parts of the city. If you are interested in getting one such garden in your locality, you may send in a mail to nbtlucknow@timesgroup.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aarogya-vatikas-taking-us-closer-to-our-tradition/articleshow/81500685.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Lucknow||UP beat Maharashtra by 13 runs in Elite Group senior women one-day championship||Done/ALVI Times-News Network Kanpur: UP outplayed Maharashtra by 13 runs in Elite Group C senior women one-day championship held at Sawai Mansingh stadium in Jaipur on Sunday. With this win, they have opened their account in the points table with 4 points. UP women, deciding to bat first, posted a total of 200 runs for the loss of 4 wickets in 50 overs. Thereafter they wrapped Maharashtra’s innings on 187 runs in 49 overs. Nishu Chaudhary who was the main scorer for UP, displayed aggressive batting scoring 51 runs in 36 balls plundering 5 boundaries and a six. Muskan Malik played a sensible innings. She dropped anchor at one end and scored 43 runs in 80 balls. Nishu and Muskan played a 55 run partnership in 53 balls for the fourth wicket. Thereafter Nishu in partnership with Anjali Singh (12no) added another 33 runs for the fifth wicket. Earlier Ekta (36) and Shobha Devi (30) gave a moderate start to UP scoring 62 runs for the first wicket which proved the best partnership of the innings. AA Patil, MD Sonwane and Priyanka bagged one wicket each. Maharashtra in reply lost its half side by mere 56 runs. AA Gaekwad and SA Lonkar tried to stitch the damage adding 59 runs for the sixth wicket. It was their bad luck that AA Gaekwad was declared run out on direct throw of Nishu Chaudhary. She scored 34 runs. Wickets thereafter fell at regular interval. Tanu Kala claimed the prize scalp of Lonkar who scored 59 runs in 86 balls before offering a catch to Anju Rani. She sent the ball seven times to the fence. For UP, Anju Rani, Kajal , Tanu Kala bagged 2 wickets each . Brief score UP- 200 for 4 (Ekta 36, Shobha Devi 30, Muskan Malik 43, Aditi 10, Nishu Chaudhary 51no, Anjali Singh 12no, AA Patil 1 for 37, M D Sonwane 1 for 33, Priyanka S Ghodke 1 for 16) Maharashtra – 187 (HA Deshmukh 12, SS Shinde 12, AA Gaekwad 34, Priyana Ghodke 12, SA Lonkar 59, UA Pawar 16, MD Sonwane 13 , Anju Rani 2 for 34, Kajal 2 for 34, Tanu Kala 2 for 52) Rashi Kanaujia 1 for 28, Anjali Singh 1 for 35).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-beat-maharashtra-by-13-runs-in-elite-group-senior-women-one-day-championship/articleshow/81499300.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Lucknow||Man halts plane on verge of take off on Ayodhya runway||AYODHYA: A chartered flight taxiing on the tarmac of the Ayodhya airstrip, minutes after sundown was about to take off, when a car sped around the corner and a well-heeled man alighted and frantically waved at the plane to stop. With visibility dipping and runway lights on the blink, the aircraft which was on the verge of take-off, abruptly slowed down, moved in reverse and got the passenger onboard before soaring off into the air. Cops at the airport police outpost and eye-witnesses, including Ayodhya resident Manmeet Gupta, were perplexed by the dramatic turn of events at the airstrip on Sunday evening. The VIP passenger was none other than Khushdeep Bansal, a Delhi-based Vastu consultant, who had touched down on Saturday and gone to Ramjanmabhoomi to prepare a Vastu-compliant design for the temple, said SHO, Faizabad Kotwali, Nishit Srivastava. “The plane was scheduled to take off at 5:30pm on Sunday, but the pilot delayed take-off by 30 minutes after Bansal failed to reach,” he said. The Vaastu consultant was in fact caught in a traffic gridlock and when he finally drove into the tarmac, the plane was taxiing. However, he managed to board and fly to Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-halts-plane-on-verge-of-takeoff-on-ayodhya-runway-boards-takes-off/articleshow/81500619.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
---||Kanpur||Man chops off tongue following quarrel with his wife in Kanpur Dehat village||KANPUR: Upset over frequent quarrels with his wife, a 27-year-old farmer Mukesh of a village in Kanpur Dehat chopped off his tongue on Saturday. Mukesh and his wife Nisha (24) reside at Gopalpur village in Rasoolabad. According to police, Mukesh had an altercation with his wife over some domestic issue a few days ago after which she went to stay with her parents. “On Saturday night, Mukesh called up his wife on phone and quarreled with her when she refused to come back to her in-laws home. As the quarrel got intensified, Mukesh, in a fit of rage, cut his tongue with a blade,” police further said. On finding Mukesh crying in pain and lying in a pool of blood with a chopped part of the tongue, his family members rushed him to the community health centre in Rasoolabad. The doctors at the CHC referred him to Kanpur as his condition turned critical. “As he was profusely bleeding, we referred him to the government hospital in Kanpur,” said Dr Saurabh Shakya of Rasoolabad CHC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-chops-off-tongue-following-quarrel-with-his-wife-in-kanpur-dehat-village/articleshow/81499262.cms||---
---||Lucknow||UP 112 PRVs set to undergo major overhaul soon||LUCKNOW: Police response vehicle (PRV) attached with UP police’s emergency services UP 112 will get a major overhaul soon. UP additional director general of police, UP 112, Asim Arun said that a committee has been formed on the direction of UP DGP to look into changes. Arun said that the committee is looking for a police response vehicle which would match with the topography of the state and will be durable and economical. The committee has the onus to select a new technology like those prevalent in modern countries like Australia and in Europe. There the police response vehicle usually has a ‘custody chamber’ mainly for a criminal while he is being shifted to a nearby police station. The officer further said that the option of having electric cars can also be explored in Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar and Kanpur. Arun said that the need for the overhaul arose after many UP 112 vehicles got worn out and required replacement. “Due to its size PRV is difficult to drive in city traffic as well as on small rural roads. Its battery too starts giving troubles soon mainly due to excess use of flashers and hooters. Hence, a customised vehicle is being searched for the operation,” the ADG added. The officer said that currently Innova is being used as PRV and some Mahindra’s Boleros are also being used by UP 112. In all, there are 3,200 PRVs. “We usually have three cops in a PRV. Due to its size the vehicle can easily accommodate police personnel along with different instruments and kits. But it can be made more comfortable mainly to enhance police performance,” he added. The committee report will be forwarded to the government for final decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/112-prvs-to-undergo-major-overhaul/articleshow/81500878.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Polls incident-free, says CEO; parties allege EC failure||Hyderabad: While political parties and electors criticised the Election Commission for slow election process and serpentine queues at polling stations, lacking of drinking water and alleged large-scale distribution of money by ruling TRS, Telangana chief electoral officer (CEO) Shashank Goel on Sunday said the MLC polls were incident and snag-free. “Due to jumbo ballot paper and preferential vote system, each voter took more time in casting vote. This has resulted in movement of voters at a snail’s pace. Moreover, there is an unprecedented voter turnout. Staff worked hard to speed up,” Goel added. “I visited Warangal, Hanamkonda and Uppal and found drinking water was available at all polling booths.Ballot boxes are being shifted to counting centres,” he said. “There were no major complaints on MCC violations. No party complained regarding ballot paper or ballot boxes,” he added. BJP and Congress lambasted EC and TRS for violations. BJP president Bandi Sanjay said: “No tents and no water facility at polling booths. Senior citizens suffered. Ministers, MLAs want to go to polling booths during night and terrorise voters and rig the election. Authorities failed to stop money flow in the polls.” AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju said, “Is CEO, Telangana, blind or surrendered to ruling TRS to allow brazen display of party flex, flags, caps and scarves at polling booths.” RO will submit a report on HM: CEO Hyderabad: CEO Shashank Goel said, “RO will take action on the complaint against home minister Mahmood Ali. Reports will be submitted to the EC.” AICC spokesperson Sravan demanded immediate action against violators, including Mahmood Ali, who openly mentioned the candidate’s name for whom he voted. TPCC general secretary B Kishan lodged a complaint with Chaderghat police over the same. “We have made a GD entry and sent it for legal opinion,” inspector P Sateesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/polls-incident-free-says-ceo-parties-allege-ec-failure/articleshow/81500535.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 15, 2021||Lucknow||16 international players in railway’s women national handball squad||Lucknow: The Indian Railways on Saturday announced its team for the 49th Senior Women’s National Handball Championship to be held in Bareilly from March 17-21. At least 28 teams will participate in the event. The announcement of Uttar Pradesh team was to be made on Saturday but was put off at the last moment. The UP squad will now be announced on March 15. UP and Railway players are participating in joint selection trials at Chowk Stadium. Out of 18 names announced by the railways, 16 are international players while two have played at national level, according to Sachin Chaudhary, chief coach of the Indian Railway Women’s handball team. The selected players are Manjula, Jyoti Shukla, Srishti, Nina, Deepa, Sushma, Menika (Asian games), Ujjwala (Asian championship), Pavitar and Santhiya (South Asian championship), Monika (Junior Asian championship), Jyothi, Kusum, Bhavika and Simran (all Youth Asian championship), Mamta (World University championship), and Priya and Ramya (national medalists). Meanwhile, chief coach of UP Women’s Handball Team Asif Khan said the list of UP players would be announced on March 15. He said seven women international players – Shiva Singh (SAF Games), Jyoti Shukla (Asian Games), Tejasvani Singh (Asian championship), Akanksha Singh Verma and Satakshi Pal (Junior Asian championship), Supriya Gupta and Swarnima Gupta (Asian championship) – would figure on the list in all probability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/16-international-players-in-railways-women-national-handball-squad/articleshow/81495892.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Lucknow||80 women drive their way to e-mpowerment||LUCKNOW: In 2018, 45-year-old Sushila was selling eggs to support her family of 11. On a whim, she approached a person in her colony in Prayagraj to help her purchase an e-rickshaw. Three years down the line, the grandmother of two can be seen at the Prayagraj railway station during the early morning hours, ferrying passengers across the city and saying that she has never felt more liberated. Sushila is one of 80 women who have been empowered across the three cities of Prayagraj, Varanasi and Lucknow to break into what has traditionally been a male dominated field: driving e-rickshaws. Helping them into the profession is a startup, SMV Green Solutions, which started the project with three main agendas — empowerment of women; promotion of green transport, and providing safe public transport for women. “I lost my husband some years ago, so I am the eldest in the family now. It was entirely my decision to start this work even though I had never driven any vehicle before this. I was sick of selling eggs and wanted to do something new, something bigger,” said Sushila. The class 5 drop out from Varanasi starts her day at 2.30am and earns as much as Rs 1,500 on good days. Her counterpart across town, 34-year-old Sarita, initially wanted her husband to drive an e-rickshaw but when he refused, she decided to take up the work herself. “This has let me spend time in the house looking after my children and also take passengers” she said, adding that she was earning much more now than when she worked as a cook till 2018. While Sarita doesn’t venture out at night, she said that a small camera in her e-rickshaw has helped provide her security. “I have been lucky that till now, I have not had any bad experience with passengers. In fact, most people are more polite to me because I am a woman,” she said. It has not been so easy for Poonam in Lucknow. A keen driver and encouraged by her father to take up e-rickshaw driving as a profession, Poonam laughs that her husband never let her touch his vehicle saying that if they ever had a fight, she would run away with his car. Now, as an e-rickshaw driver, she says running away from situations is not an option. “I get all kinds of passengers, from drunks to those who refuse to pay. I don’t get hassled and have steeled myself against these incidents. In fact, the police know us and help us whenever they can,” said the former nurse. Naveen Krishna, who started SMV about seven years back, said he is focused on empowering women as micro-entrepreneurs, owners and drivers of clean energy e-rickshaws. The Vahini Project is aimed at providing financial independence to women.“We train the women, provide post sale services to them, coordinate with the police to ensure their safety. Till now, we have managed to train 71 women in Prayagraj, seven in Lucknow and two in Varanasi. It was a challenge, especially in the conservative parts of eastern UP, to convince women to step out but now the women we have trained are bringing in others,” he said. The project is not without its hiccups, says Krishna. Banks don’t easily lend to women for purchase of commercial vehicles while many of the women who are part of the project have never handled or are used to computers, a challenge when they visit RTO offices to take licence test. “These are some institutional problems which we need to address,” Krishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/80-women-drive-their-way-to-e-mpowerment/articleshow/81500797.cms||Neha Lalchandani
March 15, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Shias & Sunnis rally against Waseem Rizvi’s plea on Quran verses||LUCKNOW: Hundreds gathered outside the Bara Imambara on Sunday afternoon rallying against former chief of UP Shia central Waqf Board, Waseem Rizvi, who has raked up a controversy by moving a plea before the Supreme Court (SC) to remove 26 Quranic verses. Call to the ‘Tahaffuz-e-Quran’ (In protection of the Quran) protest was given by Majlis-e-Ulama-e-Hind general secretary Maulana Kalbe Jawad and was attended by both Shia and Sunni clerics, including former All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) member Maulana Salman Nadwi, Imam of thr Teeley Wali Masjid Maulana Fazley Mannan Rahmani, SC lawyer Mahmood Pracha among others. Wasim RizviAs slogans against Rizvi were made asking people to shelve his surname and replace it with some expletive, the angry crowd demanded that SC should scrap Rizvi’s petition and the government must arrest him for blasphemy and attempt to breach peace. A memorandum to the Prime Minister, home minister and state chief minister was also sent in this regard on Saturday. Maulana Kalbe Jawad in his address also said that if action was not taken against Rizvi, it would be considered that the government was supporting him. A similar Shia-Sunni protest is scheduled to be held at Delhi’s Jama Masjid next Friday after Juma prayers. Meanwhile, Rizvi’s brother released a video message stating his family -- mother, sister and brothers -- have got nothing to do with him and his nonsensical antics. He also said that his brother was committing grave sin. Suggesting a solution to Rizvi’s offences against the Quran, Maulana Salman Nadwi said, “Ramzan is approaching -- the month in which the Quran was bestowed upon us. We should have Quranic recitations at all mosques in the city all through the day and night in Ramzan. It is very important that Shias and Sunnis keep their differences at bay as we are all but one Ummah.” Echoing the same sentiments, Imam of Teeley Wali Masjid, Maulana Fazley Mannan said, “He is trying to create a rift between us but that has only brought us together as one Ummah, one book and one Prophet. We should hold on to Allah stronger than ever and the government should put him behind bars.” Kalbe Sibtain Noori, son of senior cleric Maulana Kalbe Sadiq added that since Rizvi’s own family was tagging him to be a kafir, he should not be buried in a Muslim cemetry. “Mutawwali of the Talkatora Imambara where he has reserved a grave for himself, should take a decision to cancel his grave as a Muslim cemetery can only bury Muslims,” he said. Listing out the memorandum to be sent, Maulana Kalbe Jawad said, “Animosity against the Quran is not new and the Qiran itself announces that those with a problem with the Holy word should attempt to answer just one verse if they can.” “Rizvi is not a Muslim so he should not be made a member of any Muslim organisation in the future. He should be arrested for disturbing peace, his petition be scraped by SC and legal action taken against him,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shias-sunnis-rally-together-to-denounce-rizvis-sc-plea/articleshow/81500693.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Lucknow||Ex-CDRI dy director in Ayush min advisory panel||Lucknow: Former deputy director (retired) of Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI) NN Mehrotra has been appointed as a member in the advisory committee of the Ayush ministry. There are 18 members in the advisory committee, which includes top scientists, academicians and experts from across the country. Mehrotra is the only one from UP. “Ayush ministry is an initiative by the Government of India to promote the propagation and development of Ayush systems of healthcare and medicine in India. I am happy that I have been included in the advisory committee of the ministry,” said principal scientist (retired) NN Mehrotra. Mehrotra, a Ph.D in biochemistry (immunology) from AIIMS, Delhi, has held key positions in various scientific institutes and has around 100 research papers and 32 books to his credit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ex-cdri-dy-director-in-ayush-min-advisory-panel/articleshow/81500688.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Lucknow||Skipping shot for swigs? Docs say noside-effects but root for brief restraint||Lucknow: For sub-inspector Dhirendra Kumar (name changed), it was hard to choose between his favourite whiskey shot and Covid-19 vaccine shot. A moderate drinker, Kumar got confused after reading that a vaccine beneficiary needs to quit alcohol for 45 days or else the jab may harm him. “I made excuses to my seniors to skip vaccination, but my family wanted me to get vaccinated because of the risk I face while on duty. I consulted a doctor who told me that it’s better to avoid alcohol, but if abstinence is difficult, I should go for the jab because there will be no significant side effects of the vaccine due to liquor,” he said. Though Kumar finally took his first shot last Thursday, many like him are still hesitant. Around 22,000 health and frontline workers out of 1.4 lakh in the city have not taken vaccine so far. While 10% of them have health issues, many others are staying away citing “personal reasons”, alcohol being one of them. Vaccination nodal officer, Lokbandhu Hospital, Dr Rupendra Kumar receives 8-10 queries daily. “People want to know if alcohol can trigger a side effect if taken after vaccination. I also get questions like how long one should abstain from alcohol or does it not allow antibodies to develop? We counsel such people and convince them to get vaccinated,” he said. “The confusion started after a Russian expert suggested 45-day abstinence for Sputnik V vaccine, but he later clarified that liquor should be avoided for three days. Some UK experts also recommended people to stay away from alcohol for a few days before and after vaccination,” said Dr Himanshu Chaturvedi, medical superintendent, Balrampur hospital. According to experts, there are not enough clinical studies to prove that alcohol can impair vaccine or cause any significant side-effects after vaccination but as liquor in harmful for health, binge drinking is always discouraged. A person should abstain for a few days during vaccination, but if not possible, don’t reject the jab because Covid-19 is the immediate danger. Former head, microbiology, Institute of Medical Sciences at BHU, Prof Anil Kumar Gulati said, “Heavy drinking should be avoided 3-5 days before and after vaccination as alcohol adversely affects T and B cells which destroy pathogen that infiltrates a healthy cell.” Head, microbiology, SGPGIMS, Prof Ujjawala Ghosal, said, “There are no guidelines on the issue by WHO or America’s Centre for Disease Control, but alcohol adversely affects immunity by destroying microorganisms in the gut. It also causes inflammation in the liver. Hence, it should be avoided a week before and after vaccination, thus helping the body to fully utilise vaccine’s potential of making antibodies.” Associate professor, microbiology, KGMU, Dr Sheetal Verma said chronic and heavy alcohol intoxication suppresses immune response. Microbiologist at RMLIMS Prof Manodeep Sen said, “Even if somebody takes alcohol, vaccination will make antibodies, low or high, that will protect the person. If one avoids alcohol, vaccination may benefit more.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/skipping-shot-for-swigs-docs-say-noside-effects-but-root-for-brief-restraint/articleshow/81500637.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
March 15, 2021||Madurai||Three killed in separate accidents||Madurai: Two persons travelling on a two-wheeler were killed in a road accident near Usilampatti, Madurai on Sunday morning. The deceased, identified as Abishek, 21, and Rajkumar, 35, from Vellaimalaipatti were daily wage labourers. They were carrying flowers from an agricultural field in Vellaimalaipatti on a bike to Usilampatti market when a mini load vehicle moving in the same direction hit them. They were thrown off the vehicle. A van, which followed the load vehicle ran over them, killing them on the spot. On being alerted, a police team from the Uthapanaickanur village reached and conducted an inquiry. The bodies were shifted to the Usilampatti government hospital for postmortem and a case was registered. A police officer said both Abishek and Rajkumar suffered grievous head injuries. There were also injuries on their hands and legs. In a separate accident, 12-year-old was killed when a speeding truck hit him near Thirumangalam in Madurai on Saturday. The deceased identified as M Duraipandi,12, from Periyaulagani was riding a bi-cycle on Periyaualagani road while a truck moving in the same direction hit him. He was rushed to government Rajaji hospital, where he died, said the police. Based on a complaint from deceased’s father V Murugan, a case was registered with the Koodakovil police station. V Gurunathan, truck driver from the same village was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/three-killed-in-separate-accidents/articleshow/81500501.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Error in Co-WIN paves way forvax drive at RMLIMS on off day||LUCKNOW: An error in Co-WIN portal paved way for the vaccination of several senior citizens and people with comorbidities (in the age group of 45-59 years) on a weekly off day on Sunday at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS). The vaccination drive is not being held on Sundays, but due to an error, the portal registered at least 76 beneficiaries and allotted them time and place for vaccination. When people arrived at the centre, they found that no arrangements had been made. The beneficiaries registered their protest after which the health department arranged for a special drive. “We came to know that many beneficiaries have come for inoculation at RMLIMS. They said that CoWIN app has scheduled their vaccination for Sunday. We immediately sent a team and gave shots to them,” said district immunisation officer Dr MK Singh. Later, some people also reached the hospital to avail the facility after on-site registeration when they came to know that vaccine is being given at RMLIMS on Sunday. Besides RMLIMS, which was the only government centre to operate on Sunday, vaccination was carried out at 34 private centres in which 974 beneficiaries were given jabs. Among these, 712 beneficiaries were 60 years or above, 179 with comorbidities, 80 health and three were frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/error-in-co-win-paves-way-forvax-drive-at-rmlims-on-off-day/articleshow/81500641.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
March 15, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Prices of onions, okra fall, drumsticks rate reigns high||CHENNAI: Prices of onions, brinjals and ladies fingers have dropped at the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC). The retail cost of these vegetables remained 20%-25% higher than in the wholesale market, though. The cost of a few vegetables, like drumsticks, remained high despite the fall in price in the wholesale market. According to market sources, one drumstick was sold at Rs 2 at the wholesale market, whereas it was Rs 16 and Rs 10 at Adyar and Royapettah markets respectively on Sunday. Similarly, potatoes and tomatoes were sold double the rates of the wholesale market, at Rs 30 and Rs 44 per kilogram respectively, in retail shops. V R Soundararajan, former member of Market Management Committee of KWMC and a wholesale trader, said wholesale prices of most vegetables have fallen compared to previous weeks. The biggest drop was in the price of onions, which sold at Rs 20 per kg at KWMC. "The cost of ladies fingers has decreased from Rs 40 per kilogram to Rs 15." Currently, the city's wholesale market receives 150 tonnes of drumstick and 30 to 40 trucks of onion, each containing 20 tonnes, every day. "The yield is better this season due to bountiful rain. So, we can expect an additional 20 to 30 trucks of vegetables," Soundararajan said, adding that the prices may not fall anymore. Usually, 500 truckloads of vegetables enter Koyambedu every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/prices-of-onions-okra-fall-drumsticks-rate-reigns-high/articleshow/81500512.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Chennai||She tolerated abuse for 19 years, then freed herself||CHENNAI: When you meet Vijayalakshmi*, it is hard to believe the 40-year-old is a victim of sexual and domestic violence. Positive in her approach to life, she guides me around Kannagi Nagar settlement telling me how the place taught her to be a strong and independent woman. She was 20 when she came to the settlement as a bride. But as she settled down with her children, getting thrashed by her husband became a part of life until three years ago when she finally decided to take legal recourse. One night, Vijayalakshmi said, her husband hit her and then began beating their daughter. “First the abuse followed a fight, but now it became routine. He would pick up anything and hit me. When my daughter began questioning him, he began hitting her too. That I couldn’t handle,” she said. One day, bleeding profusely from a head injury and taking her daughter along who was also beaten up, she went to the Kannagi Nagar police station. “The inspector told us to go to Guindy police station. They accepted to take the complaint but when they did not investigate at all, we took the complaint to the commissioner. Then the harassment began by the police inspectors,” Vijayalakshmi said. She hired a lawyer to persuade the police to follow the case, but he was of little help. Finally, she moved court with the help of a friend who is a lawyer. She sought maintenance from her husband. “We live separately but it is only now after 19 years that I can sleep peacefully,” Vijayalakshmi said. (*name changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/she-tolerated-abuse-for-19-years-then-freed-herself/articleshow/81500516.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Lucknow||STF arrests PFI commander from UP's Siddarthnagar||LUCKNOW/GORAKHPUR: The special task force (STF) of UP Police arrested one Mohammad Rashid, an alleged commander of Popular Front of India and an arms trainer, from Siddharthnagar district on Sunday. Rashid, who hails from the Shohratgarh area of Siddharthnagar was going to Mumbai via Lucknow to attend a meeting of his outfit when he was nabbed near Mudghat turn in Kotwali police station area. Cops recovered a bundle of training results, documents having anti-India content, content in Hindi and Urdu along with one Aadhaar, a CD, a PAN card, five bus passes of Mumbai, debit cards, credit cards. ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar said that Rashid was a PFI commander who trained innocent youths to handle weapons and in different arts of physical combat. He had made all documents on forged papers, Kumar said. The ADG said that for the past few months, there has been a hyper activity of PFI and both the STF and ATS were keeping a close watch on them. "The PFI is trying to disturb the communal harmony of the country. Towards this goal, the outfit has also planned to hit leaders of different Hindu outfits in the country," said Kumar. As per intelligence inputs and preliminary probe, it has surfaced that Rashid was planning to go to Mumbai for a meeting as well as a training session. An STF official privy to the probe said that during interrogation, Rashid disclosed that he used to provide training in handling of arms and ammunition. A format was also prepared by him and grades were awarded to those who took training and then based upon the grades, those doing better were further given training to handle sophisticated weapons. He also brainwashed individuals that they were being exploited and hence must pick up arms against the state, the STF sources said. Rashid was booked under the charges of attempting to wage war, criminal conspiracy, cheating and dishonesty, forgery of valuable security, forgery for purpose of cheating, whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document or electronic record. Recently, Intelligence agencies had also issued a countrywide alert stating that some top RSS leaders were on PFI's target. The input was shared to the police of all the states for a preventive action by the Intelligence Bureau (IB). Last month, the STF had also arrested two PFI members from Lucknow -- Badruddin and Feroz Badruddin was the national head of PFI's hit squad division, a black belt and expert in bomb making while Feroz was a national trainer of PFI on bomb making.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stf-arrests-pfi-commander-from-siddarthnagar/articleshow/81500844.cms||Arjumand Bano
March 15, 2021||Allahabad||80 women drive their way to e-mpowerment||LUCKNOW: In 2018, 45-year-old Sushila was selling eggs to support her family of 11. On a whim, she approached a person in her colony in Prayagraj to help her purchase an e-rickshaw. Three years down the line, the grandmother of two can be seen at the Prayagraj railway station during the early morning hours, ferrying passengers across the city and saying that she has never felt more liberated. Sushila is one of 80 women who have been empowered across the three cities of Prayagraj, Varanasi and Lucknow to break into what has traditionally been a male dominated field: driving e-rickshaws. Helping them into the profession is a startup, SMV Green Solutions, which started the project with three main agendas — empowerment of women; promotion of green transport, and providing safe public transport for women. “I lost my husband some years ago, so I am the eldest in the family now. It was entirely my decision to start this work even though I had never driven any vehicle before this. I was sick of selling eggs and wanted to do something new, something bigger,” said Sushila. The class 5 drop out from Varanasi starts her day at 2.30am and earns as much as Rs 1,500 on good days. Her counterpart across town, 34-year-old Sarita, initially wanted her husband to drive an e-rickshaw but when he refused, she decided to take up the work herself. “This has let me spend time in the house looking after my children and also take passengers” she said, adding that she was earning much more now than when she worked as a cook till 2018. While Sarita doesn’t venture out at night, she said that a small camera in her e-rickshaw has helped provide her security. “I have been lucky that till now, I have not had any bad experience with passengers. In fact, most people are more polite to me because I am a woman,” she said. It has not been so easy for Poonam in Lucknow. A keen driver and encouraged by her father to take up e-rickshaw driving as a profession, Poonam laughs that her husband never let her touch his vehicle saying that if they ever had a fight, she would run away with his car. Now, as an e-rickshaw driver, she says running away from situations is not an option. “I get all kinds of passengers, from drunks to those who refuse to pay. I don’t get hassled and have steeled myself against these incidents. In fact, the police know us and help us whenever they can,” said the former nurse. Naveen Krishna, who started SMV about seven years back, said he is focused on empowering women as micro-entrepreneurs, owners and drivers of clean energy e-rickshaws. The Vahini Project is aimed at providing financial independence to women.“We train the women, provide post sale services to them, coordinate with the police to ensure their safety. Till now, we have managed to train 71 women in Prayagraj, seven in Lucknow and two in Varanasi. It was a challenge, especially in the conservative parts of eastern UP, to convince women to step out but now the women we have trained are bringing in others,” he said. The project is not without its hiccups, says Krishna. Banks don’t easily lend to women for purchase of commercial vehicles while many of the women who are part of the project have never handled or are used to computers, a challenge when they visit RTO offices to take licence test. “These are some institutional problems which we need to address,” Krishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/80-women-drive-their-way-to-e-mpowerment/articleshow/81503643.cms||Neha Lalchandani
March 15, 2021||Varanasi||80 women drive their way to e-mpowerment||LUCKNOW: In 2018, 45-year-old Sushila was selling eggs to support her family of 11. On a whim, she approached a person in her colony in Prayagraj to help her purchase an e-rickshaw. Three years down the line, the grandmother of two can be seen at the Prayagraj railway station during the early morning hours, ferrying passengers across the city and saying that she has never felt more liberated. Sushila is one of 80 women who have been empowered across the three cities of Prayagraj, Varanasi and Lucknow to break into what has traditionally been a male dominated field: driving e-rickshaws. Helping them into the profession is a startup, SMV Green Solutions, which started the project with three main agendas — empowerment of women; promotion of green transport, and providing safe public transport for women. “I lost my husband some years ago, so I am the eldest in the family now. It was entirely my decision to start this work even though I had never driven any vehicle before this. I was sick of selling eggs and wanted to do something new, something bigger,” said Sushila. The class 5 drop out from Varanasi starts her day at 2.30am and earns as much as Rs 1,500 on good days. Her counterpart across town, 34-year-old Sarita, initially wanted her husband to drive an e-rickshaw but when he refused, she decided to take up the work herself. “This has let me spend time in the house looking after my children and also take passengers” she said, adding that she was earning much more now than when she worked as a cook till 2018. While Sarita doesn’t venture out at night, she said that a small camera in her e-rickshaw has helped provide her security. “I have been lucky that till now, I have not had any bad experience with passengers. In fact, most people are more polite to me because I am a woman,” she said. It has not been so easy for Poonam in Lucknow. A keen driver and encouraged by her father to take up e-rickshaw driving as a profession, Poonam laughs that her husband never let her touch his vehicle saying that if they ever had a fight, she would run away with his car. Now, as an e-rickshaw driver, she says running away from situations is not an option. “I get all kinds of passengers, from drunks to those who refuse to pay. I don’t get hassled and have steeled myself against these incidents. In fact, the police know us and help us whenever they can,” said the former nurse. Naveen Krishna, who started SMV about seven years back, said he is focused on empowering women as micro-entrepreneurs, owners and drivers of clean energy e-rickshaws. The Vahini Project is aimed at providing financial independence to women.“We train the women, provide post sale services to them, coordinate with the police to ensure their safety. Till now, we have managed to train 71 women in Prayagraj, seven in Lucknow and two in Varanasi. It was a challenge, especially in the conservative parts of eastern UP, to convince women to step out but now the women we have trained are bringing in others,” he said. The project is not without its hiccups, says Krishna. Banks don’t easily lend to women for purchase of commercial vehicles while many of the women who are part of the project have never handled or are used to computers, a challenge when they visit RTO offices to take licence test. “These are some institutional problems which we need to address,” Krishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/80-women-drive-their-way-to-e-mpowerment/articleshow/81503641.cms||Neha Lalchandani
---||Chennai||Chennai: Cop saves woman from drowning in Adyar||CHENNAI: A police inspector hot on the heels of some rowdies involved in a drunken brawl chanced upon a woman stuck in neck-deep water under the bridge over the Adyar at Saidapet and rescued her early on Saturday. Pugazhendhi, the Saidapet inspector (law and order), and his team of cops were chasing the miscreants along the river bank under the bridge on Anna Salai around 2.30 am when he noticed a woman in her fifties in the water. He called out to her but the woman appeared disoriented. Pugazhendhi then jumped into the water, but soon realized he would get stuck in the slush. In fact, he lost his shoes while wading in the slush. With the help of his team, he used an asbestos sheet and some logs of wood found on the river bank to create a raft of sorts to reach the woman. “As soon as I extended my hand, the woman caught hold of it, which showed that she was desperately waiting for someone to rescue her. Only then I realized this was not a suicide attempt. She immediately climbed on the asbestos sheet, though it was difficult for both of us to balance,” said Pugazhendhi. “I did not want to risk the life of other people in my team,” said the inspector who did not wait for fire service personnel to arrive before attempting the rescue. The police suspected she was mentally depressed. She told them she had come to witness the no-moon day celebrations at a temple when she lost her way and ended up in the water. Pugazhendhi, who had been patrolling the area since 11 pm to round up the rowdies, then remembered seeing a man searching for his mother. Police traced the man and reunited mother and son. She was later sent to her home at Nagireddy Thottam in Ekkaduthangal. A few hours later, the police also managed to round up the five rowdies. The inspector was lauded by Chennai city police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Agarwal and deputy commissioner, Adyar, Vikraman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cop-saves-woman-from-drowning-in-adyar/articleshow/81500538.cms||Sindhu Kannan
March 15, 2021||Lucknow||Indian Bank emerge champsin Bank Premier League||Lucknow: Indian Bank-E-Allahabad registered a five-wicket victory over Baroda UP Bank to lift the Bank Premier League Cricket trophy at SAR Jaipuria Ground on Sunday. Baroda UP Bank lost early wickets as Prashant was dismissed at 16 and Anand Mishra failed to open his account. Prabhat Mishra tried to cement the team position by contributing valuable 28 runs. Anshuman also scored 25 runs in 18 balls taking the team's total to 120 runs (all out) in the stipulated 20 overs. Abhishek took three wickets whiled Chandra Shekhar and Rohit claimed two scalps each. Indian Bank successfully chased the target at the loss of five wickets with just one ball to spare, thanks to Vineet Singh's 46-run knock and 29 runs by Sunil Kumar. Abhishek Pandey won the man of the match award. Chief guest on the occasion, ex-DGM, Indian Bank, DS Reddy gave awards to best players of the tournament. Brief Scores: Baroda UP Bank: 120 all out (Prabhat 28, Anshuman 25; Abhishek 3-15, Rohit 2-19); Indian Bank: 121/5 (Vineet 46, Sunil 29; Anand 2-20) Best batsman: Prashant Mishra (Baroda UP Bank) Best Bowler: Atul Singh (Bank of India, Lucknow) Man of the tournament: Kshitiz Shukla (Canara Bank, Lucknow)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/indian-bank-emerge-champsin-bank-premier-league/articleshow/81500699.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Coimbatore||Close schools to contain virus spread, say teachers||Coimbatore: Teachers have demanded the state government to close the schools again completely, as the number of Covid-19 cases are gradually increasing in the state.Pointing out that teachers are ensuring adherence to Covid protocols by students during class hours, P Arunan, president, Tamil Nadu Government Employees and Teachers’ Welfare Federation, says it isn’t known whether the students are maintaining preventive measures while travelling to the school and back home.“Now that the Covid-19 cases are increasing and the health department is reinforcing the guidelines strictly, why take risk by conducting classes for the students, especially for those in the classes IX to XI? After all, the government has cancelled their examinations,” he said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/close-schools-to-contain-virus-spread-say-teachers/articleshow/81500544.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Coimbatore||Single-use plastic items back in city||Coimbatore: Single-use plastic items have made a strong comeback in the city two years after the state government banned them in a move to protect the environment. Today, they are widely available at grocery shops, flower shops, small eateries and push carts, as officials seemingly have stopped the drive to crack down on the shops selling or using the banned plastic items. As part of enforcing the ban, the civic body used to regularly inspect the shops, seize the banned items and fine the violators. While many supermarkets, textile shops, restaurants and other shops have completely avoided the banned items and migrated to the alternatives, small shops continue to use the single-use plastic items.K K Ayyappan, trustee, Kovai District Flower Merchant Association, said there was a time when they used to constantly remind the retailers and public to bring a bag, as the plastic covers are banned in the state. “But now we have stopped doing so and they come without a bag. If a shop refuses to provide them a plastic cover, they just move onto the next shop. We cannot afford to lose customers, especially when the business is just recovering from the slowdown that was induced by the Covid-19 pandemic.” An eatery owner, who didn’t want to be named, said they were not in a financial position to purchase biodegradable bags and good quality plastic containers, as their business had taken a huge hit during the lockdown. “We are still struggling. Officials ask us to charge the customers for the containers. But the customers, who are ready to pay additional charges at big restaurants, are not willing to pay us. When we insist, they just walk out of the shop. It affects our business at large.”R Raveendran, an activist, said the usage of banned plastic items was under control in the city when corporation officials used to inspect shops regularly. “When they shifted their focus completely on curbing the pandemic, shops began to flout norms and use single-use plastic items. We are planning to make a representation to the state government to take necessary steps to enforce the ban strictly.”Flower vendors, he said, were struggling without a proper alternative to plastic bags, while other small shops were finding it expensive to shift to alternatives. “It is high time the issue is addressed,” Raveendran added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/single-use-plastic-items-back-in-city/articleshow/81500545.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Voter faints at polling station||Hyderabad: A 26-year-old woman was rushed to hospital after she fell unconscious while waiting for her turn at a polling station at Meerpet on Sunday. According to Meerpet police, the incident happened at MPP School. The 26-year-old fainted while waiting in the queue to cast her vote. “We shifted Anusha with the assistance of woman constables to a nearby hospital,” Meerpet inspector M Mahendar Reddy said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/voter-faints-at-polling-station/articleshow/81500546.cms||---
---||Lucknow||UP: Law minister warns of action if all roads not repaired by March 31||LUCKNOW: All roads dug up due to laying of sewerline should be repaired by March 31 failing which strong action would be initiated against district authorities and contractors, warned law and justice minister Brajesh Pathak. Pathak, who chaired a meeting of district authorities and officials of the Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) and the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) as well as representatives of the company which has been awarded the contract for laying of sewerline, has fixed the deadline of March 31 for the completion of the road repair job. “We would have to ensure that people should not face any inconvenience on this front,” he added. The minister lamented that he was flooded with complaints against contractors who have delayed the sewerline project. Many accidents have already occurred due to the poor condition of city roads, the minister said, adding that “this would not be tolerated any more.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/repair-roads-by-march-31-min/articleshow/81500809.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Aurangabad||Two-day strike of banks from today||AURANGABAD: The United Forum of Bank Unions, an umbrella body of different associations of bank employees, has announced a two-day strike from Monday to oppose the alleged privatisation of banks. “Around 10 lakh bank employees, including 40,000 from Maharashtra, will join the strike across the country. The union representatives will also approach public representatives of various political parties to seek their support,” forum convener Devidas Tuljapurkar said. The forum body said the privatisation of public sector banks will put the common man’s hard-earned savings at risk. “The government’s justification for privatisation is that the Centre is required to infuse capital in public sector banks repetitively. However, we argue that the government should evolve an effective mechanism to recover corporate dues as such a measure will do away the need of such financial push,” it has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-day-strike-of-banks-from-today/articleshow/81498101.cms||---
---||Chandigarh||Talk of Sidhu’s rehabilitation doing rounds||Amritsar: With cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu warming up to the media again and voicing his perceptions over the current political scenario, especially the farmers’ agitation, it looks like the state Congress is trying to restore his status. After the appointment of Prashant Kishore as principal adviser to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh ahead of the 2022 assembly elections, the next most important task for the state Congress is to defuse any possible rebellion or dissent within the party, which could damage its poll prospects. To mollify the sulking Sidhu, he has to be projected as deputy chief ministerial candidate or Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president or given a significant ministry, which could probably be the local body department, the genesis of his resentment. Sidhu, MLA from Amritsar East assembly constituency, has been at loggerheads with Amarinder after being stripped of the local government department in June 2019 and given charge of the ministry for power and new and renewable energy. To express his resentment for divesting him from the local body department, Sidhu chose to send his resignation directly to Congress president Rahul Gandhi. Highly-placed sources in the Congress said the position of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi has weakened because of G-23 leaders challenging Gandhi family’s leadership, which has indirectly weakened Sidhu’s bargaining position and strengthened Amarinder. “May be Sidhu believes that Amarinder divested him of the urban local body department due to non-performance and under the present circumstances, when Sidhu has lost the leverage of Gandhi siblings, who themselves are facing challenges from within the party, it will be best to restore him to his previous portfolio of local government,” said sources. They added that other significant positions were that of the PPCC president or campaign committee in-charge. “But only if he chooses to stay in the party,” added sources. With speculations of Sidhu’s rehabilitation doing the rounds, probables of all five urban seats of Amritsar district have started lobbying with their respective godfathers in the party. Amritsar North and South assembly seats were among the four ‘controversial’ seats whose candidates were cleared at party high command level during the 2017 assembly elections. There is the likelihood of a Hindu candidate being sacrificed for a Jat Sikh candidate, as happened in 2017, when the party picked up Sunil Dutti, former mayor of Amritsar to contest from Amritsar North assembly constituency by sacrificing Jat Sikh candidate Karamjit Singh Rintu, with the promise of adjusting him ‘well.’ Rintu is now mayor of Amritsar. “We didn’t want three Jat Sikhs, Navjot Singh Sidhu, Karamjit Singh Rintu and Inderbir Singh Bolaria to contest form three urban seats of Amritsar East, North, and South respectively. So one candidate, (Rintu) was dropped, but then he was adjusted,” said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/talk-of-sidhus-rehabilitation-doing-rounds/articleshow/81500551.cms||Yudhvir Rana
March 15, 2021||Coimbatore||Mettupalayam train service to resume today||Coimbatore: Train service between Mettupalayam and Coimbatore, which was stopped a year ago due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation, will restart from Monday. Passengers will have to shell out Rs 30 per trip in the mainline electric multiple unit (Memu) special train, which will be operated on all days expect Sundays. The train will leave Mettupalayam at 8:20am and reach the Coimbatore Railway Junction at 9:05am. It will leave Coimbatore at 5:55pm to reach Mettupalayam at 6:40pm. “Earlier, ticket fare was equivalent of a passenger train and passengers paid Rs 10. But as seats will be filled through express/mail unreserved booking system, the fare has been increased to Rs 30. Regular passengers can still buy season tickets,” a railway official said.Commuters, who were forced to depend on buses, welcomed the move. “It was exhausting and time-consuming because of the ongoing flyover work on Mettupalayam Road,” said M Jamil Ahmed, chairman of the Coimbatore District Railway Passengers’ Welfare Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mettupalayam-train-service-to-resume-today/articleshow/81500550.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Missing medical pupil looks for ‘spirituality’, found in a cave||MUMBAI: A medical student who had gone missing from his hostel in Kharghar was traced to a holy Buddhist site in Nashik 110 km away by the railway police. The 23-year-old student (identity kept confidential) told the police that he was keen to convert to Buddhism and was trying to find an institution where he could do so. He has been brought back to his hostel. The student belongs to Marathwada. On March 9, he left his hostel wearing a lungi and with a shawl. When he did not return a day later, hostel authorities lodged a missing complaint. They enquired with a security guard who was the last one to see the student on March 9. The guard said he had asked the youth to sign the register while exiting. He also chided the youth for not dressing up as per hostel guidelines. But the student mumbled something and left. The railway crime branch started probing the possibility that the youth left by train. They checked CCTV footage but couldn’t spot him. On inquiring with his friends, it was learnt that he had a deep spiritual inclination. The hostel management inquired at meditation centres across Navi Mumbai but drew a blank. A railway crime branch team decided to make a trip to a Vipassana academy in Igatpuri which was a well known centre for meditation. “We found out that the youth had been to the Igatpuri centre. He had expressed his desire to convert to Buddhism. The academy staff told him they couldn’t help him. He then left,” said assistant inspector Hemraj Sathe. A guard at the centre told the cops that the youth had mentioned Pandav Leni — Buddhist caves at Nashik. The police team went there and found him resting. He had walked a distance of 50 km from the Igatpuri centre to Pandav Leni as he had no money. At the caves, he was offered food. On Friday, the crime branch handed him over to the police who took him back to his hostel. A medical student of a college in Navi Mumbai, the 23-year-old was found resting in a cave. He had walked from Igatpuri to the caves as he had no money on him||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mumbaimissing-med-pupil-looks-for-spirituality-found-in-a-cave/articleshow/81508011.cms||Nitasha Natu
March 15, 2021||Kolhapur||State transport buses to K’taka remain cancelled||Kolhapur: State transport bus services between Maharashtra and Karnataka remained cancelled on the second consecutive day due to tensions between the Marathi and Kannada outfits in border areas. The district police administration has asked the MSRTC officials not to resume the bus service between Kolhapur and other towns in Karanataka. The Maharashtra State Road Transport, however, started the local bus service between Maharashtra’s Kagal and Nipani, a town in Karnataka, amid police protection on Sunday. Rohan Palange, the divisional controller of MSRTC said: “We are reviewing the law and order situation near our major depots. We will be speaking with the police officials on Monday to start the buses along some routes with police protection. The police have asked us to stop the service to avoid damage to buses in case any more brawls break out between two groups.” After the Saturday morning incident of stone pelting on MSRTC buses, police personnel have been deployed at the Kolhapur depot. Eknath Halgikar, a person from the Khanapur region of north Karnataka, has been booked for damaging a Pune-bound MSRTC bus. He told the police he had been asked by some people in his locality to commit the crime allegedly to spark tension between two groups. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena workers have decided not to let the Karnataka transport buses to come into Kolhapur till the Kannada flag remains hoisted outside the Belagavi City Corporation’s building. “We are going to launch a fresh stir against the Karnataka government’s support to violent Kannada groups. We will not allow the Karnataka buses into the Kolhapur depot till the flag, illegally hoisted to create tension in society, is not removed. If the pro-Kannada groups act against the Marathi-speaking population, then we too will react. If the law and order situation deteriorates, it will be responsibility of the Karnataka government,” said Sanjay Pawar Shiv Sena leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/state-transport-buses-to-ktaka-remain-cancelled/articleshow/81498111.cms||---
---||Coimbatore||2 DMK functionaries held for defamatory FB posts||Coimbatore: Two DMK functionaries were arrested on Sunday for posting derogatory messages against deputy speaker Pollachi VJayaraman and AIADMK government on social media in connection with the Pollachi sexual assault case.The arrested were identified as deputy organiser of DMK’s urban volunteers team S Prabhu and district deputy organiser of DMK’s literature wing S Patteswaran, of Pollachi.They posted messages on their Facebook pages linking AIADMK Pollachi assembly constituency candidate Pollachi V Jayaraman and AIADMK government to the Pollachi sexual assault case. The messages were shared by DMK cadres.AIADMK functionaries, who noticed the messages, lodged a complaint with the Pollachi east police.The duo was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-dmk-functionaries-held-for-defamatory-fb-posts/articleshow/81500552.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Coimbatore||Youth arrested for murdering friend in Tamil Nadu||COIMBATORE: Police have begun searching a canal at Sethumadai in Pollachi for the body of a teenager, who went missing six days ago. They have also arrested a friend of the missing person in connection with the incident. A Prasath, 19, of Ramar Kovil Street at Athiyur near Vadakkipalayam in Pollachi, who was working as a car mechanic, had left for the house of his friend J Udhayakumar, 20, of Sethumadai near Anaimalai, on March 8. The Vadakkipalayam police registered a missing case after Prasath’s mother A Sathiya Priya filed a complaint. Investigation revealed that Udhayakumar had borrowed Rs 45,000 from Karthikeyanand on January 14 at Prasath’s behest. “But Prasath refused to return the amount to Udhayakumar. On March 7, Udhayakumar contacted Prasath over phone and asked him to come to Sethumadai. Prasath reached Sethumadai on his new motorcycle and met Udhayakumar. The duo visited some medical shops to buy medicines for a horse. Udhayakumar, who was heavily drunk, asked Prasath to park the motorcycle near a hotel and urged him to travel with him on his bike. He took him to a contour canal in the area and demanded Rs 45,000. A heated argument ensued between them and Udhayakumar pushed Prasth into the canal and returned to Sethumadai. Prasath, who couldn’t swim, drowned,” a police officer said. Udhayakumar handed over Prasath’s motorcycle, worth Rs 2.5 lakh, to Karthikeyan. Police seized it from Karthikeyan on Saturday. Police altered the missing case to 302(murder) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested Udhayakumar on Saturday. “He has confessed to the murder,” inspector Vijayan told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/youth-arrested-for-murdering-friend/articleshow/81500553.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Won’t give control to HSGMC: Gurdwara Tharha Sahib panel||YAMUNANAGAR: At the meeting he called at Gurdwara Tharha Sahib to look into its funds and appoint an accountant for it, Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Baljit Singh Daduwal was accused of trying to take over this historical shrine by force. Located in Yamunanagar district’s Jhinverheri village, the gurdwara is linked to the Ninth Guru. Its 11-member committee opposed the appointment of an HSGMC-imposed accountant and made it clear to Daduwal in the four-hour meeting that it will continue to manage the place independently with local support. In the 17th century, Guru Tegh Bahadur had stopped over under a peepal at Jhinverheri on his way to Bihar and Assam, and that fig tree is also preserved since those times. Gurdwara president Gurbaj Singh of Yamunanagar’s Sikandra village said: “The gurdwara has a 6-acre campus and 32 total acres. Its annual collection is Rs 35 lakh and the income from farmland about Rs 10 lakh.” This gurdwara was earlier under the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), Amritsar, but since the HSGMC came into existence in 2014 in Haryana, the shrine is with the local committee. When contacted, Daduwal told TOI that the last audit had brought to light that the local committee kept big cash-in-hand instead of putting it in the bank as required under the HSGMC Act. He added: “Rules forbid them to keep more than Rs 5,000 cash-in-hand but now it runs into lakhs. This amounts to a fraud and warrants a case under Section 420 of the IPC, as we fear the money is being misused. The gurdwara doesn’t have a bank account and its committee implements the HSGMC general house resolutions based on its convenience.” Daduwal also said: “The ambiguities in the management of funds forced us to appoint an accountant but the local committee did not let him join, on the pretext that it can’t afford his salary. Therefore, a meeting was called on Saturday to discuss all these issues but the committee isn’t ready to go by the rules.” Local committee president Gurbaj Singh refuted the allegations and said: “We have kept all record and the HSGMC can do an audit any time. Since 2014, we run this place with good facilities to the sangat. There is no misuse of money, and any cash-in-hand is for the gurdwara works only. The panel is happy managing the gurdwara, without interference from the HSGMC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wont-give-control-to-hsgmc-gurdwara-tharha-sahib-panel/articleshow/81500548.cms||JK Singh
---||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Missing medical pupil looks for ‘spirituality’, found in a cave||MUMBAI: A medical student who had gone missing from his hostel in Kharghar was traced to a holy Buddhist site in Nashik 110 km away by the railway police. The 23-year-old student (identity kept confidential) told the police that he was keen to convert to Buddhism and was trying to find an institution where he could do so. He has been brought back to his hostel. The student belongs to Marathwada. On March 9, he left his hostel wearing a lungi and with a shawl. When he did not return a day later, hostel authorities lodged a missing complaint. They enquired with a security guard who was the last one to see the student on March 9. The guard said he had asked the youth to sign the register while exiting. He also chided the youth for not dressing up as per hostel guidelines. But the student mumbled something and left. The railway crime branch started probing the possibility that the youth left by train. They checked CCTV footage but couldn’t spot him. On inquiring with his friends, it was learnt that he had a deep spiritual inclination. The hostel management inquired at meditation centres across Navi Mumbai but drew a blank. A railway crime branch team decided to make a trip to a Vipassana academy in Igatpuri which was a well known centre for meditation. “We found out that the youth had been to the Igatpuri centre. He had expressed his desire to convert to Buddhism. The academy staff told him they couldn’t help him. He then left,” said assistant inspector Hemraj Sathe. A guard at the centre told the cops that the youth had mentioned Pandav Leni — Buddhist caves at Nashik. The police team went there and found him resting. He had walked a distance of 50 km from the Igatpuri centre to Pandav Leni as he had no money. At the caves, he was offered food. On Friday, the crime branch handed him over to the police who took him back to his hostel. A medical student of a college in Navi Mumbai, the 23-year-old was found resting in a cave. He had walked from Igatpuri to the caves as he had no money on him||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaimissing-med-pupil-looks-for-spirituality-found-in-a-cave/articleshow/81500563.cms||Nitasha Natu
March 15, 2021||Chennai||55 Thanjavur school girls test Covid positive||THANJAVUR: Fifty-five students and one teacher of a government-aided girls school at Ammapettai in Thanjavur district have been admitted to government hospitals in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur after testing positive for Covid-19 over the past two days. The district administration has declared two-week holiday for Regina Caeli Girl’s Higher Secondary School which has more than 1,200 students on its rolls. Around 600 students of Classes IX to XII have been attending classes at the school since Pongal in January. A few days ago, a student of class XII reported fever. When tested, it came to light that she had contracted the coronavirus. Subsequently, the school authorities arranged for a swab test for all the 460 class XII students on March 11. As 20 of them tested positive on March 12, they were admitted to the government medical college hospitals in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur. On being alerted by the district administration, a team of health workers camped at the school and conducted swab test on the remaining students. When the results came on Sunday, 35 more students and a teacher were found to have tested positive. All of them have been admitted to the two hospitals for further treatment. While health workers have started screening the remaining students as well as villagers in Ammapettai, district collector M Govinda Rao has directed health officials to set up a monitoring committee and submit a report on the spread of the virus. The collector visited the school and around 24 villages in and around Ammapettai and checked the precautionary measures being taken. Officials said the contact history of the 55 students and teacher has been traced by health workers while a special medical desk has been working round the clock in Ammapettai. The collector also instructed district educational department officials to check whether standard operating procedures have been properly implemented at all the 436 schools in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/55-thanjavur-school-girls-test-positive/articleshow/81500549.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Four escaped juvenile offenders land in police net||COIMBATORE: Four of the six juvenile offenders, who escaped from the observation home at Lakshmi Mills Junction in the city after assaulting the warden, were held at Udumalpet bus stand in the early hours of Sunday. The city police have formed two special teams to trace the remaining two juvenile offenders. The Race Course (law & order) police said 11 offenders were lodged in the observation home for juveniles at Lakshmi Mills Junction. A police officer said, “On Saturday night, the warden took them out of their rooms for dinner. Six of them assaulted the warden, snatched keys from him, locked him, along with five other juvenile offenders, in a room and escaped.” According to the officer, one of the escaped juvenile offenders was facing murder charges. “The remaining were facing theft charges.” When alerted, the Race Course police informed the city police control room, from where the message was passed onto the neighbouring district police. The Race Course police also conducted searches at all bus stands and railway stations. “Around 1.30am on Sunday, the Udumalpet police in Tirupur spotted four boys at the bus stand and held an inquiry. When they came to know about the incident, they secured the juvenile offenders and alerted us. We have brought them to the city and lodged them in the observation home, after producing them before the juvenile justice board,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-escaped-juvenile-offenders-land-in-police-net/articleshow/81500547.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Senior citizens turn up in good numbers to exercise franchise||Hyderabad: Neither the Covid-19 pandemic nor the scorching heat could stop 80-year-old SV Ramana Rao from exercising his franchise on Sunday in the MLC Graduates elections. The retired bank manager said he has never missed casting his vote in any elections to date. “As an educated person, it is my responsibility to vote. Even since I got voting rights, I have never missed voting in any election for any reason. Amid pandemic, we took all precautions to be safe while coming out to vote,” he added. He said that the volunteers helped him to skip the long queues and ensured that he gets to vote on a priority basis. “With the help of a volunteer, I managed to go and vote in few minutes,” he added. Rao’s 72-year-old wife Sunandha, who also cast her vote, said that they even encouraged others in their apartment to come out and vote on Sunday. Like Rao, scores of senior citizens, especially those aged above 70, stepped out of their homes, most of them for the first time during the pandemic, to cast their vote saying that it is their responsibility to exercise their franchise. Many were joined either by their spouses or children, who helped them to complete the process. “Voting is the least one can do for the development of the country,” said V Jhansi Lakshmi, a 73-year-old, who cast her vote at Zilla Parishad High School, Serilingampally. Lakshmi, a retired government employee, said that she stepped out for the first time during the pandemic to cast her vote. “For the last one year, I haven’t stepped out of my house, except to go for a health check-up. Even during the pandemic, I did not want to miss out on voting. Hence, I came to the polling booth along with my son,” she added. Officials at some of the polling booths also confirmed that many senior citizens have voted in this election. “By 11am, about 50 to 60 senior citizens came to vote, ” said an official on election duty at Zilla Parishad High School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/senior-citizens-turn-up-in-good-numbers-to-exercise-franchise/articleshow/81500556.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
---||Chandigarh||PSGPC says no to amended calendar||Amritsar: Refusing to implement the Akal Takht’s amended version of Nanakshahi calendar (NC), Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) president Satwant Singh said they would continue to follow the Pal Singh Purewal-authored almanac, which was released in 2003. While talking to TOI after the release of Samvat 553 (2020-21) NC at Nankana Sahib, Satwant said, “Sikh sentiments are attached with the original NC and we will continue to extend our support and implement the same which was then released by the Akal Takht.” However, he respond to the fact that the amended version has also been released by the supreme temporal seat of Sikhs, Akal Takht. Some Sikh bodies claim that the amendments were made in the 2003 NC by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and Sikh clergy under the influence of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) in 2010. PSGPC former president Bishan Singh said, “Not only the Sikhs of Pakistan follow the 2003 calendar but the community members worldwide and even many in India follow the same.” Golden Temple head granthi Giani Jagtar Singh, granthi Giani Maan Singh, SGPC senior-vice president Surjit Singh Bhitewad and SGPC general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka shared their views.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/psgpc-says-no-to-amended-calendar/articleshow/81500554.cms||Yudhvir Rana
March 15, 2021||Coimbatore||Miscreant makes vain bid to rob ATM||Salem: A burglar had to flee empty-handed after trying to break open an ATM kiosk owned by the Stand Bank of India near the new bus stand in the city for 15 minutes.A person who noticed the damaged ATM had alerted the Pallipatty police. A police team led by inspector M Nithya examined the CCTV camera installed in the kiosk. “We saw an unidentified person, who had covered his face using a mask, entering the kiosk at 2am. He tried break the machine to steal money and damaged the front panel. But his attempts turned futile and he escaped after 15 minutes,” Nithya said.Meanwhile, the burglary attempt had triggered an alarm at the bank’s Mumbai office. They alerted the local bank officials, who reached the spot and inspected the machine. Money kept in the machine was found intact. “We have registered a case and are searching for the miscreant,” she added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/miscreant-makes-vain-bid-to-rob-atm/articleshow/81500564.cms||---
---||Chandigarh||Covid in Haryana: Year on, anxiety lurks||Haryana registered its first case of Covid-19 on March 17, 2020, when 29-year-old Bhagya Shree, a resident of Gurgaon, tested positive. She had returned from Malaysia and Indonesia on March 4 and had some symptoms of cough and sneezing. Her sample was taken on March 13 and sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. It was declared positive by the laboratory on March 17, 2020. Before this, however, a group of 14 Italian tourists was admitted to a private hospital in Gurgaon on March 5, after they tested positive. All of them recovered, but one died of a heart attack later. Ever since, the number of Covid cases has increased. By March 13 this year, the state had logged 2,74,697 cases. Of these, while 2,68,672 have recovered, 3,073 succumbed to the virus and only 2,952 cases are active. Mortality in state The first Covid-19 death in Haryana was reported on April 6, 2020, when Gian Singh, 58, a resident of Karnal, died due to the deadly virus. He had multiple comorbidities (diabetes mellitus type II, chronic renal disease and COPD). He was declared dead at PGIMER, Chandigarh. However, the first Covid death in the state took place on April 1, 2020, at PGIMER, Chandigarh. Harjit Singh, a 67-year-old male resident of Ambala, was suffering from multiple comorbidities (diabetes mellitus type II, hypertension, CABG). He was admitted to PGIMER, Chandigarh, on March 31 and declared dead on April 1. After that, till March 6, 2021, the total number of deaths in the state has been 3,056 — 2,064 males, 991 females and one transgender. Testing Initially, Pune-based NIV was the only designated laboratory for Covid-19 testing approved by ICMR and because of that all samples were sent there. Later, two RTPCR laboratories, PGIMS, Rohtak (on March 9) and Bhagat Phool Singh Government Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, Sonipat (on March 13) were made functional. Gradually, Haryana developed its infrastructure and expanded testing capacity to 90,250 tests per day by setting up 19 government labs with a total testing capacity of up to 24,350 tests per day and 16 private labs having MoUs with HMSCL with total testing capacity up to 65,900. In addition to this, standard Q Covid-19 Ag detection kits are also being used for confirmation of Covid-19 as per ICMR guidelines. Haryana has been one of the leading states in testing, as 58,95,777 samples were taken till March 13, 2021. On an average, the state has been conducting 2,32,575 tests per million. The positivity rate of the state has been recorded at 4.67%. Vaccination The Haryana health department launched the Covid-19 vaccination programme on January 16 this year. As of March 13, the vaccine has been administered to around 5,20,425 beneficiaries across the state. As per the Government of India guidelines, the vaccine was administered sequentially, starting with health care workers (HCWs), then front line workers like municipal and sanitary workers, state and central police forces, civil defence, armed forces, revenue workers and now to the people above 60 years of age along with those above 45 years with co-morbidities. A total of 67 lakh beneficiaries will be administered the vaccine in a phased manner.. Sero survey The Haryana health department also conducted two sero-surveys in the last one year. In the first round, held in August, the positivity rate was found to be 8% in the state. In the second survey, the report of which was published in November, the sero-positivity was found to be 14.8%. The surveys also highlighted that the risk of transmission is higher in urban areas as compared with rural areas in Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-in-haryana-year-on-anxiety-lurks/articleshow/81500566.cms||Ajay Sura
March 15, 2021||Coimbatore||Juicy Chemistry to make gobal imprint||Coimbatore: The city-based skincare brand Juicy Chemistry is all set to grow its presence in the global market with a fund of Rs 46 crore. The founders say they plan to quadruple their revenues from overseas and position the firm well in abroad in 2022, if all goes well.Juicy Chemistry has raised Rs 46 crore in a series of funding drive that was led by Belgium-based investment firm Verlinvest. Pritesh Asher, co-founder and CEO of Juicy Chemistry, said the investment would enable the firm to further strengthen its position as a leader in the clean and organic beauty segment. “We plan to expand our manufacturing capacity by four times and with 80% of our revenue coming from our website, we plan to start placing our products on more third-party websites and e-commerce platforms.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/juicy-chemistry-to-make-gobal-imprint/articleshow/81500561.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Lucknow||UP accelerates vax drive, CHCs to function six days/ week||LUCKNOW: Amid a Covid surge in some states, the UP government on Sunday announced stepping up inoculation by making it mandatory for community health centres (CHCs) to conduct vaccination six days a week. Earlier, CHCs were vaccinating people three days a week — Monday, Thursday and Friday. Government hospitals and medical colleges have been carrying out vaccination six days a week. Additional chief secretary, medical and health, Amit Mohan Prasad, said the decision was taken to accelerate the vaccination drive, particularly in rural areas. He also said, people can register in hospitals if they are unable to do it online. Primary health centres (PHCs) can continue with their 3-day per week schedule. He also stressed on making vaccination a “public movement” with the help of influential personalities, including MPs and MLAs. “The state government seeks to inoculate maximum people in shortest possible time. For this, citizens should come forward to help the elderly reach vaccination centres,” he said. Till date, 26.44 lakh people in the state have received the jab. Experts said, Covid complexities have been witnessed in people above 60 years of age and 45-plus citizens with comorbidities. “The state government wants maximum coverage of age-groups to minimize fatalities,” officials said. A large number of people are expected to reach 4,000 vaccination centres, including government hospitals, medical colleges, CHCs, PHCs and a host of private hospitals for getting inoculated on Monday. Prasad, however, maintained that people need to remain cautious even after vaccination. “Some states are witnessing a surge in Corona cases. UP needs to be shielded from a fresh virus spike and people should remain vigilant and follow protocols,” he said, pointing out that scores of people are expected to reach UP from other states in the run-up to Holi. The ACS informed that recently some who reached Gonda, Rae Bareli and Basti by train from Maharashtra were found Covid positive. “It is necessary for people coming from other states to get themselves tested before arriving in UP,” he said. In last 24 hours, the state recorded 178 new cases even as the state health department conducted 96,162 tests. According to the state health bulletin, UP has 1,851 active Corona cases, of which 865 were in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-accelerates-vax-drive-chcs-to-function-six-days/-week/articleshow/81500816.cms||Pankaj Shah
---||Chandigarh||Stone crusher away from sanctuaries: HP||Shimla: In response to the directions of the National Green Tribunal seeking report on the issue of violation of environmental norms in the operation of stone crusher by Afcons Infrastructure Limited at Banala village of Mandi district, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) submitted a report saying that the stone crusher is 22.54 Km away from the Great Himalayan National Park and 25.35 Km from Tirthan Wildlife Sanctuary. He said perennial river sources near the above mentioned stone crusher do not fall under the jurisdiction of GHNP Circle, Shamshi. Applicant Ashish Shaunik had approached the National Green Tribunal with complaint of violation of environmental norms in the operation of stone crushers by Afcons Infrastructure Limited at Banala village of Aut tehsil in Mandi district. In the application, it was stated that sitting criteria was violated as the stone crushers were within prohibited distance of Tirthan River, National Highway, government school, Reservoir of Larji Dam (126 MW Larji Hydropower project), Great Himalayan National Park and Tirthan Wildlife Sanctuary. Reference was made to the notification dated May 29, 2014 issued by HP government and reference was also made to an order of the Himachal Pradesh High Court dated March 11 last year, wherein stay was granted in respect of locations close to non- perennial rivulets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/stone-crusher-away-from-sanctuaries-hp/articleshow/81500560.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Pune||Man held, 4 minors booked in dacoity case||Pune: The Wakad police on Saturday arrested a 26-year-old man and booked four accomplies — all of them minors — for robbing a paan stall owner and extorting other vendors in Kalewadi. A police officer said the suspect and his accomplices went to the complainant’s stall late on Friday night and brandished a sharp weapon. “The suspect and his accomplices demanded a packet of cigarettes and when the man refused, they ransacked his stall and snatching Rs 3,000 from the counter,” the officer said. As per the complaint, one of the suspects even tried to attack the paan stall owner with an iron rod. The suspects then went around the Kalewadi area, demanding “hafta” of Rs3,000 from the other stall owners. Another stall owner has also lodged a first information report with the police, alleging that the suspects had they threatened to kill him if he did not pay them a “hafta” of sRs3,000. “We arrested one suspect and booked the gang under Section 395 (dacoity) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-4-minors-booked-in-dacoity-case/articleshow/81499735.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Coimbatore||Five shops destroyed completely as major fire engulfs Salem corporation complex||Salem: Five shops in a commercial complex, which is owned by the Salem Municipal Corporation, were completely destroyed after they went into flames at Suramangalam in the city in the early hours of Sunday. No one was hurt in the incident. While the loss is estimated at Rs 30 lakh, the cause of fire is said to be short circuit.There were 20 shops, including a grocery shop, cell phone repairing shop, tea shop and a confectionery shop, in the complex.According to the district fire officer Velu, around 2am, fire erupted from the grocery shop and started spreading to the neighbouring shops, because of heavy wind. “Road users alerted the fire and rescue services personnel at Shevapet and Suramangalam. A team led by assistant fire officer Murugesan rushed to the spot and doused the flames after six hours of struggle.” Velu said.While putting out the fire, the district fire officer said, the cooking gas cylinder in the tea shop exploded suddenly. “But no one was injured in the incident,” he said.Six fire tenders and 15 fire and rescue services personnel were deployed to put out the fire. “Edible oils, ghee, vanaspathi and butter packets at the grocery shop fuelled the fire. Cooking gas cylinder explosion was another reason for the fire to spread,” the district fire officer said.The Suramangalam police have registered the case and initiated an inquiry into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/five-shops-destroyed-completely-as-major-fire-engulfs-salem-corporation-complex/articleshow/81500567.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Coimbatore||‘Kamal doesn’t know problems faced by people here’||What are your strengths?I am a local candidate. I am a voter of this constituency. I live here, and I have been with the people here for years unlike the candidates of other major parties. After the elections too, I will not go anywhere. People know this.What would you like to tell your voters?I would take efforts to bring a jewellery park and create a Jewellery Workers Welfare Board, bring a pension scheme for them and allot dwellings in housing boards. The existing Avinashi Road flyover will be given a facelift and parking lots would be built in Town Hall and other congested pockets.Is Kamal Haasan a challenge?No. He has no connectivity with people, he doesn’t know problems faced by people here. He may say he will stay here after polls, but there is no chance for him to live here. Because, he has to act in movies and host Bigg Boss. He is not accessible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kamal-doesnt-know-problems-faced-by-people-here/articleshow/81500572.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Kolhapur||Dabholkar Corner among top 10 Maharashtra sites with high PM10 levels||KOLHAPUR: The Dabholkar Corner in Kolhapur city is ranked eighth among the top 10 locations in the state with annual average concentration of particulate matter 10 (PM10) — also known as respirable suspended particulate matter (RSPM) — of 125 micro gram per metric cube (mg/mc) of air, much more than the tolerable limit of 60 mg/mc. Track the pollution level in your cityMoreover, the concentration of nitrogen oxides in the air caused by vehicular emissions at the Dabholkar Corner, where a monitoring station is located over the Ruikar Trust building, was 53 mg/mc — again much more than the prescribed limit of 40 mg/mc. At Mahadwar Road of Mahalaxmi temple premise, the concentration of the oxides of nitrogen is 40 mg/mc. The findings are in the annual report published recently by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) for 2019-2020. The PM10 can penetrate deep into the lungs and bloodstream. Continuous exposure to PM10 may cause heart and lung-related disorders and they may turn fatal. PM10 concentration is high when there are mining, quarrying or industrial activities. While there are no major activities near the Dabholkar Corner, the environmental experts attribute the continuous burning of solid waste as the reason for high PM10 levels. At Dabholkar Corner, the PM10 concentrations have been rising for the past five years. The location reported 159 mg/mc in 2012-13 (highest) after which it declined to 125 mg/mc in 2019-2020. The MPCB report also mentions the PM10 concentrations for the first three months of 2020. The concentration has remained even higher than the annual average for 2019-20. The location showed oxides of nitrogen at around 53 mg/mc, higher than the prescribed limit of 40 mg/mc, due to increasing vehicular movement. The oxides of nitrogen cause eye irritations, headache and breathing issues. The location is among nine other sites in the state reporting concentration of oxides of nitrogen exceeding the prescribed limits. “Necessary steps to mitigate vehicular emissions need to be taken. The shift of vehicles from BS-IV to BS-VI will help reduce the oxides of nitrogen concentrations,” states the MPCB report. The concentration of oxides of sulphur in the air at all three locations in the city has remained within the permissible limits. The MPCB has noted that the monitoring station at the Shivaji University has reported no polluted days during 2019-2020 and even before that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dabholkar-corner-among-top-10-maha-sites-with-high-pm10-levels/articleshow/81498181.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Rajkot||Four booked for driving woman to suicide||Rajkot: Police booked man and his parents for allegedly driving a 20-year-old woman to suicide in Morbi district's Charavada village last month.Ankita Chauhan had hanged to death at her house on February 12, leaving behind a suicide note stating that she took the drastic step as her to-be husband Kalpesh Kanjariya had called off their engagement after keeping physical relationship with her.“Fearing societal humiliation, she committed suicide. We have booked Kalpesh, his parents and one more relative,” said police.Ankita and Kalpesh were formally engaged with proper rituals six months ago. But police said that Kalpesh forced her into physical relations several times and then called off the engagement and marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-booked-for-driving-woman-to-suicide/articleshow/81498872.cms||---
---||Delhi||Pillars of strength erected, Delhi-Meerut RRTS starts taking shape||NEW DELHI: The 82km-long Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor has now started taking shape with pillars already erected on a 15km stretch and 3.5km of viaduct being completed. Trains on the high-speed corridor are expected to transport up to eight lakh passengers daily when the project is completed in 2025. A spokesperson of National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) said, “The construction of the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor is progressing in full swing. Pier construction of more than 15km of the corridor has now been completed. In all, 533 pillars have been erected completely on which 3.5km of the viaduct has been laid so far.” “Currently, 10 launching gantries have been deployed and work is on 24x7 to construct the rest of the viaduct. This is a major feat in the construction of any urban transport infrastructure project. The foundation work of other stations in Delhi and Meerut has also started. Design and architecture work is in the final stages. The construction work of the 1.3km-long bridge on the Yamuna has begun. This will be the 17th bridge to come up on the river in Delhi,” added the spokesperson. NCRTC had received clearance for the project alignment passing through the Yamuna floodplain from National Green Tribunal and Yamuna Standing Committee. The project would lead to a significantly lesser carbon footprint due to high throughput of 60,000-80,000 passengers per hour in each direction. “The corridor is mostly elevated (about 71km) taking only 3m of road space. The remaining 11km is underground. RRTS will have six car trainsets extendable to nine cars with a capacity of carrying about 1,790 passengers per train, including 400 seating,” said the spokesperson. The state-of-the-art trains would have a design speed of 180 kmph and an average speed close to 100 kmph. “RRTS will become the backbone of commuter transportation in the NCR, reducing travel time to about one-third. For example, travel time between Begum Pul in Meerut and Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi will reduce to less than 60 minutes compared with about 3.5-4 hours by road,” said the NCRTC official. “The 3.2m-wide trains will have more capacity to transport people at a faster speed than any other urban transport systems available in the NCR. Once operational, RRTS will take more than one lakh private vehicles off the road. Implementation of RRTS is a part of the recommendation of the high-powered committee on decongesting traffic in Delhi,” claimed the official. Apart from substantial time savings, the system would have other benefits, like comfort, safety and reliability. “These characteristics will promote use of public transport in the region and the shift will increase substantially. It is estimated that public transportation usage will increase along the corridor from the current 37% to 63%,” said the spokesperson. The foundation work of four stations — Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, Duhai, and Guldhar — on a 17km priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai has been completed. “Construction of superstructures is in progress for these stations and the foundation work of 16km of the viaduct from the 17km priority section has been completed,” he added. The 17km priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai is targeted to be commissioned by 2023 and the full corridor by 2025.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pillars-of-strength-erected-rrts-starts-taking-shape/articleshow/81499803.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 15, 2021||Agra||People coming from Maha to be screened for Covid-19 in UP||AGRA: State health department has issued an alert following an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in Maharshtra and other states. Now, people coming from Maharshtra will have to inform the health department about their medical status. All these people will be screened. In suspicious cases, samples will be sent for lab testing. The health department restarted targeted sampling on Sunday by collecting samples of vegetable and fruit vendors from different parts of the district. Agra district chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The number of Covid-19 cases is rapidly rising in Maharasthra and southern states. People from these areas travelling to districts of UP may become the cause of spreading the infection. We are going to screen all the people coming from Maharasthra. Special teams have been constituted. Samples of anyone found to have Covid-like symptoms will be sent for lab testing. It will be mandatory for those coming from Maharasthra to report to the health department. Anyone who recently travelled to any other state and has an health issue should see a doctor.” Meanwhile, three Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the district on Sunday. Of the 10,558 cases reported in the district so far, 98.17% (10,365) have been declared cured of the infection. The current sample positivity rate is 1.79%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/people-coming-from-maha-to-be-screened-for-covid-19-in-up/articleshow/81498142.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Rajkot||Four booked for driving woman to suicide||Rajkot: Police booked man and his parents for allegedly driving a 20-year-old woman to suicide in Morbi district's Charavada village last month.Ankita Chauhan had hanged to death at her house on February 12, leaving behind a suicide note stating that she took the drastic step as her to-be husband Kalpesh Kanjariya had called off their engagement after keeping physical relationship with her.“Fearing societal humiliation, she committed suicide. We have booked Kalpesh, his parents and one more relative,” said police.Ankita and Kalpesh were formally engaged with proper rituals six months ago. But police said that Kalpesh forced her into physical relations several times and then called off the engagement and marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-booked-for-driving-woman-to-suicide/articleshow/81498855.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Relief for Mumbaikars, as temperature drops by 3.2 degrees||MUMBAI: A 3.2 degree drop was recorded in the maximum temperature on Sunday, bringing in some relief for Mumbaikars. The India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Santacruz observatory recorded maximum temperatures of 35 degrees, a drop from Saturday’s temperature of 38.2 degrees. Weather officials have, however, forecasted that maximum temperatures are expected to stay on the higher side and sky would mainly be clear on Monday too. A weather official said that on Sunday the westerly winds from the Arabian sea started at around noon, thereby arresting further rise in temperatures. “This brought in some relief. Delays in setting in off sea breeze is what leads to temperature rise,” said a IMD official. The maximum temperatures of 35 degrees recorded by the IMD Sanatcruz observatory was 2.1 degrees above normal while the IMD Colaba observatory had recorded maximum temperatures of 32. 6 degrees which was 1.1 degrees above normal. Saturday, saw the city record the highest maximum temperature of the season at 38.2 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-relief-for-mumbaikars-as-temp-drops-by-3-2-degrees/articleshow/81500589.cms||Richa Pinto
---||Mumbai||Covid effect: Mumbai University sees 20% drop in student enrolment||MUMBAI: The Covid-19 pandemic has upended the dreams of those planning to pursue a higher education. The stay-at-home order due to the pandemic has either crushed or postponed the academic map of those wanting to join college. Mumbai University, which sees close to 2.3 lakh fresh students join each year, saw enrolment plummet by about 20%. And even as experts speak about access to education, the grim reality of the pandemic sunk in when the Mumbai University carried out a head count of students on its rolls. The actual numbers had, like all other years, not ascended or even remained stable. Enrolment had indeed tanked, and while these numbers may just be the preface, there is yet no grip on the overall statistics, those who dropped out mid-way into their bachelor’s programme. Among the districts that Mumbai University has jurisdiction over, Mumbai saw the steepest drop in enrolment followed by Thane and Raigad. Overall, for the seven districts, enrolment in 2019-20 stood at over 2.2 lakh and the number of first-year admissions in 2020-21 was nearly 1.9 lakh (see box). Data presented in the university senate meeting reflected that students have been affected. “Many would be those whose parents have lost jobs and it’s not like post-Covid their jobs will return overnight. The state must conduct a special drive or offer financial help and release a special assistance package for those who have been left behind in 2020-21,” said Aarti Prasad, a senate member of Mumbai University. “While on the one hand people have lost jobs, online education has upped the cost of education as parents have had to get smartphones and buy data packs for their children to be connected to class.” The pandemic witnessed students adapting to the online mode of education and examination. “Many families, who depend on daily earnings, are affected financially and we need to have a definite support mechanism for these students for pursuing education in such difficult period. Many philanthropists are coming forward for financial support to students for pursuing online education,” said a senior Mumbai University official, adding that “blended education through wider choice of education tools” will be the form that academics will take in the post-Covid world. While the enrolment numbers for the first-year have fallen, the drop has been rather high for unaided programmes. Also, several students who are on the rolls have expressed difficulty in paying fees. “Many colleges are bleeding financially,” said a principal of a commerce college in Chandivli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-covid-effect-mu-sees-20-drop-in-student-enrolment/articleshow/81499789.cms||Hemali Chhapia
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Cop takes care of baby, helps mother vote||Hyderabad: On seeing a woman voter standing in a queue and struggling to carry her infant daughter, a woman constable from Bibinagar came to the voter’s rescue and took care of the infant until the mother cast her vote. This incident took place at ZPHS, Bibi Nagar. The effort of constable Kavita, who held the infant, was appreciated by everyone after a photo went viral on social media. “There was a long queue when the voter came to the polling station. As she was struggling to stand in the queue along with her infant, our constable Kavita took the baby and took care of her for 1 hour, “ Bibinagar SI Raghavendra told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-takes-care-of-baby-helps-mother-vote/articleshow/81500578.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Jaipur||Fire dept will survey commercial properties||Jaipur: City’s fire department has started surveying the commercial properties to have a look at the fire security systems on their premises.Over the last few days, fire security in the city’s commercial places has become a major issue.The fire department in JMC, Greater has given a task to its officers in each zone to survey commercial properties and submit a report. Based on this report, action will be taken against these private property owners.Jagdish Phulwari, chief fire officer of JMC, Greater, said, “We had a meeting with the officials last week and since then all our officers are going regularly to these properties. At many places, fire system is not working and, in many places, they do not have the NOC. So, we have decided to survey all the properties in the area and make a comprehensive report.”On Saturday, JMC, Greater mayor Somya Gurjar along with other officials went on a surprise inspection to some shopping malls of the city and found that fire systems were not in place at many spots and NOC of the buildings were not updated.Paras Jain, chairman of the fire committee, said that these surprise inspections show the condition of fire security. “We are taking this issue seriously as fire security lapse can be a reason for potential mishap in the city. We have already given notices to the owners of these malls and action will be taken against them, but now we will take it to another level and survey other properties as well,” said Jain.The first report of the fire survey will be submitted on March 17, 2021, after which notices will be issued to the owners of commercial properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fire-dept-will-survey-commercial-properties/articleshow/81499762.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Woman casts ballot hours before her wedding||HYDERABAD: Setting an example for many who fail to turn up at polling booths to cast their ballot, a 28-year-old woman on Sunday voted for the first time at the MLC elections on her wedding day. Fridose Begum was supposed to get married in Mahbubnagar at 10 am, so she turned up at the polling booth in Koilakonda with her uncle, Mogulana, and the sarpanch of Malkapur village, Narayana Yadav, at 8.30 am. “As she was to wed on Sunday, we made sure that she cast her vote on time so that she could reach the wedding venue in Mahabubnagar,” Yadav said. Interestingly, this is the first time that she cast her vote since securing voting rights many years ago. She voted in the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduate constituency. Firdose, who completed her B. Ed, is employed as a private teacher in her village. “I realize that employment issues are very important and it is also important to exercise my vote this time. This is basic responsibility and my family and even in-laws also supported the idea,” she told TOI by telephone. She voted along with her younger sister, drawing appreciation from local leaders. Hailing from a low-income group family, Firdose lost her father at an early age. Her mother, who is a local tailor, got her daughters educated on her own. “I was a bit surprised when my niece told me that she wanted to cast her vote. But it is the basic duty of citizens and without hesitation, I helped her. Everyone should take this seriously,” her uncle said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-casts-ballot-hours-before-her-wedding/articleshow/81500587.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 15, 2021||Pune||Woman walking on Taljai hill robbed||Pune: A man, aged around 30-years, snatched a woman’s gold chain worth Rs30,000 while she was on an evening walk atop Taljai hillock on February 25. The 47-year-old woman had filed a complainant with the Sinhagad Road police. The case was transferred to the Bharati Vidyapeeth police for further probe on Saturday. “The case now registered with the Bharati Vidyapeeth police. We have begun the probe on the basis of the description of the suspect given by the woman,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-walking-on-taljai-hill-robbed/articleshow/81499778.cms||Mihir Tanksale
March 15, 2021||Jaipur||15 safari vehicles banned from entering RNP for breaking rules||JAIPUR: The forest administration has banned 15 safari vehicles from entering Ranthambore National Park (RNP) after the drivers allegedly broke rules. The list of banned safari vehicles include eight gypsies and seven canters. Drivers and nature guide on these safari vehicles will also not be allowed to enter the park. The ban will continue till next order. The official order reads, “The nature guide and drivers removed the stones from the path and entered inside the Khurjan area where entry was restricted. The accused also misbehaved with the forest guard.” Though alleged irregularities from drivers and nature guide is a regular affair at Ranthambore, the department has taken a stringent action against the violators for the second time in history . Earlier in 2018, after India’s ace pistol shooter Heena Sidhu expressed disappointment with with the guides and tourists of Ranthambore National park, total 26 safari vehicles were banned. Recalling Sidhu’s tweet, a environmentalists and frequent visitor of RNP Rahul Tyagi said, “The shooters mentioned that her visit to Ranthambore left her disappointed after seeing the behavior of the guides and tourists and their utter disrespect towards the jungle and animals. They shout and scream, tourists get off the jeeps mere 25 feet from the tiger while the guides are busy fighting. Though action was taken, nothing much has changed in Ranthambore.” In 2019, a tourist and his guide were jointly fined Rs 51,000 for allegedly pelting stones at a sleeping tiger in Ranthambore in a bid to get the perfect “action shot”. At Pilighat Gate of zone-6, a tourist and his guide spotted the sleeping tiger. A forest guard, who wished not to be quoted recalled, “While the tourist remained seated in the gypsy with a camera, the guide stepped down and pelted stones on the tiger to make it move.” An official alleged that many drivers and nature guide guarantee tourists tiger sighting, which often leads to drive on forest roads that are not open. A report has also been sought in this regard and such action would definitely instil discipline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/15-safari-vehicles-banned-from-entering-rnp-for-breaking-rules/articleshow/81499783.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Agra||State govt sets target of 10,000 people per day for administering Covid-19 vaccine||AGRA: Following the slow pace of Covid-19 vaccination, the state government has directed the health department to vaccinate 10,000 people per day in each district in UP So far in three phases, only 20,000 people have been vaccinated in Agra district. The Covid-19 vaccination was started on January 16. To increase vaccination, the state government has directed the health department to take help of the auxiliary nurse midwifes, anganwadi workers, gram pradhans to bring people to the vaccination centres. Chief medical officer of Agra district Dr RC Pandey said, “The total population of Agra district is around 52 lakh. The population of people above 60 years of age and those above 45 years of age and suffering from health issues is 4.46 lakh. All these people should get vaccinated in the next four months.” “The turnout of people at the vaccination centres has been low. In this regard, the state government has set a target for vaccination of 10,000 people per day. We have organized 81 booths for vaccination. Out of these, 30 are at private hospitals. People can walk in for vaccination at these centres on Monday, Thursday and Friday. Arrangements are being made to increase the pace of vaccination. Public representatives and field staffers are being asked to spread awareness about the same,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/state-govt-sets-target-of-10k-people-per-day-for-administering-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/81498160.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Pune||2 gold chains worth Rs 1.2L snatched||Pune: Two gold chains, collectively worth Rs1.2 lakh, were snatched in Karvenagar and Chinchwadgaon between Friday and Saturday. On Friday night, a 68-year-old woman and her husband were out on a walk in their colony in Karvenagar after dinner around 9pm. “I saw two men on a scooter go ahead but they returned. They stopped near me and the pillion rider snatched my mangalsutra worth Rs70,000 and they drove away,” the woman said. She sustained injuries on her left hand and head as the suspect had pushed her down. The woman said there was a CCTV camera in a bungalow nearby. “Footage revealed that they were driving a black scooter,” she said. Sub-inspector Dhiraj Gupta of the Alankar police is investigating the case. Similarly, a 60-year-old woman from Tanajinagar in Chinchwadgaon was out for a walk near her house around 8.30pm on Saturday when a motorcyclist snatched her gold chain worth Rs50,000. A case of robbery has been registered with the Chinchwad police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-gold-chains-worth-rs-1-2l-snatched/articleshow/81499785.cms||Mihir Tanksale
March 15, 2021||Udaipur||With no cases since Feb 28, prisons declared Covid-free||JAIPUR: The state jail department has declared all its prisons ‘Covid-free’ after reporting no cases since February 28. This is for the first time that all the 123 prisons with 22,000 inmates and 6,000 staff living and working in cramped conditions recorded no cases in the last 14 days. At one point of time, the prisons had recorded 2,500 cases in 25 jails. DG (prisons) Rajeev Dasot told TOI that a prison is a place that sees a high number of entries and exits. “By May and June, cases had started souring in the prisons due to daily contact of people from outside. The first initiative done by us was discontinued personal meetings and introduced e-mulaqat of prisoners with their family and relatives through video conferencing. It had shut the major reason for virus contraction,” said Dasot. The move minimised the threat, but it did not stop outside contact completely. The department had to use the management concept of utilising limited resources to control the cases. The transfers of prisoners started from one place to another to create quarantine centres and Covid + rooms. “The convicts and accused had been arriving almost every day even during the peak of Covid infections. Even with the positive report, we made provisions of keeping them in quarantine for 14 days to control the spread among inmates,” said Dasot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-prisons-declare-covid-free/articleshow/81504188.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Jodhpur||With no cases since Feb 28, prisons declared Covid-free||JAIPUR: The state jail department has declared all its prisons ‘Covid-free’ after reporting no cases since February 28. This is for the first time that all the 123 prisons with 22,000 inmates and 6,000 staff living and working in cramped conditions recorded no cases in the last 14 days. At one point of time, the prisons had recorded 2,500 cases in 25 jails. DG (prisons) Rajeev Dasot told TOI that a prison is a place that sees a high number of entries and exits. “By May and June, cases had started souring in the prisons due to daily contact of people from outside. The first initiative done by us was discontinued personal meetings and introduced e-mulaqat of prisoners with their family and relatives through video conferencing. It had shut the major reason for virus contraction,” said Dasot. The move minimised the threat, but it did not stop outside contact completely. The department had to use the management concept of utilising limited resources to control the cases. The transfers of prisoners started from one place to another to create quarantine centres and Covid + rooms. “The convicts and accused had been arriving almost every day even during the peak of Covid infections. Even with the positive report, we made provisions of keeping them in quarantine for 14 days to control the spread among inmates,” said Dasot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-prisons-declare-covid-free/articleshow/81504189.cms||---
---||Ajmer||With no cases since Feb 28, prisons declared Covid-free||JAIPUR: The state jail department has declared all its prisons ‘Covid-free’ after reporting no cases since February 28. This is for the first time that all the 123 prisons with 22,000 inmates and 6,000 staff living and working in cramped conditions recorded no cases in the last 14 days. At one point of time, the prisons had recorded 2,500 cases in 25 jails. DG (prisons) Rajeev Dasot told TOI that a prison is a place that sees a high number of entries and exits. “By May and June, cases had started souring in the prisons due to daily contact of people from outside. The first initiative done by us was discontinued personal meetings and introduced e-mulaqat of prisoners with their family and relatives through video conferencing. It had shut the major reason for virus contraction,” said Dasot. The move minimised the threat, but it did not stop outside contact completely. The department had to use the management concept of utilising limited resources to control the cases. The transfers of prisoners started from one place to another to create quarantine centres and Covid + rooms. “The convicts and accused had been arriving almost every day even during the peak of Covid infections. Even with the positive report, we made provisions of keeping them in quarantine for 14 days to control the spread among inmates,” said Dasot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-prisons-declare-covid-free/articleshow/81504190.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Kochi||Lessons from a year still hold good||Kochi: On the evening of March 15, 2020, Malayalis shifted to the “new normal” when Kerala became the first state in the country to emphasize on Covid-appropriate behaviour. With 21 Covid-positive cases in the state by then and little scientific knowledge about the infection, the state government realized that in this long-drawn battle, public participation and behaviour change would be the key. ‘Break the Chain’ campaign was launched with key emphasis on personal hygiene by using hand sanitizers and hand washers at offices, public spaces and homes. People were also advised to avoid social greetings that involved touch and to cover nose or mouth with a handkerchief while coughing and sneezing (masks were not popular then). Since then a lot has changed. The state invoked the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 to issue the Kerala Epidemic Diseases, Covid-19 Regulations, 2020 that made quarantine, social distancing and masks mandatory. The central government announced lockdown from March 25 and Indians were forced to shift to the “new normal”. Now a year later, Kerala has over 10.87 lakh cases but its case fatality rate (CFR) remains low at 0.40% and health authorities and public health experts agree that ‘Break the Chain’ campaign has played a key role in this. Everyone admits that no campaign in the history of the state has been as popular as the ‘Break the Chain’ campaign, with everyone actively owning it up. “The first Covid case in the country was reported in Kerala, yet we have been able to avert a tragedy in the state and ensure a slow peak. This despite the fact that our risks are much greater — population density, aging population and people with comorbidities is higher in Kerala than any other state in India. Then what saved us? We followed the basic principles of public health and ensured people’s involvement through the campaign,” said Dr B Mohammed Asheel, executive director, Kerala Social Security Mission, who was closely involved in the campaign. Public health expert and epidemiologist Dr Raman Kutty said that all this while Kerala health system was geared only in the clinical aspect — the treatment side. “But for the first time they were forced to change that. Instead of emphasis on treatment, the focus this time was on prevention through public participation. A massive health campaign of such large proportion and impact is a first in Kerala,” added Dr Kutty. Even World Health Organization (WHO) in its “Responding to Covid-19 - Learnings from Kerala” speaks in detail about the campaign — “An awareness campaign ‘Break the Chain’ was successful in promoting the importance of hand hygiene, physical distancing and cough etiquette”. With the campaign, the state government could reach the smallest of the village. Every home knew and adhered to “Break the chain” that evolved as the pandemic progressed. “Kerala didn’t experience an uncontrolled outbreak and our ICUs and ventilators were never exhausted. In the initial phase when there was not much treatment knowledge about Covid infection, we could delay the peak and save lives thanks to the campaign that emphasized on personal behaviour,” said Dr Jayakrishnan A V, chairman, Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Hospital Board of India. “There are many positive externalities of a targeted campaign like this. We could not only reduce Covid deaths but also deaths due to other communicable diseases,” added Dr Asheel. In the Covid year, Kerala has seen -11.2% death decrease compared to the previous year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lessons-from-a-year-still-hold-good/articleshow/81499799.cms||Preetu Nair
March 15, 2021||Jaipur||With no cases since Feb 28, prisons declared Covid-free||JAIPUR: The state jail department has declared all its prisons ‘Covid-free’ after reporting no cases since February 28. This is for the first time that all the 123 prisons with 22,000 inmates and 6,000 staff living and working in cramped conditions recorded no cases in the last 14 days. At one point of time, the prisons had recorded 2,500 cases in 25 jails. DG (prisons) Rajeev Dasot told TOI that a prison is a place that sees a high number of entries and exits. “By May and June, cases had started souring in the prisons due to daily contact of people from outside. The first initiative done by us was discontinued personal meetings and introduced e-mulaqat of prisoners with their family and relatives through video conferencing. It had shut the major reason for virus contraction,” said Dasot. The move minimised the threat, but it did not stop outside contact completely. The department had to use the management concept of utilising limited resources to control the cases. The transfers of prisoners started from one place to another to create quarantine centres and Covid + rooms. “The convicts and accused had been arriving almost every day even during the peak of Covid infections. Even with the positive report, we made provisions of keeping them in quarantine for 14 days to control the spread among inmates,” said Dasot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-prisons-declare-covid-free/articleshow/81499786.cms||---
---||India||For Khwaja Yunus’ aging mother, arrest of Waze is ‘poetic justice’||MUMBAI: For Asiya Begum, Sachin Waze’s arrest seems like “poetic justice”. The 73-year-old mother of Khwaja Yunus, a bomb blast suspect who disappeared in 2003, has waited patiently for years for the tide to turn against the erstwhile encounter specialist. Fighting for “justice after the murder of my son’’, she said she was never a match for “the powerful Waze”. But his arrest showed that “there is always light at the end of the tunnel”. “We ran from pillar to post to get the trial started in my son’s murder case, but Waze is so powerful that he managed to delay the judicial process for so many years,” she said, hoping Sunday’s developments will lead to a relook at the criminal case against Waze pending in a Sewree trial court. Yunus who worked in Dubai, had come to India on November 28, 2002 to visit his family. He arrived in his hometown Parbhani on November 30. On December 2, a blast took place in Ghatkopar. According to his mother’s petition, Yunus was taken into custody on December 25, brought to Mumbai and handed over to a police team in Powai the next day. Two others, Mohammed Abdul Mateen and Shaikh Zaheer, were also held. A fourth person named Muzammil was arrested, but later discharged. Her petition alleged that “during interrogation” Yunus and the others were “assaulted and tortured”. When she saw her son on December 27, he appeared weak. Police later said he died trying to escape while they were shifting him to Aurangabad for further investigation. She alleged that “to conceal the custodial torture and... custodial death”, Waze and three constables faked his escape and registered a “false case with the Parner police” on January 7, 2003. They alleged that he fled by “jumping” out of the police jeep just before it met with an accident and fell into a gorge. The Bombay high court had accepted her contention that the ‘escape’ FIR was false and had on April 7, 2004 directed that the statement of Yunus’s co-accused Abdul Mateen, who alleged torture in custody, be treated as an FIR for a case of murder against Waze and others. The HC also directed the state and Mumbai police chief to suspend Waze and three others and initiate an inquiry against them. The state had gone to the SC to challenge the HC order. But the SC declined to intervene. Yunus’s body was never found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/for-khwaja-yunus-aging-mother-arrest-of-waze-is-poetic-justice/articleshow/81502179.cms||S Ahmed Ali
March 15, 2021||Jaipur||Govt seeks time to issue orders on patwris’ demands, protest to continue||Jaipur: An eight-member delegation of Rajasthan Patwar Sangh met chief secretary Niranjan Arya on Sunday and discussed the three-point demand of the patwaris, including increase in their grade pay to 3,600. While the chief secretary agreed to their demands, he sought some time to issue orders with regard to their demands.According to Rajendra Nimmiwal, president of Rajasthan Patwar Sangh, the chief secretary said the orders will be issued after reviewing the demands at various levels and urged the patwaris to end their protest. The patwaris refused to end their agitation till the orders are issued. “The chief secretary said that a meeting will be held soon after reviewing the demands,” he said.Couple of days after revenue minister Harish Chaudhary assured the state assembly that the vacant posts of patwaris will be filled soon, the president of Rajasthan Patwar Sangh Rajendra Nimmiwal blamed the minister for the delay in resolving the issues of the patwaris with regard to increase in their grade pay to 3600. He said, the minister didn’t meet the patwaris even once and was responsible for the deadlock in the matter. The demand of the patwaris, who have been protesting for the past one month, is that their grade pay should be increased to 3,600 (i.e. from Rs 20,800 to Rs 33,000 for L-5 patwaris). The second demand is that on completion of services for 7, 14, 21, 28 and 32 years, the patwaris should be upgraded to the next pay scale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-seeks-time-to-issue-orders-on-patwris-demands-protest-to-continue/articleshow/81499808.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Aurangabad||14 SPI cadets test positive, all admitted to Covid centre in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: A total of 14 cadets of Services Preparatory Institute (SPI) — a one-of-its-kind state run institution that prepares students for premier defence institutes from the country — have tested positive for Covid-19. SPI director Amit Dalvi said one cadet had developed Covid-related symptoms and his swab sample test came as positive. Later, the mass testing of other cadets revealed infection to 13 other cadets on Sunday. “Out of 14 cadets tested positive for Covid-19, 11 cadets are totally asymptomatic. All these cadets are admitted to Covid Care Centre at Kil-e-Ark area of the city. Our cadets are teenagers and expected to defeat coronavirus easily with proper medical care,” he said, adding that the source of Covid infection on campus could not be traced. Dalvi said 95 cadets, who tested negative, have been put under isolation on the SPI campus. “As per instructions from the health authorities, these cadets will undergo Covid-19 again in a day or two as a precautionary measure. We have sanitized our entire campus and asked everyone to follow the Covid prevention norms in a religious manner,” he said. The Covid infection has struck SPI ahead of UPSC examination that is due on April 18 followed by the Std XII examination. Dalvi said all cadets have been asked to focus on studies and not to lose their focus due to the outbreak of Covid-19 on campus. “Even cadets, who have tested positive, have gone to the Covid Care centre with their study material. The scheduled practice tests for students will be held as per earlier time-table but by following all Covid prevention norms,” he said. Meanwhile, some cadets, who are under isolation at the SPI, said they want to return to their homes. A cadet,who did not wish to be named, said he feared getting infected. “We have common toilets and bathrooms here among other sharing facilities. Therefore chances of Covid infection are high. We will be safer at home and can prepare well for studies also,” he said. Reacting to this, SPI authorities said an online meeting with parents was planned for Sunday evening during which the demand raised by cadets to return home would be discussed. “Ideally, we feel that cadets should stay at SPI and focus on their studies as we are taking utmost care of all cadets. The exam preparation of cadets may get hamper if they leave SPI. Also, some of these students could act as Covid carriers in the society as the next round of testing is yet to be done,” Dalvi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/14-spi-cadets-test-positive-all-admitted-to-covid-centre/articleshow/81498179.cms||Prasad Joshi
March 15, 2021||Delhi||DUTA writes to acting VC over 12 colleges’ funding||New Delhi: Delhi University Teachers’ Association has written a letter to the acting vice-chancellor of the varsity seeking his intervention in the issue of funding related to the 12 colleges, which are fully funded by Delhi government. DUTA has asked for an executive council meeting to oppose the state government’s pattern of assistance document, which is to be passed in the colleges. In a letter written to acting vice-chancellor P C Joshi on Sunday, the teachers’ association asked the VC to give his attention to the fast-developing situation at the 12 DU colleges, which have been in news over the issue of funding. The association informed Joshi that DUTA would continue its university shut-down notwithstanding the announcement of release of grant by the government and will conduct a march from the VC’s office to the chief minister’s residence on Monday (March 15) as the grants released were “insufficient, and, in most colleges, will meet fund requirements for payment of salaries only up to January.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/duta-writes-to-acting-vc-over-12-colleges-funding/articleshow/81499867.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Jodhpur ward: 24x7 water supply still a pipe dream||AHMEDABAD: The crucial pilot project for 24x7 Narmada water supply and water metering in Jodhpur ward of the city still remains a pipe dream as the project which was to be completed in December 2019 is still incomplete. The state government in its reply to a question by the Congress MLA from Bapunagar, Himmatsinh Patel, said that water was supplied for six hours in some areas and for 20 hours in other locations. Patel had sought details of the project stating that it was to be completed in December 2019. The government stated that in Anandnagar, Narmada water is being supplied for 20 hours, while in areas near Jodhpur crossroads, the water supply is for 14.5 hours. In Gokul Awas and Ghar Vihona societies, people have been getting water for 6.5 hours. The government said that in Anandnagar, Jodhpur crossroads, Gokul Awas and Ghar Vihona societies the water connections were given and water meters were installed by December 2019. The government told the House that metered-water supply was not given in slum areas and in some societies as the existing lines are of PVC. The societies have been asked to replace the existing network with the ductile iron pipes. Officials in AMC’s water supply department said that in the area near Prahladnagar, societies have not been able to get the water as there are some technical issues. “The residents are not getting water with adequate pressure. We have identified the root cause and are now laying a separate pipeline from SG Highway which will be completed by 2022,” said an officer. The officer said that the old water networks in Jodhpur ward have been completely replaced and the new network has been tested for its durability. Some 6,000 households are to be provided water connections, of which 1,000 have already been getting the supply. Under the new water policy, a base payment limit has been set for a fixed volume of 20,000 litres a month at a rate that ranges from Rs 240 to Rs 2,880, depending on the carpet area of the property. Any extra usage will be charged per 1,000 litres. This rate ranges from Re 1 for properties with a carpet area of up to 15 square metres to Rs 12 for properties with a carpet area of more than 1,000 square metres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jodhpur-ward-24x7-water-supply-still-a-pipe-dream/articleshow/81499920.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Kolhapur||16 evading non-bailable warrants held in Nashik||Nashik: Panchavati police recently arrested 16 people, accused in various cases, and presented them before court after they were found evading summons repeatedly. Senior police inspector Ashok Bhagat of Panchavati police station said all the 16 accused were issued summons from time to time by the court. However, they were not presenting themselves before the court. Eventually, the court issued a non-bailable warrants against them. Also, police personnel in-charge of issuing summons and warrants to the accused were not able to find them when the non-bailable warrants were issued. On this backdrop, commissioner of police Deepak Pandey and deputy commissioner of police Amol Tambe instructed the Panchavati police to take additional efforts to arrest the accused and present them before the court. Accordingly separate team were formed to trace the accused and by Saturday all the 16 accused were found and arrested. Later, they were presented before the court. All the accused are residents of different parts of Panchavati like Hirawadi, Sanjay Nagar, Ramwadi, Koliwada, Phulenagar and Kalika Nagar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/16-evading-non-bailable-warrants-held-in-nashik/articleshow/81498191.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS, BJP exchange barbs on polling day||Hyderabad: The war of words between the TRS working president and BJP leaders continued even on polling day. While KT Rama Rao, who exercised his vote, said that he had bowed before a gas cylinder before coming to vote, BJP leaders said that he should bow before god. After the minister’s statement, BJP MLC candidate N Ramchander Rao said he bowed before Osmania University students, who do not have jobs despite promises by the TRS government. Both sides made efforts to remind each other of their ‘failures’ (TRS on increasing gas and oil prices and BJP on job creation in the state). MLA Raja Singh also joined the club with a sharp reaction. “TRS should be ashamed of itself, they should bow before god,” he said. KTR called on people to vote for development. Throughout the campaign, both TRS and BJP took potshots at each other on the failures of state and Central governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-bjp-exchange-barbs-on-polling-day/articleshow/81500598.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 15, 2021||Madurai||South TN districts report 67 Covid cases, central region 86||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state on Sunday reported 67 fresh Covid-19 cases, accounting for 8.83% of the state’s total cases. The region witnessed a marginal dip from 72 on Saturday despite the state’s count going up. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 86 new cases on Sunday taking the tally to 77,975, which include 481 active cases. The region also recorded zero death maintaining the toll at 963. Four districts recorded 10 or more cases with Kanyakumari (12) recording the highest. It is followed by 11 each in Madurai and Dindigul and 10 in Virudhunagar. The districts that recorded less than 10 active cases are Tirunelveli (8), Sivagangai (6), Tuticorin (5), Theni (2) and one each in Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi. Active cases in the region crossed 400 for the first time after 23 days. The numbers have climbed day after day for the eighth day in a row from 290 on March 6 to 404 on Sunday. The number of districts with more than 50 active cases has climbed to four. Tirunelveli is the latest addition with 52. Kanyakumari (78) has the highest number of active cases in the region, followed by Madurai (70) and Dindigul (65). Active cases are on the rise in the other districts as well. Those districts with less than 50 active cases are Virudhunagar (40), Sivagangai (31), Theni (22), Tuticorin (21), Tenkasi (14) and Ramanathapuram (11). Thanjavur is on top with 44 new positive cases on Sunday pushing the tally to 18,388. Trichy reported 15 fresh cases. Tiruvarur recorded 10 cases. Nagapattinam district reported seven positive cases pushing the tally to 8,699. Karur district reported four new cases, while Pudukottai reported three. The total counts of positive cases in these two districts were 5,533 and 11,706 respectively.Ariyalur recorded two cases, while Perambalur reported one positive case with a total count of 4,755 and 2,294 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-districts-report-67-covid-cases-central-region-86/articleshow/81500621.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Patna||Kushwaha merges RLSP with JD(U)||PATNA: Former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha on Sunday finally merged his eight-year-old Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) with JD(U). The merger event was held at the Karpoori Sabhagar in JD(U) office here where CM Nitish Kumar welcomed Kushwaha by presenting him a bouquet. It was a homecoming for Kushwaha who had quit the JD(U) in January 2013 after political differences with senior party leaders and formed the RLSP on March 3 the same year. Soon after the merger, Kushwaha was appointed chairman of JD(U)’s national parliamentary board with immediate effect. The parliamentary board of JD(U) finalises the names of the party’s candidates for Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and assembly polls. As Kushwaha has been made its chairman, he would have his clout in the selection of the JD(U) candidates in future elections. The post of the parliamentary board’s chairman was earlier held by Sharad Yadav when George Fernandes was the JD(U) national president. “After Sharad was made JD(U) president, the post of parliamentary board chairman fell vacant and no one was appointed on the post since then,” JD(U) national secretary general K C Tyagi told TOI on Sunday. At the merger event, Kushwaha vowed to make JD(U) the “number one” party in Bihar. He called upon his supporters to take all necessary steps in this regard under the leadership of Nitish. Kushwaha said after witnessing several ups and downs as the RLSP chief, he is now in a position to make use of his experience under the guidance of Nitish. JD(U)’s former state president and Rajya Sabha member Bashishtha Narain Singh played a crucial role in bringing back Kushwaha to the JD(U) fold. Kushwaha, in his speech, thanked Singh for his efforts to ensure merger of the RLSP with the JD(U). Almost all senior leaders of JD(U), including the party’s former state presidents Bijendra Prasad Yadav, Vijay Kumar Choudhary, state working president and building construction minister Ashok Choudhary, WRD minister Sanjay Jha, Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh and state president Umesh Kushwaha were present at event. However, JD(U) national president R C P Singh was conspicuous by his absence. Reacting to Kushwaha’s return to the JD(U), state building construction minister Ashok Choudhary said it should be clear to all that the future belongs to the brand of politics being popularised by Nitish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kushwaha-merges-rlsp-with-jdu/articleshow/81499499.cms||Madan Kumar
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man nabbed for flashing woman waiting for train at Nahur rly stn||Mumbai: A 25-year-old woman was sexually harassed by a man while she was waiting to board a train at Nahur railway station. The woman raised an alarm and managed to get the molester nabbed before handing him over to the Kurla Government Railway Police (GRP). Bhanudas Kedar, the 50-year-old accused, works in a tea manufacturing company as a deliveryman.The incident occurred on March 12. The victim was waiting at the end of platforms 1-2 of Nahur railway station around 9.15am. “The platform was not too crowded when Kedar came and stood near the victim and after sometime, he started to flash her. The victim was stunned and confided in a fellow traveller. When Kedar started to escape, the woman raised an alarm. Soon, passersby gathered and caught hold of Kedar,” said a police official. Kedar was handed over to the Kurla GRP where a case was registered under Section 509 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He was produced before a railway court on Saturday. tnnThe incident occurred on March 12 when the victim was waiting at the end of platforms 1-2 around 9.15am||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-man-nabbed-for-flashing-woman-waiting-for-train-at-nahur-rly-stn/articleshow/81499863.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||31% jump in vehicle density, 24% in vehicle numbers in 5 years||Ahmedabad: In the last five years, the vehicle density in the state has increased by 3,252 vehicles per 100 sq km, while the number of vehicles per one lakh population increased by 7,807 vehicles. The number of registered motor vehicles increased from 2.67 crore in the year 2019-20 to 2.71 crore in the year 2020-21 (up to October 2020). The socio-economic review for the year 2020-21 states that during the year 2020-21 (up to October 2020) the number of registered two-wheelers in the state was 1.98 crore, the number of autorickshaws (including passengers and loading rickshaw) 9.06 lakh, motor cars was 35.28 lakh, goods vehicles was 12.95 lakh, trailers 3.99 lakh and tractors 8.53 lakh. The data reveals that vehicles registered per lakh population in Gujarat was 39,523 as against 31,716 in 2015-16, a 24% rise. Vehicle registration data also shows that vehicle density per 100 sq km, which was 10,375 in 2015-16, has increased to 13,628 in 2019-20, a jump of 31.3%. Officials in the transport department said that Maharashtra accounted for the largest share (12.1%) followed by Tamil Nadu (10.5%), Uttar Pradesh (10.4%), Gujarat (8.9%) and Karnataka (7.1%) in vehicle registrations in the country. These five states together accounted for 49% of the total vehicles registered in India. The vehicle density in Gujarat has increased to over 14,000 per 100 sq km considering the registrations till the end of this financial year in March 2021. “Lack of acceptable and regular inter-city and intra-city transportation and transportation between villages and cities, pushes people to buy own vehicles,” said a transport official. “People often have many spots to visit in a single day when they step out of home, and having personal vehicles is convenient to them.” Pranav Shah, chairman – Gujarat region, Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (FADA) said, “The phenomenon is not new for the state. Earlier, two-wheelers were in greater demand. Per capita income in the state is higher and it reflects in the number of vehicles registered.” Asserting that the rural economy in Gujarat is robust, Shah pointed out at the large number of vehicle dealerships in rural areas. In Ahmedabad city alone, about 15,000 two wheelers are registered every month. Amit Khatri, a traffic expert, said, “Gujarat is a developing state and vehicle registrations in cities like Surat, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, and Rajkot is high. This density will keep increasing unless the cities develop reliable public transport.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/31-jump-in-vehicle-density-24-in-vehicle-numbers-in-5-years/articleshow/81499911.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
---||Madurai||Hold teacher transfer counselling first, says HC||Madurai: Madras high court has directed the authorities to conduct general transfer counselling first and then proceed with promotion counselling for schools in the state and wrap it up before April 30. The court was hearing a batch of petitions seeking to forbear the authorities from filling up existing vacancies of high school headmasters by conducting general promotion counselling without holding general transfer counselling. Justice M S Ramesh said that normally, the general transfer counselling happens once in three years and transfer of employees takes place whenever there are administrative exigencies or large vacancies or when vacancies are to be filled up through promotions. At least from 2017-2018, general transfer counselling has been taking place before promotion counselling. As an after effect of the Covid-19 crisis, the government banned creation of new posts in all departments apart from permitting recruitments against vacant entry-level posts including compassionate appointments and also promotions and recruitments by transfers. The judge said that subsequently, a GO dated May 21, 2020 was passed by the government which decided to reduce certain expenses as part of economic measures and resource mobilization efforts. The government ultimately decided to withhold general transfers as an economic measure to curtail or save expenditure on transfer travelling expenses for the government employees including the educational department. The judge said that when a specific query was put as to what could be the cost incurred by the government when a general transfer counselling takes place, the state submitted that transferees on counselling were not entitled to transfer travelling allowances. However, they will get seven days leave to facilitate their transfer, for which period they are entitled for salary. Observing that the state’s stand is not acceptable, the judge said that in the absence of any specific clauses in the GO enabling the government to conduct promotion counselling prior to the transfer counselling, the consistent procedure should not be given a go-by. Hence the judge directed the director of school education department and the director of elementary education to conduct general transfer counselling, followed by promotion counselling on the same day or succeeding days if necessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hold-teacher-transfer-counselling-first-says-hc/articleshow/81500594.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Nashik||Rs 358 crore to construct, strengthen roads in Nashik||NASHIK: The state government has announced Rs 358 crore for construction, widening and strengthening of roads including the state highways, major district roads and other roads across Nashik district. “The announcement was made by deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar while he presented the state budget,” said district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal. The government has announced the huge sum to also construct bridges in various talukas of the district. According to the Bhujbal, the announcement is a major relief for the citizens, who will see the various developmental works especially when most of the works were stalled last year due to Covid-related lockdown. The state government had asked all the authorities to stop the new development works unless necessary and also not take up any new projects as the funds were diverted to health care. The works sanctioned this year includes the construction of about seven small and medium bridges along with the roads with roads more than 90km, which will be widened and strengthened. While in Yeola taluka, the public works department (PWD) will be spending Rs 47 crore for the road works, similar works will also be carried out in Niphad taluka at the cost of Rs 29 crore and in Sinnar at the cost of Rs 19 crore. The same works will be carried out in Surgana and Pethtaluka where the PWD will be spending about Rs 20 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rs-358-crore-to-construct-strengthen-roads-in-nashik/articleshow/81498204.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Now, doc certificate must for beneficiaries with deformities||Thiruvananthapuram: Eligible social welfare pension beneficiaries, who have deformities that prevent biometric capture for Aadhaar card, will have to produce a certificate from a government doctor not less than the rank of an assistant surgeon or from an ICDS supervisor. The finance department has issued the new directive revising an earlier condition which required beneficiaries to produce a letter from Akshaya centre stating that he/she is unable to take Aadhaar card. However, Kerala state information technology mission (KSITM) has conveyed the inability to produce such a letter. It was cited that Akshaya kendras cannot issue a letter and that Aadhaar service cannot be given only for persons without both arms and eyes. In all other cases, forced capture option is used to enter biometric details. With KSITM communicating the inability to produce the letter, the beneficiaries now have to get the certificate proving their deformities/disabilities from a government doctor. The department has also published a format for the certificate. According to biometric capture guidelines, if a resident has any deformities due to which it is not possible to take fingerprints/iris, these also have to be captured as a biometric exception. In case of biometric exception, the exception photograph of the resident showing resident’s face and both hands, irrespective of the type of exception, is taken. The state has 49.03 lakh beneficiaries whose Aadhaar details have been seeded for pension. As many as 18,750 beneficiaries have not linked Aadhaar to pension till date. The local bodies were earlier directed to include the ration card number of social welfare pension applicants who do not own Aadhaar in Sevana software and to upload the copy of the ration card. It was directed that social welfare pension would be given only to those applicants whose Aadhaar or ration card details had been uploaded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-doc-certificate-must-for-beneficiaries-with-deformities/articleshow/81499880.cms||Aswin J Kumar
March 15, 2021||Aurangabad||1 year after 1st Covid case, authorities pin hopes on vaccination to beat pandemic||Aurangabad: While it’s been a year to Aurangabad reporting its first confirmed case of Covid-19 on March 15 last year, government authorities now pin their hopes on mass vaccination to fight the pandemic which is exhibiting larger second wave. Health officer of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) Dr. Neeta Padalkar on Sunday said that both Covishield and Covaxin have been made available for the purpose of mass vaccination. “The Covid-19 infection is more transmissible during its second wave. The vaccination offers shield against the disease and, therefore, all target beneficiaries must undergo necessary immunization without fail. Even if there are sporadic cases of sourcing infection despite vaccination, the onset of Covid-19 infection is highly less in such cases due to the vaccine,” she said. The AMC has increased its vaccination centres to 28 in the city, including private hospitals with five state-run facilities offering round-the-clock service. Padalkar said that the three-tier healthcare system evolved during the first-wave of Covid-19 last year would be fine-tuned further to combat the current second wave. “Despite the fact that coronavirus is more transmissible during the second wave, the death rate among patients has not gone up which is a bright spot for us. The existing healthcare system for Covid-19 would be expanded in keeping with the rapid surge in new cases of Covid-19,” she said. Pointing out that the social stigma associated with the disease is found withering, Padalkar said the resistance to early Covid testing still persists. “We have a large network in place for Covid testing and citizens should opt for early testing after sensing common symptoms such as cough, cold, fever and sore-throat. Early testing is key in alleviating the spread of the virus not only within suspected patients but also the society at large,” she said. AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey said that additional capacity of 5,000 beds for Covid patients would be created in the days to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/1-year-after-1st-covid-case-authorities-pin-hopes-on-vaccination-to-beat-pandemic/articleshow/81498190.cms||Prasad Joshi
---||Jaipur||‘-ve report from travelers from other states led tocancellations’||Jaipur: The hotel industry has written to the districtcollector pleading to reconsider the order for making negative Covid-19 reportmandatory for tourists travelling to the state from Gujarat, Maharashtra,Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab, and Haryana.The Hotel Association of Udaipur said that the order furtherrestricts the hotels to not provide rooms unless a negative Covid-19 report isproduced, even for travelers who have booked online and paid in advance. “This will lead them to avoid our city as a comfortabledestination for leisure and relaxation. We have already had multiplecancellations for this month and the next due to this,” the association said inthe letter.The industry body also said that the district collector has issuedorders that hotels need to check the RTPCR test report of the guests beforecheck-in and send a report to the tourism department for all guests on dailybasis.“This is highly inconvenient and increases paper work. Asthe guests are already tested at the border or airports and railway stationswhen they are entering the state, the onus should not be on the hotels,” theletter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/-ve-report-from-travelers-from-other-states-led-tocancellations/articleshow/81499810.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘6th accused had supplied revolver’||Ahmedabad: City police probing into the murder case of Thaltej couple – Ashok Patel and Jyotsna Patel — have now found that the sixth accused Ravi Sharma — the alleged mastermind of the case — had gifted a country-made revolver to one of the accused Nitin Gaud for execution of the crime.However, the weapon was not used by Gaud, who used a knife bought from Pavagadh around two month ago for Rs 200, to kill the couple.The city police and crime branch have nabbed five accused — Bharat Gaud, his brother Rahul Gaud, Bharat’s brother-in-law Nitin Gaud, Brijkishor Gaud and Ashish Vishwakarma — on March 7. “When Nitin went to meet Bharat at Patels’ home in Shantivan Palace bungalows near Hebatpur crossroads in Thaltej to discuss on how to collect dowry money for the marriage of Bharat’s sister, Nitin hatched the plan to rob the couple.Later, Nitin took advice of Sharma to execute the plan and Sharma allegedly told Nitin to kill the couple.“Sharma had also come to the city before the killings and gave a country-made revolver and one cartridge to Nitin, telling him to execute the plan with the weapon. Then, it was decided that if any of the two — Ashok or Jyotsna — identifies the accused, he or she should be killed,” said a police officer. The officer added that Sharma gifted the weapon to Nitin and told him that he could give him money later.But Nitin did not trust the weapon and decided to kill them by slashing their throats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/6th-accused-had-supplied-revolver/articleshow/81499912.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Jaipur||Unemployment rate in Rajasthan at record high as manufacturing remains laggard||JAIPUR: After spending three years in a small travel firm as a ticket booking executive, Sameer Tanwani now does not want to end up as a delivery boy for Zomato, even though he can make the same amount of money he used to get as a salary previously. But it’s been close to a year since he has lost his job. While he still battling depression, there is now pressure from family members to find a job. “I can get the job of a delivery boy and also get the same amount of money I was getting in the travel firm, but I am afraid of losing the career I was aspiring for. I enjoyed the job and was taking up new responsibilities every year. I cannot think of starting from zero. I would rather wait to get a call from my office. But, honestly, I am in a fix,” said Tanwani. TimesViewRecovery of the manufacturing sector depends on generating demand where the state government has a lesser role to play. Travel and tourism, handicrafts, and textiles are the other heavyweight hiring sectors. These businesses are yet to recover to even closer to their pre-Covid capacity utilisation levels. The prolonged night curfews imposed till January this year from last week of November took a heavy toll on these businesses. Instead of blanket restrictions, the government should look at a calibrated approach, if necessary, to contain the resurgence in corona cases. Since the pandemic has shifted focus to new domains where recruitments are gaining speed, the government can look at collaborating with private hiring agencies for reskilling and retraining displaced people.CMIE monthly data shows the unemployment rate in Rajasthan has been climbing to new highs in the past five months. The unemployment rate hit record high at 28.2% in December, 2020 after touching 24.1% in October. In February, 2021, it has again shot up to 25.6%, the second highest in the country after Haryana’s 26.4% against a national average of close to 7%. N K Jain, president of Employers Association of Rajasthan says, “Manufacturing sector has stranded at a capacity utilization of 60-70%. The sector accounts for a majority of jobs. Unfortunately, after bouncing back sharply initially, the recent recovery has been pedestrian to accommodate the large number of jobless people. Similar is the situation in travel and tourism.” The pandemic has changed the architecture of the job market.With the hospitality industry working at less than 50% capacity, many lower level workers in housekeeping, valet attendants, and waiters are shifting to healthcare sector where the demand is increasing. Workers in small restaurants, many of which shut shop, are now taking up jobs as security guards, who are in demand in every shop and establishment to follow Covid SOPs for crowd management and thermal temperature check-up and sanitization, etc. Shipra Shrama Bhutani, CEO of Capacita Connect, a hiring firm in Jaipur said, “Besides lower level jobs, there is also a surge in demand for professionals in domains like social media marketing, ethical hacking, artificial intelligence, cloud computing, internet of things. The pandemic has changed the way companies are looking at engaging their customer base. Requirement from companies in these domains are rapidly rising.” Recruiters said while healthcare, home delivery, and logistics benefitted from the pandemic, sectors like IT largely remained unaffected. They said, hiring is now picking up in housing segment of real estate and automobile compared to others. Alka Batra, managing director of Jaipur-based recruiting firm Aegis said, “Recruitments in real estate and automobile sector is picking up fast in the past few months. Besides, HR jobs are also in great demand because of Work-From-Home system which is being increasingly adopted by companies. But there’s is a concern of a second wave of the pandemic.” Deciphering the CMIE data that showed the unemployment rate in recent months rising to higher levels compared to even the peak months of the pandemic starting from April to September, Batra said, “The job seekers did not apply during the peak months knowing that many offices are closed or working in skeleton capacity. Once the restrictions were lifted and offices opened from September-October onwards, applications started flooding. That’s why the unemployment rate is higher since October. N K Jain, president, Employers Association of Rajasthan: Manufacturing sector has stranded at a capacity utilization of60-70%. The sector accounts for a majority of jobs. Unfortunately, after bouncing back sharply initially, the recent recovery has been pedestrian to accommodate the large number of jobless people. Similar is the situation in travel and tourism. Shipra Shrama Bhutani, CEO, Capacita Connect: Besides lower level jobs, there is also a surge in demand for professionals in domains like social media marketing, ethical hacking, artificial intelligence, cloud computing, internet of things. The pandemic has changed the way companies are looking at engaging their customer base. Requirement from companies in these domains are rapidly rising. Alka Batra, MD, Aegis: Recruitments in real estate and automobile sector is picking up fast in the past few months. Besides, HR jobs are also in great demand because of Work-From-Home system which is being increasingly adopted by companies. But there’s is a concern of a second wave of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unemployment-rate-in-raj-at-record-high-as-mfg-remains-laggard/articleshow/81499825.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
March 15, 2021||Nashik||RPF nabs bag lifter within 48 hrs of theft||Nashik: The personnel of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) arrested a bag lifter within 48 hours of him stealing a bag containing items worth Rs 3.2 lakh. On Friday, an RPF team deployed at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Mumbai, found an unattended bag in a coach of Nanded – Mumbai Rajya Rani Express. The team found Rs 25,770 cash along with some documents, including an Aadhaar card. Initially believed to be a ‘lost and found’ property, the RPF team contacted the owner of the bag, Shivani Patel. Patel, who was travelling in the Mahanagari Express the same morning, informed that the bag was stolen and that she had registered a complaint with the Bhusawal division of RPF. Railway authorities suspected the person may have deboarded at Manmad station and boarded the Rajya Rani Express. They identified a man carrying the bag by scanning the CCTV footages and shared his image with other personnel. An RPF team, led by inspector D K Tiwari, was posted at Manmad on Sunday morning when they noticed a man, whose appearance was somewhat similar to the image shared with them, deboarding Mahanagri Express. On seeing the personnel, the person got back into the moving train. The team alerted their contemporaries aboard the train who nabbed the person and brought him to Manmad.“The accused, Sonu Kumar Jha (24), a resident of Kalva, has confessed to have committed the crime. He is a habitual criminal. He reserved tickets from Mumbai to far-off places and also booked return tickets. Whenever he was successful, he would deboard and take some other train,” Tiwari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rpf-nabs-bag-lifter-within-48-hrs-of-theft/articleshow/81498214.cms||Abhilash Botekar
---||Ahmedabad||Mercury may touch 39°C in Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: This week would witness a rise in temperature, mentioned India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast on Sunday. The maximum temperature for Ahmedabad is likely to be 39 degrees celsius. The maximum temperature on Sunday was 37.4 degrees, 1.8 degrees higher than the normal. The minimum temperature remained at 20.1 degrees; 0.6 degrees higher than the normal. With 38.8 degrees celsius maximum temperature, Mahuva was the hottest weather station in Gujarat on Sunday, followed by Bhuj (38.4 degrees), Rajkot (37.9 degrees) and Surendranagar (37.4 degrees).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mercury-may-touch-39c-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/81499913.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Trichy||Corp begins Salai road bridge reconstruction||Trichy: Eight months after the RoB on Salai road near Main Guard gate junction was ravaged in heavy monsoon, Trichy corporation has launched the preliminary work to reconstruct the damaged bridge. The residents have however opposed the move to reconstruct the 154-year-old RoB. Instead, they asked the civic body to demolish the existing structure and go for a wider multi-arm bridge as a replacement. Salai road RoB serves as a crucial link to interconnect the commercial streets. In the heavy rainfall that lashed the city in June 2020, a portion of the RoB had caved in. The civic body took up temporary measures to prevent the bridge from sliding away further, the movement of buses and trucks were suspended. While the residents were batting for a new RoB as a replacement for the ageing bridge, Trichy Corporation in three batches each estimated at a cost of Rs 94 lakhs each has commenced the civil work to strengthen the RoB for resuming the heavy vehicle movement. “Within a couple of months, we will strengthen the 130 metres long damaged stretch. We have temporarily suspended movement of cars, only two-wheelers and autorickshaws will be permitted,” an official from the Trichy Corporation said. “The bridge is already centuries old. It is too narrow for the bulging vehicular movement,” S Shanmugam, a resident of Annamalai Nagar said. Poor coordination between the civic body and railways is the reason for not materialising a new RoB. Trichy corporation officials said they planned to strengthen the RoB only after the attempts for new RoB proposal with state highways, district administration and southern railways failed to materialise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corp-begins-salai-road-bridge-reconstruction/articleshow/81500630.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Time-consuming jumbo ballot paper leads to long voter queues at centres||Hyderabad: The jumbo ballot paper seems to have kept most of the voters waiting in long queues at various polling stations in the city and elsewhere in the state. While folding and handing over the ballot paper to voters added few minutes to the waiting time, it took even more time for the public to identify candidates and cast their votes. Many said that they were surprised to see such serpentine queues for the MLC Graduate elections. “I expected the polling booth to be almost empty. When I went there, it was too crowded. It took me more than one and a half hours to cast my vote,” said P Surya Subramanyam, who cast his vote at Zilla Parishad High School (ZPHS), Boduppal. Residents said that it is good to see many graduates registering as voters for the MLC elections. Many alleged that the polling booths got crowded as the lines were moving at a snail pace. “I felt that it was not about the number of voters coming out to vote, the problem was with jumbo ballot papers. The entire process took more time than expected. Usage of jumbo ballot papers only made it worse,” said Bayya Shivaraj, who voted at ZPHS, Maheshwaram, adding that it looks like voter took their own sweet time in the voting booth to exercise their franchise. They said that long queues continued until 4 pm at many polling stations. “I went to the polling booth at 10.30 am. About 50 voters were waiting in line at one counter. I waited for 30 minutes and left. I came back again at around 2.45 pm and was shocked to see that the line was equally long,” said K Venkata Sainath, who voted at St Anns, Malkajgiri. Another voter, G Srinivas, a doctor, who voted at a polling station in Thungathurthy mandal, Suryapet, said, “I was pleasantly surprised to see the crowd at polling station today. People patiently waited for hours to cast their vote. This shows the kind of awareness that educators have about voting,” he added. At many polling stations in the city, voters were seen even after 4 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/time-consuming-jumbo-ballot-paper-leads-to-long-voter-queues-at-centres/articleshow/81500627.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at hotel in Andheri||Fire broke out at Metro Hotel in Saki Naka, Andheri, at 11.45 am on Sunday. Five fire engines, three jumbo water tankers and an ambulance were pressed into action. No injuries were reported. The blaze was extinguished at 2.25 pm, fire brigade officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-fire-breaks-out-at-hotel-in-andheri/articleshow/81500643.cms||---
---||Delhi||Two of DDA greens are going places, set to feature at London Design Biennale in June||NEW DELHI: For the past couple of years, Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has been meticulously working on rejuvenating and ecologically restoring the Yamuna riverfront. In a few months, its efforts would be showcased on a global platform. Two of DDA’s landscape projects — Yamuna Biodiversity Park and Vasant Udyan (Bagh-e-Bahaar) — have been selected for being exhibited at London Design Biennale 2021, which is a global gathering of designers, curators and design institutes. The bi-annual event is held at Somerset House, London. The three-week event in 2018 attracted close to two lakh visitors. Last year’s Biennale, however, was postponed to June 2021 due to the pandemic. “There are 26 countries participating in the event, including India. In all, 144 entries were received in the landscape section for the India Pavilion, out of which 26 will be showcased. DDA’s two entries form a part of these,” said a DDA official. The official added that the 26 entries would present India’s story to the world with a plea for a sustainable and ecological shift across domains. The theme is “mapping of ideas between ecology, sustainability and design”. The other theme-based pavilions include Austria, Canada, Israel, Italy, Czech Republic, Designers In The Middle, Egypt, France, Hong Kong, African Diaspora, Antarctica, Latvia, New York City, Nile Region, Norway Poland Switzerland, Taiwan, Argentina, The Global Goals Pavilion, etc. “The entries were invited for landscape, landscape infrastructure, ecological and horticulture projects that enable conceptual or concrete ways via built or unbuilt projects, to think about clean water, clean air, clean energy, forest, clean earth and brownfield, focusing on design sustainability projects with a direct impact on ecology, which will help build focus on innovation in this domain for the future good of communities,” said the official. The DDA official added that participating in the globally popular cultural event would give an opportunity to showcase the work done by the agency’s landscape department on an international forum, which would later travel across India. “Certain projects were discussed, selected and teams worked hard to put up entries within a short time frame amid the pandemic,” he said. Ten projects were submitted by DDA in various categories and two built projects in Clean Earth category were selected. Spread over 457 acres, Yamuna Biodiversity Park is one of the seven such green areas developed by DDA. The concept was evolved and implemented for the first time by DDA in 2002 in collaboration with CEMDE, Delhi University. “The park’s concept developed from the idea of replicating various ecosystems thriving along the river right from inception till its merging with the Ganga. Some of these forest systems are being re-established along with pristine wetlands in the park,” the official said. Natural landforms are based on the requirement of species in a particular ecosystem, like grasslands, thorn scrub forest, wetlands, Sal tree-dominated areas, etc. The idea was to make visitors aware of the richness and character of these ecosystems, while allowing them to grow in their natural habitat. DDA planted 900 saplings of 45 different species and natural contours were followed to create recharge zone waterbodies. All existing trees were accommodated in the proposal. “Other facilities like sensory garden, wooden deck along with different materials for stimulating different senses and yoga terraces for enhancing health benefits have been created for the first time in this green area,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-of-dda-greens-are-going-places-set-to-feature-at-london-design-biennale-in-june/articleshow/81499931.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 15, 2021||Jaipur||Woman, two sons & brother among 6 held for Rs 45 lakh robbery in Jaipur||JAIPUR: After failing to repay a loan for buying a flat, a 42-year-old woman planned a robbery and got it executed by her sons, her brother and two others. This was revealed by Jaipur police (North) on Sunday after solving the robbery case in which a armed assailants had robbed Rs 45 lakh from the office of a Hawala trader in the Walled City area on March 10. Police said financial crisis due to lockdown forced the woman to plan a robbery and got it executed by her sons. “Hansa Sharma’s husband was a labour contractor. However, due to lockdown when labourers migrated back to their native places, their work was badly affected. Her family had purchased a flat near Chitrakoot area of Jaipur and they were unable to replay the instalments of the loan to an extent that bank was about to attach their property,” said Paresh Deshmukh, DCP (North). Hansa Devi herself was in a private job and was getting very less salary. “Almost 20 days ago, she through her contacts had got her son Priyanshu a job at KDF enterprises. Also Parth Vyas, the maternal uncle of Priyanshu, got the job in the same company. However, Parth was later retrenched by his employer,” Deshmukh added. Now, to repay the loan and meet other expenses, Hansa Devi planned a robbery and urged his son Priyanshu and her brother Parth to execute it. “Parth also wanted to take revenge from his employer who had sacked him some days ago. Thus on the day of robbery, Parth came from Ahmedabad and later took part in the crime,” he added. After the robbery, Hansa Devi had divided the money in two parts. “One part was taken by her and second was given to Parth,” he said. Police said six persons have been arrested. “We have arrested the accused identified as Priyanshu Sharma (22), Ravi Sharma (25), Hanuman Sahai (44), Mohit Kumawat (20) and Hansa Sharma (42)”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-two-sons-brother-among-6-held-for-r45-lakh-robbery/articleshow/81499897.cms||---
---||Jaipur||ACB arrests ACP-rank officer for asking sexual favours from rape survivor||JAIPUR: The ACB on Sunday arrested an ACP-rank officer posted with the Special Investigation Unit (SIU) for allegedly demanding sexual favours from a rape survivor. Kailash Bohra was arrested in a compromising position inside a room at the DCP (East) office here. ACB DGP BL Soni said that the woman had approached the ACB a few days ago in which she narrated her plight. “She had lodged a case of rape at Jawahar Circle police station in the city against her male companion who had ditched, cheated and blackmailed her. The woman was going everywhere for the justice. The investigation was later handed over to Bohra,” Sonia said. “The accused first demanded money from the woman with a promise that he will do a fair investigation. However, when the woman was not willing to pay the money, the accused asked her if he can have sex with her as a favour to help her,” Soni added. Upset with the kind of request, the woman approached the senior officers of ACB on March 6. “We sent her for the verification with various gadgets so that his activities are recorded. Finally, she was sent to Bohra as we wanted to arrest him red-handed,” Soni added. The accused asked the woman to come to a room at DCP (east) office which was almost vacant on Sunday. “Our team raided the room and found the accused in a compromising position. We also videographed and took picture of the crime scene as evidence. Now, he has become an accused of Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act that deals with punishment for public servant asking for any kind of financial or other gratification or favours,” Soni added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-arrests-acp-rank-officer-for-asking-sexual-favours-from-rape-survivor/articleshow/81499874.cms||---
---||Nashik||‘Shiksha Setu’ boosts knowledge and creativity among students in Nandurbar||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: The students of government ashramshalas in Nandurbar district are not only learning to operate computers and laptops with ease, but also sharpening their knowledge of Mathematics, Marathi and English these days. The ‘Shiksha Setu’ project implemented under the aspirational district programme is bringing a wide range of information to these students from remote tribal pockets of Nandurbar district. The project has been launched in collaboration with National Stock Exchange Foundation, Unicef and Mindspark for students from standard I to VIII. It is being implemented in 28 ashramshalas in Nandurbar and seven ashramshalas in Taloda. The project provides information, technology and communication training to teachers, who can then guide the children. “The online self-learning system is helping the children assess themselves, understand core skills and helps them through the process. The children are exploring many new things in language and mathematics,” said Rajendra Gavit, one of the teachers of the school. Necessary electrical connection for Mindspark Lab, 725 computer tables, 1,553 stools for sitting, router, UPS, 35 server computers with LED screens, 759 laptops for students, 46 tablets, 1,610 headphones have been provided everywhere. Besides, the software for study and trained manpower for training and operation of the project has also been made available. “The project is all set to transform the lives of the children and the manner in which they will take lessons,” said Vasumana Pant, Assistant Collector of Nandurbar. “It raises the level of knowledge of the students in the rural areas, information about the technology and creates their tendency to innovate. The teachers are also able to guide the children as they quickly come to know where the child is stuck,” Pant said. Each of the 12,732 students and 300 teachers have their login IDs along with their respective ashramshalas. The students are taken to the laboratory in every school turn by turn where they get to access the laptops opening up the world of enlightening games related to their studies. In the beginning the students are subtly tested for their skills in language – Marathi, Maths and English and then as per their needs the adaptive, self-learning platform gives them the higher tasks for resolution. “The teachers are taught how to help the children that triggers their thinking process instead of letting them get the ready answers. The online platform also tests the knowledge of the child, evaluates the outcome and increases the challenges gradually,” said another teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shiksha-setu-boosts-knowledge-and-creativity-among-students-in-nandurbar/articleshow/81498205.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 15, 2021||Nashik||Woman gives birth to conjoined twins||Nashik: A tribal woman from Palghar district gave birth to conjoined twins joined at the stomach through C-section at the Nashik civil hospital on Friday midnight. Additional civil surgeon at the hospital Kishor Sriwas said the gender of the twins was yet to be ascertained. The woman had come to the civil hospital on Thursday and gave birth to the twins around midnight. The babies, joined at the stomach, have a pair of hands, a set of lungs, a head and a heart each but only one leg. Sriwas said such complicated births were rare. “Out of 1 lakh births, only one such pair of conjoined twins is born. This is the second such birth at Nashk civiil hospital,” said Kishor adding that this was the fifth delivery of the woman who hails from a very poor family. Complicated surgeries of separating such babies are not conducted in Nashik. Hence, the twins will be referred to a bigger hospital in Mumbai. The condition of the woman is stable. On Sunday, the twins were having problems in passing stool. Thus, the procedure of shifting the babies to Mumbai would be taken up soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-gives-birth-to-conjoined-twins/articleshow/81498212.cms||Santosh Sonawane
---||Madurai||3 injured in match industry fire dead||Madurai: Three persons, who suffered injuries in the fire accident broke out in a colour match unit near Virudhunagar, died in hospital. The incident took place in Durga Colour match industry in Gurumoorthinayakkanpatti near Amathur on Saturday evening. The fire that broke out in the dipping room, spread to the next room as well. Four workers suffered grievous injuries and were sent to the Sivakasi government hospital. K Puthuraja succumbed to injuries late on Saturday night, whereas V Veerasamy and S Natarajan died on Sunday morning. M Panchavarnam is currently undergoing treatment. The Amathur police registered a case against the proprietor of the unit Visakan and foreman Durairaj. The latter has been arrested. The Virudhunagar district has witnessed five fire accidents in cracker units in the last one month. Three of which claimed 34 lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-injured-in-match-industry-fire-dead/articleshow/81500639.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Seven new faces for Congress in T’puram||Thiruvananthapuram: The Congress has seven new faces in the final list of candidates announced on Sunday. Three sitting MLAs and one sitting MP is also contesting for the Congress whereas the candidate for the Vattiyoorkavu seat has not been decided. The major attraction of the list is medical practitioner Dr S S Lal who is contesting in Kazhakkoottam. Sitting MP from Vadakara K Muraleedharan has been fielded in Nemom, where the party is having its most prestigious contest. Muraleedharan had contested successfully from Vattiyoorkavu twice earlier. He had resigned the MLA post to contest for the Vadakara Lok Sabha seat. The sitting MLAs who are contesting from their respective constituencies are former health minister V S Sivakumar in Thiruvananthapuram, who is contesting for the third time. K S Sabarinathan will be contesting from Aruvikkara. He has been representing this constituency which was earlier represented by his late father G Karthikeyan. M Vincent is the other sitting MLA who is contesting from Kovalam for the second time. R Selvaraj, who got defeated in the last assembly election in Neyyattinkara, is contesting again from the same seat. He had represented this seat on the CPM ticket in 2006 and 2011. He later resigned from the party and contested again successfully on the Congress ticket in 2012. The new faces, who are contesting for the first time in the assembly polls, are Anoop B S who has been field in Chirayinkeezhu. He is the former member of Chirayinkeezhu grama panchayat. Youth Congress district president P S Prasanth has been fielded in Nedumangad. Anad Jayan, who is a former district panchayat member, has been fielded in Vamanapuram. Ansajitha Russell, who is contesting from Parassala, is also a former district panchayat member. Malayinkeezhu Venugopal, who has been fielded in Kattakada, is a Youth Congress leader. B R M Shafeer, who is contesting at Varkala, is the general secretary of district Congress committee. Dr Lal has worked with the World Health Organisation. He is also heading the professional Congress team in the state. The Attingal seat has been given to the RSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/seven-new-faces-for-congress-in-tpuram/articleshow/81499943.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Nashik||Uphold clinets’ faith in the institution: Justice Prabhudesai||Nashik: Justice Anuradha Prabhudesai, of the Bombay high court, has called upon the Bar and the judges to ensure that the faith of litigants in the institution upheld. Justice Prabhudesai, who inaugurated the new court building at Nashik Road on Saturday via video-conference facility, said: “It is the duty of the Bar and the judges to ensure that the client does not carry home a feeling of ‘injustice’ from the court of law even after losing a case. This alone will strengthen the faith of others in judiciary.” Principal district and sessions judge Abhay Waghwase, Nashik Road Bar Association president Sudam Gaikwad, PN Awale, civil judge and others were present on the occasion. The newly constructed building has seven court rooms and focusses on water conservation by saving upto 4 lakh litres of water through rain water harvesting. The civil and criminal courts currently functioning on the premises of the Nashik Municipal Corporation will soon shift to this premises. Recalling how one motorcycle accident case had taken more than 20 years to resolve in favour of the widow (who was 25-year-old at the time of the accident), and the painful journey the woman went through, Justice Prabhudesai stressed on the need for cutting down on adjournments. The justice also stressed on resolving the cases amicably through pre-litigation or after coming to the court through Lok Adalat, mediation, or counselling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/uphold-clinets-faith-in-the-institution-justice-prabhudesai/articleshow/81498216.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 15, 2021||Madurai||Watermelon sales go up as summer heat kicks in||Madurai: With the onset of summer, the mercury level is increasing gradually in Madurai along with a rise in the sales of tender coconut and watermelon as people try to beat the heat. Traders, who faced loss last year due to Covid-19 pandemic, are confident of good sales this year. As the elections are round the corner, rallies and campaigns by political parties will help boost sales this year, they say. A Pannerselvam, a watermelon trader from KK Nagar said the fruits have just started to arrive, hence the price is a bit high. The price will come down once large quantities of watermelons arrive. “At present, one kg of watermelon is sold between Rs 20 to Rs 25. Last year, the price was only about Rs 12 and Rs 15. There are a couple of wholesalers who sell at Rs 15 a kg this year also,” he said. Residents say the temperature started soaring from mid-February onwards last year, but this year they feel the heat only from the beginning of March. L Rajalakhmi, a resident of Yagappa Nagar said “When we go outside, we feel the heat. We prefer tender coconuts and watermelon instead of aerated drinks, which is not a healthy option. The price of tender coconut remains the same, but the water melon price is bit high at present.” K Chandran, a tender coconut wholesaler from Obulapadithurai said that sales is good this summer, so as the availability of tender coconuts.They are mostly procured from areas such as Chinnamanur, Uthamapalayam and Cumbum in Theni. While green ones are sold at Rs 30 a piece, orange ones are sold at Rs 40 a piece. Retailers sell them at Rs 40 and Rs 50 respectively, he said. “Last year the sales were affected due to Covid-19 outbreak. The sales did not go up even after the lockdown. We expect a good season this year with the election fast approaching,” he said. Other favorites of the summer such as cucumbers and ice apples obtained from palm tree are yet to hit the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/watermelon-sales-go-up-as-summer-heat-kicks-in/articleshow/81500636.cms||V Devanathan
---||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: DMDK gets 60 seats in ‘People’s Front’ poll alliance with AMMK||CHENNAI: With just 20 days to go, T T V Dhinakaran’s AMMK and actor Vijayakant’s DMDK joined hands on Sunday to float ‘People’s Front’ to enter the poll fray in TN as the fourth alliance. DMDK has been allotted 60 seats in the alliance. While V K Sasikala, close aide of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, stepped aside from politics leaving her nephew Dhinakaran to fight a lone battle, the DMDK, led by actor Vijayakant, was dumped by the ruling AIADMK after the parties fell out over sharing of seats. AMMK’s general secretary Dhinakaran, who had already released a list of 195 candidates over three phases, will withdraw his candidates from the seats allotted to the DMDK. With this, AMMK has concluded an alliance and seat sharing arrangement with DMDK, SDPI and Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM, besides a couple of smaller political outfits. With Dhinakaran away at Kovilpatti, where he will file his nomination papers on Monday, the agreement was signed by AMMK deputy general secretary and former minister G Senthamizhan and DMDK presidium chairman V Elangovan on Sunday evening at DMDK headquarters at Koyambedu. Terming the AMMK-led alliance as “People’s front’, Dhinakaran in a statement appealed to his partymen to work together as a team with alliance partners in all the 234 seats. “The alliance has been formed in the larger interests of the welfare of the people of Tamil Nadu. The candidates, who have been named for seats now allotted to DMDK and have to withdraw from the race, should not feel let down and the party will recognize their efforts in the long term,” Dhinakaran said in a statement. Even though the alliance with the DMDK was formed at the last minute, it is a natural alliance, since neither side had attacked the other anytime and anywhere so far, say AMMK insiders. “Both the parties feel they were wronged by the ruling AIADMK and this message will be communicated to the cadres to get them to work hard,” said an AMMK leader. Most constituencies that DMDK had asked for were given away. “Fortunately, we had not named any senior party leader or district secretary in these constituencies,” said another AMMK leader. The alliance with DMDK would definitely add value and help make inroads even in north Tamil Nadu, besides strengthening the vote share in the south, he said. DMDK party treasurer Premalatha is expected to add strength by campaigning for the alliance candidates, along with others in DMDK, as otherwise only Dhinakaran would have had to bear the burden of travelling around the state to cover all the 234 constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmdk-gets-60-seats-in-peoples-front-poll-alliance-with-ammk/articleshow/81500638.cms||D Govardan
March 15, 2021||Nashik||Prohibitory notices outside 150 buildings in Nashik||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has put up Covid-related prohibitory notices at the entrance of about 150 residential buildings and bungalows in the city. “We have started demarcation of the residential areas — bungalows and buildings — with ‘Covid-19 caution notice’ where positive patients have been found. This is reverting back to the earlier method of cautioning people about restricted movement in the said buildings,” Nashik Municipal Corporation commissioner Kailas Jadhav said. The notice boards are being put up at the entrance of residential buildings and standalone houses so that people entering such premises are aware of the presence of coronavirus patient and, thus, take extra precaution when passing through or entering the building or premises. “The move is taken to caution visitors entering the building about presence of Covid-19 patient so that they follow all the related health advisory when they enter the area. Such measures tend to cut down the spread of the virus,” the commissioner said. Meanwhile, the NMC has started ‘stamping’ people who have tested positive for the contagion and have advised home isolation given that they fulfil the conditions required for it. “Patients allowed home isolation will be stamped on their hands so that they do not step out of their houses under any circumstances except visiting hospitals if and when required. This move has been taken after it was found that people often violated Covid norms,” medical officer of NMC Dr. Bapusaheb Nagargoje said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/prohibitory-notices-outside-150-buildings-in-nashik/articleshow/81498218.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 15, 2021||Delhi||Task force on Delhi Master Plan enforcement gets 77k complaints||Task force on master plan enforcement gets 77k complaints: A special task force set up to oversee effective and proper enforcement of the provisions of Delhi Master Plan and bylaws received over 77,000 complaints till February 28, officials said. Action taken on the complaints were reviewed during the 64th meeting of the STF. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/task-force-on-delhi-master-plan-enforcement-gets-77k-complaints/articleshow/81499950.cms||---
---||Thiruvananthapuram||BJP announces 11 candidates||Thiruvananthapuram: Kummanam Rajashekaran, P K Krishna Das and V V Rajesh are the prominent leaders who feature in the BJP list of candidates announced for the district. The party has not decided on the candidate in Kazhakkoottam. Vaikunta Swami Dharma Pracharanasabha (VSDP) chairman Vishnupuram Chandrashekaran will be contesting from Kovalam. The NDA ally Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) will be contesting from Varkala and Vamanapuram. Among the 11 BJP candidates Kummanam Rajashekaran is contesting from Nemom, the lone sitting seat of the party in the present assembly. Kummanam is the former state president of the party and is also the former Mizoram governor. P K Krishna Das, national executive member and former state president of the party, will be contesting from Kattakada. V V Rajesh, who is the city corporation councillor, is contesting from Vattiyoorkavu. He is at present the party district president. J R Padmakumar, who is the former general secretary of the party and former spokesman of the party, will be contesting from Nedumangad. Former party district president C Sivankutty has been fielded in Aruvikkara. Another former party district president Karamana Jayan has been fielded in Parassala. The fresh faces of the party in the election are P Sudheer who will be contesting in Attingal, Ashanath in Chirayinkeezhu, Krishnakumar in Thiruvananthapuram and Rajashekaran Nair in Neyyattinkara. Actor Krishnakumar has been fielded against former health minister and sitting MLA V S Sivakumar in Thiruvananthapuram. Rajashekaran Nair is an industrialist. He had taken BJP membership in the public rally held at Sanghumugham, which was attended by Union minister Amit Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/bjp-announces-11-candidates/articleshow/81499948.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Jaipur||Silver theft: SOG recovers two slabs so far||Jaipur: The special operation group (SOG) wing of the Rajasthan police has been burning the midnight oil to ensure recovery of the stolen silver slabs from the house of a jeweller in Vaishali Nagar.Just days after the investigation was handed over to them, they have so far seized two silver slabs and have been interrogating jewellers who could probably purchase the stolen silver slabs from the mastermind of the theft Shekhar Agarwal.Jaipur police during its investigation had arrested 10 people in this connection, but had faced criticism for not being able to make any recovery of stolen silver slabs. There were unconfirmed reports that police had though recovered slabs, but were not showing it on record and had planned to show them as recovery from the main accused Agarwal who is presently on the run.Some bottlenecks in Jaipur police investigation led DGP M L Lathar in assigning the task of investigation, including prompt recovery and arrests in the case, to the SOG on March 10.“We had taken two employees of Shekhar, including Kalu and Kaidar, and their interrogation fetched us the recovery of two silver slabs so far. We are moving in right direction and hopefully we will make more recovery,” said an officer with SOG on the condition of anonymity. SOG officials are not sharing details as they are presently aiming at solving the case and making the recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/silver-theft-sog-recovers-two-slabs-so-far/articleshow/81499945.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Kochi||Govt gears up to move legally against ED||Thiruvananthapuram: The legal advice by the director general of prosecutions to register a case against enforcement directorate (ED) sleuths for forcing gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh to depose against chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, could be aimed at a larger legal advantage much more than a mere move to counter-attack the probe agencies. DGP C Sreedharan Nair has recommended the government to register a case against ED sleuths in connection with the statement by the woman civil police officer (WCPO) who stated that she was a witness to ED sleuths coercing Suresh to give statements against the CM. A similar statement was given by another gold smuggling accused Sandeep Nair too. In multiple verdicts by the Supreme Court, the court held that officers like ED officers do not fall in the category of police officers, and any statements made before the ED sleuths are not interdicted by section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act, and therefore would be admissible in a court of law. This would mean that statements if any, against any political executives, by the accused given before ED would become admissible before the court that could invite trouble to such persons. However, the court had also in several judgments made it clear that any confession or admission made by threat, promise or coercion, is inadmissible in court. In Selvi and others versus state of Karnataka and another case, 2010, the court stated regarding the use of narco analysis, polygraph tests and brain-mapping (which the court cited as “softer alternatives to third degree measures”) that “no individual should be forcibly subjected to any of the techniques in question, whether in the context of investigation in criminal cases or otherwise. Doing so would amount to an unwarranted intrusion into personal liberty. The court also held that the protective scope of Article 20(3) of the Constitution extends to the investigative stage in criminal cases and when read with section 161 (2) of the criminal procedure code, it protects accused persons, suspects as well as witnesses who are examined during an investigation. Therefore, if the government registers a case against ED sleuths on the basis of statements by the WCPO and Nair, it would have more teeth in arguing that the statements by Suresh were made under coercion. However, even if the government decides to register a case against the ED sleuths, the permission of the Centre would be required under section 197 of the criminal procedure code. As per the section, if a public servant is accused of any offence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duty, no court shall take cognizance of such offence except with previous sanction. In ED’s case, the Centre has to give sanction, but that is unlikely to happen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-gears-up-to-move-legally-against-ed/articleshow/81498966.cms||KP Saikiran
March 15, 2021||Madurai||Set up well-stocked libraries in schools, says Madras HC||Madurai: Madras high court has said that the state government should take more systematic and concrete efforts to restore the lost glory of reading by providing a well-stocked library in all schools in the state. Justice M Dhandapani observed that time should be provided for students to access the library under the guidance of efficient librarians so that they enrich their knowledge and also develop reading habits while at school. The court passed the order while dismissing a batch of petitions challenging the amendments made to Tamil Nadu Public Libraries Act and Tamil Nadu Public Libraries Rules. The judge noted that there used to be a period earmarked for library every week in schools at least a decade ago, and its purpose was to promote reading habit among students. Students of those days would throng the library during this period for reading novels and books from other genres. However, the judge rued that during the course of time the library period was deemed a waste of time and most schools have instead provided only curricular periods. Hence, “reading habits among the students stand totally wiped out,” he said. Students these days tend to lean more towards digital devices for all their needs unmindful of the repercussions. “If the budding children are not inculcated with the habits of reading books today, not only the glory of reading good books would stand wiped out, but the next generation would be totally alien to the idea of reading books,” observed the judge. Observing that a good library could develop a good citizen and a good environment, the judge said that the court hopes that the suggestions given would be taken in letter and spirit by the respondents. This would not only give an impetus to the library movement, but will also restore the concept of library.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/set-up-well-stocked-libraries-in-schools-says-madras-hc/articleshow/81500652.cms||Kaushik Kannan
March 15, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan still at top in Covid vaccination||JAIPUR: The state is leading the chart of states with highest Covid vaccination despite claims and counter claims of the Centre and the state over availability of doses. In the state, more than 28.9 lakh doses have been given, out of which 24.3 lakh were first doses and 4.6 lakh second doses. Recently, the state government had raised the issue of state running short of doses and requested the Centre for immediate refill for continuing vaccination. The health department is taking all possible measures to keep the momentum of vaccination going for providing the jab to beneficiaries without delay. While the vaccination drive is in the progress, the state is witnessing a spike in cases. In the last 24 hours, 250 people tested positive taking its overall tally to 3,22,969. With one death, the state’s toll rose to 2790. Districts which reported new cases Jaipur (49), Udaipur (37), Rajsamand (24), Bhilwara(24), Kota (23), Jodhpur (15), Dungarpur (12), Ajmer (12), Sirohi (7), Banswara(7), Baran (7), Bikaner (4), Nagaur (4), Chittorgarh (3), Alwar (3), Pali (3), Pratapgarh (3), Sikar (2), Karauli (2), Dholpur (2), Barmer (2), Hanumangarh(1), Bundi (1), Jaisalmer (1), Jalore (1) and Jhunjhunu (1). Jodhpur reportedits 308th Covid-19 death. Besides,the active cases are constantly on the rise. In 24 hours, the active cases have increased from 2,329 to 2,453. Jaipur is currently accommodating highest 481 active cases, followed by Dungarpur (299), Udaipur (243), Kota (235) and Jodhpur (212).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-still-at-top-in-covid-vaccination/articleshow/81507240.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan still at top in Covid vaccination||JAIPUR: The state is leading the chart of states with highest Covid vaccination despite claims and counter claims of the Centre and the state over availability of doses. In the state, more than 28.9 lakh doses have been given, out of which 24.3 lakh were first doses and 4.6 lakh second doses. Recently, the state government had raised the issue of state running short of doses and requested the Centre for immediate refill for continuing vaccination. The health department is taking all possible measures to keep the momentum of vaccination going for providing the jab to beneficiaries without delay. While the vaccination drive is in the progress, the state is witnessing a spike in cases. In the last 24 hours, 250 people tested positive taking its overall tally to 3,22,969. With one death, the state’s toll rose to 2790. Districts which reported new cases Jaipur (49), Udaipur (37), Rajsamand (24), Bhilwara(24), Kota (23), Jodhpur (15), Dungarpur (12), Ajmer (12), Sirohi (7), Banswara(7), Baran (7), Bikaner (4), Nagaur (4), Chittorgarh (3), Alwar (3), Pali (3), Pratapgarh (3), Sikar (2), Karauli (2), Dholpur (2), Barmer (2), Hanumangarh(1), Bundi (1), Jaisalmer (1), Jalore (1) and Jhunjhunu (1). Jodhpur reportedits 308th Covid-19 death. Besides,the active cases are constantly on the rise. In 24 hours, the active cases have increased from 2,329 to 2,453. Jaipur is currently accommodating highest 481 active cases, followed by Dungarpur (299), Udaipur (243), Kota (235) and Jodhpur (212).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-still-at-top-in-covid-vaccination/articleshow/81499946.cms||---
---||Ajmer||Rajasthan still at top in Covid vaccination||JAIPUR: The state is leading the chart of states with highest Covid vaccination despite claims and counter claims of the Centre and the state over availability of doses. In the state, more than 28.9 lakh doses have been given, out of which 24.3 lakh were first doses and 4.6 lakh second doses. Recently, the state government had raised the issue of state running short of doses and requested the Centre for immediate refill for continuing vaccination. The health department is taking all possible measures to keep the momentum of vaccination going for providing the jab to beneficiaries without delay. While the vaccination drive is in the progress, the state is witnessing a spike in cases. In the last 24 hours, 250 people tested positive taking its overall tally to 3,22,969. With one death, the state’s toll rose to 2790. Districts which reported new cases Jaipur (49), Udaipur (37), Rajsamand (24), Bhilwara(24), Kota (23), Jodhpur (15), Dungarpur (12), Ajmer (12), Sirohi (7), Banswara(7), Baran (7), Bikaner (4), Nagaur (4), Chittorgarh (3), Alwar (3), Pali (3), Pratapgarh (3), Sikar (2), Karauli (2), Dholpur (2), Barmer (2), Hanumangarh(1), Bundi (1), Jaisalmer (1), Jalore (1) and Jhunjhunu (1). Jodhpur reportedits 308th Covid-19 death. Besides,the active cases are constantly on the rise. In 24 hours, the active cases have increased from 2,329 to 2,453. Jaipur is currently accommodating highest 481 active cases, followed by Dungarpur (299), Udaipur (243), Kota (235) and Jodhpur (212).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-still-at-top-in-covid-vaccination/articleshow/81507242.cms||---
---||Ahmedabad||Gujarat metro: Racing to roll out||AHMEDABAD: After almost two years of lull, metro rail construction activity has picked up steam. The initial work for metro stations towards Gandhinagar for Phase 2 of the project and elevated corridor over Sabarmati river are some recent highlights. Gujarat metro rail promises that the first phase of the city’s metro will roll out on the 75th anniversary of Indian Independence in 2022 Suicide prevention screensIndia’s second metro project to get platform screen doors (PSDs) at Vastral station. Both Apparel Park and Vastral Gam Stations, in addition to Nirant Cross Road Station had become operational in April 2019, and were equipped with PSDs but they weren’t operational. Now they are. Drive-in RoadThis winding metro track on Drive-in Road leads to the 165m long balanced cantilever (CLC) bridge which is in the last stage of construction. This 3-span bridge adjacent to Thaltej Station will be 18 meters high Sabarmati riverThis new 298-meter-long bridge across the Sabarmati is taking shape. Despite facing several design challenges including flooding of a group of piles. This eight-span bridge that runs between the Old High Court Station at Income Tax and the eastern bank will have a gradual incline of 14.2m on the highest point and 11.7m at its lowest point. GNLUTwo technical agencies are conducting vertical pile load tests between GNLU and Gandhinagar’s Sector-1 for constructing of the Phase-2 of the 28km long Ahmedabad Metro project. These pile load tests will help determine the safety of the structure. During these tests, engineers typically transfer load to each of the piles and measure it every 15 minutes using capacity jacks. DhaulakuvaThe work of metro stations for Phase-2 of the 6.47km corridor package is on. Stations will be built at a cost of Rs 418 crore at Dhaulakuva, Raysan, Randesan, Infocity, and Sector-1. A small 0.7 Km ramp will be built leading to a new depot at Indroda Circle. AmiyapurThe elevated section of the metro rail is being built at Amiyapur on the Gandhinagar Road. The 14.3km corridor will link the 8.1km elevated section of Motera Stadium with GNLU. There will be eight stations at Koteshwar Road, Vishwakarma College, Tapovan Circle, Narmada Canal, Koba Circle, Juna Koba, Koba Gam, and GNLU. MoteraAhmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) is now being engaged by Gujarat metro rail and the National High Speed Rail to draw up a detailed Local Area Plan (LAP) for Sabarmati-Motera stations. The area will be developed as a multi-modal hub. PaldiConstruction of the elevated corridor near Vadaj is in full swing. Prefabricated RCC parts have been brought. Other key highlights· Ahmedabad joins Bengaluru in having two metro construction phases running simultaneously · Third Rail technology is being extended to phase 2 as well · Platform screen doors (PSDs) are operational at Vastral station. They will be installed across all metro stations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/metro-track-to-the-future/articleshow/81499949.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Trichy||BJP’s Annamalai has task cut out in Aravakurichi||Trichy: With BJP announcing its state vice-president K Annamalai as candidate from Aravakurichi constituency in Karur district, the first-time contestant is expected to face a tough fight in his home turf. Facing the election within two months of establishing the party office at Aravakurichi, Annamalai will have to work faster to take DMK head-on in the April 6 assembly election. DMK Karur district in-charge V Senthil Balaji, who is the sitting MLA in Aravakurichi, has shifted to Karur constituency this time. Though the DMK master strategist is not contesting from the constituency, he has been touring Aravakurichi over the last two days and meeting party workers to strengthen the campaign. DMK’s pick for the contest, Monjanur P R Elango, is a known face in party circles in Aravakurichi.While the fight is expected to be largely between BJP and DMK, senior BJP functionaries say that about 1,500 volunteers from several places have come to Aravakurichi to campaign for Annamalai. BJP has contested eight elections in Karur without success. Party district president K Sivasamy is optimistic about the prospects of Annamalai saying they have decided to give assurances on development of Aravakurichi rather than lure them with unrealistic promises as done by the opposition party. “There are no industries in Aravakurichi, therefore we will bring a state or centrally funded industry to ensure jobs for at least 40,000 people. Our manifesto will have self-imposed timeline for implementation so that people can question us in case we fail to implement them on time,” he said. Asked about the 30,000-odd votes from Pallapatti region that has been decisive in every election, he said this time woman voters from Pallapatti will support BJP for making triple talaq illegal. “We are slowly making inroads into the Muslim vote bank in Aravakurichi and it will reflect in the upcoming election,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bjps-annamalai-has-task-cut-out-in-aravakurichi/articleshow/81500658.cms||Sampath Kumar
March 15, 2021||Trichy||Senthil Balaji assures Rs 2,000-cr developmental schemes in Karur||Karur: Promising to bring in developmental schemes worth Rs 2,000 crore to Karur district in the next five years, DMK’s Karur district in-charge V Senthil Balaji said he would not come back seeking votes in 2026 if he fails to fulfil the promise. Addressing party cadres to work for DMK’s victory in all the four assembly segments in the district, he said that the assurance is based on M K Stalin’s love for the people of Karur. He also accused transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar of amassing wealth through illegal means in the last five years. He said he doesn’t own even a single cent of land till date in Karur where he started his political career 25 years back, assuring that the asset value he declares while filing nominations won’t increase by a paisa in the next five years. Karur district is one among the four districts in the state where DMK has promised to establish new airports as part of poll promise. Thanking the people of Aravakurichi - where he is the sitting MLA - for giving him an opportunity in the bypoll, he said people asked him why he didn’t contest from Aravakurichi. “Why should I stay in a rented house when I have my own house to stay?,” he said, adding that he could not cast vote for himself in the constituency he was contesting. However, he said he was ready to work for the victory of any candidate fielded by the party in Karur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/senthil-balaji-assures-rs-2000-cr-developmental-schemes-in-karur/articleshow/81500663.cms||Sampath Kumar
---||Kochi||Revenue from liquor sales unaffected despite Covid||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Despite Covid-19 adversely affecting all sectors in the ongoing financial year, the revenue from liquor sales seems to have been unaffected. The sales that picked up in the last four months and the 35% sales tax imposed on Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) in May last year have ensured that the overall revenue contribution to the state exchequer from liquor sales in 2020-21 till February 29 is only 11% lesser when compared to the same period last year. As per the latest figures of the Kerala state beverages corporation (Bevco), the revenue contribution till February 29 is Rs 10,379.38 crore, while it was Rs 11,709.94 crore in the same period in 2019-20. The impressive revenue earnings was primarily in four months from November 2020 to February 2021. The sales figures in each of these months have been consistently above Rs 1,200 crore. The sales in December and January were Rs 1,498 crore and Rs 1,466 crore, respectively. Barring April and May last year, in all the remaining nine months, the sales crossed Rs 1,000 crore. The Bevco outlets and bar hotels were shut as part of national lockdown in April. They reopened and sales resumed using BevQ token system from May 28. In the four days in May, 2.71 lakh cases of IMFL and 0.72 lakh cases of beer were sold, earning a revenue of Rs 195.48 crore. As much as 52 days of liquor sales were lost in the current financial year due to Covid-19 lockdown. In terms of quantity, the sales of IMFL and beer in 2020-21 is lesser than compared to 2019-20. While it was 205.22 and 106.87 lakh cases of IMFL and beer, respectively, in 2019-20, the corresponding figures for 2020-21 are 167.67 lakh cases and 58.72 lakh cases. While this drop in quantity for IMFL is 18% this year when compared to the last, the drop in sales of beer is significant. The beer sales dropped by 45% this year when compared to the last. Despite this drop, the revenue earnings wasn’t affected much as the government had in May last year too increased sales tax by 35%. “With two more weeks of sales left, the drop in revenue from liquor sales in the current year is expected to be around 9% when compared to the last year,” Bevco sources said. The contribution from liquor sales to the state exchequer has been steadily on the rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/revenue-from-liquor-sales-unaffected-despite-covid/articleshow/81498974.cms||KP Saikiran
---||Trichy||Tough tri-cornered contest on cards in Thiruverumbur||Trichy: Thiruverumbur, the most industrialised constituency in the district housing central and state government units, is set for a tough clash as AIADMK, DMK and MNM have fielded strong candidates. Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, a third generation DMK politician from his family, who is the sitting MLA of the constituency, will compete with MNM general secretary M Muruganandam and AIADMK’s former two-time Trichy MP P Kumar.Thiruverumbur constituency has traditionally been DMK stronghold as the party has won four out of the last five assembly elections held since 1996. M Muruganandham, a native of Thiruverumbur fielded in Thiruverumbur by MNM, has been laying out the groundwork in the constituency for more than a year now as party functionaries said he was influential in establishing MNM’s third headquarters in Thiruverumbur’s Ganesapuram. He has a good rapport with the youth and has familiarised the party through wall paintings at multiple locations to cement his name. “He started his career with MNM as zonal secretary and was elevated to state general secretary in a short span through his hard work. We are sure that voters upset with both Dravidian parties and youth will prefer our candidate,” said S R Kishore Kumar, MNM Trichy central district treasurer. AIADMK has fielded former MP P Kumar. The AIADMK camp has appointed two IT-wing cadres for every polling booth to promote digital reach. He is accusing the sitting MLA of not doing enough for the constituency in the last five years. However, the DMK camp said that such campaigning would only backfire for the AIADMK candidate. “Communist trade union in the industries will be in favour of us. The sitting MLA was always connected with the residents as opposition parties’ candidates will not affect us much,” said a functionary in DMK’s alliance. With all three candidates belonging to the same Mukkulathor community, there is no caste advantage factor for any of them. Unlike other assembly segments in the district, Thiruverumbur is anticipated to have the neck to neck contest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tough-tri-cornered-contest-on-cards-in-thiruverumbur/articleshow/81500667.cms||Deepak Karthik
March 15, 2021||Madurai||Shifted to Rajapalayam seat heeding requests: Min||Virudhunagar: Minister for milk and dairy development K T Rajenthra Bhalaji said that he is contesting from Rajapalayam assembly constituency based on the request from people. Bhalaji won by contesting from his native constituency at Sivakasi in 2011 and 2016. However, he has chosen to contest from Rajapalayam constituency this assembly election. Rajenthra Bhalaji was seen campaigning at several places including Seithur, Sundarajapuram, Therkku Venganallur, Ayankollamkondan in Rajapalayam constituency for the third day on Sunday. While addressing the gathering during the campaign, Bhalaji said that various sections of people from Rajapalayam had requested him to contest in their constituency in order to bring in more developmental schemes to Rajapalayam. He said that during his tenure as a minister for two terms in the last 10 years, he has implemented several developmental schemes in the district including Rajapalayam, adding he would take steps to upgrade Seithur town panchayat as a municipality. He said that he would work hard to fulfill the demands of all sections of people including the traders at Rajapalayam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shifted-to-rajapalayam-seat-heeding-requests-min/articleshow/81500668.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Kochi||Panel: No petrol pumps within 50m of schools||Kochi: The Kerala state commission for protection of child rights has directed that no permission should be given to build petrol pumps within 50m radial distance of schools in the state. A single bench of the commission was hearing a petition filed against the alleged construction of a petrol pump within 50m of government upper primary school at Thaikkattussery. “If a petrol pump must be set up within 50m of a school premises, it should be done based on safety guidelines issued by the petroleum and explosive safety organization (PESO). The state pollution control board (PCB) has stipulated that pumps should not be allowed within 50m radial distance of schools and hospitals. However, on no account should a pump be allowed within 30m radius from school,” said K Nazeer, member, in the order. It directed the local bodies, including the secretary for local self-government, panchayat secretary and director of municipalities, to issue orders that local bodies ensure compliance of the safety guidelines before permission is given for setting up petrol pumps. The commission received reports from the PCB and panchayat secretary. The local body report said that the panchayat had refused to give permission after complaints from school administration. The PCB said there were no pollution problems and the pump had received NOC from the fire and rescue department and PWD. Thus permission was given for construction. The commission noted that a petition had also been filed in Kerala high court against the construction of the pump.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/panel-no-petrol-pumps-within-50m-of-schools/articleshow/81498975.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai:Wedding stopped as kin term girl ‘minor’||Mumbai: The police and members of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) landed up at a wedding in Malwani on Saturday after the girl’s family lodged a complaint that she was a minor and was being illegally married off. But they did not have any documents to prove her age. “The girl will undergo medical tests to determine her age. If she is a minor, a case be registered against the groom,” said an official from the Malwani police station. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaiwedding-stopped-as-kin-term-girl-minor/articleshow/81500002.cms||---
---||Trichy||DMK strikes a chord with cable car promise||Trichy: The DMK manifesto, which offered a cable car facility at Arulmigu Thayumanavar Swamy temple on the Rockfort hillock, has kindled again the long-pending demand of the residents for a modern facility to access the temple complex. The manifesto also promises cable car facilities at hill shrines across the state at Thiruthani, Sholingur, Thiruneermalai near Chennai and Tiruchengode.To reach Thayumanavar and Uchchi Pillaiyar shrines atop the hillock situated in the heart of Trichy city, devotees and tourists have to scale up 417 steep steps carved on rock. Devotees with heart ailments, senior citizens and pregnant women were denied the opportunity to access Rockfort temple. Since the early 2000s, various proposals submitted with the authorities to set up ropecar and winch facilities, even elevators for senior citizens remain only on papers. While the demand for a rope car facility at the Rockfort temple complex resurfaces during the election, the promise from the DMK have struck a chord with local people, who revived the demand. While Ayyarmalai temple in Karur district situated around 1,178 feet above ground level and Viralimalai temple in Pudukkottai district situated about 110 feet above ground level have rope car and lift facilities, Trichy residents are fuming over the lack of such a facility at the Rockfort.“Despite our MLA Vellamandi N Natarajan being a tourism minister, we have not received the rope car facility. My ageing father has not visited the temple in 20 years, there are many such people,” R Sundarrajan, representative of the Rockfort Residents Welfare Association, said. As the DMK has revived the demand, residents said that other candidates may take up the baton. AMMK candidate R Manohar was among the contestants to have rekindled the rope car proposal recently. Though HR&CE sources said that rope care and lift facilities are practically not feasible, residents said the space available in East Boulevard Road, Vadakku Street and Ulveedhi Streets can be utilised to implement the dream project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-strikes-a-chord-with-cable-car-promise/articleshow/81500670.cms||Deepak Karthik
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||BMC impounds tax defaulter’s BMW||MUMBAI: Woe betide the citizen who fails to pay up property tax. That’s the stern message that the the BMCis silently passing on as it races against time to get people to pay up before the financial year closes in another fortnight. Sample some of these means that the country’s richest municipality has been resorting to in order to make tax defaulters pay up — disconnecting water supply, blocking sewer lines. Why, it is even impounding movable assets of defaulters! The swanky BMW of Chandulal Lohana of Jay Construction was confiscated by officials of M-west division. Since property tax to the tune of Rs 38.80 lakh was pending, his car was confiscated. It prompted the tax-payer to deposit Rs 19 lakh, after which the car was released. Overall, BMC had set itself a property tax target of Rs 5,200 crore for the year 2020-21, but so far it has netted Rs 3,650 crore — just 70%. Civic officials said that in H east ward (Bharat Diamond Bourse) Rs 25.86 crore as property tax was collected while Rs. 39 crore recovered from Reliance Industries Limited. In K east ward, water connections of Solitaire Corporate Park and Vertex Building were severed and sewers also blocked. After this action, the property holders paid 50% of the outstanding amount — Rs 9.60 crore and Rs 31 lakh respectively. In M west ward water connection at IMAX theatre has been disconnected as the property tax arrears have touched Rs 75 lakh. In another instance in M-West ward, with property tax arrears of Unity Land Consultancy amounting to Rs 1.10 crore, their vehicle was confiscated and office on their construction site also ‘sealed’ and construction work stopped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaibmc-impounds-tax-defaulters-bmw/articleshow/81500678.cms||Richa Pinto
March 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: First 800+ daily Covid case tally reached in 2021||AHMEDABAD: After the post-Diwali surge, daily Covid-19 positive cases were rising and falling, but before March, the highest daily figure Gujarat had recorded was 741 on January 2. On Sunday, for the first time in 2021, the state breached the 800 daily cases mark at 810 – effectively recording one case every two minutes in 24 hours. Surat city reached 200 daily cases whereas Ahmedabad on the second consecutive day recorded more than 160 cases. According to experts keeping an eye on the pandemic statistics, the takeaway for the week is spread in areas outside of four major cities. “From March 1 to 7, the eight municipal corporation areas accounted for 73% of the daily cases. The number dropped to 70% this week. While Surat and Ahmedabad cities have remained the most important epicentres of the viral infection, four major cities of the state have surges less than 65% — signifying the rise of cases across Gujarat,” said an epidemiologist. The state has also witnessed rise in Covid testing, which could be one of the reasons for the surge in cases, added experts. On Sunday, the state carried out 45,602 tests to find out 810 cases, giving case positivity rate (CPR) of 1.8%. On Sunday, Gujarat crossed the figure of 5 lakh for the completion of both the doses of vaccines, whereas 19.8 lakh completed the first dose. Several citizens complained of non-administering of the vaccine at their designated centres even when they received SMS intimating them of their vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/first-800-daily-case-tally-reached-in-2021/articleshow/81500009.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Trichy||NCT closed after student tests Covid+ve||Trichy: National College Trichy (NCT) has been closed for three days after a student tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday.The student of the physics department was attending classes since the reopening of colleges. Due to fever, he took leave for a few days during the last week, and was found to be Covid-19 positive on Saturday. Students of his class have been asked to test themselves.“We suspended classes for the students of the class on Saturday and asked them to attend online classes from home. Since three students were feverish in the hostel, we have vacated the hostel and declared holiday for the next three days. Students will be attending classes from Thursday,” said R Sundararaman, NCT principal.No other student has been tested positive so far. But, we have decided to sanitise the college in the next three days before students start coming to the college on Thursday, he said. A student from the government college of engineering, Srirangam also tested positive last week following which 250 students were tested. While the results are awaited, the students will be attending classes from home online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nct-closed-after-student-tests-covidve/articleshow/81500665.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Trichy||Nehru begins campaign but allies kept in dark||Trichy: K N Nehru launched his election campaign from Thillai Nagar in the city here on Sunday. The DMK leader, who is the sitting MLA of Trichy West, was given a grand welcome at Samayapuram toll plaza on his arrival from Chennai after being named as the candidate.Nehru reached out to residents on foot and then for a while campaigned in an open vehicle. He then campaigned on Sasthri road, Rahumaniapuram and Fort station road by meeting residents. DMK sources said that the party’s principal secretary will launch his full-fledged campaign from Monday. Meanwhile, political parties in the DMK alliance were found missing during the launch of DMK Trichy West assembly segment candidate. The allied parties claimed they were not aware of K N Nehru launching his campaign on Sunday evening. “We were present at the DMK office till Sunday evening but none of the functionaries shared with us about the launch of campaigning,” a functionary of a political party in alliance with DMK said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nehru-begins-campaign-but-allies-kept-in-dark/articleshow/81500669.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Chennai||Chennai fencer Bhavani Devi makes Olympics cut||CHENNAI: City fencer Bhavani Devi had fought many a battle in her life before she etched her name in the annals of Indian sports history on Sunday by becoming the first Indian fencer to qualify for the Olympics. The 27-year-old will be part of the women’s sabre event at the Tokyo Games to be held from July 23 to August 8. At the fencing World Cup in Budapest, Bhavani — despite losing in the round of 64 to Hungary’s Renata Katona 15-10 — made the cut for Tokyo thanks to the Adjusted Olympic Rankings. Bhavani, ranked 42 in the world, bagged one of the two spots available for the Asia & Oceania region in the event. “I am at a loss for words to describe my feeling. This is purely the result of the hard yards I have put in, the unending support of my family, coaches and everyone who has backed me over the years,” Bhavani told TOI. It needed Hungary to be ranked lower than South Korea in the team event for Bhavani to seal the Tokyo ticket. That’s exactly what happened as the hosts lost in the quarters and South Korea made the semifinals. Bhavani took up the sport in class VI and it didn’t take long for fencing to become my passion. “It all started back in 2003-04 when fencing was introduced at our school Muruga Dhanushkodi Girls High School at Tondiarpet. Once I knew I was doing well, fencing became my life,” Bhavani recalled. Bhavani’s parents father C Sundararamana a priest and mother Ramani a housewife never allowed their limited financial means to act as a hindrance to her ambitions. “From taking loans to selling off the jewellery --- my parents have done so much to keep me going in this sport. The one person I miss the most today is my father who passed away in 2019. He would have been the happiest person,” mentioned Bhavani who is supported by the GoSports Foundation. Things weren’t rosy for her in the last Olympics when she missed the qualification that left her shattered. However, Bhavani vowed to come back stronger. “I was taking a lot of pressure on myself at that point of time and it affected my results. I understood the importance of staying in the moment and put in extra work on my game. Once I began to win medals, my confidence levels went up automatically,” she said. Bhavani’s career went on an upswing when she won gold at the Women’s World Cup satellite tournament in Iceland in 2017. A year later, Bhavani became the first Indian to clinch gold at the Commonwealth Championships held in Australia. Bhavani’s long-time Italian coach Nicola Zanotti feels qualification for the Olympics is just the first step. “Bhavani can compete with the best in the business. With a few more months to go for the Games, we will look to keep her in the best shape possible,” Zanotti said. Bhavani will return to India next week to be part of the senior Nationals to be held at Uttarakhand from March 19 to 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-fencer-bhavani-makes-olympics-cut/articleshow/81500683.cms||Prasad RS
March 15, 2021||Kochi||Arrange feeding spotsfor street dogs: AWB||Idukki: Animal welfare board (AWB) issued an order stating that each state chief secretary must issue necessary directions to all local authorities to take appropriate steps to identify sufficient number of feeding spots for stray dogs in all towns, villages, resident welfare associations and other institutes, etc. The order further stated that law enforcement authority shall ensure that no harassment or hindrance is caused to the person feeding street dogs at the designated spot and to properly implement the AWBI revised guidelines on pet dogs and street dogs. “The board has been issuing various guidelines in respect to pet and street dogs and their caregivers and for residents welfare associations and apartment owners associations. However, the board continues to receive several complaints where the compassionate citizens/ animal welfare activists who are showing compassion towards stray dogs/ pet dogs, are being harassed by their neighbours, resident welfare associations and others. Also, they are being restrained by these people or authorities to carry out the fundamental duties of the Constitution of India. In this regard, it has been noticed by the board that complaints about animal cruelty and harassment of individuals showing compassion to these animals are not being pursued seriously and appropriate action is not being initiated by the law enforcement authorities,” said the order. Kerala state animal welfare board member M N Jayachandran said, “We hope the AWB order will help to provide proper food security to street dogs in our state. During Covid-19 pandemic lockdown period the state government too provided food for street dogs. When proper feeding facilities are assured the street dog menace will end in the state.” “Lack of food availability is the major issue in our state. AWB earlier issued various guidelines for the protection of street and pet dogs. But many animal cruelty incidents are reported in our state. The new order will help prevent such issues,” Jayachandran added. Meanwhile, animal cruelty incidents have risen in the state. Last month, a man trapped and dragged a street dog on the road at ITI junction, Kattappana in Idukki. Last December, a dog owner was arrested for dragging a pet dog for 500 metre after tying it behind a moving car at Athani in Ernakulam district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/arrange-feeding-spotsfor-street-dogs-awb/articleshow/81499007.cms||Sandeep Thomas
---||Delhi||Poll vow kept, CM opens sewer line work in Kirari||New Delhi: The work of laying down the sewerage system in Kirari was inaugurated by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday. This would be one of the largest projects in which 114 unauthorised colonies and six villages of Kirari and Mundka would be covered to benefit 7.3 lakh residents. A total of 423km of sewage pipelines would be laid at a cost of Rs 480 crore. Pumping stations would be set up at Prem Nagar, Bhagya Vihar and Pratap Vihar. The CM said that despite shortage of funds, he had instructed officials to start the project as soon as possible because he had made a promise to people. Some parts of Kirari remain flooded for months after monsoon due to poor drainage. “The AAP government has already provided water to every household in Kirari. Now it aims to provide sewer lines and good roads. In the last 70 years, no other party has worked for the development of unauthorised colonies as much as AAP in the past five years,” added Kejriwal. Water minister Satyendar Jain said that 105 of the 114 colonies where work had started were in Kirari and the rest in Mundka. Talking about visiting the area and taking a tour through the lanes of the colonies before the assembly elections, Kejriwal said, “You were all upset with me. Many roads were in a despicable condition, the sewers were overflowing and lanes were filled with garbage. Many of our sisters and mothers had shown the lanes outside their homes and told me they were perturbed to live in such terrible conditions.” “Your bitterness with me was justified. I requested you with folded hands to vote for AAP. I promised you that I would make sure that all works related to the roads and sewer line would be completed. In turn, people promised to vote for me. They told me that I was a man of my word and fulfilled my promises. You kept your promise. You voted for AAP and we won the Kirari seat. I have come here today to fulfil my promise,” added the CM. Apart from laying the sewer lines, all roads in the area would also be repaired. “I have spoken to the engineers and officials and they say the project might be completed much earlier than the four-year deadline. I remember BJP saying before the assembly elections that all colonies were being authorised and registration papers were being given to people. That was a lie. Now they cannot even face the people. They are on the run because they were lying. We keep our promises,” said Kejriwal. Mentioning how a large number of people were now getting 24x7 electricity with zero bills, Kejriwal said, “No other city in the world receives 24x7 free electricity. Free bus rides are empowering women. An aged woman, who is also a vegetable seller, told me that she was now able to travel to a far-off market and earn more because of this service.” Informing people about the “deshbhakti curriculum” in schools and installation of 500 flags across the city to mark 75 years of Independence, Kejriwal said the AAP government intended to provide free pilgrimage to all elders in Delhi to the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Jain said, “A hospital will be built for the people of Kirari. The area MLA is also working on getting an underpass to Rohtak Road constructed through the dried-up canal. This area has five municipal councillors, but only two of them are from AAP. It would be great if all five councillors are elected from AAP in the next polls.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/poll-vow-kept-cm-opens-sewer-line-work-in-kirari/articleshow/81500038.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Glamour quotient missing on polling day||Hyderabad: There was no glitz and glamour on polling day as most celebrities and VIPs failed to turn up at the booths to exercise their franchise in the graduate MLC elections on Sunday. Celebrities, including film personalities who campaigned extensively during Parliament and assembly elections, were conspicuously absent this time. Except political leaders, the famous faces were not seen heading to vote or flaunt their inked finger after casting their ballot. During the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections in December, 2020, many celebrities had voted and even appealed to the general public to get out of their homes and cast their ballot. The possible reason for their absence this time could be the celebrities did not even enrol themselves as voters in the first place. “Political parties mostly approached people based on the voter’s list. Also, since issues in the polls were related to unemployment, parties also did not focus much on getting them enrolled or vote,” a top BJP leader said. Meanwhile, the voting in the city went off smoothly barring a few stray incidents. At many booths TOI visited, several voters were seen sans masks and ignoring social distancing norms. “We came here to vote early, but have seen that many were not wearing masks. We returned home as the number of cases are steadily increasing,” KR Reddy, a voter from Narayanguda, said At some polling booths, officials did not allow voters to carry their mobile phones inside the voting compartment. Meanwhile, at Old Bowenpally, voters of the same family had to vote at different polling booths. A teacher couple had to vote in different areas and such incidents were reported from many areas. Also, there were long queues before polling booths. “I have seen in my area, many people returned home without voting as they failed to locate their polling booth,” SK Suresh, a voter from Sanathnagar, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/glamour-quotient-missing-on-polling-day/articleshow/81500690.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray’s green signal to new Victorias||MUMBAI: CM Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday launched the electric Victoria carriages. Transport minister Anil Parab and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray were also present when CM Thackeray handed over keys of carriages to riders of old horse-driven carriages. Initially 12 carriages that can seat six each will run near Gateway, Marine Drive, and Nariman Point where horse carriages once rode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cms-green-signal-to-new-victorias/articleshow/81500059.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Goa||Kala Academy to restore its three prized artworks by Laxman Pai||Panaji: Few artworks of world-renowned artist Laxman Pai are among the prized possessions of the Kala Academy, Panaji. When the Charles Correa construction — Kala Academy — hung on its walls the works of Pai, it inadvertently created an amalgamation of art and architecture of two of Goa’s greatest sons. The three paintings with the Kala academy are titled Yellow Goa, Green Goa and Spring Flower. One of these paintings hangs on the Kala Academy’s walls while the other two have been kept in the institute’s painting room. Years after these paintings found home at the Kala Academy, the institute has taken up the initiative to restore them. Sources from the institute said that the file has been moved to the state government and the matter is in process. “A committee has been formed comprising two Goan artists and representatives from the Kala Academy to handle the restoration and preservation of the works. A tender will be floated once the file is approved,” sources said. The winning tender will also have to restore artworks by other artists that are with the Kala Academy. "Expertise is required to restore Laxman Pai’s paintings. If something goes wrong with the restoration, then everyone will blame us, which is why we have formulated a committee comprising artists. The committee has distinguished all the paintings of Kala Academy into A and B categories. The restoration of these prestigious paintings will be taken up this year," minister for art and culture and Kala Academy chairman, Govind Gaude said. The Padmashri awardee graduated from the J J School of Art in Mumbai, where he pursued a diploma in art and painting. He later served as a fellow at J J School, teaching diploma students. Until a few years ago, he and his wife, Purnima, shuttled between Delhi and the US, where their son Akash lives with his family. After Purnima passed away, Pai had decided to stay in Goa and offer his paintings to the Goa government when he heard that an art gallery was proposed at the Adil Shah palace in Panaji. Soon after, Pai was conferred the prestigious Gomant Vibhushan award by the Goa government. A grand welcome fit for a king was rolled out for him amidst the thundering of percussions to accompany his entry at Kala Academy in December 2016. Dancers dressed in gold and red led the procession in front of a vintage Chevrolet in which Pai was seated. Pai beamed and waved all the while as he walked into the Kala Academy and watched a documentary on his life prior to the award ceremony. “Life is like a flowing river. I have never accepted things on its face value, but always looked at the contents. The documentary makes me wonder if it was really me who did all those things, achieved feats and went places,” he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kala-academy-to-restore-its-three-prized-artworks-by-laxman-pai/articleshow/81501480.cms||Nida Sayed
---||Ahmedabad||Vishwa Hindu Parishad collects Rs 205 crore for Ram temple||AHMEDABAD: The Vishwa Hindu Parishad has collected Rs 205 crore in donations from Gujarat for construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya. VHP volunteers visited over one crore persons in over 16,000 cities, towns and villages of the state as part of the funds collection drive. Speaking to the media in Ahmedabad on Sunday, VHP national joint general secretary, Surendra Jain, said that Gujarat has been at the forefront of donations received from across the country. “It has been decided that the RSS and VHP will open branches in as many towns and villages as possible,” he said. Ashok Raval, Gujarat VHP secretary said that the VHP had set itself a target of abut Rs 200 crore and has exceeded the target. “Our workers visited over 16,000 villages during the fund collection drive and a sum of Rs 205 crore has been collected from across the state,” Raval said. Jain said that donations received from every corner of the country will not be used just for the temple construction, but for all other facilities which will come up over the 70-acre plot of land. “We decided not to take money from the government. The money collected is from every section of the society. We want the Ram Temple to be constructed like how the Somnath temple was constructed,”he said. Meanwhile, Raval said that VHP has sought permission to collect funds for the Ram Temple from overseas as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vhp-collects-rs-205-cr-for-ram-temple/articleshow/81500049.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Madurai||Child marriage: Two arrested in Tenkasi||TENKASI: Tenkasi district police have arrested the husband and mother of a 15-year-old girl for conducting child marriage. On February 15, the parents and relatives of the duo got them married and the couple has been living together ever since. The social welfare department, which became aware of the union, lodged a complaint with the police. All woman police conducted an inquiry and confirmed the child marriage and said the girl was sexually abused. Following this, a case was registered under sections of The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Those booked for facilitating the child marriage include the husband, his parents, the girl’s parents and relatives. The police arrested and remanded the man and the girl’s mother and remanded them in judicial custody. Search is on for the other accused, the inspector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-booked-for-marrying-girl-15/articleshow/81500696.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Madurai||Alliance needs Cong for thumping victory: PC||Madurai: The presence of the Congress party is important for an alliance to have a big victory in an election, said former Union minister P Chidambaram. Speaking at the booth committee meeting of the party in Karaikudi on Sunday, he said that the Congress has deep roots, and is powerful. In a survey, it was revealed that 25% of the voters make a decision on whom to vote, while entering the polling stations. But, the Congress voters are silent voters who create an impact. The Congress was the reason for the success of the alliance in Thirumayam, Thirupathur and Alangudi constituencies in the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. “The DMK is the bigger party and we are the smaller party here, but we should respect them, and they will respect us, and jointly we can reap the benefit,” he said. Chidambaram said that he would have been happier if more seats had been allotted to the Congress in the Sivaganga Lok Sabha constituency. “We tried to get Sivaganga and Manamadurai this time, but were not successful,” he said. In the Lok Sabha elections, we won four out of the six assembly segments. This time we should strive to win all six, he said. India is in great danger due to the wrong policies of the Modi government. “When I was the finance minister, a barrel of crude oil sold for $105, but we sold petrol for Rs 60 to 65. But now crude oil is priced at $60-70, and petrol prices have shot up to Rs 100,” he said. The Modi government is robbing people of their hard earned money. Buying power of the people has come down drastically and many people are only buying food and medicine. Crores of people have lost their jobs. The central government is not ready to listen to it, even when statistics are presented. What we have now in the state is not a people’s government, but a binami government of the Modi government. Hindi is being given priority in even the IVR systems for booking LPG cylinders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/alliance-needs-cong-for-thumping-victory-pc/articleshow/81500704.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Meeting for Amrit Mahotsav celebrations held||Ahmedabad: The first meeting at the state government level of the Amrit Mahotsav to commemorate 75 years of Indian Independence was held last week to chalk out the plan of action for 75 weeks. Officials close to the development said that every week one monument or place associated with the movement would be identified and celebrated. The Mahotsav was launched by PM Narendra Modi from Sabarmati Ashram on March 12, the 91st anniversary of Dandi Salt March. Kartikeya Sarabhai, trustee of Sabarmati Ashram, said that the Ashram would function as the knowledge hub for several activities. “The period between 1915 and 1930 is marked for Mahatma’s several initiatives in Gujarat – they are witnessing the centenary celebration during this period. Moreover, the list is being prepared to identify all the important landmarks of freedom struggle in Gujarat,” he said. Gujarat was witness to major events during the movement for independence ranging from Kheda and Bardoli Satyagraha to Mahatma’s work in Ahmedabad and Salt March. But apart from these events, there were uprisings by the tribal and local groups in the tribal belt of the state. Such events would also come to fore, said officials. Some of the places in need of repairs are likely to get facelift, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/meeting-for-amrit-mahotsav-celebrations-held/articleshow/81500056.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||327 docs paid bonds, went abroad||Ahmedabad: In reply to a specific question in the ongoing budget session of the Gujarat assembly, the state government informed that in the past five years, 327 students completed their medical education and went abroad without completing their prescribed bond period. In an unstarred written question, Jhalod MLA Bhavesh Katara asked as of December 31, 2019, how many doctors had left for foreign countries without finishing their bond period after completing their medical education in Gujarat. Katara also sought to know how much money the government spent on their medical education and how much bond amount has been recovered from them. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/327-docs-paid-bonds-went-abroad/articleshow/81500067.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Delhi||Mobility a problem, senior citizens hope for getting vaccination at home in near future||New Delhi: Surinder Saini, an 88-year-old resident of central Delhi got inoculated on Tuesday at a private hospital, along with his software engineer son, who just turned 60 last month. The father-son duo faced no hassle in the process but it’s Saini’s 82-year-old wife Sudesh that both are concerned about. “She met with a car accident that left her paraplegic years ago but initially, she could wear braces and use parallel bars installed at home to walk and also shift inside our car from her wheelchair. However, bone density has been becoming worse and a hairline fracture three years ago that left a problem in the knee,” Saini said. He said that there must be senior citizens like his wife who have reduced mobility and will have problem in reaching a vaccination centre. “There may be some who are immobile and need vaccination at their homes only,” he said. “We are trying to provide assistance to all senior citizens, including providing transportation from their residence to vaccination sites and back, apart from providing help to health workers to get them registered on the Co-Win portal,” a senior district official said. “However, there are no such guidelines from the Centre on home vaccinations till date,” he said. Dr Suneela Garg, director professor at the department of community medicine in Maulana Azad Medical College and a public health expert, who is part of the vaccination programme, said that home vaccinations might not be a good idea because unlike a vaccination site located in a hospital or a healthcare centre, it will be difficult to deal with any adverse events following immunisation. She said it is best to get inoculated at a location with adequate healthcare infrastructure, even if chances of adverse effects are low. Apart from travelling to the nearest hospital, Suresh Chandra Gupta (77), a resident of Dilshad Garden in northeast Delhi, is also worried about convincing his 98-year-old mother Kasturi Devi to agree for the vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mobility-a-problem-senior-citizens-hope-for-getting-vaccination-at-home-in-near-future/articleshow/81500074.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 15, 2021||Delhi||22-year-old man stabbed in Delhi, one arrested||NEW DELHI: A 22-year-old man was allegedly stabbed to death by three men in full public view in Budh Vihar near Rohini on Sunday night. Police said the deceased had an argument with the men, who had allegedly manhandled his friend’s girlfriend some time ago. One of the accused has been arrested, while search for others was under way, police said. The murder was reported at the Budddh Vihar police station at 8pm about a man being stabbed by three men. A police team reached the spot and found that the injured, Shivam Thakur, had been shifted to Bhagwati Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. DCP (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said Thakur was a resident of Faridabad, Haryana. “Initial inquiry revealed that Thakur had been stabbed by Chetan and his friends. A case of murder was registered and the body sent for postmortem,” Tayal said. Local inquiry and scanning of CCTV footage helped the cops identify the three accused — Chetan, Bhola and Pawan— as prime suspects. Raids were conducted at possible hideouts and Chetan was arrested from Budh Vihar, the DCP said. During interrogation, Chetan confessed that he, along with his associates, had killed Thakur. Police found that some days ago, Chetan and his associates had misbehaved with one of Thakur’s friend’s girlfriend. On Sunday, a quarrel took place between them over the same issue, during which Chetan stabbed Thakur, leaving him dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/22-year-old-man-stabbed-one-arrested/articleshow/81520076.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Bareilly||UP lawyer offers Rs 11 lakh for killing ex-Shia board chief, booked||Bareilly: A prominent local lawyer in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad city announced a reward for killing former Shia Waqf Board chief for approaching the Supreme Court with a plea seeking removal of 26 verses from the Quran, prompting police to file an FIR against him for criminal intimidation.Amirul Hasan Jafri, former chairperson of Moradabad’s bar association, made the announcement during a press conference called on Saturday. “I strongly condemn his move. He (Rizvi) is not a human being, he is a devil. The person who cuts off Rizvi’s head will be given Rs 11 lakh. I will also request the bar association to contribute for the reward money,” Jafri said. A video of the event soon turned up on social media platforms.Jafri was booked on Sunday.Speaking to TOI, Moradabad’s superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand said, “We have taken cognizance of the statement made by Jafri. An FIR has been registered against him under IPC section 505-2 (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation). Further investigation is on.”When asked if the act of beheading Rizvi would be of any help, Jafri added, “There shouldn’t be any less punishment than this for a person committing such a sin.” Rizvi moved the apex court last week with a petition seeking removal of 26 verses from Quran, alleging that they promoted ‘hatred, terrorism and jihad’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-lawyer-offers-rs-11-lakh-for-killing-ex-shia-board-chief-booked/articleshow/81498264.cms||Maria Khan
March 15, 2021||Madurai||Freebies meant to deceive people: TTV||Tuticorin: AMMK general secretary T T V Dhinakaran has said that the freebies announced by various parties are meant to deceive people. “Tamil Nadu has debts to the tune of Rs 7 lakh crore. Instead of fooling people by promising freebies, efforts should be made to empower them to earn,” he said while responding to a query on the election manifestos of DMK and AIADMK. Dhinakaran, who is contesting the assembly election from Kovilpatti, was interacting with reporters after offering prayers at the local Shenbagavalli Amman temple on Sunday evening. He said AMMK has announced a job for at least one member in every house, especially youth or women. Only such proactive measures would take Tamil Nadu on the growth path and not freebies. Stressing on making people self-sufficient, he said AMMK will fulfil the assurance after winning the elections. “I will make many such announcements during my campaign,” he said. On parties leaving out total prohibition from their manifesto, Dhinakaran said his party has assured in the manifesto that no new liquor manufacturing unit will be started in the state while the existing units too will be closed in a phased manner. He said alliance talks with DMDK were smooth and that they have been allotted 60 seats to contest. TTV said he will be filing his nomination on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/freebies-meant-to-deceive-people-ttv/articleshow/81500708.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Vasai Road halt for Pune-Ahmedabad Duronto special to be run by WR||MUMBAI: Western Railway will run superfast Duronto special between Pune and Ahmedabad from Monday and it will pass via Vasai Road. Train 02298 Pune – Ahmedabad will leave Pune at 9.35 pm every Monday, Thursday and Saturday from March 15. It will halt at Lonavla at 10.18 pm and at Vasai Road at 12.40 am and reach Ahmedabad at 6.40 am. This train will have 1st AC, AC 2-tier and AC 3-tier coaches. In the return direction, train 02297 will leave Ahmedabad at 10.30 pm every Tuesday, Friday and Sunday from March 16. It will arrive at Vasai at 3.45 am and depart at 3.50 am. It will halt at Lonavla at 6.02 am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-vasai-rd-halt-for-pune-ahmedabad-duronto-special-to-be-run-by-wr/articleshow/81500082.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||CID chief’s account hacker still untraced||Ahmedabad: Cybercrooks seem to be much ahead of the so-called premier agencies of Gujarat police. This is because one of its prime security agencies, CID (crime), is yet to nab the person who hacked into the Twitter account of its head DGP T S Bisht. The agency is groping in dark for the past one month. On February 14, TOI published a report on how someone had retweeted from Bisht’s account, promoting a website selling a crypto currency- bitcoin. With this, a message was posted, which reads, “I have something special for my fans. All info below (copy URL and paste).” Cyber experts and sources in cybercell of CID (crime) and city crime branch said that if someone clicks on the website, his system, whether laptop, desktop or cellphone, would be hacked and cybercrooks will get a mirror image on their system. Using this modus operandi, the crooks may commit frauds in lakhs, said a cybercell officer of CID (crime). The message by the hacker promises that if the website gets due promotion, people would get chance of doubling their income and they may also win bitcoins. This had happened with the chief of an agency which has the entire cell to investigate into cyber frauds. Besides, this is the same agency which had investigated into the multi-crore bitcoin scam and various Ponzi schemes where people were cheated by promises of doubling their income. After Bisht’s account was hacked, a team was formed under SP Saurabh Tolumbia who began an inquiry into the case. Sources in the CID crime said, “The accused might have got to know about the username and password of Bisht’s account using which he made those retweets. Because, when Bisht checked the account later, he was able to open it as well. Usually, a persons whose account has been hacked, could not open it.” The CID crime has also been trying to find out the IP address of the accused but still they did not get any clue in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cid-chiefs-account-hacker-still-untraced/articleshow/81500080.cms||Ashish Chauhan
March 15, 2021||Madurai||‘Tiger reserve will rejuvenate Vaigai’||Madurai: The central government’s move to declare the Srivilliputtur- Meghamalai sanctuary as the fifth tiger reserve of Tamil Nadu would go a long way in rejuvenating the Vaigai, said speakers at a conference held in Madurai on Sunday. A meeting to thank the governments for declaring the Srivilliputtur-Meghamalai sanctuary a tiger reserve was organised by the Vaigai Nathi Makkal Iyakkam and Neernilaigal Pathukaapu Iyakkam in Madurai on Sunday. Vaigai originates from the Varasanadu range of Meghamalai. Dr S Nagarathinam, professor and head, department of communication, Madurai Kamaraj University, said that National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has declared 64,186 ha (1016.5 square km including buffer zone) of Srivilliputhur Megamalai area as tiger reserve. Tiger is an umbrella species, hence if tiger is protected all other co-predators will also be protected. This declaration gives legitimate protection for vegetation in the prey area making protection of forests mandatory. If the pristine state of forests was protected, wetlands in the catchment will also be protected. The connection between forests and water sources will be maintained. “We hope water will flow regularly in the Vaigai, which was celebrated by Sangam Age poets, because its place of origin falls within the declared sanctuary area,” he said. Dr S Kannan, professor and head, environmental sciences, Madurai Kamaraj University, stated that Kalakad Mundanthurai is situated south and Periyar Tiger Reserve is situated west to the Srivilliputhur Megamalai Tiger Reserve. Now the declaration connects both the tiger reserves. This protection will conserve the wildlife habitat and it is good for the Vaigai catchment area. Dr J Jerald Wilson, researcher in the department of marine and coastal studies said that the tiger reserve will help protect the biodiversity in Srivilliputhur and Megamalai where rare species are found. Enthusiasts and volunteers from various organizations spoke about the need of protecting the Vaigai in order to get water for irrigation and drinking purposes in the six districts. Various speakers mentioned that the earlier case of Kalakad-Mundanthurai declaration brought water to the Tamirabarani. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tiger-reserve-will-rejuvenate-vaigai/articleshow/81500735.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man beats, abandons wife for not being ‘slim and fair’||AHMEDABAD: A 23-year-old woman from Ghatlodia area of the city filed a complaint on Saturday with police alleging that her husband had beaten and abandoned her while taunting that she was fat, dark and ugly. In her FIR with Ghatlodia police, the woman, who got married to a man based on Grant Road in Mumbai in February 2008, said that her husband and in-laws began harassing and thrashing her for her bad appearance since after wedding. She said that around a month after their marriage, her husband and in-laws began seeking dowry from her and her parents and as her parents were unable to give them money, her in-laws and husband began beating her over petty issues. “My husband used to taunt that I was dark, fat and ugly. He used to tell me that his girlfriend was pretty, slim and fair. Whenever I protested, he used to beat me and even his family members provoked him to beat me,” she said in her FIR. She said that her husband and in-laws considered her as bad omen saying that she does not have any brother and thus she would not be able to give birth to a baby boy. “They used to pressure me to give birth to a boy and threatened me with dire consequences if I gave birth to a girl,” she said. Apart from this, her husband also beat her for not making good food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beats-abandons-wife-for-not-being-slim-and-fair/articleshow/81500103.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Surat||188 fresh cases in Diamond City, one more dead||Surat: No respite from surge in Covid cases in city with the dreaded disease claiming one life in the city and registering a total of 188 positive cases on Saturday. According to the health teams, the B.1.1.7, popularly known as the UK variant, has higher reproduction numbers and its presence has already been confirmed in the city. On Saturday, municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani tweeted, “According to a study published by Davies and colleagues in Science in March 2021, researchers reported that the B.1.1.7 variant had 43–90% higher reproduction numbers than the pre-existing variants. This variant strain is seen in the city. All to take utmost precaution.” The deceased is a 45-year-old woman from Ved Darwaja area in the Katargam zone and had been under treatment at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) since February 28. Total 1,227 teams are involved in door-to-door survey and 1.66 lakh houses have been checked. 8,007 people have been quarantined while 26 patients are under treatment at NCH, and 13 are in SMIMER. Meanwhile, SMC teams collected fine of Rs 2.24 lakh from 224 persons found not wearing masks from different parts of the city. “If people follow social distancing, wear a mask and clean hands regularly then the situation will improve. Otherwise, harsher restrictions will be imposed,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/188-fresh-cases-in-diamond-city-one-more-dead/articleshow/81487476.cms||---
---||Delhi||AAP targets north corpn over delay in finishing Rani Jhansi flyover work||New Delhi: Aam Aadmi Party MLA and chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Sunday questioned the inordinate delay in completion of the Rani Jhansi flyover and said that the project cost of the flyover went up from Rs 175 crore to Rs 724 crore. Bharadwaj said that in 2018, the standing committee had asked the North Delhi Municipal Corporation commissioner to submit a report on the project, which is yet to be filed. He also alleged that a private individual was paid Rs 27 crore for a piece of land acquired. He said the figures have appeared in the corporation’s own audit report from 2018. “We’ve been told that the commissioner is under pressure to not submit any such report, because big names may come up,” Bharadwaj said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, however, said that the claims are a lie because in Delhi all land compensation claims related to government projects of corporations, Centre or Delhi government are heard, settled and paid by land acquisition collector (LAC) of Delhi government. He said all claims of land acquisition compensation related to Rani Jhansi flyover project, too, were heard, settled and paid by LAC and Bhardwaj should ask the collector whether any private person was engaged in land compensation matter. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-targets-north-corpn-over-delay-in-finishing-rani-jhansi-flyover-work/articleshow/81500110.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Meerut||Darul Uloom, Barelvi clerics slam Shia Waqf board ex-chief, appeal to govt to invoke NSA against him||Strap: We are sure that SC will dismiss this petition, says Darul VCMuzaffarnagar: The petition seeking removal of 26 verses from the Quran is nothing but an attempt to tarnish the Muslim community's image, prominent Islamic seminary Darul Uloom, Deoband said on Sunday as it slammed former Shia Waqf board chief Waseem Rizvi for approaching the Supreme Court with it. Vice-chancellor (VC) of Darul Uloom, Deoband, Abul Qasmi Nomani, said, “The Quran teaches us peace and forgiveness. Not a word has changed in it since this world came into being. And there is no scope for it too.”Nomani appealed to the government to take action against Rizvi.“Now an enemy of Islam has filed a petition in the Supreme Court. Darul Uloom strongly condemns it. The purpose of these people is to disturb the peace and unity of the country. The government should take strict legal action against such people,” he said.He added, “We are also sure that the Supreme Court will dismiss this petition.” The Darul VC also urged Muslims to “be patient in these trying times”.Meanwhile, clerics of Barelvi school of thought also condemned the move.National vice-president of Jamat-Raza-e-Mustafa, Salman Hasan Khan, asked, “What is his (Rizvi’s) religion? He has hurt the sentiments of millions of Muslims. It is a deliberate attempt by him to disturb peace. The National Security Act (NSA) should be invoked against him. He should be sent to jail. He is a threat to society.”The former chairperson of Shia Waqf Board had moved the Supreme Court last week with a petition seeking removal of 26 verses from the holy Quran, alleging that they promoted hatred, terrorism and ‘jihad’. Two police complaints were also filed against Rizvi in Muzaffarnagar.Local lawyer Asad Zama and actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s brother Faizuddin Siddique lodged the complaints in different police stations of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/darul-uloom-barelvi-clerics-slam-shia-waqf-board-ex-chief-appeal-to-govt-to-invoke-nsa-against-him/articleshow/81498268.cms||Mohd Dilshad
---||Madurai||Vax drive picks up pace among public, crosses 20K-mark||Madurai: A total of 57,704 beneficiaries have received Covid-19 vaccine in Madurai as on Saturday since the vaccination drive kicked off on January 16. The vaccine drive has picked up pace among the general public and frontline workers, including election officials. According to data from the health department, as on Saturday, 26,113 healthcare workers, 11,303 frontline workers, and 20,288 general public beneficiaries have been vaccinated for Covid-19 in the district. In Just two weeks, people aged above 60 years and between 45-59 years with co-morbid conditions, and more than 20,000 eligible beneficiaries have been vaccinated. Among the general public to be vaccinated, 13,817 people were those aged above 60 years, while 6,471 were those aged 45-59 years with comorbid conditions. “Awareness among the public has increased. More people are getting vaccinated and they were likely to encourage their friends and family to take the shots. A few people reported headache, body pain and fever for a short time after taking the jab but thankfully it has not deterred people from taking the vaccine,” said a staff at a vaccination session site. On Friday, as many as 5,449 beneficiaries took the vaccine, of which 3,104 people were frontline workers, including 2,374 election officials. Till Saturday, a total of 11,303 frontline workers have been vaccinated, which include 6,797 police personnel, 2,647 election officials, 1,632 local body officials, 165 revenue officials and 62 from RPF. A total of 7,226 beneficiaries have received the second dose of the vaccine. There are 25 government vaccination facilities and 35 private vaccination facilities in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vax-drive-picks-up-pace-among-public-crosses-20k-mark/articleshow/81500780.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
---||Kolkata||Tough commute for many in Kolkata as cabs to go off roads today||KOLKATA: Many commuters are set to face problems due to an app cab strike on Monday. With fewer buses on road and a section of metered cab operators extending their moral support to the strike, commuting is likely to be difficult during the rush hours. The strike has been called by app cab operators’ unions to protest against the aggregators’ high commission rate as well as the fuel price hike. Sk Manu, secretary of the CITU-affiliated Ola Uber and App Cab Operators Union said, “We will continue with the strike for an indefinite period unless our demands are met. Around 13,000 drivers were blocked by the aggregators.” The strike may trouble those who will have to catch trains or flights in the morning. Many office goers are likely to be inconvenienced because of a demand-supply mismatch to be created by the strike. “It is because of the heightened commuting demand vis-a-vis fewer cabs on the road that the surge fare will prevail for a longer period,” said app cab operators. In the last few weeks, commuters using app cabs kept facing surge in fares even during off-peak hours. There has also been a steep jump in cancellation of trips. “App cabs are now competing with the metered cabs that are so notorious for refusals,” said Mala Chakraborty, a social activist living in Jadavpur. “The fuel price rise, tax deduction at source and high rate of commission demanded by aggregators has put the app cab operators in an unprecedented financial distress. We have raised these issues at different forums. We wrote several letters different authorities who could iron out the problems of the operators. But nothing happened. This has forced us to call the strike,” said Nawal Kishore Srivastava, convenor of the App-Cab Operators” Forum affiliated to AITUC. The Taxi Operators’ and Drivers’ Welfare Association, metered cab operators’ organisation affiliated to AITUC, has extended their moral support to the strike. The agitation includes staging dharna in front of Paribahan Bhawan, headquarters of the transport department. They will also stage an agitation in front of one of the cab operators’ offices on Rashbehari Avenue. The government, Srivastava said, must call all major aggregators to hold a tripartite meeting to resolve these issues that are putting both the operators and commuters into trouble. The aggregators are resorting to a steep fare rise but its benefit is not being shared with the cab operators. It is being appropriated by the aggregators like Ola and Uber. “Many cab operators are facing dire financial constraints. The fuel price has made the operation of app cabs completely unviable. There is hardly any earning from the money we earn from a trip as the lion share goes to fuel cost. The rest goes to maintenance. Some cab operators started failing EMIs,” said Gaurav Adhikari, a cab operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tough-commute-for-many-as-cabs-to-go-off-roads-today/articleshow/81500150.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Rly commuter held for attacking doc||A 22-year-old man has been arrested for roughing up a BMC doctor over an RT-PCR test at Bandra terminus on Saturday. The accused, Salman Syed, who had landed in the city with his family from UP were being checked at the station. “When Syed was diagonised with fever, doctors adviced him to do RT-PCR test. Syed and his relative got into an argument with the doctor and they roughed him up,” said a police official.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-rly-commuter-held-for-attacking-doc/articleshow/81500156.cms||---
---||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Shivranjani shops burgled during police patrolling||AHMEDABAD: Highlighting the loose vigil of law enforcers in Ahmedabad city, six shops were burgled near Shivranjani Crossroads in Satellite area while a team of police was on patrol, and cops deployed near the crossroads. According to an FIR filed with Satellite police, around six shops located in Silicon Valley Complex were burgled and articles worth lakhs were stolen. The incident took place when inspector A S Roy, in-charge of Satellite police, was also patrolling in the area. An advocate, Lalsinh Vaghela, 55, who has his office in the same complex, filed a complaint with Satellite police stating that he had locked his office at around 8pm on Saturday. At around 10am on Sunday, Vaghela’s landlord Vivek Tokar called him up and said that some burglars had broken the lock of his office and those of another five shops. Police said that the burglars might have opened the shutters of the shops halfway, entered and then fled with cash and valuables. Police also collected CCTV footage of the incident in which a person is seen frisking the shops, but they have not yet nabbed anyone. Satellite police registered a complaint of burglary and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shivranjani-shops-burgled-during-police-patrolling/articleshow/81500152.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Daily Covid tally above 400 for fourth day, active cases double in a month||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 407 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the fourth day in a row with more than 400 fresh cases in Delhi. Also, two Covid-19 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. With a total of 68,223 tests carried out, the positivity rate was 0.6%. With 350 patients recuperating from the disease in the last 24 hours while the number of new cases was 407, the number of active cases saw a spike with the figure reaching 2,262. A month ago, on February 14, there were 1,031 active cases in Delhi and the number has doubled in the last four weeks. The increase has been of almost 120%. Out of the total 68,223 tests carried out in the last 24 hours, 41,194 were RT-PCR tests and 27,028 rapid antigen tests. More than nine lakh Covid-19 tests have been carried out in March till date, with an average of more than 65,385 tests a day, with an overall positivity rate of more than 0.4% till now. Last month saw 58,545 Covid-19 tests carried out daily on an average, with a positivity rate of 0.2%. The overall infection tally in the city stood at 6,43,696 on Sunday, of which 6,30,493 patients have recuperated, which is a recovery rate of 97.9%. The recovery rate in Delhi has been more than 98% for quite some time now and the slight dip indicates the slow rise in cases over the last one month. The total death tally on Sunday reached 10,941 and the average daily death count in March has been 2.2 till now, compared with the overall average daily death count of 2 recorded last month. While it seemed in mid-February that the number of active cases might go below the 1,000-mark, new cases slowly started going up, but the number of those recuperating was lower, resulting in the number of active cases witnessing a significant jump every week since February 14. Though the number of Covid-19 patients admitted in hospitals has seen only a marginal increase, the number of those in home isolation has gone up significantly. This, however, shows that in most of the new cases being detected, patients don’t have conditions serious enough to be hospitalised. The number of Covid-19 patients admitted in hospitals was 582, with 5,129 hospital beds dedicated for Covid-19 patients being available. The number of patients admitted in dedicated Covid care centres was three, with 5,519 beds lying vacant and all the 97 beds in dedicated Covid health centre are vacant at the moment. The number of patients admitted in hospitals a month ago was 452 and 35 were admitted at Covid care centres. As most of the patients are recuperating in home isolation, the number of such patients is 1,270. Last Sunday, state health minister Satyendar Jain had said that there is no need to panic as the positivity rate is still below 1% but Delhiites need to remain alert, wear face masks and maintain social distancing. He had said that the Delhi government is completely prepared and there is less than 10% occupancy in hospital beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/daily-covid-tally-above-400-for-fourth-day-active-cases-double-in-a-month/articleshow/81500163.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 15, 2021||Goa||Goa Board exam 2021: No change after hall tickets given||PANAJI: Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has told schools that no correction in student names will be permitted once hall tickets for Class X and XII exams are issued. The web portal will be open for rectification till March 18, the board stated in a circular. “You are hereby informed that the web portal of this Board is open for rectification in name of the candidates, candidates details, parents name, date of birth, subject codes, etc, till March 18. “Rectifications on the web portal will be deactivated after the schedule date,” the board said. Any request for rectification received after March 18 will be charged Rs 200 per candidate, the circular by the board stated. “No rectification will be allowed after the issue of hall tickets,” reads the circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-change-after-hall-tickets-given/articleshow/81507984.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Ludhiana||Bizmen ask Centre to give workers free vax||Ludhiana: Alarmed over steep rise in coronavirus cases in the city, businessmen are concerned about the safety of their workers. As of now only senior citizens and persons above 45 years with co-morbidities are allowed to get the vaccine in India, but businessmen are demanding that the vaccination programme be extended to workers too. They are of the view that employee state insurance (ESI) dispensaries in the country should be permitted to give shots to the factory workers free of cost. Some city-based business associations have written a letter to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and minister for micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) Nitin Gadkari with the suggestion.Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), says, “The workers, especially in the MSME sector, comprise the largest workforce of more than 131 million. In the wake of a huge spurt in coronavirus cases, all of them should be administered vaccines free of cost. Since Ludhiana is an MSME hub, the process should start from here. ESI dispensaries are the best option for the drive and most of the workers can be covered within no time. If families of the workers are also included in the vaccination drive at ESI dispensaries, it will help in controlling coronavirus at the earliest. ESI has a wide network of hospitals and dispensaries all over India.”Ahuja says they have sent a representation to Union ministers, Nitin Gadkari and Harsh Vardhan, for the launch of this programme at the earliest from Ludhiana. “Ludhiana industry is ready to cooperate with the government to ensure maximum coverage of workers and their families,” he adds. Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of Sewing Machine Development Club, says, “Free vaccination for industrial workers is the need of the hour and the government should start it at the earliest. ESI dispensaries can prove to be of great help as workers have huge faith in them and they are equipped with proper staff to manage such tasks.”Pankaj Sharma, another businessman, is hopeful that both the Union ministers will take their request seriously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-ask-centre-to-give-workers-free-vax/articleshow/81499073.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mukesh Ambani security scare: Innova linked to Sachin Waze’s unit led NIA to him||MUMBAI: The Innova which was seen shadowing the gelatine-stick-laden Scorpio car in CCTV footage and had remained untraceable for many days, ultimately proved to be the element in the case that paved the way for assistant police inspector Sachin Waze’s arrest. For, the Innova car was found to be attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) headed by Waze. On February 25, industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s security detail alerted the police about an abandoned Scorpio parked outside Ambani’s residence Antilia on Carmichael Road. The case was handed over to the CIU. During the preliminary investigations it transpired that the Scorpio car belonged to Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, who alleged that someone had stolen his car after he had parked it on the Mulund-Airoli road on February 17 when it had developed a glitch in its steering. CCTV cameras outside Antilia showed videos of an unidentified person parking the vehicle. The driver of the Scorpio later left in the white Innova. The ATS officials who were conducting a parallel investigation discovered that the Innova car bore a fake registration number and had unpainted bumpers. “This led us to understand that such unpainted vehicles are normally granted to government departments and the police. With the Ganpati idol on the dashboard and the damaged bonnet, we identified the car, which was attached to the CIU of the Mumbai crime branch. We then scanned the CCTV footage of the police headquarters and traced the Innova car,” an official said. The CCTV footage showed the Innova leaving police headquarters around 12.45pm on February 24. It was later seen in Thane. It drops the driver of the car at Thane and returns to the city with a different number plate. Sources said that when the ATS and NIA were looking for the Innova, Waze’s team had sent it to the Motor Transport department for repair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-api-held-after-nia-linked-innova-to-his-unit/articleshow/81500796.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 15, 2021||Bareilly||Will protest against FIR registered against Akhilesh Yadav if needed, says SP MP Barq||BAREILLY: Condemning the registration of an FIR against his party supremo Akhilesh in connection with the attack on journalists in Moradabad, Samajwadi Party MP from Sambhal Shafiqur Rahman Barq on Sunday said that he would stage a protest against the move if required. Terming the FIR “false”, Barq said, “It is unacceptable.” He is our party chief and I strongly oppose the action,” said the grand old man of the Samajwadi Party, hailing the cross-FIR lodged by the party as “valid”. “Instead of highlighting the reasons behind the holding the press conference by the SP supremo, mediapersons were busy focusing on irrelevant issues,” said the MP, adding that the party is planning to oppose the move by staging protests. “We are speaking with party workers, and most likely, we will be staging protests against the FIR.” On March 10, following a heated argument between the former chief minister and a few local journalists, a scuffle ensued between mediapersons and SP workers as well as former CM’s security personnel. During the clash, a journalist reportedly suffered a fracture in a leg and a few others sustained minor injuries. On the complaint of the journalists’ association on Saturday, an FIR was registered against Akhilesh Yadav and 20 of his party workers. Later, a cross-FIR was registered against two journalists on the complaint of the Moradabad SP chief Jaiveer Singh Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/will-protest-against-fir-registered-against-akhilesh-yadav-if-needed-says-sp-mp-barq/articleshow/81498294.cms||Maria Khan
March 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: District authorities taking measures to get homeless elderly inoculated||NEW DELHI: Officials of many revenue districts in the capital are currently preparing a list of homeless people who are senior citizens or with comorbidities in their jurisdiction for vaccination against Covid-19. A Delhi-based non-profit organisation, Centre for Holistic Development, had appealed to district authorities in the city to include the city’s homeless who are eligible for inoculation in the ongoing vaccination drive. “A meeting has been held with the NGO, which is especially involved with homeless people. The district magistrate’s office, in association with Centre for Holistic Development is preparing a list of homeless centres, the number of beneficiaries and the required number of buses for transportation to vaccination sites,” a west district official said. “We will hire buses from Delhi Transport Corporation for transportation of the beneficiaries,” he said. “We are taking required measures to register the homeless beneficiaries for inoculation,” an official of the northwest district said. The organisation’s executive director Sunil Kumar Aledia had written to district magistrates of all the 11 revenue districts of the city to draw their attention to the “unintended exclusion” of senior citizens and those with co-morbidities such as TB or HIV AIDS, who are residing in homeless shelters of Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) from inoculation against Covid-19. He had written that there are 56 Delhi government-run hospitals that are administering coronavirus vaccines for free to the citizens of Delhi, but as a first step to getting vaccinated, all eligible beneficiaries must register on the Co-Win portal of the Centre. The organisation had appealed that some government-approved volunteers or personnel may be deployed at the homeless shelters for helping eligible persons register on the portal to schedule the vaccination appointment at a government hospital closest to that particular shelter and provide assistance in transportation and document verification at the vaccination site on the scheduled date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/district-authorities-taking-measures-to-get-homeless-elderly-inoculated/articleshow/81500173.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||State’s milk, egg production highest in 15 yrs||Ahmedabad/Vadodara: The production of eggs and milk in the state in 2019-20 has been the highest in the past 15 years, revealed the latest socio-economic survey. Gujarat registered egg production at 19,274 lakh and milk production at 152.92 lakh tons during this period. Milk production rose from 144.92 lakh tonnes and egg production increased from 18,544 lakh in 2018-19, as per the estimates of the Integrated Sample Survey (ISS) of major livestock products, revealed the survey. In the last decade, milk production registered an increase of 64% from 93.62 lakh tons in 2010-11. Similarly, egg production saw a rise of 45% from 13,269 lakh in 2010-11. A senior official said, “Anand remains the top egg-producing district followed by Bhavnagar and Ahmedabad. Aboout, 85 per cent of the total production is consumed in the state while the rest is sent to other states, mostly to Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.” He added, “According to a report, consumption has increased by about 50 per cent in the past two decades, mainly because the younger generation prefers having eggs.” Earlier one would not find branded eggs in the state. However, now, it is easy to spot branded and packed eggs in the market. The officials said that egg production began to increase in the state in 2008-09 where the production increased by 53% as compared to 2007-08. In 2007-08, production was 8,256 lakh which increased to 12,675 lakh in 2008-09. The state has witnessed a steady increase in the production since then. Salim Patel, one of the poultry farm owners in Anand, said that there has been a sharp increase in egg consumption in the state. “Earlier, over 60 per cent of villages in Gujarat had not tasted an egg, but this figure has now gone down to only 15 per cent,” he added. A poultry owner said frequent bird flu incidents has led to huge losses to the industry and many of them are now on the verge of winding up. “Cost of maize and other foodgrains used as feed have increased, too. If we increase egg prices, it will become unaffordable for the common people who use it as a substitute for vegetables. This will put the industry in further loss.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/states-milk-egg-production-highest-in-15-yrs/articleshow/81500168.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
March 15, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Two cops held with 4 others in Rs 5 crore heroin haul||KOLKATA: Two cops were among the six arrested by the Special Task Force of Kolkata Police for being allegedly involved in an inter-state drug peddling racket. Heroin worth Rs 5 crore was seized from the possession of the accused along with jewellery, mobiles and cash. Another cop is also under scanner in this regard. Both the arrested cops, Palash Biswas and Subrata Biswas, are constables and originally residents of Bongaon. They were found to be associated with the armed police units. This was the seventh heroin haul by the city police in less than months and it indicated that the city is turning into a major heroin transit point. The STF started a probe after the heroin haul and Lalbazar asked the officers to complete all enquiries against the accused at the earliest. “We are trying to ascertain whether the accused are involved in other crimes as the recovery of the contraband is significant,” said a source at Lalbazar. “The arrests started last Friday when we had intercepted three persons on Strand Road near Patton Tank under the jurisdiction of South Port police station. WE recovered several small packets of heroin, weighing over 1kg, from them and arrested them. They were identified as Fani Biswas, Raju Biswas, residents of Bongaon and Sambit Roy from Odisha. They were produced in a local court that remanded them in two-day police custody,” said DC (STF) Aparajita Ray. During the interrogation the trio revealed that they were supplied the contraband by three other residents of Bongaon, who used to visit Kolkata frequently. Palash, Subrata and one Prashanta Sikdar alias Pocha landed in the police net from a small house inside a poultry farm at Gaighata around 4.20am on Sunday. They were produced in the court later in the day. Cops had raided the houses of these accused but they had fled after their accomplished were nabbed. “We collected fresh inputs and started a new search operation on Saturday evening,” said Ray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-cops-held-with-4-others-in-rs-5-crore-heroin-haul/articleshow/81500164.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mukesh Ambani security scare: How suspended cop came back into the force after 16 years||MUMBAI: Sachin Waze was reinstated in the Maharashtra police force after 16 years of suspension following a review conducted by top officials during the lockdown. Adverse court observations had gone against him in the past. The decision to revoke his suspension was taken at a meeting called on June 5, 2020, where files on suspended policemen were scrutinised. A panel headed by then chief secretary Ajoy Mehta and included police commissioner Parambir Singh studied cases including those of assistant inspector Waze and three constables suspended along with him for the alleged killing of Khwaja Yunus in police custody. Waze, once known as an “encounter specialist” for his reputation in eliminating alleged gangland suspects, had been suspended from 2004 to 2020. He had resigned from service in 2007 and joined the Shiv Sena a year later. Apart from political hobnobbing, he was a familiar face on television debates in the interim years. Waze also kept himself busy by collaborating on books on crime and terror and by running a social media portal. Since the criminal case linked to Yunus’s disappearance was pending before a trial court, the department had not initiated any other action against him. While his case had come up for review in the past, the previous government had chosen not to reinstate him in the light of court observations in the Khwaja Yunus case, according to former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. “When I was CM as well as home minister, a section of Shiv Sena leaders had approached me… then I sought the opinion of the Advocate General. I was told that since Vaze was suspended following directives of (Bombay) High Court, it would be wrong to reinstate him… it would have amounted to contempt of court,” Fadnavis said on Sunday. The review panel which cleared him recommended that given the shortage of personnel due to the pandemic, Waze should be reinstated. An affidavit subsequently filed by joint police commissioner Nawal Bajaj before Bombay high court in July 2020 said the government had in 2011 decided that “based on facts and circumstances …where even after 2 years of filing a chargesheet, if case is pending, a review committee may recommend ending the suspension of the delinquents and to post them to non-executive branch.” This reply was in response to a contempt petition by Yunus’s mother Asiya Begum who objected to Waze’s reinstatement. Asiya Begum, who has fought a long legal battle questioning the circumstances of her son’s death, had filed it against Mumbai police chief Parambir Singh, IPS officer Amitabh Gupta, Maharashtra government, the review committee and the state CID, Nashik unit. Bajaj’s reply said the allegations made in the contempt petition were “totally incorrect” and sought its dismissal but, “in any event” he tendered an “unconditional apology” to the court. Bajaj’s reply also said that the police commissioner had taken into consideration the “large scale infection” of Covid among policemen as a vital point before taking the decision. The “overwhelming scenario” of the pandemic had prompted the move, it said. Following his reinstatement, Waze was shifted to the elite investigation wing known as Mumbai Crime Branch and posted to its Crime Intelligence Unit. High profile cases linked to car designer Dilip Chhabria, actor Hrithik Roshan, fake TRPs, the business of boosting followers on social media, were among those handled by him despite the long hiatus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-how-suspended-cop-came-back-into-the-force-after-16-years/articleshow/81500808.cms||---
---||Hyderabad||Telangana: Record voting for 2 MLC seats as graduates brave virus, heat||HYDERABAD: Voters turned out in large numbers on Sunday to break all past records in two legislative council graduate constituency polls held on Sunday that has seen a hard-fought campaign between the ruling TRS and the opposition. The MLC elections involving 10 lakh voters in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahabubnagar (HRM) and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgond (WKN) constituencies covering 21 districts and almost 70% of Telangana geographically went off peacefully without any untoward incident. About 59.9% vote was recorded on Sunday in the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahabubnagar graduate constituency compared to 37.7% in the 2015 polls. The percentage is likely to go up as voters were waiting in long queues till last reports came in. While around 64.7% voting was reported in the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda graduate constituency as against 54.6% in 2015 MLC polls. Braving a hot early summer temperature of 38 degrees Celsius, graduates came out to vote in large numbers and even cheered former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao’s educationist daughter Surabhi Vani Devi who is TRS’ MLC candidate. Winning the polls is important for the TRS after suffering a shock defeat in the Dubbak assembly bypolls and a fine showing by the BJP in the GHMC elections held recently. Among the first to turn up was TRS working president and minister K T Rama Rao, who voted in Shaikpet, Jubilee Hills. He appealed to voters to go and vote after symbolically bowing in front of a gas cylinder with folded hands in an apparent dig at rising LPG prices. “In the last graduates’ MLC election, only 39% polling was recorded. While I have prayed to the cylinder before coming to vote, I request the graduates to exercise their voting right and increase the polling percentage this time,” he appealed. Strong independent contenders for MLC polls like Telangana Jana Samiti president M Kodandaram and Professor K Nageshwar also drew more voters to the booths. “Voter turnout was huge and it was more than the previous MLC polls. Elections were peaceful and incident-free. Through webcasting, I could see long queues at the polling stations in many parts of the state, and voting may go up to 10 pm at night. Around 1,530 polling stations are covering two-thirds of the state. It is a good indication that voter participation has increased,” Telangana chief electoral officer Dr Shashank Goel told TOI. “There could be multiple factors that resulted in high voter turnaround. Apart from increased awareness among graduates, we facilitated large registration of votes, and good arrangements were made following Covid-19 protocol. Political parties’ intense campaigning has also helped in high voter percentage,” Goel added. In Hyderabad city alone, 52.7 % voters turned up against 46.5 % in previous GHMC elections in December 2020. One of the contesting candidates, Professor K Nageshwar told TOI how in 2007, when he contested, the poll percentage was 53% and in 2015, when he did not contest, it fell to 37.7 %. In GHMC polls, where TRS and BJP fought a do-or-die battle, the percentage didn’t go up. He also alleged that the preparations by ECI was not up to mark. “There is no drinking water available in many places. ECI would have gone for more voting compartments and polling stations to facilitate quick voting,” alleged Nageshwar. Viral videos of money distribution by a party was circulated on instant messenger app and social media. While Congress leader Sravan Dasoju alleged that the ruling party had openly violated all the election rules and model code of conduct to influence voters. BJP leader Premender Reddy alleged that he was manhandled during an argument with TRS workers in Mahabubabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/record-voting-for-2-mlc-seats-as-graduates-brave-virus-heat/articleshow/81501641.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man threatens to stop T20 match, booked||AHMEDABAD: A man called up a police inspector warning him not to allow the ongoing T20 matches between India and England cricket teams. After the audio of their conversation went viral, police booked the man for “spreading hatred amongst classes” along with charges of provocation to breach peace and criminal intimidation. Three days ago, an audio went viral in which a resident of Gandhinagar Pankaj Patel is being heard telling the inspector of Chandkheda police, Kirit Patel not to allow the cricket matches in time of the third surge of corona.  In his FIR with Chandkheda police, Patel stated that Pankaj Patel had called him up on March 11 at around 3pm when he was deployed outside the Narendra Modi cricket stadium in Motera ahead of the first T20 match on March 12. Kirit said in the FIR that Pankaj had used abusive language and threatened that he would immolate himself if the cricket match is allowed. At that time, Kirit informed Gandhinagar police and ensured Pankaj’s preventive detention. But later as the audio of their conversation went viral, Kirit decided to file an FIR against Pankaj. He said that he came to know that Pankaj had used abusive words for chief minister Vijay Rupani and deputy chief minister Nitin Patel in the conversation. Police registered a complaint against Pankaj under charges of IPC sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 505 (2) (Statements promoting hatred between classes) and 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-threatens-to-stop-t20-match-booked/articleshow/81500176.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Delhi||Over 300 protests held in Lutyens’ during lockdown last year: Police||New Delhi: A total of 303 protests were organised by various groups and organisations in Lutyens’ Delhi between March 22 and December 31 last year, police said on Sunday. According to a senior police officer, 255 demonstrations, 32 dharnas, 13 marches and three strikes took place last year after the government started easing lockdown restrictions. Police said the data, which is from March 22, 2020 till December 31, 2020, has around 284 days and according to it, approximately over one protest was held everyday. According to police, some of the demonstrations that took place last year include, a protest in August, when members of Central Trade Unions had gathered for an agitation at Jantar Mantar in violation of Unlock-3 guidelines after Delhi Police had registered a case against ASHA workers. In September, members of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee gathered near the Pakistan High Commission to protest the alleged abduction of a Sikh girl in the neighbouring country. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-300-protests-held-in-lutyens-during-lockdown-last-year-police/articleshow/81500180.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Delhi||No more lengthy trek: Multi-specialty hospital soon at Delhi’s Kirari||NEW DELHI: Residents of northwest Delhi’s Kirari area will not have to travel far distances to receive quality healthcare in the near future. The Delhi government is planning to build a new multi-specialty hospital in the area. Nearly seven lakh residents of the area are at present dependent on the hospitals located at a considerable distance like Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital in Mongolpuri or Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital in Rohini for any specialised healthcare. The area has a largely lower middle class and migrant population. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had visited Kirari to inaugurate a Rs 480 crore sewer project on Sunday. The CM was accompanied by Delhi’s health and water minister Satyendar Jain who announced that the hospital would soon be constructed for the area’s residents. Jain said, thanks to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Kirari Rituraj Jha that the project could see the light of the day. “He got three acres of land allotted from Delhi Development Authority for the construction of the hospital. Soon a hospital will be built for the people of Kirari,” Jain said. Although the hospital project, to be built by the public works department, was approved nearly five years ago, getting land to build the hospital took a long time. The hospital was initially approved as a 100-bedded facility but its capacity might be increased to 300 to 400 beds, sources said. The hospital is expected to take up to two years to be completed from the day construction work begins. Last year, the AAP government had opened a 700-bed hospital in Burari and a 600-bed hospital in Ambedkar Nagar. In the near future, residents of Dwarka would also not have to rush to Janakpuri for affordable and quality healthcare as Indira Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital of the Delhi government is expected to become fully operational soon. The hospital has been in the pipeline for more than two decades as the land for its construction was allotted in 1997 and Rs 350 crore was allocated for the project in 2007. The construction work, however, could only start in 2014. The hospital in Dwarka will not only cater to residents of the sub-city, which doesn’t have any government hospital, but also many areas of southwest Delhi. Similarly, the already operational hospitals at Burari and Ambedkar Nagar cater to the demand for government healthcare facilities. Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital is, meanwhile, going to get a 22-storey high Medicine, Maternity and Advanced Paediatric Centre, work on which is going on. The government is also planning to upgrade many major hospitals run by it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-more-lengthy-trek-multi-specialty-hosp-soon-at-kirari/articleshow/81520239.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 15, 2021||Vadodara||4,448 PU students conferred degrees at fourth convocation||Vadodara: A total of 4,448 students were conferred diplomas, undergraduate, postgraduate and doctorate degrees during the 4th annual convocation ceremony of city-based Parul University (PU). At the same time, 48 gold medals along with 27 certificates of merit were awarded to top performers of degree programmes during the convocation ceremony on Saturday evening. Milind Soman, who won the national swimming championship title for four consecutive years and also represented India at the inaugural South Asian Games in swimming winning a silver medal, was the chief guest. Actress and TEDx speaker Tisca Chopra, who has also worked with technocrat Sam Pitroda on the National Knowledge Commission was the guest of honour, where one startup and six alumni were also conferred awards. Soman in his convocation address urged the students to find what success means to them. “Money, fame and status wouldn’t be the real parameters of success but health and happiness should be,” he said. “Do not compromise on it and be the best version of who you are meant to be,” he said, appealing the youth to never let go the joy - real passion - in their lives because that would, in future, give real meaning to their lives. Chopra advised young minds to be storytellers. “Each of us is a story. You are a hero, a heroine of your story. Find that one story which brings joy to your life and make your life that story,” she said. PU president, Dr Devanshu Patel, asked the students to overcome Destination Addiction Syndrome (DAS). “Never let the worry for tomorrow, take away your joy of today,” he said, adding that although it might be an end of academic journey for many students they should never ever stop learning. He appealed the young minds to be “planners” - to develop and then follow their plans in such a way that guarantee them the highest success in future. Bhavyakumar Khasetiya, a top performer from B.Tech (mechanical engineering) received a grant of Rs 65,000 for final year project under the Student Open Innovation Challenge. A gold medal awardee, Vijay Narshi Jamariya from M Tech (structural engineering), received the research fellowship at IIT Bombay, as part of the project funded by the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO). Kikani Ghanshyamkumar Nanubhai, gold medalist from management studies, who also holds silver medal in kho-kho at district level has ventured into business of textile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/4448-pu-students-conferred-degrees-at-fourth-convocation/articleshow/81498441.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Visakhapatnam||YSRC breaks TDP holds in East & West Godavari||Rajahmundry/Eluru: Making its mark on TDP strongholds, YSRC swept urban bodies in East and West Godavari districts including Mandapeta, which had been a TDP bastion for nearly three decades. The Jana Sena showed also marked its presence by bagging some wards in two districts. YSRC bagged seven municipalities and another three nagar panchayats in East Godavari while winning three municipalities and one nagar panchayat in West Godavari. Counting for Eluru municipality has been put on hold following a high court order. In East Godavari, YSRC bagged 218 wards followed by TDP with 34, Jana Sena with eight and independents bagging another eight seats. The ruling party won all 30 wards in Tuni, 19 wards in Amalapuram, 22 in Mandapeta, 26 in Peddapuram, 20 in Pithapuram, 24 in Ramachandrapuram and 29 in Samalkota. In nagar panchayats, YSRC bagged 18 wards in Gollaparu, 14 in Mummidivaram, and 16 in Yeleswaram. In West Godavari district, YSRC won 91 wards out of 111, while TDP bagged 12 wards, Jana Sena took five wards, and BJP got one ward while independents secured two wards. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ysrc-breaks-tdp-holds-in-east-west-godavari/articleshow/81499695.cms||Samson Raj
March 15, 2021||Rajkot||Gadhada temple priest served externment notice||Rajkot: Botad district collectorate issued an externment and a show cause notice to Gadhada-based sadhu of Swaminarayan sect, SP Swami, asking him to explain why he should not be externed from the six districts. The notice follows the ongoing rift between the two groups of Vadtal division of Swaminarayan sect — Acharya Paksh and Dev Paksh — of which, S P Swami belongs to the former group. The rivalry between the two groups originates from their aim to take control of various temples of Swaminarayan temple and the acrimony often turned bloody too in the past. Acharya Paksh had been managing the Gopinathji temple in Gadhada town, but during the elections held in 2019, it lost to Dev Paksha which is currently managing the temple affairs. According to senior police officials, over seven criminal cases have been lodged against SP Swami in the past decade including criminal intimidation. “We sent a proposal of externment of SP Swami to Botad district collectorate and the additional collector has issued a notice to Swami. If the sadhu fails to respond satisfactorily, he will be externed from six districts including Botad, Bhavnagar, Amreli, Rajkot, Surendranagar and Ahmedabad,” said a police official. A few months ago, SP Swami led group secretly recorded conversation of their representation with Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) of Gadhada and made the video viral on social media and accused the police officer of misbehaviour. Earlier in October, 2018, SP Swami courted controversy by allegedly kicking an old man during a meeting in the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gadhada-temple-priest-served-externment-notice/articleshow/81498701.cms||---
---||Visakhapatnam||30 scientists on 90-day Indian Ocean expedition to set sail from Vizag today||VISAKHAPATNAM: Marine scientists are pioneering an expedition for genome matching, studying proteins, micro nutrients and trace metal mapping in the Indian Ocean. The expedition with 30 scientists on board the indigenously-built research and survey vessel RV Sindhu Sadhana, will be flagged off early morning on March 15 from West Quay Coal Jetty, Visakhapatnam for an initial cruise of 90 days. Funded by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), the target timeline of the Rs 25 crore National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) project is three years. According to the scientists, the studies undertaken during the expedition will help identify the biogeochemistry of organisms under varying ocean conditions and enable understanding of cellular biochemistry and the ocean’s response to climate change, nutrient stress, and increasing pollution. “We plan to use emerging biomedical techniques such as proteomics, genomics along with macro and micro-nutrients to understand the ecosystem dynamics or internal working of the vast ocean body at cellular level. This study will help scientists identify the factors controlling the changes in RNA, DNA in the oceans and various stressors impacting them,” director of NIO Sunil Kumar Singh told TOI. The NIO director said exploring the ocean genome will help increase the growing number of commercial biotechnology applications, extending from multiple anti-cancer treatments to cosmetics and industrial enzymes, to antiviral molecules. “Exploration of the ocean at a genetic level will result in new insights into taxonomy and adaptive capacity that can help optimise conservation efforts,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/30-scientists-on-90-day-indian-ocean-expedition-to-set-sail-from-vizag-today/articleshow/81500007.cms||Sulogna Mehta
March 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad man drags mother on broken glasses||AHMEDABAD: A 32-year-old woman from the Vejalpur area of city on Sunday filed a complaint of assault against her 30-year-old brother who attacked her 55-year-old mother with an iron rod demanding Rs 10,000 from her.  He had broken glass window and tables of the house and later dragged her mother on the broken glasses. Chaitali Shrimali, resident of Uday Society in Vejalpur, stated in the FIR that her husband died of heart attack around three months ago and her father also died due to illness around three months ago. She said that she had on Sunday morning got a call from her mother Madhu Purani’s neighbour who told her that her brother Jigar was fighting with her mother. Shrimali reached her mother’s place where she found Jigar fighting with Madhu. She said that Madhu told her that Jigar took away Rs 10,000 from her in morning and after a while he again demanded Rs 10,000 more from her but as she did not have the money, he began fighting with her. When she tried to pacify him, he began fighting with her also and began banging an iron rod on a glass table of their house. He had then began punching on glass windows and ransacked the entire house. As the two women tried to stop him, he began attacking Madhu with the iron rod. When Shrimali tried to rescue her mother, he pushed her on a grill in which she suffered severe injuries on her hand. After attacking Madhu, he dragged her on broken glass pieces due to which she began bleeding and went unconscious. Later, their neighbours rushed in and called up ambulance. They were admitted to Sola civil hospital and later a complaint was filed against Jigar with Vejalpur police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-drags-mother-on-broken-glasses/articleshow/81500187.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Former employees cheat woman of Rs 15 lakh||AHMEDABAD: A 60-year-old woman from the Paldi area of city, who runs a fabric colour manufacturing firm on CG Road, on Saturday filed a complaint with Navrangpura police alleging that two of her ex- employees cheated her of Rs 15 lakh by forging the signature of the complainant’s daughter — who is also an office bearer in her firm. Gira Choksi stated in her FIR with Navrangpura police that one of the accused Dishant Trivedi, who worked as an accountant in her firm, had resigned from the job on December 10, 2020 without mentioning any reason and stopped attending the job. After that, Choksi gave the responsibility of the accounts to another employee named Priyanka Grover on February 25, 2021 and also began probing why Trivedi suddenly resigned from the job. During the inquiry, Grover told Choksi that Trivedi and his aide Brijesh Sengar had deposited a cheque of Rs 15 lakh to another firm named Parag chemicals on February 28, 2020. Further inquiry revealed that Trivedi and Sengar had forged the signature of Choksi’s daughter Kajri Choksi. She alleged in the FIR that two accused had used the money for their personal expenditure and caused a huge loss to her firm. Navrangpura police registered a complaint of cheating, breach of trust, forgery and criminal conspiracy against the two and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/former-employees-cheat-woman-of-rs-15l/articleshow/81500181.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Vijayawada||Jana Sena, BJP fail to make their expected impact in AP municipal elections||VIJAYAWADA: Jana Sena and BJP failed to win the trust of voters in municipal elections. Except for a few seats, both parties failed to reach their expectations. They faced the elections together for the first time after forming an alliance in 2019. The state BJP president Somu Verraju and Jana Sena PAC chairman Nadendla Manohar hoped the alliance would do well. Jana Sena could win only three 3 corporators in Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), two at Guntur Municipal Corporation and one at Ongole Municipal Corporation. Six Jana Sena candidates won as councillors at Amalapuram. BJP won one division in GVMC. Jana Sena and BJP said YSRC threatened voters in the name of welfare schemes. Jana Sena president Pawan Kalyan, addressing the seventh formation day of the party in Hyderabad on Sunday said, “YSRC won by threatening that they will withhold welfare schemes if they voted for opposition. YSRC win is only because of fear and violence. We have improved our vote share. We will focus on strengthening party.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jana-sena-bjp-fail-to-make-their-expected-impact-in-municipal-elections/articleshow/81499765.cms||Venu Lanka
March 15, 2021||Visakhapatnam||YSRC sweeps all three S’kulam urban bodies||Visakhapatnam: YSRC recorded wins in all three urban civic bodies in Srikakulam district, district collector and election officer J Nivas confirmed on Sunday. The north coastal district is home to deputy chief minister Dharmana Krishna Das, fisheries minister Seedari Appala Raju, and assembly speaker Tammineni Sitaram. While declaring the results, Nivas said that YSRC had won 17 of the 20 wards in Palakonda while TDP won three wards. In Icchapuram municipality, 15 wards went in favour of YSRC, six were won by TDP and two wards saw independents emerge victorious. Meanwhile in Palasa, YSRC won 23 wards while the remaining eight were won by TDP candidates. Nivas told reporters that certificates will be issued to winning candidates. Joint collectors have been appointed as special officers till further orders are issued. Elections for chairperson and deputy chairperson will take place on March 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ysrc-sweeps-all-three-skulam-urban-bodies/articleshow/81499703.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
March 15, 2021||Vijayawada||Polling for teachers’ MLC seats concludes peacefully||Amaravati: Polling for the two legislative council seats from teachers’ constituencies was held on Sunday. The process went through peacefully and no untoward incidents were reported from any of the four districts where polling had taken place. According to chief elector officer (CEO) K Vijayanand, 93% polling was recorded in the Guntur-Krishna teachers’ constituency while the East-West Godavari constituency saw close to 92% polling. Around 30,000 teachers from the four districts were enrolled as voters. The Election Commission (EC) had set up 227 polling centres across the four districts and had appointed 2,200 personnel to conduct polling operations. Alongside polling officials, close to 2,400 police personnel were deployed across all polling stations combined to monitor the security arrangements. Senior officials were appointed as observers for the council elections. While polling was held from 8 am to 4 pm in plain areas, the process was concluded by 2 pm in Maoist-affected areas such as Kukkunur and Jangareddigudem divisions of East and West Godavari districts. The Election Commission also ensure the supply of masks and sanitisers to the polling staff who ensured that electors were only allowed to exercise their franchise after getting their hands sanitised in accordance with the Covid-19 protocols. “We are waiting for final tallies from district collectors. Polling was held peacefully and without any incident,” said chief electoral officer K Vijayanand. The CEO added that they had also taken steps for web-casting of the polling process to prevent any untoward incidents. With YSRC not fielding its candidate for teachers’ MLC elections, it became a race between candidates backed by TDP and Left parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/polling-for-teachers-mlc-seats-concludes-peacefully/articleshow/81499667.cms||Samdani MN
---||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: TTD seeks probe into donor’s financials||TIRUPATI: TTD’s grand plans to set up a world paediatric hospital in the temple city has hit a roadblock a day after the temple body signed a MoU with Mumbai-based Udveg infrastructure and consultancy (UIC) ) private limited. The MoU was signed on March 12. Just a day later after the signing of the MoU, an independent auditors’ report accompanied by financial statements of UIC came to light. Questions arose as to how such a small company with an authorised capital of just Rs 1 lakh and no history of major construction activity could come forward to ink a pact with the TTD to execute a Rs 300 crore project, that too on donation basis. “TTD doesn’t generally probe into the financial soundness of the donors because extending donations to the temple body is linked with devotees’ sentiments. But in special cases like this particular case we seek clarifications if deemed necessary,” the temple body said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-seeks-probe-into-donors-financials/articleshow/81499918.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
March 15, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Man found dead in lover’s house, lover missing||VIJAYAWADA: A man was found dead under suspicious circumstances at Navabpeta village under Penuganchiprolu mandal in Krishna district on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Gunji Satyanarayana (45), a farmer. The farmer was found dead in a house which belongs to Satyavati with whom he had a relationship. On Saturday night, Satyanarayana was dropped at Satyavati’s place by his son but did not return home. As Satyanarayana was not answering his phone, his son and his brother-in-law went to Satyavati’s house only to find him dead on the kitchen floor. Neither Satyavati nor her mother were seen inside the house. Upon receiving a complaint, police rushed to the spot with the clues team. Cops suspect murder as there was blood all over the victim’s body. Inspector Chandra Sekhar said they have registered a case and sent the body for post-mortem to ascertain the cause of death. Police have also found out that Satyavati and her mother had left the house after midnight. “We are searching for Satyavati and more details will emerge once she is traced,” the inspector Chandra Sekhar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-found-dead-in-lovers-house-lover-missing/articleshow/81499809.cms||---
---||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Pawan Kalyan threatens to call off alliance with BJP||VIJAYAWADA: Jana Sena president Pawan Kalyan on Sunday expressed dissatisfaction over the attitude of Telangana BJP leadership and threatened to move out of the alliance with the saffron party. Addressing party workers at the seventh formation day celebrations held in Hyderabad on Sunday, Pawan Kalyan said that his party would not continue friendship with parties that do not respect Jana Sena. “Jana Sena supported BJP candidates in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, respecting the request made by top leaders of the party. Union home minister Amit Shah appreciated our committed work. But the Telangana state leadership of the BJP is insulting our party workers. We are really unhappy over this,” he said. Pawan called upon party cadres to support former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao’s daughter S Vani Devi, who contested as a TRS candidate for Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar graduates MLC constituency, polling for which was held on Sunday. He said that he is going to focus on strengthening the party in Telangana. “I have decided to continue my political journey for at least two decades. Initially, I focused on Andhra Pradesh as Telangana is a newly formed state and the party, which agitated for achieving statehood is in power. But I am receiving repeated requests from my party workers to start party work in Telangana. From today, I will increase my political activity in Telangana and focus on key issues,” Pawan said and added that the party would contest in the Khammam municipal elections. Meanwhile, BJP condemned the Jana Sena chief’s comments. Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay and other key leaders said that Pawan should have talked to them if he was unhappy with them. They said that he had broken friendship with the BJP by supporting TRS’ MLC candidate. Sanjay claimed that Pawan’s comments on polling day had confused people. Responding to Pawan’s remarks stating the Telangana BJP was insulting his party workers, Sanjay said Jana Sena had opposed TRS in GHMC elections but it is now supporting it. “This is what kind of an indication. It has created confusion” he said. Sanjay said that if Pawan had any problem, he should have brought it to the notice of the BJP central leadership or brought the matter before him. “We never discussed the alliance with Jana Sena,” the Telangana BJP chief said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pawan-threatens-to-walk-away-from-bjp-alliance/articleshow/81499731.cms||Venu Lanka
---||Visakhapatnam||Another 298 Covid cases recorded in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The surge in the daily new Covid-19 cases continued in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday as the state added 298 cases, taking the case load to 8,91,861. This is the highest case load in the last two months after the state reported 319 cases on January 8. The toll increased to 7,184 as two more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus disease. Altogether 164 patients were declared cured on Sunday. There are currently 1,400 active cases with 8,83,277 cumulative recoveries and 7,184 fatalities. At one point in February, the active case load was in the 500 range. But with the increasing daily cases in the last two weeks, the active case load has now touched the 1400-mark. While the active case load is more than 100 in five districts, Chittoor alone has 479 active cases. Chittoor, which has emerged as the top disease hotspot of late, reported 90 new infections on Sunday, followed by Guntur (48), Krishna (32), East Godavari (32) and Visakhapatnam (32), Kurnool (14), Kadapa (12) and Prakasam (11). Five districts recorded single-digit case numbers. Andhra Pradesh tested 45,664 Covid-19 samples on Sunday and detected 298 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.7%. This is the highest case positivity rate in about the last two months. The overall case positivity rate stood at 6.1%. The mortality rate has remained stable at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/another-298-covid-cases-recorded-in-ap/articleshow/81499636.cms||---
---||Delhi||Delhi: As e-drive goes full throttle, a park to prevent green mission from going waste||NEW DELHI: After aiming to be the “electric vehicle capital” of the country, Delhi will also get a dedicated e-waste management park soon. In a meeting with the principal scientific advisor to the central government, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal said that the e-waste management park would ensure safe and efficient disposal of electrical and electronic waste. The chief secretary has been directed to make a proposal in consultation with the environment and electronics and IT ministries for setting up the park in a time-bound manner. While the norms about extended producer responsibility (EPR) in collection and disposal of such waste already exist, several studies show that they are hardly being implemented on the ground. The e-waste park would have a mechanism to effectively implement the EPR, along with a system of incentives and disincentives to encourage safe disposal, Baijal said. A senior official of Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) told TOI that an action plan was being prepared and possible sites were being identified. “A meeting will be held with the Union ministry of environment and forests next week to prepare a roadmap on the features and components of the park, along with timelines,” added the official. Currently, around 85% of e-waste in Delhi is being processed by the informal unorganised sector. A study on batteries by NGO Toxic Links showed that areas like Mandoli, New Mustafabad, Seelampur, Madangir, Seemapuri and Samaypur and Ghaziabad, Muradnagar, Bahadurgarh and Modinagar in the neighbouring NCR states had the highest concentration of such informal units. The problem is likely to exacerbate with the recent push for e-vehicles, unless attention is provided to e-waste and used battery collection centres just like charging stations. In a report submitted to National Green Tribunal (NGT), Central Pollution Control Board had informed that recent inspections carried out by DPCC at nine e-waste collection centres associated with 56 producers were found to be non-compliant with the E-Waste (Management) Rules, 2016. DPCC ordered the closure of 142 illegal e-waste units after surveying 251 such units spread primarily across east and northeast Delhi till December 2020. Producers of electrical equipment are required to collect e-waste back from consumers as part of the EPR based on a specific target. They have to dismantle and recycle it in an environmentally sound manner, the rules state. Under the new EV policy, Delhi government plans to make the city the “e-vehicle capital” of the country. The government has set a target that by 2024 at least 25% of new vehicles registered in Delhi would be electric vehicles. Chitra Mukherjee, head of advocacy and policy at NGO Chintan, which works in the waste management sector, said while plans were afoot to set up 10,000 e-charging points by December, it was unclear what would happen with the resultant battery waste. “Buses in Delhi travel up to 250km a day. Based on the life estimation of batteries done for Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd by Rocky Mountain Institute, each pack weighing about 1,500kg can last up to seven years. Therefore, for 1,400 e-buses, we expect 21,000kg of battery waste. Poor battery management and handling can reduce the positive effects of switching to electirc vehicles,” added Mukherjee. Earlier, similar concerns about e-battery waste generated from the rapidly rising number of e-rickshaws had also been red-flagged. Introduced around Commonwealth Games 2010, Delhi High Court had banned them in July 2014 saying that “prima facie they were a hazard to traffic and citizens”. However, in March 2015, the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act established them as a valid form of transport. With lack of regulatory mechanism, their numbers were one lakh in 2014 and have reached 1.5 lakh now. Each of these vehicles generally have four lead acid batteries with a replacement time of 5-12 months. It means over 8-10 lakh disused batteries are coming from e-rickshaws alone. Another study carried out by University of Michigan in 2016 pointed out that Delhi’s illegal battery recycling industry was exposing residents to airborne lead levels 2-8 times higher than their neighbours. This essentially means getting exposed to toxins in a few days than what might take roughly a year or more in the US. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that along with battery charging stations, a detailed plan on ramping up recycling capacity was also being made. “We will get in touch with DDA for allocation of land for the e-waste management park,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-e-drive-goes-full-throttle-a-park-to-prevent-green-mission-from-going-waste/articleshow/81499175.cms||Paras Singh
March 15, 2021||Nagpur||March 7-14 saw highest Covid +ves of pandemic||NAGPUR: The number of Covid-19 positive cases in March second week was the highest in the year-long pandemic in the district. The number of cases crossed 20,000 in the district in 14 days of March, indicating the second wave is more contagious than the first. As per the district civil surgeon, the district registered 12,773 positive cases of novel coronavirus between March 7 and 14. Daily average of cases comes to 1,825. The district had registered the first peak of the pandemic in last two weeks of August and four weeks of September last year. The cases in each of these six weeks were less than those registered in second week of March 2021. The district had recorded 2,261 cases on March 13 and 2,252 cases on March 14. This is the first time in the pandemic that the district saw over 2,000 cases for two consecutive days. Cases had been above 2,000 on four days in September but not on consecutive days. March 14 was the sixth time the district recorded over 2,000 cases in a day. Total number of cases in 14 days of March stand at 20,714. The number is higher than monthly totals over last one year, excluding August (24,163) and September (48,457). The cases in March will be the highest ever if the same trend continues till the end of the month. However, test positivity rate in second week of March is less than the four weeks of September due to higher number of tests conducted in March. Also, fatalities too are low in last seven days as compared to all weeks of September. The state’s public health department said active cases as on Sunday were 16,964, which was the second highest in country after Pune. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI the number of tests will be increased further in coming days. “Early detection and treatment is necessary to control deaths. Contact tracing is being done continuously to contain the spread of the disease,” he said. NMC, on Sunday, held special camp by roping in mobile swab collection centre and collected samples of 152 hawkers, vendors and those working in saloons at Khamla and Jaitala. The idea is to contain the spread as these people meet a large number of citizens on daily basis. The civic body on Sunday also sealed and declared LIC Colony at Dhantoli as prohibited area after 18 people from the quarters tested positive. NMC also engaged mobile swab collection centre at the colony and collected samples of other residents. Radhakrishnan also said people having any symptoms and high and low-risk contacts of positive patients should come and get done tested at NMC’sss 50 centres during extended restrictions announced from March 15 to 21. “All testing centres will remain open and those coming for tests will not have any restrictions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/march-7-14-saw-highest-covid-ves-of-pandemic/articleshow/81500199.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
---||Delhi||Tree Master Plan for Rajpath lawns to fix uneven growth||NEW DELHI: For the first time, the central government will come out with a “Tree Master Plan” for the lawns along Rajpath, which is also known as Central Vista Avenue, to ensure there are no more haphazard plantations on this stretch. Sources said the plan would specify the types of trees to be planted on these lawns as and when the existing trees die natural deaths and the tree master plan would be realised after 20-30 years. “The tree species may include jamun and others with coloured canopy. Once the plan is in place, there will be strict compliance of the norms. No existing tree will be cut,” said a source. Till now these lawns have been used by the people in power and the civic agencies to plant trees haphazardly during Van Mohatsavas. TOI has learnt that the lawns along Rajpath had only 454 trees in 1930 and there was symmetry. But later the number of trees increased as different types of trees were planted without any planning and keeping in mind the original intent when the Central Vista Avenue was planned. Government sources said a few round of deliberations have happened with experts and organisations specialising in this field. The work for redevelopment of Rajpath and beautification of the lawns has started and is scheduled for completion by this year-end. The government has also prepared a detailed plan to build nine modern office buildings and central conference centre along the Rajpath as a part of the ambitious Central Vista redevelopment plan. The open space on Rajpath and lawns are also likely to increase as the new buildings will be compact and move little bit away from the existing lawns. The housing and urban affairs ministry has maintained that the refurbished Rajpath and lawns including the canal (waterbodies) will turn the entire area to a more organised and attractive tourist place for visitors. The entire area will get cleaner look as no haphazard parking of vehicles will be allowed along the lawn and also in office buildings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tree-master-plan-for-rajpath-lawns-to-fix-uneven-growth/articleshow/81499145.cms||Dipak K Dash
March 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Boy scolded for smoking, leaves home||AHMEDABAD: A 12-year-old boy, who was living at his paternal aunt’s place in Thakkarbapanagar, has gone missing since March 12 after he was scolded for smoking by his father. In his FIR with Krishnanagar police, Chetan Vaghela,35, said that his kids including Krunal, 12, and Ayush, 8, has been living with Vaghela’s sister’s place in Thakkarbapanagar. On March 9, Vaghela had found his son Krunal smoking cigarette inside toilet of his aunt’s house. After which, Vaghela went to Surat where he worked as a labourer in a catering event. On March 11, Vaghela’s sister called him up and told him that his son Krunal was missing from the house. She had also enquired at his friend and relatives but did not find him anywhere. Later, he approached Krishnanagar police and filed a complaint of elopement to find out his son. Vaghela also suspected that his son might be abducted by some person. Krishnanagar police registered a complaint and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/boy-scolded-for-smoking-leaves-home/articleshow/81500189.cms||---
---||Hyderabad||2nd preferential vote may decide winner||Hyderabad: The fate of those who contested for the two graduate MLC seats up for grabs are now sealed in ballot boxes. While counting begins on March 17, going by polling trends, experts say that in both Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda graduate constituencies, the second preferential vote will decide the fate of the candidates. Telangana Rashtra Samithi, Bharatiya Janata Party, Telangana Jana Samithi and independents, alike, are confident of victory. While it is a triangular fight in MBNGR-RR-Hyd, where TRS candidate Surabhi Vani Devi, (daughter of former PM PV Narasimha Rao) a late entrant, was pitted against BJP candidate N Ramchander (who is the sitting MLA) and independent candidate professor K Nageshwar, who gave a tough fight. Congress candidate G Chinna Reddy is unlikely to emerge as the winner. In Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda, the fight appears to be between TRS candidate Palla Rajeswara Reddy and TJS candidate professor Kodandaram. Independent Teenmar Mallanna, Congress’ Ramulu Nayak and BJP candidate G Premender Reddy also garnered the support of electors, but it remains to be seen on March 17 will whether it was enough for them to win the MLC seat. Around 5.31 lakh voters in nine districts were registered in all, with 93 candidates contesting in Mahabunagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad. In Warangal-Nalgonda-Khammam constituency, around 5.05 lakh voters were registered in 12 districts where 71 candidates contested. Due to large number of voters contesting, the second preferential vote is likely to be divided among the contestants. TRS working president and MAUD minister K T Rama Rao thanked the party ranks for their efforts to ensure a TRS victory. BJP candidate N Ramchandar also thanked voters and said that he would win the MLC seat comfortable with the first preferential vote. Independent candidate Professor K Nageswar said, “I am still confident of winning despite there is the massive influence of money power in both the parties. TRS has brazenly and publicly distributed money to the public, whereas BJP did it clandestinely. I still believe silent voting for me.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2nd-preferential-vote-may-decide-winner/articleshow/81500876.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 15, 2021||Ludhiana||6 teachers, 10 students among 197 positive cases||Ludhiana: The district’s one-day Covid-19 case count reached close to the 200-mark on Sunday, after more than five months.Of the 197 new cases reported on the day, six were teachers and 10 students.While a patient from Moga died of the virus at a hospital here, no death was reported of a Ludhiana resident. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the Ludhiana toll stood at 1,050 and that of outsiders has risen to 528.To date, 7,19,857 persons have been tested.Of the 197 new cases, 89 were from flu corner, 33 from OPD, 18 contacts of positive patients, 38 through tracing process, two healthcare workers, two severe acute respiratory infection cases, one ANC and one pre-operative case. Six teachers —of government schools in Mangli Neechi, Mullanpur, Bhaini Baringa, private schools in BRS Nagar and Durga Nagar —and 10 students —five of a government school in Ludhiana, three of a government multipurpose school and two of a nursing college in Narangwal —too have contracted the virus. Besides, 45 patients from outside Ludhiana tested positive here.The local health department officials said Ludhiana case count was 28,833 and that of outsiders 4,585.So far, 26,706 patients have recovered, which constitutes 92.62% of the total cases.There are 1,077 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 2,914.On Sunday, 272 persons were quarantined and 3,665 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators, including four of the government at CMCH, in private hospitals.Seventeen patients are on ventilators. Of them, 13 are Ludhianvis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/6-teachers-10-students-among-197-positive-cases/articleshow/81499153.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Ludhiana||GST evasion: 99 cartons sans bills seized from rly station||Ludhiana: A day after a crackdown on the bogus billing network, the state GST department conducted another operation. This time, at Ludhiana railway station. In the action conducted by the mobile wing of the department’s Ludhiana office, 99 cartons of goods of various types that had landed without bills were seized at the railway station. These goods, worth several lakhs, had arrived from New Delhi via a Jammu-bound passenger train and mostly comprised readymade garments and mobile accessories.A source in the GST department said on a tip-off, a team from the mobile wing, comprising five officials, reached the station on Sunday morning and the moment these 99 cartons were offloaded from the train, they enquired about the bills. But when no bills were found with the consignment, these were seized by the excise and taxation officers, Baldeep Karan and Kuldeep Singh. The source said till now, only few cartons have been checked and these mainly have readymade garments and mobile accessories and it was suspected that the remaining also contain the same goods. These items attract up to 18% GST and value of seized goods would be ascertained after the investigation, the source added. The department officials are trying to locate the persons who had ordered these goods and once the owners are traced, they will be issued notices for appearing before the department and slapped with a penalty and the applicable GST.Ever since the outbreak of coronavirus, this is the first big seizure by the state GST department from Ludhiana railway station, which is already infamous for being a transit hub for bill-less cartons of goods for delivery in the city and other destinations in Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gst-evasion-99-cartons-sans-bills-seized-from-rly-station/articleshow/81499178.cms||Mohit Behl
March 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi govt urges corporates to take lead in EV switch||New Delhi: From switching over to electric vehicles for office use to providing space for and adopting EV charging stations at offices, transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Sunday said the Aam Aadmi Party government is going to involve corporates to promote the adoption of EVs.As Delhi government’s Switch Delhi campaign entered its sixth week, Gahlot said this week the campaign would focus on creating and raising awareness about user-friendly adoption of EVs in the city by actively involving corporates.“We urge corporates to raise awareness and promote EVs in Delhi,” he said, adding that Delhi is an economic hub and corporates can put their resources to the best use by supporting the campaign.Gahlot appealed to corporate houses to take the lead in the initiative by switching to EV cabs to facilitate the commute of their employees. He also urged corporates to install charging stations at their office premises to encourage individuals to switch to electric vehicles.“Globally, it has been seen that people generally charge their electric vehicles at home or the workplace. Many corporate employees are willing to switch to EVs if there is sound charging infrastructure at the workplace. I urge the corporates to reserve 5% of their parking space for installing and running EV charging stations,” Gahlot said, adding that companies would benefit from Delhi government’s subsidies being provided for the installation of EV charging stations.The transport minister also said that corporate houses could install or adopt an EV charging station through Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives. “Companies can take the ‘Switch Delhi Pledge’ on https://ev.delhi.gov.in/Pledge to show their commitment and help Delhi government in fulfilling the mission of making Delhi the electric vehicle capital of India,” Gahlot claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-urges-corporates-to-take-lead-in-ev-switch/articleshow/81499185.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gender connotations marked in children’s rhymes||Ahmedabad: The very popular Gujarati rhyme ‘Ek Biladi Jadi…’ (One Fat Cat), when seen from the gender lens, can feel wrong at so many levels – from fat-shaming to showing the perils of going/ stepping out of the ‘safe’ confines of home. But it’s not just one instance, claim a study by Batul Kakkai, a doctoral student at the School of Liberal Studies (SLS) at Pandit Deendayal Energy University (PDEU), along with Prof Nigam Dave, director of SLS. The researchers, who studied over 150 rhymes from English, Hindi and Gujarati, said that several of these renditions are age-old and are passed from one generation to another. While it might not have the same connotations as today, given the role of rhymes in the initial education and socio-emotional development of a child, some awareness from teachers and parents can go a long way in ensuring a healthier society. “Rhymes are the introduction to language and society for the toddlers. Thus, done right, it can go a long way to make the society free of assigning specific roles to specific genders,” said Prof Dave. For example, 'What little girls are made of?' goes, 'Sugar and spice, and everything nice.' The rhyme 'Smiling girls, identifies 'brave young boys.' Likewise, the researchers give example of 'There was an old woman who lived in a shoe, she had so many children, she didn't know what to do.' “Even some animals are strictly put in the gender box – one might not think of a sparrow or fish as a male or elephant or crocodile as female. The gender roles such as cooking, cleaning, etc. are also explained through the characters,” added Prof Dave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gender-connotations-marked-in-childrens-rhymes/articleshow/81500206.cms||Parth Shastri
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Bhatti stages dharna in front of police station||Hyderabad: Congress Legislature Party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka on Sunday staged a dharna in front of Two Town police station in Khammam in protest against the police taking Congress party workers into custody. At one point, there was a heated discussion between Bhatti and the police, with the former alleging the latter of resorting to indiscriminate arrests of party workers. Party workers apparently pushed each others, and in the melee, some police personnel were also pushed. Tension prevailed in the area before the police brought the situation under control. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bhatti-stages-dharna-in-front-of-police-station/articleshow/81500903.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Turnout up in IT corridor in the evening||Hyderabad: Polling booths in the IT corridor, which wore a deserted look early in the day, saw serpentine queues in the evening as polling came to an end. Unlike the earlier elections held in the state, the arrangements made for voters this time was better. Most senior citizens had already cast their vote through postal ballot. In Ranga Reddy district, the polling percentage at 10am stood at 7.20%. By 12 noon, it increased to 17.6% and by 2pm the percentage rose to 38.21%. By 4 pm, the tentative percentage stood at 57.62%. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/turnout-up-in-it-corridor-in-the-evening/articleshow/81500881.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mukesh Ambani security scare: Clause on arrest of state force member invoked||MUMBAI: Assistant police inspector Sachin Waze has invoked a provision of the criminal law that grants protection from arrest to members of the state forces under certain conditions. The court is expected to hear arguments on this matter, while deciding on Waze’s plea to permit a meeting with a lawyer. Section 45(1) of of the Criminal Procedure Code grants protection from arrest to members of the armed forces of the Union for acts done or purported to be done in line of official duty, except after obtaining the consent of the Centre. While this part of the provision is not relevant, Section 45(2) is what Waze’s lawyers are relying on. It says that the state government may, by notification, grant similar exemption to such members of the state forces. “If such a notification is shown as having been issued earlier by the state, as claimed, and if it has been made applicable to the Maharashtra Police force, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) action can be considered void then,” said advocate Shishir Hirey, the special public prosecutor in several cases Waze was handling, including the Koregaon-Bhima inquiry commission and alleged manipulation of TRPs by a few television news channels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-clause-on-arrest-of-state-force-member-invoked/articleshow/81500918.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Ludhiana||DSP dies after fighting Covid-19 for a month||Ludhiana: Shahkot deputy superintendent of police Varinderpal Singh, 51 — who was a resident of BRS Nagar, Ludhiana—succumbed to Covid-19 here on Sunday after battling it for over a month. Varinderpal was confirmed to have contracted the virus on February 7 and since then he was admitted to SPS Hospital, Sherpur Chowk, where he breathed his last.He had also served in Ludhiana as SHO of Division 3, Model Town and Ladhowal police stations. Thereafter, he got promoted as DSP and was transferred. His father Hardev Singh had retired as a Punjab Police DSP. Varinderpal’s son, Sahebmeet Singh, 24, said on February 6, when his father came home from duty, he was feeling unwell and they took him to SPS Hospital. His reports came positive for Covid-19 and since then he was admitted to the Covid ward. He said, “For 14 days he was on a ventilator and then recovered. He was moved to Covid ward, but he could not defeat the virus. He was also suffering from a kidney problem.” The DSP’s daughter is settled abroad and had recently given birth to a girl. He was cremated at Sunet village with honour. ACP, traffic, Gurdev Singh, who was a close friend of Varinderpal, said, “He was one of the fittest officers who took care of his health and was also a jolly man. I am in a deep shock over his death. I request people to follow the Covid-19 guidelines as lives are precious.” Ludhiana, rural, SSP Sandeep Garg said, “Varinderpal was one of the good officers. He had contracted the virus on duty. Along with him, SHO and additional SHO of Mehakpur had also tested positive, but they soon recovered. Unfortunately, we lost Varinderpal.” Cops who lost battle with virusAssistant commissioner of police, north, Anil Kohli lost his life due to Covid-19 on April 18, 2020. He was deputed at the Ludhiana vegetable market, near Jalandhar Bypass, to ensure the supply of vegetables during the lockdown. Kohli contracted the virus while performing his duty. He was admitted to a hospital on April 7, and on April 13 tested positive for Covid-19. ASI Jaspal Singh, who was in Ludhiana traffic wing, managed law and order during Covid-19 lockdown. He was a patient of diabetes and TB and by mid-June when his health started deteriorating, senior cops transferred him to police lines. In July-end, his health started worsening and he was admitted to PGIMER, where he died on August 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dsp-dies-after-fighting-covid-19-for-a-month/articleshow/81499182.cms||Payal Dhawan
March 15, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Weekly Covid case count highest in 5 months||LUDHIANA: With novel coronavirus spreading its tentacles, new cases reported in the district in the past week were the highest since October last year. In another indication of things getting serious, active cases in Ludhiana are more than 900. The health department data shows that between March 7 and 13, as many as 912 cases were registered in the district. The cases in the preceding week (February 28 to March 6) were about 36% less. The figure is the highest after 1,007 cases were reported between September 27 and October 3 last. After reaching the highest value of 2,802 cases between September 13 and 19 last, the new cases in seven days fell to 523 between October 11 and 17 and 325 between October 25 and 31 last year. After that, the number increased to 439 between November 1 and 7; 610 from November 8 to 14 and 696 between November 22 and 28 last year. It declined to 196 cases between January 10 and 16 and rose to 287 during January 31 to February 6; 332 from February 14 to 20 and then to the present value. On the state’s weekly case count chart, Ludhiana with 912 cases is at the fourth spot. Hoshiarpur is at the top with 1,134 cases and Jalandhar second with 1,125 cases. Barnala has the lowest number of 20 cases. The industrial hub was second in the preceding week with 612 cases. Meanwhile, Ludhiana dropped to the sixth position in Punjab in active cases (907) as on Saturday. Jalandhar was at number one spot with 1,438 active cases and SBS Nagar second with 1,382. Barnala had the lowest number of 48 active cases. The industrial hub was fourth in the state on March 6. The health department officials admitted that Covid-19 situation was getting serious in Ludhiana. An officer of the health department said, “More than 900 cases in a week indicate that second wave is here and things are getting serious in Ludhiana. People should not ignore the pandemic guidelines of wearing mask, maintaining social distancing and following hand hygiene.” Residents said the authorities should act strictly to enforce the rules. “A look at the ground situation shows people are taking the guidelines lightly. The authorities should ensure rule compliance to check spike in cases,” said Narinder Singh, a city resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/weekly-covid-case-count-highest-in-5-months/articleshow/81499184.cms||Shariq Majeed
---||Mumbai||Mumbai: Aircraft charter co owner passes away||Pradeep Ramachandran Thampi, owner of Mumbai-based Executive Airways Private Limited, one of the first aircraft charter companies in India, passed away on Sunday. Thampi (63) was ailing and was admitted to a hospital about three weeks ago, said a close friend. He is survived by his wife, Daksha, son, fashion designer Nikhil Thampi and his daughter, Pranavi Thampi. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-aircraft-charter-co-owner-passes-away/articleshow/81500237.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Nagpur||Will conduct antigen testing at resorts: Collector||NAGPUR: District collector Ravindra Thakare on Sunday said he is likely to direct special inspection squads and health officials to visit resorts, weekend getaway venues and hotels to conduct rapid antigen testing of the guests there. In the past, health teams had conducted tests at wedding venues too. Reacting to the information about hotels and resorts being booked for the period of stricter versions of the restrictions in the district, Thakare said he would ensure the popular venues do not turn into super-spreaders which can be a potential threat to the city. “As most of the resorts and hotels are being thronged by sizeable population from the city, we need to take precautions to ensure such venues do not turn to super-spreaders,” he said. “We will conduct tests and in case find someone positive then immediately isolate him or her. Even the venues would get sealed,” said the collector, who has allowed hotels and lodges to operate with 50% capacity. Thakare, who made a fresh appeal to strictly adhere to the Covid norms, said the city's population travelling back-and-forth from rural districts may bring the infection into the “so far safer zones” and also many of them taking it back as ‘carriers’. --||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/will-conduct-antigen-testing-at-resorts-collector/articleshow/81500217.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 15, 2021||Delhi||Identify pollution sources at Najafgarh lake: CPCB||New Delhi: Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has suggested that the sources of pollution causing deterioration in water quality should be identified and quantified for restoration of Najafgarh lake.Remarking on the environmental management plan of Delhi government for restoration of Najafgarh lake, CPCB said a detailed gap analysis, including identification of all drains contributing to pollution, along with flow and water quality, should be included in the report.National Green Tribunal (NGT) had asked the Delhi and Haryana governments to prepare an environmental management plan for the lake. The CPCB report dated March 11, which was submitted to NGT, said that Haryana government was yet to submit its plan. However, a committee of experts formed by Delhi government had recommended immediate, short-term and long-term plans for conservation of Najafgarh lake.After examining Delhi government’s plan, CPCB in its report stated, “The current and historic water quality data of Najafgarh lake for all physicochemical parameters, heavy metals and bacteriological parameters are not included. Towns located in the catchment area and sewage generation need to be estimated considering the projected population for 15 years.”It also observed that the exact timeline for the actions proposed (immediate, medium and long-term) should be specified, along with the implementing agency and budget estimate.The immediate measures recommended in Delhi government’s plan included notification under Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2017, boundary demarcation using geotagged pillars, constitution of Najafgarh Wetland Committee and wetland mitras, commissioning hydrological assessment, species inventory, feasibility assessment for construction of a water-level regulator at Jhatekeera and sluices or ducts in the embankment to allow for inundation on the Delhi side.The short-term plan included developing a comprehensive stakeholder-endorsed wetland management plan. The medium-term plan included relocating flow obstructions, such as power substation, and providing alternative road connectivity to the settlements at the two ends of the lake. This would reduce vehicular traffic on the embankment, especially during peak migration season of birds.The committee of experts also suggested assessment of carbon and greenhouse gases to determine the role of Najafgarh lake in climate change, installing signage at the entry and exit and at key vantage points to communicate the value of the lake and Dos and Don’ts for people while visiting the wetland.Among the major long-term plans were hydrological regime restoration by water-level regulation at Jhatekeera, re-operating sluices on the embankment and implementing ecological restoration measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/identify-pollution-sources-at-najafgarh-lake-cpcb/articleshow/81499206.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
March 15, 2021||Delhi||Over 300 visit city’s 13 RTOs as DL tests on Sundays start||New Delhi: On Friday, Delhi government’s transport department had issued an order allowing people applying for permanent driving licence to take their driving skill test on Sundays. This Sunday — two days after the order — more than 300 applicants appeared for driving tests at the 13 Regional Transport Offices of Delhi.The order was issued by the department on March 12 with the approval of transport minister Kailash Gahlot, to provide the facility of taking driving tests on holidays for the public. While it was expected that the facility would begin from next Sunday (March 21) as the exercise required rescheduling and deployment of inspectors and supporting staff and some changes in the software too, Gahlot said the department succeeded in providing appointments this Sunday itself.“We managed to open the slots. This is the Kejriwal model of governance,” the transport minister told TOI, adding that while a total of 413 appointments were booked, 311 applicants appeared for the tests. The highest number of applicants took the driving skill test at Surajmal Vihar RTO in east Delhi, where 60 of the total 67 who had booked slots reported for the test, followed by the Rohini RTO in northwest Delhi where 50 of the 69 who had booked appointments appeared the test.The driving test inspector and other staff involved in tests working on Sundays will be allowed to take their weekly off on Mondays. Applicants will not be able to book online slots for Monday, as the department would not allot fresh appointment for that day from now on. However, existing applicants who have already booked slots for Mondays will be allowed to take the driving skill test on the appointed Monday.The RTOs, however, would open on Sundays only for driving skill tests and the department would not provide any other services on that day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-300-visit-citys-13-rtos-as-dl-tests-on-sundays-start/articleshow/81499212.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS, BJP cadre trade blows||Hyderabad: Bommalaramaram police registered two cases against BJP and TRS workers after they assaulted each other at a polling station in the village on Sunday. A case was registered. According to police, the trouble started when BJP workers confronted local TRS workers alleging they were resorting to malpractices and influencing voters at ZPH School polling station in Bommalaramaram. Soon, a scuffle ensued between the two groups and they assaulted each other. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-bjp-cadre-trade-blows/articleshow/81500952.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Was attacked, claims BJP’s Premender||Hyderabad: BJP MLC candidate for Nalgonda-Khammam-Warangal graduates’ seat, Gujjula Premender Reddy, on Sunday alleged that rival activists attacked him after he tried to catch them while distributing money. Mild tension prevailed in Nellikuduru of Mahbubabad district after there was a clash between TRS and BJP activists. The MLC candidate was shifted to Khammam government hospital after he received minor injuries in the clash. Condemning the attack, BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar said police did not do anything to prevent the attack. “We wanted the elections to be conducted in a free and fair manner,” he said. Meanwhile, a team of BJP leaders would visit Premender Reddy in the hospital on Monday. Minister E Dayakar Rao claimed TRS activists did not attack any BJP leader and they had only objected to Premender Reddy going into a polling booth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/was-attacked-claims-bjps-premender/articleshow/81500973.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Independents worry big parties in close race||Hyderabad: While main political parties and important candidates have expressed confidence of winning, a large number of independents have got the main parties worried. With initial reports from polling booths indicating that independent candidates and party candidates alike have managed to get their voters to the polling booths, parties activated their rank and file. The Telangana state BJP unit, which is hoping to win both the seats, got its polling booth in-charges—each handling 25 voters— to follow up. Many voters were enrolled with the help of activists. During a morning tele-conference, Bandi Sanjay instructed the rank and file to follow up with young voters who voted for the first time. “The mood in the booths reflected that independents and some important candidates were able to get votes which would make huge difference in second and first preference votes. We made in-charges call the voters,” a top BJP leader said. In Nalgonda, Khammam and Warangal seat independents like Teenmar Mallanna and other candidates like professor Kodandaram, Rani Rudrama, Jayasarthi seemed to manage a good number of votes. Mallanna even completed walkathon in the constituency covering 1,700 km. Though polling agents were not present for many candidates, even few votes will make difference, a with tough fight between TRS and BJP in both seats. With large number of independents in race, everything has become unpredictable, said BJP sources. A while back, BJP even alleged that TRS had been sponsoring many independents to divide the vote. Despite voters being educated, parties are also worried about the large number of symbols. “A lot depends on how professor Nageswar and professor Kodandaram get votes. TTDP may make small dent in a tough race,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/independents-worry-big-parties-in-close-race/articleshow/81500992.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
---||Dehradun||Will change of guard bring relief from poor road conditions in Dehradun? It’s wait and watch for residents||DEHRADUN: With a new chief minister at the helm, hopes are high among residents that the poor conditions of city roads will now be fixed. The ongoing construction works in the state capital have considerably reduced the width of several roads, causing traffic snarls and even accidents. Brigadier (retd) KG Behl, a city resident, said, “A majority of the residents are senior citizens. This is why it is all the more important that the roads remain in a good condition. Repair work is fine as long as it doesn’t become an inconvenience for commuters. The departments should have better coordination among themselves and roads, once dug up, should be leveled.” Residents at Subhash Road, Convent Road, and EC Road say that even the newly-constructed roads are being dug up by agencies in the name of public utility work. In addition to road repairs, the residents also raised expectations that the new leadership should ensure that the deadline for completion of smart city works is met. Mahesh Bhandari, president, Doon resident’s welfare front, said, “The authorities must now focus on completing the projects on priority. Digging up the entire city is not leading us anywhere. This is sheer wastage of public funds. Roads which were made after much waiting shouldn’t be disturbed for at least two years. People have suffered a lot in the last few months and there should finally be some relief from bumpy rides.” Meanwhile, DC Nautiyal, executive engineer, public works department, said, “We held meetings with different departments and it was communicated to the officials that any requests to carry out repair works and dig up roads should not be entertained after January 31. However, the practice is still ongoing and most of the digging takes place at night. Some of the newly-constructed roads have been dug up on the basis of some requirements of differnt departments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-change-of-guard-bring-relief-from-poor-road-conditions-in-dehradun-its-wait-and-watch-for-residents/articleshow/81499214.cms||Abhijeet Singh
---||Delhi||Handbag of senior cop snatched||New Delhi: A handbag of an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) in the traffic unit was snatched by unidentified assailants in southwest Delhi’s Vasant Kunj last Wednesday. No arrests have been made so far, police said. According to the cops, the woman officer was outside the Vasant Square Mall on March 10 when unidentified men on a motorcycle snatched her bag and fled. The officer works as an ACP in the traffic unit and was in civil uniform when the incident happened. She did not sustain any injuries, police said. “She had cards, some cash and other documents in the bag. A case under relevant sections has been registered, and efforts are being made to arrest the accused . Police are checking the nearby CCTV footage to identify them,” said a senior police officer. He added that they were checking records of recently released criminals from jail. A few suspects have been rounded up and are being questioned, they added. Earlier, a 25-year-old woman was stabbed to death in northwest Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar during a snatching bid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/handbag-of-senior-cop-snatched/articleshow/81520311.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: He is director of 3 firms: Somaiya||BJP leader Kirit Somaiya on Sunday released the names of three firms where API Sachin Waze is director— Multibuild Infraprojects, Techlegal Solutions and Diginext Multimedia. They were formed between 2010 and 2013. He also alleged that Waze has a dozen real estate projects in MMR. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-he-is-director-of-3-firms-somaiya/articleshow/81501009.cms||Clara Lewis
March 15, 2021||Delhi||Maximum temperature in Delhi set to rise further||NEW DELHI: The mercury levels remained normal in the national capital even as the India Meteorological Department forecast the maximum temperature in the city to rise even further in the next few days. Delhi recorded a maximum of 31.2 degrees Celsius on Sunday — two notches above the normal — that can go upto 35 degrees by Thursday, said Met officials. Kuldeep Srivastava, the scientist at IMD and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi, said warm conditions are expected to come back in the next few days, however, “thundery development” may occur on Thursday and Friday. “But the temperatures will once again start rising from Monday,” said Srivastava. While the maximum at Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, was 31.2° C; the warmest location was the Sports Complex station in east Delhi that recorded a maximum of 33.3 degrees Celsius and minimum of 20.5 degrees Celsius. By comparison, the minimum was 14 degrees Celsius at Safdarjung. The normal maximum temperature for this time of the year is 29.2 degrees Celsius, while the normal minimum is 15.4 degrees Celsius. The air quality in the capital, meanwhile, remained in the ‘poor’ category, with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 209, according to the Central Pollution Control Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/maximum-temperature-in-city-set-to-rise-further/articleshow/81499219.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Nagpur||Police chief says there will be ‘zero tolerance’ for violations||NAGPUR: City police Chief Amitesh Kumar made a fresh appeal on Sunday to citizens asking them to follow the stringent Covid norms in force from Monday. Only two persons, including the driver, will be allowed in a car while a two wheeler will not have a pillion. People coming out for work should have their identity cardswith them. Kumar has issued instructions to seize vehicles and impound licences of the loiterers. CP also said the Day One of the extended restrictions (March 15 and 21) would have the cops on ‘zero tolerance’ mode with a ‘curfew-like’ feel across the city. “We would be in all-out mode with CP to PC (police constable) on the streets,” he said. The cops would take over the streets between 8 am and 8.30 pm with the ‘nakabandi’ points having the combined strength of police station staffers, traffic cops and also personnel in plain dress. On Sunday, city police set the mood for the forthcoming weeklong restrictive regulations to break the corona chain by light checking at different places. Later in the evening, Zonal DCP Vinita S raided the McDonald’s premises at Poonam Chambers where take-aways were being allowed instead of ‘online deliveries’. “We are registering an offence and have also informed NMC teams that is sealing the premises,” she said. With the weekend restrictions already on, CP ensured on Sunday the force had a ‘warm up’ for the weeklong programme of the stricter version. The city police conducted some security exercises at different places in the including Sitabuldi main market where forces made their presence felt by restricting the traders and commoners thronging for purchases. The elaborate bandobast across the city would begin by 8.30 am with the cops hitting the street with strict instructions from the CP to go full throttle to restrict masses on the roads and other public places. Kumar himself would begin his day at Variety Square at 9.30 am. “Following a meeting with the excise department, it has been decided to allow liquor to only permit-holders who would have to furnish their licence numbers with the outlets to get their supplies. One individual can get only 12 bottles and the delivery boys can carry only 24 at a time,” the police chief said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/police-chief-says-there-will-be-zero-tolerance-for-violations/articleshow/81500242.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 15, 2021||Goa||66 new Covid cases in Goa, 83 recoveries on Sunday||PANAJI: State reported one Covid-19 related death on Sunday taking the death toll to 807. A 73-year-old man from Quepem passed away due to severe bilateral Covid pneumonia after six days of hospitalisation at GMC. He had diabetes, hypertension, ischaemic heart disease and nephropathy. New Covid-19 infections dropped from 93 to 66 and 1,310 samples were tested. The case positivity rate was at 5%and 749 active cases with 83 recoveries. On Sunday, 13 persons were hospitalised and 35 opted for home isolation. Panaji and Margao health centres have over 100 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/66-new-cases-83-recoveries-on-sunday/articleshow/81501689.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Bareilly||UP lawyer offers Rs 11 lakh for killing ex-Shia board chief, booked||BAREILLY: A prominent local lawyer in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad city announced a reward for killing former Shia Waqf Board chief for approaching the Supreme Court with a plea seeking removal of 26 verses from the Quran, prompting police to file an FIR against him for criminal intimidation. Amirul Hasan Jafri, former chairperson of Moradabad’s bar association, made the announcement during a press conference called on Saturday. “I strongly condemn his move. He (Rizvi) is not a human being, he is a devil. The person who cuts off Rizvi’s head will be given Rs 11 lakh. I will also request the bar association to contribute for the reward money,” Jafri said. A video of the event soon turned up on social media platforms. Jafri was booked on Sunday. Speaking to TOI, Moradabad’s superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand said, “We have taken cognizance of the statement made by Jafri. An FIR has been registered against him under IPC section 505-2 (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation). Further investigation is on.” When asked if the act of beheading Rizvi would be of any help, Jafri added, “There shouldn’t be any less punishment than this for a person committing such a sin.” Rizvi moved the apex court last week with a petition seeking removal of 26 verses from Quran, alleging that they promoted ‘hatred, terrorism and jihad’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-lawyer-offers-rs-11-lakh-for-killing-ex-shia-board-chief-booked/articleshow/81498409.cms||Maria Khan
March 15, 2021||Delhi||Pandemic lessons: How a court complex should look like||NEW DELHI: The Covid pandemic has not only forced courts to embrace new technologies, but also offered a chance at figuring out how an ideal court complex should look like considering the fact that they are plagued by inadequate infrastructure and lack of sufficient funds. A recent study exploring solutions to make courtrooms user-friendly has concluded that the pandemic has provided policy drafters and decision-makers an “unprecedented opportunity” to create intelligent infrastructure where litigants feel more at ease. The analysis by Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy identified consumer courts as ripe for change, since a citizen was likely to argue and fight the case in person rather than rely on lawyers. It cited the example of virtual hearings during the lockdown and predicted that a hybrid model of physical and online courts were the future if courts were to handle the daily influx of hundreds of citizens. “Needless to say, consumer forums will not be spared from this shift and should utilise the ongoing situation as the right opportunity to transform into what they were originally envisioned to be — a consumer-friendly space with informal and accessible processes,” the report stated. Authored in partnership with Srishti Manipal Institute of Art, Design & Technology, the study attempted to re-imagine design and layout of consumer forums as litigant-centric spaces. “These forums are supposed to be open to consumers to file suo motu complaints. However, absence of helpdesks, information centres or relevant bare acts, rules and regulations often act as a hindrance. Most forums have 60-80 cases listed before them daily. However, they are housed in complexes that do not have sufficient parking facilities to support this footfall,” it argued. The report referred to a recent hearing in Supreme Court where it rapped the Centre for having not done a legislative impact study of consumer courts before notifying a new consumer protection law in July 2020. The apex court also expressed concern over severe shortage of infrastructure and massive vacancies in the forums. The field visits revealed that there was incoherence in administrative functions and the issues included inaccessibility for persons with disabilities, lack of signage, proper washrooms, seating spaces, etc. From the time a citizen walks into a consumer court to the time he or she leaves the building, the entire experience must be non-intimidating, it said. As an example, seating arrangements and even types of furniture for hierarchy between judges, advocates, litigants and court staff could be reworked to have more seats for consumers. “In the hall where the parties are heard, the dais must be no more than 30cm in height than the place earmarked for the parties to occupy,” it added. “These forums have a unique attribute having been established with the prime objective of encouraging litigants to directly represent their cases to receive timely and cost-effective justice. Therefore, these courts should be forthcoming, not just in the judicial process, but also in physical space to be accommodating and accessible for laypersons who do not have any knowledge of court procedures,” the report noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pandemic-lessons-how-a-court-complex-should-look-like/articleshow/81499225.cms||Abhinav Garg
---||Hyderabad||Telangana police to deploy high-tech drone cams to curb crimes||HYDERABAD: State police have begun testing a drone camera with a mike and siren for use as a first responder to select dial 100 phone calls. After successful testing and obtaining permissions from various agencies, drones will be deployed in the city to assist patrolling teams and the control room staff. The drone camera has been developed by a Bengaluru-based company. The plan is to deploy the drone from pre-designated spots to the location of the incident, enabling the staff in the police command control room to assess the real situation on the ground and to de-escalate the matter using a siren and the mike mounted on the drone. “Our initial plan is to use it as a first responder to dial 100 calls about road accidents, certain complaints of crime against women and public nuisance,” said DSP Srinath Reddy who is involved in the project. The project was taken up by the police after IT and municipal administration and urban development (MAUD) minister KT Rama Rao had suggested the use of police drones as first responders in November 2020, saying that it would reduce the time to reach the scene of crime. “We have to stay on that cutting-edge technology to ensure we remain proactive and not reactive,” the minister said at the inauguration of the Public Safety Integrated Operations Center and Data Centre in Cyberabad commissionerate premises. The initial tests indicated that a drone weighing about 1.5 to 2 kilos with an overall weight of 4 to 5 kilos after adding the payload of mike, siren and camera can perform the first responder duty within a radius of 5 km from the place of deployment. The command control centre staff assign select dial 100 call’s longitude and latitude to the police drone triggering it to reach the location on autopilot mode. Before the blue colts or patrol mobiles reach the location, control room staff assess the situation by looking at the visuals relayed from the drone camera and initiate appropriate action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-police-to-deploy-high-tech-drone-cams-to-curb-crimes/articleshow/81500239.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Nagpur||Advanced transect surveys yield better results to save ungulates||Nagpur: A new scientific monograph titled ‘Spatial dynamics and ecology of large ungulate populations in tropical forests of India’ by Centre for Wildlife Studies (CWS) scientists and collaborators has delivered better results to save ungulates. The publication is based on fieldwork and analyses conducted on population ecology of five species of threatened ungulates — gaur, sambar, chital, muntjac, and wild pig in the Nagarahole-Bandipur protected landscape. The study has been published by Springer Nature. The study involved the conduct of line-transect surveys on foot, designed and implemented advanced distance sampling methods. The data generated was analyzed using spatially explicit hierarchical distance sampling models, one of the first studies in the world employing these advanced methods. The study rigorously estimated population densities of these five ungulates at both local and landscape scales, and explored causal factors underlying the variations in their densities in terms of different ecological and management factors. The results showed that population densities of focal species locally varied between 0.2 and 5.1 / sq km for gaur, 0.5 and 8.1 sq km for sambar, 0.9 and 39.8 sq km for chital, 0.1 and 0.7 sq km for muntjac and, 0.1 and 1.1 sq km for wild pig, in response to varying environmental factors. The analytic methodology of Bayesian Hierarchical modelling used by the authors, generated more rigorous and nuanced results useful for conservation, without involving any additional investment of resources compared to the standard line transect sampling. One of the scientists, Samba Kumar said, “Our results have both scientific and management implications. These are the first population ecology data and results gathered at such fine-grained scales on these vulnerable species which are under threat across their range in Asia. The study also highlights the importance of strict anti-hunting measures and regulation of human impacts on habitats, which are far more important to recover these species than many of the expensive commonly employed habitat management practices. Our study also provides a scientifically robust decision-making framework to prioritize management actions to accomplish conservation goals.” Noted wildlife zoologist K Ullas Karanth says, “The approaches we developed and the results we generated have wide application for surveying large ungulate populations all over the world. In view of the fact that almost all the putative line-transect surveys now being conducted across Asia, including those in India, lack rigour and generate unreliable results, there is ample scope for adopting our methods in the future. Because tropical forest ungulates are under serious threat, I hope such adoption will be prioritized by the government.” James Nichols from University of Florida said, “With a few notable exceptions, our knowledge of the population ecology of large, mobile animals is very limited, primarily because of the difficulty of studying such animals at relevant spatial scales. The study reported in this book is exceptional in being well-planned, well-executed via an enormous, supervised field effort, and well-analyzed using state-of-the-art data-analytic approaches. As a result, the study provides strong inferences about the spatial ecology and conservation of the focal ungulates and provides a model for the large-scale study of mobile animal populations.” The scientific monograph is authored by N Samba Kumar, K Ullas Karanth, CWS, Bengaluru, James D Nichols, USA, Srinivas Vaidyanathan, Foundation for Ecological Research, Advocacy & Learning, Pondicherry, Beth Gardner, University of Washington, and Jagdish Krishnaswamy, Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/advanced-transect-surveys-yield-better-results-to-save-ungulates/articleshow/81517723.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 15, 2021||Nagpur||Footfall increase at civic centres as Covid test becomes routine check-up||Nagpur: “I am absolutely fine, had fever just for a day, but tested positive for Covid. Now even my wife has been diagnosed positive,” said a 30-year-old requesting not to be named. His wife stood under a tree at the Raj Nagar government testing centre along with others, with a baby in her arms. Another person, Sharda Singh, had driven down alone to the centre after the doctor advised her to get tested. She had weakness since three days. At another testing centre at Law College, 25-year-old Mohammed Munshir who was planning a holiday during the lockdown had come to get tested before that. Mukesh Uikey, a labourer, was sent by his employer for a RTPCR test before he is engaged at a Metro rail site. Gurpreet Singh, who came to the centre at Pachpaoli, said he was absolutely fine. Yet he thought better to get tested as there were children and elderly at home. Thirty-four-year-old Narayan Pal Singh, who had just got his positive result, was now fuming. Spewing expletives, he said, “I have no cough or fever and they say I am positive.” He had got the test done on his own because his old father lived with him, he said. Despite the many positive reports, there was nothing grim at the testing centres. Patients calmly walked down even after getting a positive report. Looking hail and healthy like others, no one had the slightest qualm about saying that they had Covid. With symptoms similar to common cold or regular viral fever, patients waited for their turn at ease. TOI visited four government testing centres at Raj Nagar, Law College, Regional Police Training Centre (RPTS), and Pachpaoli. On an average 300 persons have been turning up at each centre since a month, said officials. Lately, as many as 40% of the samples collected each day are turning out to be positive. Even doctors at the centres said there were mainly mild or moderate cases. Patients even with slight fever or cough are being straight away sent by their family doctors for a RTPCR test. People wanting to travel are preferring to keep a negative certificate in hand. There are persons walking down on their own after they come in touch with an infected persons. Many had come down after their neighbours or a colleague tested positive. This has increased the testing numbers, said the staff at the centres. The reasons for getting a test done were also noted down in the patient information forms. “We get around 300 patients each day, since last three days as many as 110 to 115 are testing positive. Earlier, this used to be 70 to 80,” said a doctor at the RPTS centre, However, people are coming with their entire families, including kids, and are not very careful about distancing or mask. There is the likelihood that they may take back infections from the centre itself, said the medico. “Even those who are positive look perfect. There is hardly any case of low oxygen levels these days,” said a staffer at Law College centre. This was confirmed at other centres too. A healthy looking Sheetal Masram, in her twenties, said she got cough only in the morning and evening. Rest of the day there was only mild headache. Patients are normally reporting symptoms like head ache, fever, body ache and lately some are also getting loose motions, said a doctor at the Pachpaoli centre. Earlier, roughly 10 out of 100 patients had low oxygen levels, which is now down to four or so, said the doctor. The 80-bed walk-in oxygen centre, where patents could go in case of emergency, is lying empty. “In most of the cases, symptoms are not severe and people too are not much scared about Covid and are freely getting tested,” said Dr Anoop Marar of Orange City Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/footfall-increase-at-civic-centres-as-covid-test-becomes-routine-check-up/articleshow/81500260.cms||Shishir Arya
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Not joining TRS, says Kodandaram||Hyderabad: Telangana Jana Samiti founder and president M Kodandaram on Sunday brushed aside as rumours of him joining the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). He called it a a conspiracy by rival parties to defeat him in the graduate MLC elections. Kodandaram is contesting from Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam MLC constituency which went to polls on Sunday. A few hours before polling, a rumour was allegedly floated by unidentified elements that Kodandaram is likely to join the ruling TRS and that had gone to meet TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at his farm house in Erravelli on Saturday night. “This is a clear case of conspiracy against me. Rival parties are resorting to cheap conspiracies to spoil my electoral prospects,” Kodandaram said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/not-joining-trs-says-kodandaram/articleshow/81501053.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Is Ambani being used as a shield, asks Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut has said recent controversies, including the suicides of Puja Chavan and MP Mohan Delkar and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran followed by police officer Sachin Waze’s arrest, have affected Maharashtra’s “dignity”. Writing in the party’s mouthpiece Saamna under a headline which said, “Is someone trying to use Ambani as a shield”, he alluded to conspiracies against the state government. Speaking to the media, Raut also criticised the National Investigation Agency’s action in taking over the probe into the death of Hiran and the explosives-laden vehicle found near the Ambani residence. He said it amounted to demoralising Mumbai Police and creating instability in Maharashtra. “They (Mumbai Police) are capable and professional. They can’t be pressurised,” he said. Defending Vaze in the same breath, the Rajya Sabha MP described him as an “honest, successful officer and a good investigator”. However, some of Raut’s comments in the Saamna piece seemed at odds with his defence of Vaze. Hunger for “easy money” has lowered standards of morality in the police department, he wrote. “It’s no longer surprising that the police indulge in corruption, extortion and protection money. People have accepted the fact that this is how the police force functions across the country. However, the nation will be in grave peril if policemen indulge in violence and try to strike a pot of gold in drug trafficking and rampant extortion... police cook up a case and get some big names implicated in it and extort money,” said the piece. That a suspicious vehicle should be found parked near Ambani's residence is nearly impossible given the stringent security offered to the tycoon, observed the Sena MP and expressed doubt if there was a deliberate breach of security at Ambani’s residence so that the car could be parked in the vicinity. Without elaborating, he said a clique which does not belong to the police force but wields controls over the Mumbai-Thane unit could have scripted the Hiran-Waze episode. That the police and the state administration should provide every bit of information to leader of the Opposition and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis during the recently concluded state assembly session does not augur well for the government, Raut said. He heaped praise on Fadnavis for his speech on the floor of the state assembly last week, piecing together the Hiran murder story with factual details. However, Raut accused BJP of exerting pressure on the state administration in the matter. This demoralises the police force, he said. The Saamna article is an indication of the turmoil and consternation within the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) regime over l’affaire Waze. The Sena, at loggerheads with the Centre since Matoshree severed ties with BJP and teamed up with the NCP-Congress to form the MVA in the state, is struggling to contain the political fallout of the episode. The case has taken a crucial turn with Waze’s arrest. The body of Hiran, who was in possession of the explosives-laden car found near the Ambani residence, was found in the Mumbra creek. Hiran’s wife has accused Vaze of killing her husband. To a question on sections under which Waze has been charged, Raut said, “There is a difference between charges being levelled and the charges being proved.” He said, “The state government’s prestige is at stake in this case.” Meanwhile, home minister Anil Deshmukh was asked by reporters in Nagpur if Waze would be suspended following his arrest. Deshmukh offered no comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/raut-is-someone-using-ambanis-as-a-shield/articleshow/81501691.cms||Ambarish Mishra
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man dies after assault over ‘petty issue’, 4 held||MUMBAI: A man in his fifties was murdered and his son and daughter were assaulted over a trivial row by a group of Jmen at Sakinaka, Andheri on Saturday. The police arrested four persons on Sunday while they were making preparations to leave for their hometown in Uttar Pradesh. Raees Khan, the deceased, did odd jobs and lived in Sakinaka. Police said some of the accused lived close to him and had frequent disputes with his family over petty issues. Around 11am on Saturday, Raees was walking near a tea centre with his son, Firoz, and daughter, Zeba, at Khadi number 3 area. Prime accused, Shakir Khan, turned up with his aides. The men hurled expletives at Raees and his family before assaulting them. Shakir hit Raees with a wooden plank while Firoz and Zeba were also assaulted by the group. When Raees collapsed from the injuries, the accused fled. Raees was rushed to the Rajawadi Hospital at Ghatkopar where he was pronounced dead at 12.30pm. More arrests cannot be ruled out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-man-dies-after-assault-over-petty-issue-4-held/articleshow/81500249.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad police to organise special drives to check wrong-side driving violations||HYDERABAD: To reduce the number of road accidents in the city, the Hyderabad traffic police will now organise special drives across the city to check ‘wrong-side driving violations’ by motorists. The move to organise the special drive has been considered after the city witnessed an increase in cases of wrong-side driving. As per the data, traffic police booked over 15,000 wrong-side driving cases in January and February this year. They also attributed most of the accidents taking place in the city to wrong-side driving. “We are currently identifying places where there are rampant incidents of wrong-side driving. Once that is done, we will depute special teams to take up awareness campaigns in those areas,” said a senior official. On the other hand, the cops have also started detaining vehicles of those found violating the traffic rules by driving on the wrong side of the road. “Apart from conducting awareness drives, we are also imposing fines on all those who are violating traffic rules. By driving on the wrong side of the road, the motorist will not just endanger his life but also the life of other road users,” said Chandra Mohan, inspector, Narayanguda traffic police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-police-to-organise-special-drives-to-check-wrong-side-driving-violations/articleshow/81500246.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||KTR thanks voters for huge turnout in graduate MLC elections||HYDERABAD: TRS working president and municipal minister KT Rama Rao has thanked all graduates for coming out in large numbers to exercise their franchise due to which the polling percentage increased in this election compared to the 2015 polls. He also thanked ministers, MPs, MLCs, MLAs, party leaders, in charges of various areas in the election and party cadre for working tirelessly to ensure the victory of the party candidates in the two graduate MLC constituencies that went to polls on Sunday. KTR particularly appreciated the response from graduates after he had made an appeal to them to utilise Sunday, a holiday, to exercise their franchise and elect a good candidate. KTR made this appeal after casting his vote at Shaikpet tahsildar office on Sunday morning. KTR reached the polling booth in the first hour of polling, which started at 8 am, and stood in the designated circles made by election officials to ensure social distancing followed in the queue, and waited for his turn, before casting his vote. TRS candidate Surabhi Vani Devi, daughter of former prime minister the late PV Narasimha Raovisited a polling booth in Mahbubnagar along with excise minister V Srinivas Goud on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-thanks-voters-for-huge-turnout/articleshow/81501059.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Bird watchers identify 90 species in Nehru zoo||HYDERABAD: A group of 70 bird watchers who visited Nehru Zoological Park, identified around 90 bird species on Sunday. The birds, which were sighted in the open area of the zoo, included rare ones such as grey-bellied cuckoo, asian brown flycatcher, red breasted flycatcher, hair crested drongo and forest wagtail. VVL Subhadra Devi, curator, Nehru Zoological Park, briefed them about the bird-watching etiquettes in the zoo premises before the group started exploring the area to photograph different species of birds present in the area. A Surekha, Secretary of Deccan Birders thanked Curator, Nehru Zoological Park, Hyderabad for giving an opportunity for the bird watching in the Nehru Zoological Park. “The zoo has always been a favourite haunt of Deccan Birders because it is a massive green patch which abuts National Police academy on one side which is full of vegetation and there is also Mir Alam Tank on the other side. There are different ecosystems in the zoo such as rocks, scrub, water bodies and certain grasslands which throw up a lot of birds,” said Surekha. In a similar event last week, a group of 40 bird watchers from Hyderabad Birding Pals visited Nehru Zoological Park and identified around 88 bird species. At present, the zoo park has 173 species and nearly 1,800 specimens surviving in the area of 380 acres. These are, apart from several other birds, butterflies and a few amphibians that thrive in the open areas of the park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bird-watchers-identify-90-species-in-nehru-zoo/articleshow/81500253.cms||---
---||Dehradun||Upset over road accident, 27-year-old kills self||MUSSOORIE: A 27-year-old man, Rahul Patwal, hanged himself to death in the forest near Lambidhar on Sunday. Before taking the extreme step, the man, a resident of Mussoorie, informed his family members over a phone call. According to Manohar Rawat, senior sub-inspector of police, the youth was involved in a road accident on Saturday and his car had collided with several other vehicles on Mussoorie-Dehradun road. “Nobody sustained injuries in this accident and a compromise was reached between all the parties on Saturday evening. However, the deceased was visibly upset as he did not return home on Saturday night,” Rawat said. “He dialed his parents on Sunday and apologised for the accident and for causing financial loss. He added that he is going to kill himself,” Rawat added. The police have sent the body for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/upset-over-road-accident-27-year-old-kills-self/articleshow/81499260.cms||Anmol Jain
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mukesh Ambani security scare: For ageing widow from Parbhani, Sachin Waze’s arrest means ‘poetic justice’||MUMBAI: For Asiya Begum, Sachin Waze’s arrest seems like “poetic justice”. The 73-year-old mother of Khwaja Yunus, a bomb blast suspect who disappeared in 2003, has waited patiently for years for the tide to turn against the erstwhile encounter specialist. Fighting for “justice after the murder of my son’’, she said she was never a match for “the powerful Waze”. But his arrest showed that “there is always light at the end of the tunnel.” “Our trust in the Almighty has further strengthened my belief that justice is delayed but not denied. We ran from pillar to post to get the trial started in my son’s murder case, but Waze is so powerful that he managed to delay the judicial process for so many years,” said Asiya Begum. Now living with her elder son in Parbhani, she is hoping Sunday’s developments will lead to a relook at the criminal case against Waze, which is pending in a Sewree trial court. Yunus who worked in Dubai, had returned to India on November 28, 2002 to visit his family. He arrived in his hometown Parbhani on November 30. On December 2, a blast took place in Ghatkopar. According to his mother’s petition, Yunus was taken into custody on December 25, brought to Mumbai and handed over to a police team in Powai the next day. Two other suspects, Mohammed Abdul Mateen and Shaikh Zaheer, were also held in the case. A fourth person named Muzammil was arrested, but later discharged. Her petition alleged that “during interrogation” Yunus and the others were “assaulted and tortured”. When she saw her son on December 27, he appeared weak. Police later said he died trying to escape while they were shifting him to Aurangabad for further investigation. She alleged that “to conceal the custodial torture and... custodial death”, Waze and three constables faked his escape and registered a “false case with the Parner police” on January 7, 2003. They alleged that he fled by “jumping” out of the police jeep just before it met with an accident and fell into a gorge. Bombay High Court had accepted her contention that the ‘escape’ FIR was false and had on April 7, 2004 directed that the statement of Yunus’s co-accused Abdul Mateen, who alleged torture in custody, be treated as an FIR for a case of murder against Waze and others. The HC also directed the state and Mumbai police chief to suspend Waze and three others—Rajendra Tiwari, Sunil Desai and Rajaram Nikam—and initiate disciplinary enquiry against them. The state had gone to the Supreme Court to challenge the HC order. But the SC declined to intervene. Yunus’s body was never found. Apart from routine adjournments in the Yunus murder trial, the state has not appointed a public prosecutor for it since 2016, said Asiya Begum. “Since then, there has been no fixed public prosecutor to proceed with my son’s case. Why? Because the accused are more powerful? I was shocked when I learnt that Waze had been taken back into the force last year. I approached the Bombay High Court and filed contempt proceedings.” She has also filed a separate petition to challenge the reinstatement as illegal and contrary to rules. She has said it impinged on her right to a fair and speedy trial into the case of her son’s murder. Her challenge, argued by senior counsel Mihir Desai and advocate Chetan Mali, was heard on March 9 before a bench of Justices KK Tated and Riyaz Chagla who adjourned the matter to March 31. Desai sought two weeks to place on record the English translation of the documents cited, including portions of the chargesheet and the order on Waze’s reinstatement. HC allowed his request. Asiya Begum’s petition said the same order of the state had “disallowed reinstatement of other suspended officers though they are facing lighter charges.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaifor-ageing-widow-from-parbhani-this-arrest-means-poetic-justice/articleshow/81501064.cms||Swati Deshpande
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||72 people held for drunk driving by Cyberabad cops||HYDERABAD: A total of 72 persons were caught by the Cyberabad Traffic Police for drunk driving out of which 29 of them were sentenced to imprisonment by a local court here. They were sentenced for durations ranging from one to three days. Officials said all those caught were produced before the court, which imposed fines of Rs 2,69,000 on them. The Cyberabad traffic Police urged citizens to exhibit self-discipline and responsibility while driving. Also, 24 others who were found driving without licence were fined, and a total of Rs 85,500 was collected from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/72-persons-held-for-dd-by-cyberabad-cops/articleshow/81500251.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Bareilly||Pilibhit admin pledges to revive rivers Devha, Mala||PILIBHIT: Pilibhit’s two major rivers, Devha and Mala, are in danger of getting choked to death due to pollution, dumping of garbage on its banks and encroachments by both public and municipal bodies. On Saturday, authorities pledged to clean and revive the rivers while observing the International Day of Action for Rivers. Observing the “rights of rivers”, district magistrate, Pulkit Khare vowed to take all possible steps to free the two rivers of encroachments and pollutants and restore them. As many as nine rivers flow through the district and Devha and Mali are the most important. The Devha is considered to be the lifeline of Pilibhit city. In 1955, Nanakmata dam was built across it in what is now Udhamsingh Nagar district of Uttarakahnd. Today, Pilibhit municipal council dumps some 30 tonnes of garbage on its banks despite a ban by the Central Pollution Control Board and the National Green Tribunal. Over the years, huge mounds of garbage lie on its banks. The main drain of Pilibhit city discharges untreated sewage into it. The river is saturated with filth, plastic and polythene. “We were allotted the site on the river bank for the dumping of city’s garbage,” said Prabhat Jaiswal, chairperson of Pilibhit municipal council. However, his office failed to produce any written consent of the district administration in this regard. Devendra Pratap Mishra, ADM (judicial), while saying no allotment of river bank site was granted to the municipal council for use as a landfill, he could not say why the civic body had a free hand in polluting the river, River Mala, that flows through the core forest area of Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR), has also been encroached upon. “The obstruction in the river stream will not only endanger it but poses a threat of floods in the core forest area,” said Naveen Khandelwal, deputy director of PTR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-admin-pledges-to-revive-rivers-devha-mala/articleshow/81498428.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Spike in Covid-19 cases likely, experts advise self-isolation||HYDERABAD: The next fortnight is crucial for Telangana for controlling Covid-19 spread, especially after the polls as a lot of crowding has happened during the run-up to the poll. Experts said that a spike in cases is likely anytime now, and suggested people to be extra cautious and self-quarantine for a week. In case of symptoms, they said people should go for testing without delay and follow Covid-19 precautions without any lapses. “Those exposed to the polling activities for a longer time should remain in the house for a minimum period of three days and observe if there is any fever, cough or cold. Since there is a possibility of a spike in cases, there is all the more need to follow proper Covid-19 precautions,” said Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, national secretary, Indian Medical Association (IMA). Meanwhile, an increase in cases has already been seen in the state with the daily new cases of Covid-19 going from around 140 a week ago to 228 on Sunday. Also, one death was recorded on Sunday. In the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, 49 new cases were recoded, while neighbouring Medchal-Malkajgiri, Rangareddy and Sangareddy together recorded another 40 cases. “We are likely to see a further spike as already half of the ICUs are occupied with Covid-19 patients. The increase that we are seeing is largely because of the fact that vaccination has given people a pseudo relief and this is scary. Also, people who were already infected are not being cautious and the general public has given up wearing masks, social distancing etc,” said Dr Ashish Chauhan, consultant, internal medicine, Apollo Secunderabad. Health authorities have already ramped up testing and a total of 50,998 tests were conducted on Sunday. “Testing will be increased to 60,000 tests per day. More testing is the only way to detect an outbreak and begin containment measures,” said a source from the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spike-in-covid-19-cases-likely-experts-advise-self-isolation/articleshow/81500257.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||22k more beneficiaries get vax||Hyderabad: With 22,417 more beneficiaries across categories being vaccinated on Sunday, a total of 7.49 lakh doses of the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines have been administered so far in the state. These have been given to 5,46,676 beneficiaries, many of whom have also got the second doses. The four categories of beneficiaries who have received the vaccine doses are healthcare workers, frontline workers, elderly above 60 years of age and persons in the age group of 45-59 years having various comorbidities. On Sunday, 918 healthcare workers, 3,176 frontline workers, 7,793 persons with comorbidities and 10,539 elderly persons aged over 80 took the vaccine. Of these, frontline workers turned up in big numbers to take the second dose on Sunday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/22k-more-beneficiaries-get-vax/articleshow/81500261.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||T Congress says EC in KCR’s pocket||Hyderabad: The Congress on Sunday charged the ruling TRS of indulging in violation of model code of conduct on the polling day and also during the campaign earlier and demanded that the election commission take immediate action. AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan condemned the widespread election violations by TRS during the polling on Sunday and alleged that home minister Mahmood Ali divulged the candidate’s name for whom voted. “Even the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) is turning a blind eye to TRS’ code violations. There are strong suspicions whether he has surrendered to TRS, as no action has been taken against violations by the TRS despite complaints being lodged,” Sravan said.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-congress-says-ec-in-kcrs-pocket/articleshow/81501062.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||First-time voters flummoxed over polling booth location||Hyderabad: Graduates who came to exercise their adult franchise for the first time in MLC election on Sunday found the location of polling booths far away from their place of residence. Polling to the two graduate MLC constituencies of Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam was held on Sunday with a large number of first-time voters coming out to exercise their franchise. Unlike the assembly, Parliament or local bodies elections, the graduate MLC elections are a different ballgame. Only those with a minimum qualification of graduation are eligible to enrol and cast their vote in this election. And this time for elections to the two graduate MLC constituencies, a fresh round of enrolment was taken up. Those who had enrolled in earlier rounds of MLC elections, had to again register their names. Due to the awareness campaigns by the election authorities and the hard work of political parties and independents to enrol as many graduates as possible, a large number of graduates who never voted in MLC elections, registered their names on the voter’s list this time. “I stay in an apartment in Shyamlal Buildings locality, but my vote is in a government school at Balanagar. Are there no polling booths in the nearby localities? The election officials should try and allot the nearest polling booth even in the MLC elections,” Balasubramanian, a resident of Shyamlal Buildings, said. However, a large number of first-time voters were happy that they did not have to stand in long queues to exercise their franchise and had a free run into the polling booth to cast their vote in the first few hours of polling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/first-time-voters-flummoxed-over-polling-booth-location/articleshow/81501061.cms||Roushan Ali
---||Amaravati||It’s Jagan Mohan Reddy all the way in Andhra Pradesh as rivals stunned||AMARAVATI: The YSR Congress party registered a landslide victory in municipal elections across Andhra Pradesh, winning almost all the civic bodies for which polls were held on March 10. In the election results declared on Sunday, the ruling YSRCP won 11 municipal corporations and 73 of the 75 municipalities in the state. “People have overwhelmingly backed our CM Jagan Mohan Reddy’s three-capital cities plan,” said YSRC spokesperson Ambati Rambabu. The main opposition TDP bagged only two civic bodies — Tadipatri and Mydukur municipalities. The result of Eluru municipal corporation was not declared in view of a stay order by the AP high court, which is hearing a case related to updation of voters’ list in the civic body. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AMIM, which contested polls for the first time in AP, won one municipal ward in Hindupur town, opening its electoral account in the southern state. Counting of votes began at 8am and by 10am it was clear that the YSRCP would make a clean sweep. The party cadres burst into celebrations all over the state as their victory, particularly in Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Guntur cities, is a big setback for the TDP. The ruling party left rival parties, including the TDP, shell-shocked by winning 11 out of 11 municipal corporations and 69 of the 71 municipalities. The TDP’s score could not even touch the double-digit number in many towns. Although the TDP won a majority of wards in Tadipatri and Mydukur, the YSRCP is likely to bag the chairperson posts there with the help of ex-officio votes. This in other words means that the YSRCP will control all the civic bodies in the state. The Janasena-BJP combine too had no major impact on the voters. In fact, YSRCP’s grand show in the recently held village panchayat elections had set the tone for the party’s victory march in the urban civic body elections. Although YSRCP looked formidable in the majority of the cities and towns, TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu took the municipal elections seriously in an attempt to prove that his party holds sway on the urban electorate. Naidu and his son Lokesh aggressively campaigned in the municipal elections covering all the key cities and towns in the state. While Naidu tried to raise the issue of capital city Amaravati, YSRCP still won 45 divisions of 57 in Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) and TDP got just 8 divisions. Janasena bagged two and YSRC rebels two. The party banked heavily on the welfare programmes that covered all sections of people. YSRCP’s victory in the municipal elections had surpassed its scores in the assembly elections held almost two years ago and panchayat elections held last month. The YSRC won nearly 85% of seats in the assembly in the 2019 elections while it bagged over 83% of the panchayats held on a non-party basis. The party now won nearly 100% of civic bodies. In majority of cities and towns, it left the rival TDP, Janasena-BJP combine way behind. YSRCP’s win was complete as it bagged Vizianagaram, Greater Visakha, Vijayawada, Guntur, Ongole, Chittoor, Tirupati, Kurnool, Anantapur and Kadapa municipal corporations spread over all the three regions of the state. The YSRCP won the keenly contested Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) despite controversy over the proposed sale of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. It won 58 divisions of the total 98 in the city while TDP won 30 divisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/its-jagan-all-the-way-as-ysrcp-sweeps-municipal-polls-in-ap/articleshow/81501720.cms||Samdani MN
March 15, 2021||Nagpur||AC & cooler demand hots up ahead of Covid restrictions||NAGPUR: Fear of restrictions getting extended beyond March 21 has led to Nagpurians making a dash for getting their desert coolers and ACs installed/serviced. As a result, the limited workforce with dealers and small-time electricians is ending up working well past midnight to meet the demand. Rakesh Awachat, owner of Ram Coolers, said he was finding it tough to meet the demand. “On Sunday, I dispatched 130 coolers and similar numbers are to be sent from my factory in the coming days. Till a few days ago, there was huge rush at showrooms with people literally lining up outside to buy coolers,” said Awachat. With restrictions beginning from Monday, he has his task cut out. “There are six phones at my showroom and they have been ringing incessantly. From Monday, the showroom is closed but factories are open, so the entire action shifts there,” he said. Demand for AC units too has picked up with people fearing an extension of the restrictions. Nitesh Agarwal, a dealer in ACs, said, “Since Friday, my staff has been working almost till 2am. Work starts early in the morning and they are just hopping from one site to the other. Customers are panicking and our phones have not stopped buzzing since the March 15-21 announcement.” Dilip Mirzapure and Ashish Bhisey, who also deal in ACs, said there has been a sharp increase in sales. Mirzapure said, “It’s definitely fear among the people that “restrictions” will get extended and they won’t be able to buy it for quite sometime. Sales have increased which has also added to the pressure on available staff.” Bhisey said they will be appealing to the authorities for permission to ‘service’ emergency cases. “In case of breakdown, we must be allowed to attend to complaints,” said Bhisey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ac-cooler-demand-hots-up-ahead-of-covid-restrictions/articleshow/81500274.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 15, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Congress holds ‘Halla Bol’ rally against hike in petrol & LPG prices in new CM’s home turf Pauri||DEHRADUN: Thousands of people attended the ‘Halla Bol, Jan Akrosh’ rally organised by Congress in Srinagar (Pauri) on Sunday. Party leaders Harish Rawat, Indira Hridayesh, Pritam Singh, and Kishore Upadhyay shared the stage to address the gathering. The rally was also joined by state party in-charge Devendra Yadav who slammed the BJP for changing CM to manipulate the voters. On the occasion, former state chief minister Harish Rawat announced that Congress will give 100 units of free power to each household and also fill all the vacant positions in government departments, if elected to power. Speaking at the rally, Congress chief Pritam Singh said that Uttarakhand has suffered a lot during the last four years of the BJP rule. He added that the saffron party cannot redeem itself of the sins it committed in the last four years just by replacing the CM. Unemployment rate in the state has shot up to 22.3% in four years and the state is reeling under a financial crisis. “The BJP government has failed miserably at all the fronts in Uttarakhand. The prices of petrol and diesel have skyrocketed. If things go on like this, earning two square meals would also become a challenge,” added Singh. Harish Rawat, while addressing the public at Gol Bazar in Srinagar, said, “We will start all the welfare schemes — milk scheme, coarse grains, water harvesting, and others — that they (BJP) have stopped. We will also give free electricity upto 100 units in the first three years if we are elected to power and this would be increased to 200 units after three years. We will also fill all the vacant posts in government departments so that the issue of unemployment can be addressed,” said Rawat. When asked about the internal differences in Congress, Rawat said, “Our internal differences are internal but BJP’s internal differences have come out in open. It made the saffron party change its CM.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-congress-holds-halla-bol-rally-against-hike-in-petrol-lpg-prices-in-new-cms-home-turf-pauri/articleshow/81499271.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Speeding truck rams auto in Jogipet, man, two sons killed||Hyderabad: Four persons died and an equal number of their relatives suffered injuries in a road accident when a speeding truck rammed into an auto rickshaw in Jogipet on Sunday. At 12.30pm, an auto rickshaw travelling with eight people from Sangareddy to Mansanpally village was hit by a truck coming from the opposite direction at Almayipet village outskirts near a culvert. Three persons — Ch Sravan, 39, a cloth merchant from Sangareddy, his sons Ch Sai Vignesh, 13, and Ch Sai Charan, 7, — died on the spot and the rest were shifted to Sangareddy hospital. One of the injured, P Venkatesh, 39, a relative of Sravan, who was driving the auto, succumbed to injuries at the hospital. Venkatesh’s wife P Padma, a private employee, Sravan’s wife Ch Swapna, a handloom worker, their relatives, Bhavani, 35, a tailor, and Ramesh, 25, a private employee, who suffered injuries in the accident, were shifted to Osmania General Hospital for better treatment. Police said their condition was stable. According to Jogipet circle inspector (CI) Srinivas, when the incident happened, the victims were travelling from Sangareddy to Mansanpally to attend a 21-day ceremony of their family member’s son . “The accident occurred due to speeding and negligent driving of the truck driver. After the accident, he abandoned the vehicle and fled from the spot,” the CI said. Based on the complaint of the victim’s family member, Ch Venugopal, a case was registered against the absconding truck driver under Sections 304-A and 337 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/speeding-truck-rams-auto-in-jogipet-man-two-sons-killed/articleshow/81501073.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Ludh at bottom 10 of civic body perfomance rating||Ludhiana: Even as the Ludhiana is ranked at Number 14 in ease of living ranking in the country, but when it comes to civic body performance Ludhiana is at the bottom 10 of the list of the 51 (above 1 million) cities in the country. This comes as no surprise to many residents who feel that public infrastructure is in such a bad shape in city that it deserves to get such ranking. The ranking released by ministry of housing and urban afairs and recently suggests that Ludhiana with a score of 39.88 was ranked at 44 for municipal performance among the 51 million plus cities of the country. Indore with a score of 66.08 was at number one position. In the region, Ludhiana was also at the lowest spot with Chandigarh earning a ranking of 23 with score of 47.71 in Municipal performance. Amritsar with a score of 42.68 was eight spots ahead of Ludhiana. The analysis of sub categories that comprise municipal performance index suggest that Ludhiana was at number 48th among the 51 cities in services aspect whereas it was at number 33 and 34 so far as governance and finance aspect are concerned respectively. The city, however, fared slightly better in planning and earned 27th rank among the 51 cities of country whereas it earned 17th rank in technology aspect. Experts in public infrastructure said given the services provided to people in Ludhiana, the ranking is not a surprise. “It is perhaps shocking that municipal performance is poor in Ludhiana. There are various reasons for that including corruption, lack of will power and political interference. If I would have to rate the performance of MC, I would give them one out of 10. Illegal colonies are being developed, which puts load on existing infrastructure as they (MC) is not coming up with new infrastructure. There is water and air pollution in city and development is done on papers and not on ground. If it is done it is done through NGT or court,” said Kapil Dev, president of Council of Engineers who does raise issues of public importance. “Roads are in bad shape and re-carpeting is not being done properly. Illegal construction is going on and no one stop those. Garbage disposal is a biggest issue as they are not able to properly handle it even as energy can be generated and manure can be made from it.” “Though they are repairing roads in our area but in many areas of city especially from BRS Nagar to Phullanwal Chowk it is worse. Also in many areas people have constructed ramps in front of their houses which is why road available to vehicles passing through those areas is less and no one is acting against such people. In rainy season, water logging is a big issue and needs to be addressed besides water harvesting should be done in view of dropping water table wherein MC has a role. So all these aspects doesn’t suggest good performance of MC,” said Kulwant Rai, a real estate promoter from Rajguru Nagar area. Another resident, a social activist is critical of the working of MC. “Despite tall claims, fund allocations, MCL has failed on most crucial fronts like waste management, maintenance of major as well as minor roads, street sweeping, stray animals, dog bites and broken street lights, nothing is happening. Moreover, the realization of property tax, water and sewage charges along with rental income from residents is a big failure. Building branch staff, Tehbazari teams are most corrupt and Parking lots issues have been a big nuisance for daily visitors, rather open loot despite numerous complaints under patronage of MCL,” said Narinder Singh Masson, a social activist and city resident. “Only certain areas irrespective of elected representatives are somewhat livable, Officials are prone to general apathy, only more concerned about hype with respect to Swachhta mission, but no ground improvement in sight. It's health branch, safe drinking water and sanitation are in shambles. How we got open defecation free tag needs to be probed.” Despite repeated attempts MC commissioner Pradeep Sabharwal cannot be contacted as he didn’t respond to multiple calls and whatsapp message. Even Mayor Balkar Singh didn’t take calls till the time of filing of this report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ludh-at-bottom-10-of-civic-body-perfomance-rating/articleshow/81501075.cms||Shariq Majeed
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Car rams truck on Ring Road, 3 die||Hyderabad: Three persons died in a road accident on Sunday night when their car rammed into a truck from behind on the Outer Ring Road (ORR) at Shamirpet. The accident happened when three members of a family were travelling in a car from Gajwel to Uppal. The victims — Karunakar Reddy, 48, a private worker from Chilukanagar in Uppal, his wife Sarala, 42, and her sister Sandhya, 41 —died on the spot in the accident that occurred around 7.40pm. “The victims were returning to their home in Chilukanagar after attending a function at Gajwel. Karunakar was driving the car and due to speeding, the vehicle rammed into a truck from behind,” Shamirpet inspector S Santosham said. The bodies of the victims were shifted to Gandhi Hospital for post-mortem examination and a case was registered under Section 304-A of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/car-rams-truck-on-ring-road-3-die/articleshow/81501077.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Take help from courts, make govt depts work: Experts||Hyderabad: Non-governmental organisations and voluntary efforts must concentrate more towards ensuring government departments perform their duties without corruption, judicial experts said. At the first Adarsh Puraskar fucntion, Dr PD Kameswara Rao, founder of Sodhana Charitable Trust, fondly known as PDK in Cheepurupalli of Vizianagaram district, said bringing money from outside and spending it on the people may not help much.  “Let us strengthen our state-run institutions and they will serve our people. This is the way forward to help reduce the gap between the poor and the rich.” He was speaking after receiving the first Adarsh Puraskar award instituted by Justice MN Rao and Dr Shalini Rao Pargaonkar foundation at Jubilee Hills International Centre here on Sunday. His understanding of the problems led to the formation of self-help groups, the introduction of Vidya volunteers, Anganwadi workers nurturing pre-school kids, etc which were all adopted by the state government in the later years. We have to invent and introduce such methods, he said while thanking the organizers for selecting Sodhana for the award. Two more awards were given to Taslima Sultana of Abhaya Kshetram an NGO from Tirupati for her service to the mentally retarded and orphans and Ravindra Babu from Desire Society, Hyderabad for the service they rendered to children with special needs and those who were suffering from HIV positive disease. Describing Justice MN Rao as a true leader who unequivocally stands for the cause of the poor, AP’s former special chief secretary M Gopalakrishna said that he is a permanent legal advisor for the poor. Presiding over the awards distribution function of Justice MN Rao and Shalini Rao Pargaonkar foundation’s first Adarsh Puraskar Awards 2021, he recalled the service rendered by Rao’s late wife Shalini as a medical teacher at Osmania medical college and her motherly attitude towards students. Justice G Rohini former Chief Justice of Delhi high court said that Justice Rao always surprises her with his in-depth knowledge and understanding of our society and his commitment towards the poor was unparalleled. Justice P Ramakrishnam Raju, a former judge of AP HC, said that everyone wants to have a lion’s share in the material. But Justice Rao has a lion’s heart and that is why he makes several unpublicized donations to the suffering people, Raju said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/take-help-from-courts-make-govt-depts-work-experts/articleshow/81501080.cms||---
---||Dehradun||Rumours of lockdown in a school and nearby locality create panic||MUSSOORIE: A rumour claiming that the district administration will impose lockdown restrictions in a Mussoorie locality and seal the building of a school in the wake of an alleged spurt in Covid-19 cases triggered panic among locals in the hill town on Sunday. The circulation of unverified messages — stating that the local administration will seal a reputed boarding school and put restrictions in Barlowganj locality — led parents of the school kids to make frantic calls to the management of the institution. As the false news spread to other districts and states, tourists even cancelled their advanced bookings to Mussoorie. Later in the day, the district administration dismissed all such rumours and urged people to not spread unverified news. Speaking to TOI, sub-divisional magistrate Manish Kumar said that 14 students of the boarding school tested positive for Covid-19 on March 10 and 11. They had come from other states. “However, the situation is under control and there are no plans to cordon off the campus,” added the official. “Only one block within the school campus — where the infected children were being treated — was declared as a micro containment zone as per the government guidelines. No new case has come up in the school after March 11. Also, lockdown restrictions are not being imposed in Barlowganj locality,” clarified the SDM. Meanwhile, the school authorities also issued a statement refuting the rumours. “We condemn the wrong information that is being circulated. It has created unnecessary panic and inconvenience for parents and for the school. All students are safe and are in good health. There is no cause for concern,” told Brother Joseph M. Joseph, principal of the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rumours-of-lockdown-in-a-school-and-nearby-locality-create-panic/articleshow/81499299.cms||Anmol Jain
---||Mumbai||Mumbai: Divorce lawyer Ansuya Dutt’s demise marks ‘end of an era’||Mumbai: A day after International Women’s Day, the legal community lost a venerable veteran who practiced exclusively in the sphere of matrimonial law. Ansuya Dutt was 93. Lawyers, both young and seasoned, said “it’s the end of an era”. They remembered Dutt as an advocate at the family court who fought vexed divorce disputes fairly, often advocating amicable resolution among warring couples. Lawyers, including her former junior Mridula Kadam, ex-principal judge Bandra family court R Vachha, advocates Mrunalini Deshmukh, Sajan Oommen, Kranti Sathe, Ma-dhuri Sharma and Jalaja Nair, said she was a “pioneer in family law” .“She was like a mother to me; one of the most respected and earliest members of the bar,” Mumbai family court bar president Sasi Nair said. Dutt studied in Santiniketan, started practice in 1951 in Mumbai and soon became a celebrity lawyer. She was the “one of India’s leading divorce lawyers”, said The New York Times in one of its article in 1976. Several actors and even Smita Thackeray reached for her, a colleague recalled. “Speaking to her was always a calming experience,” said activist lawyer Flavia Agnes, adding that Dutt had represented her in her judicial separation case in the 80s. —Swati Deshpande||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-divorce-lawyer-ansuya-dutts-demise-marks-end-of-an-era/articleshow/81500276.cms||Swati Deshpande
March 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Cops book local gangster for attacking car dealer||Ludhiana: The police have booked a local gangster, lodged in jail, his brother, sister and accomplices for opening attacking a car trader in Janakpuri area. The victim has alleged that the local gangster has been threatening him from inside the jail, due to some monetary dispute. The assailants had opened at least five bullets, including one targeting CCTVs installed in his office. The trader escaped unhurt in this incident. On the complaint of Gagan Banger, 38, the Division number 2 police have lodged an FIR against local gangster Sandeep, his brother Shinda, his sister Monia, his accomplices Karan Honey, Fanta and Mandeep Singh and some unidentified accomplices. Gagan alleged that during lockdown, Shinda had purchased a car. Now, the accused wanted to return the car and wanted his money back. He suspected that the accused could have used the vehicle in some crime incident, therefore, he refused to accept the car. He alleged that Sandeep was threatening him over the phone from jail ever since. He has also made a complaint to the police one and a half months ago, but to no avail. Investigating officer assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Rajwant Singh said that an FIR under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 120-B (criminal Conspiracy) of IPC and sections 25, 54 and 59 of Arms act has been lodged against the accused. On other side, Mandeep Singh released a video, after the incident stating that Gaurav is trying to implicate him in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-book-local-gangster-for-attacking-car-dealer/articleshow/81501081.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala Assembly Election 2021: MLA who gave up post 10 days after assuming charge||KOZHIKODE: When many candidate hopefuls are seen raising the threat of resignation and revolt for not getting party tickets, Congress leader C Haridas had given up his hard-won seat just 10 days after becoming an MLA over 40 years ago, upholding the party decision. He became the shortest serving MLA in state’s history. In 1980, Haridas, then a 40-year-old leader and a staunch follower of Congress leader A K Antony, had contested from Nilambur as Indian National Congress (U) candidate, which was a breakaway faction of the Congress headed by Antony, and had won the election by defeating UDF candidate T K Hamza by a margin of 6,423 votes. “Party had to make Aryadan Mohammed the labour minister in the then E K Nayanar ministry and it was Antony who suggested to quit as Aryadan had to get elected to the assembly within six months through a byelection. I had no qualms and told him that I would submit my resignation as it was for the interest of the party and I put in my papers without any hesitation after serving as MLA for just 10 days,” said Haridas, who made his political foray during his student days in Maharaja's College, Ernakulam, where Antony and Vayalar Ravi were his college mates.. Mohammed, who had contested to the parliament from Ponnani seat in 1980, had, however, lost to G M Banathwala by a margin of over 50,000 votes. Though the party gave him a Rajya Sabha seat the same year, Haridas said there was no formula like that when he gave up the seat. Though he was not considered for assembly or parliamentary elections after his RS stint, the 80-year-old Congress leader has remained loyal to the party and has been active in Ponnani till date. He had been the chairman of Ponnani municipality from 2000 to 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/mla-who-gave-up-post-10-days-after-assuming-charge/articleshow/81500289.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Thane||23-year-old man stabs uncle over property dispute in Kalyan, held||KALYAN: A 23-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly stabbing his 62-year-old uncle and injuring his son in Kalyan on Sunday. The accused has been identified as Harshal Thange. The accused took this step over a property dispute. The victim has been identified as Narayan Thange. "There was a dispute between the Narayan and his two siblings over a shop. Narayan had filed a suit in a court at Kalyan over its ownership. However, the accused wanted the shop for himself," said ACP A M Powar. "On Sunday morning, Harshal went to Narayan’s house and in a fit of rage stabbed him. He also attacked his cousin who tried to rescue his father," he said. A case has been registered against Harshal under Section 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-23-year-old-man-stabs-uncle-over-property-dispute-in-kalyan-held/articleshow/81500282.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 15, 2021||Goa||Laxman Pai, who put Goa on global art map, passes away||PANAJI: Over the past decade or so, he painted standing with the help of a walker, and later, probably sitting in a wheelchair. But as time went by, Padma Bhushan awardee and legendary Goan artist Laxman Pai painted in progressively brighter and in more intense hues. He had long made it amply clear that he did not like dull colours. “The bold and sensational colours set my narrative into a pitch of intensity,” he once said. His last words — before he breathed his last at 8.10pm on Sunday, at 95 — were “keep smiling”, reflective of his conviction that life should be nothing but bold and vibrant. “When he was in the US, he signed a declaration and told his son that he never wanted to be put on artificial life support,” said art collector Shaistah Thapar. “He was adamant that he should be allowed to die in peace. Although the hospital offered to keep him on artificial support till his son reached Goa, his son said he respected his father’s words.” His last rites will be performed on Wednesday, after his son arrives. It was Thapar who brought Pai back to Goa after his wife Purnima passed away some years ago. Since then, he has been living in his home state. Pai’s works are displayed in museums from Berlin to New York and from Chennai to New Delhi, and spent ten years in the Mecca of art, Paris. But a disproportionate amount of his work was inspired from all things Goan, be it Shigmo or the process of feni-making. At a time when following western trends was in vogue, Pai increasingly turned to forms from Indian miniature paintings. “He was principal of Goa college of art from 1977 for a decade, and so most of today’s prominent artists in Goa have been shaped seeing his works,” said well-known Goan artist Nirupa Naik. “His paintings have a unique character, and are such that even laymen would like them. He created his own form giving the female form to the sea and the coconut tree, among others.” Pai has had no less than 100 solo exhibitions across the world, and, though he was never formally a member of the Progressive Artists Group of then Bombay, he was the last of the Goan artists of the movement. “His demise is a big loss for the contemporary art scenario,” said prominent Goan visual artist and curator Rajan Fulari. “He was the last of the era of artists like FN Souza and Gaitonde, as he had worked with the Progressive Artists Group, though not officially a member of it. Goenkarponn can be seen from his work from the beginning. He mostly used Indianised elements and we drew inspiration from him.” It was SH Raza who assisted Pai to travel to Paris from his stint at the Sir JJ school of art, which had turned troubled by his association with FN Souza and his paintings that were then viewed as controversial. Pai studied fresco and etching in Paris, and later Rosenthal porcelain art in Germany. For a while, he was also inspired by ancient Egyptian geometric forms, only for his figures to later again turn more rounded and Indianised. “I am my own Guru. I have taken things from others, but have made them my own,” Pai had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/laxman-pai-who-put-goa-on-global-art-map-passes-away/articleshow/81501093.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
March 15, 2021||---||Didi puts democracy over injured left foot||KOLKATA: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, her plastered left foot supported by the raised footrest of a wheelchair, resumed her poll campaign on Sunday with a 5.4-km Trinamool Congress procession through the heart of south Kolkata and a new war cry: “Always remember, a wounded tiger is more dangerous”. Mamata’s appearance at a party meeting that was supposed to be led by her nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee came less than 48 hours after she was discharged from hospital. The CM, who had injured her foot while campaigning in Nandigram, later told a gathering, “I am in a lot of pain. But the responsibility of protecting democracy is far more important. I will move around the whole of Bengal with my injured leg, sitting in a wheelchair. Khela hobe”. The organisers had built a 21-ft ramp for the CM’s wheelchair to reach the 20x10ft dais. “I have faced a number of attacks throughout my life, but I never bowed my head”. Mamata said her doctors had advised her 15 days’ bed rest, but she chose to get back to the job at hand in a wheelchair. Mamata said she could easily walk 20-25km if she were fit." “When I walk, my mind becomes active. When my legs don’t move, it seems like there are dark spots across my mind and body.” At the rally venue, MP Abhishek announced to rapturous applause minutes before the start of the procession that the CM had decided to join the crowd. “It would be foolish to even think that injuring Mamata Banerjee can put TMC on the back foot. Bhanga paae lorai hobe, bhanga paaei juddho hobe, bhanga paaei jeta hobe, bhanga paaei abar Nabanna dokhol hobe. (She will fight with an injured leg, go to war on a broken leg, win with a broken leg and conquer Nabanna again on a broken leg),” he said, heralding Mamata’s arrival around 1.45pm. She later took ahelicopter ride to Durgapur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/didi-puts-democracy-over-injured-left-foot/articleshow/81502314.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Surat||Surat crosses 200 mark, posh Athwa zone sees huge surge||Surat: Residents of Diamond City will have to mask up really well, with Surat city crossing the 200 mark in fresh surge of coronavirus. The new panic is a grim reminder of the last year’s lockdown period, as though undeclared, the civic body is stepping up its enforcement to stall the fresh spread of the dreaded virus. City’s Athwa zone reported the highest 79 Covid-19 cases, followed by 40 in Rander zone while Limbayat reported 23 on Sunday. With the rise in infection, hospitalization rate has also seen an increase. As on Sunday, the number of Covid-19 patients in different hospitals in the city was 205, a sharp increase from 130 four days ago on March 10. On Sunday, total 23 patients were admitted into an isolation ward in New Civil hospital and 19 in SMC-run SMIMER hospital. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has warned people about the new Covid-19 strain detected in the city and appealed to people to remain vigilant. Meanwhile, civic body’s enforcement teams fined 196 people for not wearing face masks and collected Rs 1.96 lakh fine from them. On Sunday, SMC chief along with newly elected mayor Hemali Bhoghawala visited the urban health centre in Pal and reviewed the vaccination programme. They interacted with people who got vaccinated at the centre and reiterated on the safety of the vaccine urging people to take it. They also visited the newly started vaccination centre in Rander zone as well. "Till Sunday, total 1.65 lakh people vaccinated which include healthcare workers, frontline workers, people above 65 years age and people with comorbid conditions,” said an SMC official. “Covid-19 infection cases are increasing especially in Athwa and Rander zones besides other civic zones as well and city has also detected UK strain and South Africa strain of Covid-19 and it is advisable for the people to stay safe by following Covid-19 protocol,” said an SMC statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-crosses-200-mark-posh-athwa-zone-sees-huge-surge/articleshow/81498495.cms||---
---||Chandigarh||AAP legal cell convenes meeting||Ludhiana: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legal cell convened a state-level meeting at Ludhiana under the chairmanship of state legal cell president Justice Jora Singh (retired) here on Sunday. AAP said the meeting was attended by advocates from different districts across Punjab. “It was decided in the meeting that the legal cell of the party would be strengthened across Punjab. The meeting discussed the political developments taking place in Punjab and across the country,” said AAP representatives. Discussing the “struggle being waged” by the farmers across the country, including Punjab for their rights, Justice Jora Singh (retired) said the AAP was standing firm, “shoulder to shoulder” with the farmers. It was also stated in the meeting that while the conventional parties of Punjab were still pretending to be fake supporters of the farmers to save their existence, the Aam Aadmi Party’s Kejriwal government was serving the farmers on the Delhi border as ‘sewadars’ . He said AAP workers participate in every call made by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, while other conventional parties take equal action to thwart the farmers’ movement. It was “decided” in the meeting that a large number of advocates from all over Punjab would be mobilised to participate in the Aam Aadmi Party's Kisan Maha Sammelan to be held on March 21 at Bagha Purana. “On the occasion, state legal cell secretary Kashmir Singh Malhi, Prabhjit Singh, R S Ratola, Prabhjot Singh Sachdeva, Narinder Singh Tiwana, Hardeep Singh Bharur, Maninderjit Singh, Ferry Sofat, Amarjot Singh, Ranjit Pal Singh, Gaurav Arora, Tejinder Singh Dhiman, Rajiv Madan, Dhawaljit Singh Dutta, Neeraj Sharma, Amarjit Singh Shergill, Dinesh Lakhanpal, besides many other advocates from Ludhiana district were also present,” AAP said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-legal-cell-convenes-meeting/articleshow/81501089.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Pune||Hsg society officials on home quarantine watch||Pune: The municipal corporations of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have decided to rope in office-bearers of housing societies to monitor residents placed under home-quarantine. Officials of both civic bodies said they had to resort to this move as they lacked the manpower to monitor each Covid-19 patient under home quarantine, and in view of frequent home-isolation violations. “Public participation is key to controlling the spread of the virus and so, we have directed the housing societies to help us,” Ashish Bharati, head of PMC’s health department, said. Housing societies in Pimpri Chinchwad have been warned that their premises would be sealed if they do not ensure their residents comply with the norms. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner threatened to file criminal complaints against those violating home-isolation norms. “As long as people comply, it would be easier for us to control the Covid-19 situation,” he said. Civic officials said those who test positive are given the option of getting admitted to a hospital or self-isolating at home. Mostly, asymptomatic patients opt for home quarantine, they said. Such patients are not supposed to step outside their houses, but several have been caught flouting home quarantine, officials said. “This puts other residents at risk as they too may get infected. The civic administration must make sure such spread is avoided, but it is impossible to monitor every patient due to a lack of manpower. So, we have decided to rope in office-bearers of housing societies,” a senior PMC official said. Now, the onus would be on the chairman and other office-bearers of the housing society to monitor positive patients on their premises. Apart from spreading awareness, the office-bearers also must report any violations to the authorities. Activists, however, said the civic bodies must ensure housing society officials did not get carried away and enforced unreasonable restrictions. “Patients and executive committees should be striking a balance on handling the situation,” Vivek Velankar of Sajag Nagrik Manch, a citizens’ group, said. To be allowed to self-isolate, a patient’s home must be equipped with a separate room with an attached toilet to avoid contact with others in the house. The presence of a caretaker too is a must, In the Pune Metropolitan Region, there are around 21,000 active patients, around 13,500 have opted for home quarantine. Civic officials took steps to spread awareness about home-quarantined patients, by pasting stickers on their doors and sharing emergency contact information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hsg-society-officials-on-home-quarantine-watch/articleshow/81500290.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 15, 2021||Dehradun||Locals of 7 villages near Doon demand bridge on Song river, road connectivity||MUSSOORIE: As many as seven villages, located about 30 kilometres from Dehradun, remain cut off from the rest of the state for several months when the Song river swells up. In the absence of a bridge over Song, the locals are forced to use a makeshift cable car to access healthcare and other essential facilities. “The Song river remains flush between July and October. Besides, the river swells up after almost every rain spell. As there is no bridge to cross the river, we face several hardships in accessing essential amenities. The sick have to be carried and kids miss out on school. The government should ensure proper connectivity of our villages at the earliest,” said Vikram Singh Panwar, a resident of Gwalidanda village. Women entrepreneurs from these villages, who are also members of self-help groups (SHGs), say that they face a lot of hardships in selling their produce during the monsoon.  Locals of these seven villages — Gwalidanda, Aeral, Sera, Chifalti, Dholiyakatal, Saungnya and Kund — say that they have also given written memorandums to the district officials on several occasions but to no avail. More than 300 families live in these villages. Meanwhile, sub-divisional magistrate Ravindra Juwantha told TOI that the Song Dam is being constructed near these villages and as a consequence, a lot of these areas would get submerged. “New roads and bridges are being planned to connect these villages on the basis of the areas that will get submerged under the dam. Work on several new roads has already started,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/locals-of-7-villages-near-doon-demand-bridge-on-song-river-road-connectivity/articleshow/81499339.cms||Anmol Jain
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Veterans recall ’71 victory, pay homage to martyrs||Hyderabad: To pay homage to the military personnel killed during the 1971 India-Pakistan and 67 others who died in 1972, the officers from the 1971 batch of OTS, Madras laid wreath at 1 EME Centre War Memorial, Secunderabad on Sunday. The day also marks the Golden Jubilee of their commissioning. In the year 1971, on March 14, some 338 officers of Short Service Commission Courses, called as ‘The Tenacious Tenners’ passed out from the Officers’ Training School (now Officers Training Academy), Chennai with the rank of 2nd Lieutenant. All these officers took part in the 1971 Indo-Pak war which led to the formation of Bangladesh. Speaking on the occasion, Brigadier S Sreeramulu (retd) recalled the valour displayed by the officers killed in action in the war and the significant contribution made by them during their service to the nation. “It was a unique war history as a new nation (Bangladesh) was created and 93,000 prisoners of war were taken. Seven officers of the batch lost their life during the war on the western and eastern fronts,” said Sreeramulu. The historic military victory is being celebrated across the country as ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ (Golden Jubilee Year of Victory). Similar events were held at the National War Memorial, New Delhi, and War Memorials at Pune, Bengaluru, Chandigarh, Aizwal, Jaipur and Officers Training Academy, Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/veterans-recall-71-victory-pay-homage-to-martyrs/articleshow/81501096.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Rajkot||Surat police’s cycle rally to Dandi today||Surat: The City police have decided to join the celebration of Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav by organising a cycle rally to historic beach Dandi in Navsari from Surat on Monday. A group of 100 cops including city police commissioner Ajay Tomar will participate in the rally. The rally will start from the city police commissioner office at 5am on Monday and end at Dandi Memorial at 8.30 am. Apart from policemen few citizens will also join the rally. The participants are likely to complete the 49 km cycle ride in over three hours. The rally will travel through Surat-Navsari highway and security arrangements have been made to help the riders. The group of participating cops have been practicing for the rally for the past few days, sources in city police informed. “It is an honour for city police that we got an opportunity to celebrate Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav. Through this, police will spread the message that how important independence is,” Tomar told TOI. “Some enthusiastic citizens are likely to join us in the rally. Through this we are expressing our respect towards the freedom fighters,” he added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi flagged off a padyatra from Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad to Dandi on Friday while launching Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/surat-polices-cycle-rally-to-dandi-today/articleshow/81498529.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Centre to seek report on Bhainsa||Hyderabad: Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Sunday said the Centre will soon seek a detailed report on the recent clashes in Bhainsa. Addressing a press meet, he said that in past three months several incidents took place in the area but police did not do anything and that MIM is taking advantage of TRS support. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-to-seek-report-on-bhainsa/articleshow/81500293.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Goa||Goa to replace DMA, successor likely today||PANAJI: The state government is likely to replace director of municipal administration (DMA) Gurudas Pilarnekar following Friday’s Supreme Court order, which upheld the HC’s verdict setting aside a DMA notification on reservation of seats. Sources said that Pilarnekar’s transfer order would be issued on Monday, and a new officer will be given charge. The Bombay HC had cancelled the election in five municipalities — Margao, Mapusa, Mormugao, Sanguem and Quepem. Not only was the rotation rule not followed, even wards reserved for women were less than Constitutionally prescribed. The SC observed that the orders of delimitation, reservation and allotment of seats made under the Goa Municipalities Act do not statutorily have the force of law. SC directed the DMA to issue a fresh notification with regard to reservation of wards within 10 days. Nine petitions had been filed before the high court challenging the reservation of wards. “The order dated February 4, 2021, issued by the director and ex-officio additional secretary, municipal administrator/urban development, Goa, in so far as it concerns the municipal council of Sanguem, Mormugao, Mapusa, Margao and Quepem, is quashed and set aside,” the court held. Reacting to the Supreme Court’s decision on municipal polls, chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that he accepts the apex court order and that the mistakes will be rectified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-replace-dma-successor-likely-today/articleshow/81501117.cms||Murari Shetye
March 15, 2021||Pune||Amid shortage, all 1st doses to be Covaxin in PMC limits||PUNE: Many private hospitals in Pune city limits were forced to declare a Covid-19 “vaccination holiday” on Sunday after the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) ran out of vaccine doses. Hospital administrators said the civic body has promised a fresh supply on Monday. On Sunday, the PMC received a fresh consignment of 50,000 Covaxin doses. Officials said all reserve Covishield shots with the municipal corporation — about 3,000 in number — will now be diverted to be used only as second doses for those due for their follow-ups. A PMC official confirmed that for the next few days, people coming in for their first shot will be given Covaxin. “We have been told to administer Covaxin from Monday as the first dose. All city hospitals — government-run and private facilities — will have stick to this rule,” the official said. Health officials, however, added that the 50,000 additional Covaxin doses would last about three to four days. Many hospitals in the city said they were not able to hold their vaccine drives on Sunday. Manjusha Kulkarni, secretary of the Association of Hospitals, Pune, said most private units affiliated to their association reported a scarcity of doses. In Pimpri Chinchwad, only about 10 hospitals could hold the drive, with 1,443 people turning up. Rajesh Patil, PCMC chief, said they had about 20,000 doses of Covishield with them. Sites in the rural areas generally don’t administer vaccines on Sunday. In Pune city, concerned hospital administrators said civic officials have to ensure there’s no confusion during the scarcity. Jitendra Oswal, the deputy medical director at Bharati Hospital said there is a possibility of confusion due to the vaccine change, adding that the government must be clear which shot’s supply — Covishield or Covaxin — will remain seamless. Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Hospital Board of India, said, “We have to exercise extreme precaution. Now that the vaccine rule is changing, one cannot afford any kind of goof-up wit the first and second dose.” (With inputs from Prasad Kulkarni)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/amid-shortage-all-1st-doses-to-be-covaxin-in-pmc-limits/articleshow/81500292.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 15, 2021||Dehradun||Like Lord Ram, PM Modi will also be treated as god one day for good work he is doing, says Uttarakhand CM Tirath Rawat||HARIDWAR: In one of his first public addresses after taking over, newly-inducted CM Tirath Singh Rawat while speaking at an event ‘Netra Kumbh’ organised by a social outfit at the Rishikul Government PG Ayurvedic College auditorium, compared PM Modi to Lord Ram. “Today leaders of different countries line up to get their pictures clicked with the Prime Minister. This is in stark contrast to earlier times when no world leader used to bother about our head of state. The situation has changed now because of Narendra Modi. This is a New India that he has created,” Rawat said. Amidst cries of ‘Modi zindabad’, the CM further said that “just like during earlier times, Lord Ram had done good work for society and so people started considering him as god, similarly, in future, the same thing will happen with our beloved Prime Minister too.” Rawat, who has visited the holy city twice in a span of four days after taking over as CM, reiterated that no RT-PCR report or registration of pilgrims will be required for visiting the mega festival. He however added at the same time that the guidelines issued by the central government will be adhered to. “A negative environment was being created around the Kumbh mela. We have now cleared the air so people feel confident coming to the mela. Officials have been instructed to not unnecessarily stop any one from entering Kumbh premises,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/like-lord-ram-pm-modi-will-also-be-treated-as-god-one-day-for-good-work-he-is-doing-says-ukhand-cm-tirath-rawat/articleshow/81499373.cms||MS Nawaz
March 15, 2021||Kozhikode||Irikkur: Mass resignations over Cong candidate pick||Kozhikode: Congress’s decision to field Sajeev Joseph in Irikkur in Kannur against the wishes of the “A” group has sparked a major rebellion in the party which could have an impact on its fortunes in nearby constituencies of Peravoor and Kannur as well. Members of “A” group had held an overnight protest in front of the party’s block committee office at Sreekandapuram against the decision to give the seat to Sajeev Joseph, a nominee of KC Venugopal. They erected a tent near the party office and hung a board in front that said, “we won’t accept Sajeev Joseph.” The party leadership ignored the protests and on Sunday named Joseph as its candidate from the constituency, prompting several leaders, including Kannur UDF chairman PT Mathew to resign from their posts. Five KPCC secretaries, over 20 DCC office bearers and several heads of the local party units have also threatened to resign.  “Usually, A” group leaders used to contest from Irikkur and Peravoor. When such a tradition has been broken, a section of party members feel they are being ignored and it is our responsibility to stand with them. All “A” group leaders in the district has informed the leadership their willingness to resign,” said Mathew.  “I had asked the leaders to consider the history of the constituency and to make a decision accordingly,” Kannur MP K Sudhakaran had said before the release of the candidate list. On whether Sony Sebastian, the “A” group’s nominee was the more popular candidate, he had said it is up to the high command to make a decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/irikkur-mass-resignations-over-cong-candidate-pick/articleshow/81500343.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Surat||After a year, Air India Express to resume Surat-Sharjah flight||Surat: After a gap of almost a year, international flight will start operating again from Diamond City. From Saturday, Air India Express started booking for Surat-Sharjah flight which will run twice in a week. The flight will operate on Monday and Thursday from the city. The operations of the flight were discontinued in March last year after Covid-19 outbreak. It was in high demand, especially among diamond and jewellery business community in the city, due to Sharjah's proximity to Dubai. “The flight will come from Sharjah on March 28 and return to Sharjah on the next day. It is the only international flight the city has and people were desperately waiting for it,” said Sanjay Jain, a member of We Work for a Working Airport at Surat (WWWAS). The flight was also used by many travellers from other parts of the country. “It is good news for the city's business and industry that the Sharjah flight will resume operations again. Those travelling to Dubai and other destinations in the world will get easy connectivity,” said Dinesh Navadiya, president of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry. “Going to Mumbai and then catching an international flight is time-consuming. We need direct flights to Dubai and Hong Kong as well,” Navadiya added. Meanwhile, the security of the airport is in hands of city police. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) is yet to take control of it. “Majority of the airports in the country have CISF cover. It is disappointing that the city airport is yet to get it and budgetary constraints are cited as the reason. CISF cover will help the airport grow further,” said Rajesh Modi, an RTI activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/after-a-year-air-india-express-to-resume-surat-sharjah-flight/articleshow/81498553.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Goa||Govt to name ex-joint chief electoral officer Narayan Navti Goa’s new SEC||PANAJI: The state government will appoint the former joint chief electoral officer (CEO), Narayan Navti, as the new Goa state election commissioner (SEC). Sources said that governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has already consented to Navti’s appointment. In case the court does not agree with Navti as SEC, as he is not a retired IAS officer, the government may consider retired IAS officers Mihir Vardhan, Arun Desai, Daulat Hawaldar or even Elvis Gomes, who qualifies for the post, sources said. “If the government approves my appointment as SEC then I am ready to take up the challenge,” Navti told TOI. Navti retired around two years back after a long tenure in the office of chief electoral officer.  A day after the Supreme Court’s chastisement of the state government, and its direction that the SEC can’t be a serving bureaucrat, law secretary Chokha Ram Garg resigned from his post as SEC on Saturday. Garg was holding additional charge of the SEC “A new, independent SEC will shortly be appointed,” chief minister Pramod Sawant had told TOI on Saturday. Sources said that once the new SEC is appointed, the date for elections in five municipalities — Margao, Mapusa, Mormugao, Sanguem and Quepem —would be decided. The state government has also started the process of reservation of wards in the five municipalities. On March 12, a bench of Justices R F Nariman, B R Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy rapped the Goa government for giving additional charge of SEC to its law secretary, and said the decision “made a mockery of the constitutional mandate that state ECs must be truly independent bodies”. On March 4, within hours of the Supreme Court staying the high court order cancelling elections to five municipalities over reservation of wards, the SEC rescheduled polling to the five municipalities on March 21, instead of March 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-name-ex-joint-chief-electoral-officer-navti-states-new-sec/articleshow/81501164.cms||Murari Shetye
---||Mumbai||WFH option, RoRo service push up land rates in Alibaug, but infra a concern||Every time Nishant Mhatre returned to his childhood home in Dhokawade village in Alibaug, he felt he was going back in time. Nothing seemed to change in the quiet landscape. But over the last six months, he has been mildly alarmed to see the number of speeding cars raising dust on the country roads, even leading to a fatal accident last month. “There is a great need for better infrastructure to support the increase in traffic and the amount of development taking place, whether it is road discipline, water supply, drainage or garbage collection,” said Mhatre, an IT consultant from Pune. Two factors—the possibility to work-from-home (WFH), and the recent RoRo boat service—have transformed Alibaug into a prospective extension of Mumbai. During lockdown, many villa owners moved there, doing an occasional reverse commute into Mumbai city. Many others have been besieged with FOMO (Fear of Missing Out) and have started aggressively scouring for land. The result has been a dramatic increase in land rates, as also in the parallel graft revenue stream. While the government’s Ready Reckoner rate for land in Alibaug taluka ranges from Rs 2.7 lakh to Rs 3 lakh per guntha (there are 40 gunthas in an acre), land deals are going for more than double that amount. Approximate revenues collected via stamp duty and registration fees in December 2019 was Rs 4 crore, and in December 2020, it jumped to Rs 6.5 crore. “People are picking up plots as if they are glucose biscuits,” said Kaustubh, a real estate broker. “Earlier, a typical land tra-nsaction would take about six months. Today it is happening overnight. The registrar’s office is constantly overflowing.” The upcoming projects range from vast 100-acre-plus integrated townships to standalone luxury villas. While land laws earlier enabled breathing room, requiring villas to span over at least an acre, recent changes are enabling smaller and smaller structures to pop up. Swimming pools are being built in areas where there may be limited groundwater. Government officials acknowledge that Alibaug can potentially become yet another case of a rural area haphazardly turning semi-urban without adequate planning. “We are not looking at Alibaug holistically,” said a state official. “There will be too much stress on existing infrastructure. The bigger question is, how do you raise the resources towards this?” However, Raigad district collector Nidhi Chaudhary said, “I don’t see this turning into the haphazard developments like what happened in Khandala in the 70s. In those days, planning was not much of a commitment. Alibaug now falls under the uniform Mumbai Metropolitan Region guidelines.” She added that while road and water connectivity are being aggressively planned, with various jetties already being built along the coastline, the key lies in spreading the focus across the entire district. “In a district like Raigad, we have to diversify promote many tourist destinations and not be place-centric.” One of the concerns that applies to any regional district outside metropolitan zones is that there are multiple agencies involved. While the municipal council in Alibaug handles Alibaug city, critical services such as garbage management or internal roads, fall under each village gram panchayat, so there is no uniformity. Recently, alarmed by the growing mounds of garbage, some residents initiated a monthly recycling drive along with recyclers, but the bulk of the waste—which balloons every weekend-continues to lie along roads or on beaches. “On the positive side, the level of development has generated local employment and there is now much more cross-pollination of ideas and people,” said Mhatre. “Alibaug was always a beautiful place. The tranquility and beauty can be retained if we take care of certain infrastructure needs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mahrashtra-wfh-option-roro-service-push-up-land-rates-in-alibaug-but-infra-a-concern/articleshow/81500351.cms||Namita Devidayal
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||AP postal dept honours Duvvuri Subbamma||Hyderabad: Freedom fighter, Duvvuri Subbamma, is being honoured by the Andhra Pradesh Postal Department with the release of a ‘special postal cover’ on the occasion to mark International Women’s Day. On Sunday, M Venkateswarlu, chief postmaster general, Andhra Pradesh Circle, handed over the special postal cover album to the granddaughter of Duvvuri Subbamma, Rajyalakshmi, at her residence at Hyderabad. Duvvuri Subbamma was the first woman freedom fighter from the united Andhra Pradesh. She worked for women empowerment and eradication of untouchability. She has been incarcerated in Rajahmundry and Raya Vellore prison for her participation in Civil Disobedience Movement and Salt Sathyagraha. Subbamma encouraged use of Khadi and used to distribute Khadi clothes to the poor. She also convinced local zamindars to use khadi instead of silk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-postal-dept-honours-duvvuri-subbamma/articleshow/81501155.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Dehradun||Light showers, thunderstorm activity in offing in the hills of Uttarakhand for next 5-days||DEHRADUN: The regional meteorological centre on Sunday issued a forecast of light rain, thunderstorm and snowfall in the hills of Uttarakhand during the next five-days, starting from Sunday evening. According to the weather prediction, rain and snow activity is likely to occur in the higher reaches of Pithoragarh, Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Bageshwar districts, while foothills, including Dehradun, might witness thunder clouds. “From March 14 evening till March 18, rainfall will occur at isolated places in the hilly districts. High altitude areas might also receive snowfall. On the other hand, plains and foothills, including Dehradun, are likely to witness thunder clouds development,” according to the weather update released by the regional meteorological centre. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature levels, which have been settling around normal or above normal, especially in the plains, are going to drop by a couple of notches. For instance, the maximum temperature in Dehradun was recorded at 30 degree Celsius, four notches below normal, while the minimum settled at 13 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/light-showers-thunderstorm-activity-in-offing-in-the-hills-of-uttarakhand-for-next-5-days/articleshow/81499382.cms||Gaurav Talwar
March 15, 2021||Amritsar||SKM leader blasts farm unions at rally in support of Deep Singh Sidhu, Sidhana||BATHINDA: BKU (Krantikari) president Surjit Singh Phool, who is part of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), went ahead on Sunday and addressed a youth kisan rally at Mastuana Sahib in Sangrur for the sympathisers of Red Fort violence accused Deep Singh Sidhu and Lakhbir Singh ‘Lakha’ Sidhana. There, he condemned the protest leadership of the farmers for calling Sidhu and Sidhana as traitors, and said Sidhana was as dear to him as earlier. He accepted that the happenings of January 26 had disillusioned the young farmers but said efforts were on to bridge the differences. Delhi Police arrested Deep Sidhu, while Lakha Sidhana is on the run, carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh for his information. A part of the morcha had declared them traitors on January 27. The rally’s organisers projected the presence of Phool as morcha’s endorsement of the cause of Deep Sidhu and Lakha Sidhana. Sikh ideologue Ajmer Singh and Hardeep Singh Mehraj of the Dal Khalsa even found faults with the kisan morcha leadership. Phool said: “Some farm unions wanted to march to Parliament or block the KMP Expressway for indefinite period but the lack of numbers prevented a decision.” Not stopping here, Phool said: “The new farm laws are death warrants for the farmers, so we cannot retreat from the protest without getting those repealed. If anyone returns, he’ll have signed his death warrant. We are 40 unions in the agitation and even if 39 disagree, we alone will continue the siege of Delhi until they put us all in jail.” Phool, along with Harpal Singh Sangha of the Azaad Kisan Committee Doaba, was suspended from the morcha for a breach of discipline and diverting the January 26 tractor parade from the agreed route. Sangha’s suspension was revoked after some days but Phool had to wait longer. After the Sangrur rally, Phool told TOI: “I went to the rally as a leader of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha but spoke in my personal capacity, so those are not the views of the morcha. At the Singhu border on March 7, we had decided to bridge the gap with young farmers and my going to that meeting itself is a sign that that we are approaching our annoyed leaders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/skm-leader-blasts-farm-unions-at-rally-in-support-of-deep-sidhana/articleshow/81500348.cms||Neel Kamal
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Give proper address for passport delivery: RPO||Hyderabad: To ensure prompt delivery of passports, the Regional Passport Officer (RPO), Hyderabad has urged the applicants to provide correct address, PIN code with clear land mark details. The RPO, Hyderabad, Dasari Balaiah, has issued a public advisory in RPO Hyderabad’s official Twitter account and made a plea to the passport applicants. Out of the passports dispatched to the present addresses of the passport applicants daily from ‘Regional Passport Office’ Hyderabad, some passports are returned undelivered from the postal department with remarks, ‘insufficient address/could not trace the addresses’, the RPO posted on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-proper-address-for-passport-delivery-rpo/articleshow/81501181.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Kochi||‘I’ Group opposesBabu’s candidaturein Tripunithura||Kochi: K Babu’s candidature in Thripunithura has triggered an unrest within Congress partymen in the constituency. Congress I Group leaders said Babu had brought shame to the party and did not deserve to be a UDF candidate. Leaders said they oppose Babu’s candidature and have stopped campaigning for him in the constituency. “Senior leaders, including Oommen Chandy, put the party’s local and state leadership under pressure to ensure Babu’s candidature. Babu does not deserve to be a candidate anywhere for UDF as he brought big shame to Congress. He said he got a clean chit in the corruption case against him but that is not true. There are several other eligible leaders for the candidature but the party ignored them. We will not work for Babu’s victory,” said Prem Kumar, former deputy mayor, Kochi corporation. Winning back Thripunithura is one of the main challenges UDF faces in Ernakulam as they lost the constituency, which was one of their major strongholds for nearly 25 years, to LDF’s M Swaraj in the 2016 assembly polls. The fight in the constituency will be a main focus this time too as Swaraj and Babu received the tickets again from Thripunithura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/i-group-opposesbabus-candidaturein-tripunithura/articleshow/81500354.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Goa||GPSC rejects exemptions sought by govt on DySP promotion rules||PANAJI: The Goa Public Service Commission (GPSC) has rejected the state government’s proposal seeking exemption of certain requirements for promotion from deputy superintendent of police (DySP) to superintendent of police (SP). A senior officer in the GPSC said the state government has sought exemption from departmental exams, preparation of syllabus and requisite number of years of service for the promotions. “The grounds for seeking the exemptions are not acceptable and we have asked the state government to expedite the preparation of the syllabus,” GPSC said in the note to the government. Senior police officer said that the exemption was sought by the police as various post of SPs are laying vacant. This shortage, they said, is affecting the overall functioning of the department. After GPSC rejected the proposal, Goa Police has now moved a file to the government seeking preparation of syllabus to lift the probation period of DySPs who have completed two years in regular service. As per the rules, a DySP should complete five years in regular service, probation should be completed satisfactorily and lifted through a duly constituted departmental promotion committee and the candidate must pass the departmental exam. The state government has changed the rules to allow GPSC to promote police sub-inspectors (PSI) to the post of police inspectors (PI). Earlier, the Police Establishment Board would conduct promotions of PSIs. Now, GPSC handles promotions of PIs and DySPs. The government has, however, not taken any decision on the proposal by Goa Police to amend the existing PSI recruitment rules seeking that assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) with minimum two years of regular service could be promoted as PSIs. The decision to propose the amendment has been approved by the Police Establishment Board. There are around 530 PSI posts of which 50% are promotional vacancies. Presently, 125 vacant PSI posts have to be filled by promotion as there are no eligible ASIs with five years of regular service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gpsc-rejects-exemptions-sought-by-govt-on-dysp-promotion-rules/articleshow/81501180.cms||Murari Shetye
March 15, 2021||Amritsar||On Day 3 of West Bengal tour, SKM leaders reach Singur||BATHINDA: Sankyuta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders on Sunday reached Singur in Hooghly district of West Bengal to urge electors to vote against the BJP in the upcoming assembly elections in the state. In 2008-09, Singur was the place of a face-off between farmers and the then CPIM government. SKM leaders, at a mahapanchayat oganised in Singur on Sunday, reiterated that the fight to save their land could be won only by defeating BJP. Punjab farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Charuni of Haryana, Narmada Bachao Andolan founder member Medha Patkar and many other farm leaders appealed to farmers to fight to safeguard their land rights and remunerative prices for crops. Farm leader Rakesh Tikait was not present as he had rushed to Prayagraj. In Nandigram, farmers had protested against acquisition of 10,000 acres for a special economic zone (SEZ) in 2007. In police action during the protests, 14 farmers were killed in firing. Rajewal said they had not reached the venue to play politics. He said though accusations were being levelled on them, they were ony speaking in the interest of farmers and farm labourers. “We are here to engage in a fight to save the country from being handed over to corporates as the central government is indulging in this. Farmers will have to pay a heavy price for this privatisation and corporatisation of various sectors, including agriculture. We are here to save our lands from corporates, and Nandigram and Singhu give us hope,” he said.  Patklar said corporates were eyeing not only lands of farmers, but a bigger share in agriculture sector and two top corporates of the country were turning into zamidars (landlords) to carry out the business in agriculture sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/on-day-3-of-bengal-tour-skm-leaders-reach-singur/articleshow/81500352.cms||Neel Kamal
---||Surat||Weavers, traders spar over transportation cost||Surat: The standoff between textile traders and weavers over transportation costs seems to be here for a longer haul with weaving unit owners continuing their demand for payment of transportation charges by the traders and vice versa. Weavers want 10 paisa transport cost per metre cloth. In the multiple meetings held in the recent past between the association of weavers and textile traders the matter remained far from any resolution with both parties refusing to accept each others’ terms of business. A meeting of Federation of Gujarat Weavers Welfare Association (FOGWA) was held in Utran on Saturday. It was decided in the meeting that the weavers will sell grey cloth if the trader is ready to pay for the transportation cost. Over 40,000 weaving units in and around the city produce four crore metre grey cloth daily. “There is price rise in all products. We are paying a higher price for the yarn. In almost all products, the buyers pay transportation cost for the product and likewise we are demanding the same,” said Ashok Jirawala, president of FOGWA. “The traders are not only refusing to pay the transport cost but are also demanding a discount. It is not affordable for the weavers now as yarn prices too have risen in the recent past,” said Vijay Mangukiya, president of Anjani Industrial Estate, Gothan. Textile traders purchase grey cloth from the weavers, get it printed, embroidered and processed before selling it to buyers across the globe. They are not accepting the weavers’ terms. Manoj Agarwal, president, Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA), told TOI, “Earlier, traders used to get discount and weavers also paid for the brokerage. But after GST was introduced, they stopped giving discounts and paying the brokerage.” He further said that weavers now also want traders to bear the transport costs. “It is a matter between buyer and seller and associations have no role to play in it. But if weavers are taking a stand, we have no option but to oppose it,” added Agarwal. “Textile traders continued business even when discounts were discontinued as the industry was in crisis. But now, the weavers are making unacceptable demands,” said Devkishan Manghani, advisor in textile trade committee of SGCCI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/weavers-traders-spar-over-transportation-cost/articleshow/81498580.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers disrupt BJP event in Narwana||JIND: BJP functionaries and workers had to leave the venue of a party event in Narwana town near here on Sunday after farmers, mainly women, reached the spot to protest over the three agri-marketing laws passed by the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had organised a training session for its members at Adarsh Public School when hundreds of women carrying flags of farm groups and the Tricolour reached the venue and started raising slogans against the BJP-JJP state government. BJP had tried to keep the event low key, but in vain. As farmers reached the spot in tractors and staged a protest in front of the school, ITBP and police personnel also came to the venue to maintain law and order. On seeing the situation, police helped BJP functionaries leave from the entrance at the back of the school. Thereafter, farmers left the venue and returned to their protest site at Baddowal toll plaza. BJP Jind district chief Rajkumar Mor said, “I came back to avoid any confrontation after seeing the protest. It was our party programme, not a public meeting. Farmers have the right to protest, but should not oppose the sangthan’s programmes.” Roshni Devi, one of the women protesters, said, “We will not allow any programe of the BJP or JJP in Bangar until the laws are repealed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-disrupt-bjp-event-in-narwana/articleshow/81500355.cms||VIJENDER KUMAR
March 15, 2021||Dehradun||Malla Mahal, built by Chand dynasty rulers in Almora in 16th Century, to get facelift as heritage site||ALMORA: The beautification work of the district’s historic Malla Mahal is going on in full swing. The authorities of the Almora administration say that the work to give a facelift to the structure is being carried out while maintaining its essence. According to officials, nearly 35% of the beautification work has already been completed. Notably, the beautification work of Rani Mahal, being used as DM office, and the Malla Mahal, being used as the collectorate office, started in July 2020. The estimated cost of the beautification works of the two structures is said to be Rs 16 crores. Rahul Chaubey, district tourism officer, Almora,said, “Malla Mahal will be ready for tourists in about four months. We are developing it as a heritage site. Meanwhile, the beautification of Rani Mahal is almost complete.” Built by King Rudra Chandra in 1588, the Malla Mahal — a stone and wood structure — was once the fort of the Chand dynasty rulers. Later in the colonial times, the British used the palace as a seat of administration.  BDS Negi, head of the history department of Soban Singh Jeena University, Almora, told TOI, “The structure was taken over by the British in the 19th century for administrative use.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/malla-mahal-built-by-chand-dynasty-rulers-in-almora-in-16th-century-to-get-facelift-as-heritage-site/articleshow/81499389.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Quantum Leap: This tech will boost communication security||HYDERABAD: In October 2019, Google announced that its 54-qubit processor Sycamore, a quantum computer, performed a complex calculation, that would have taken the world’s most powerful supercomputer 10,000 years to solve, in a mindboggling 200 seconds. While this was a quantum leap for computing technology, this also meant that most of the encryption in place to protect data and communication, especially in critical government infrastructure, defence and nuclear facilities, utilities, banks as well as financial institutions, among others, was no longer safe as the quantum computer could crack these easily. An Indian startup QNu Labs has found the key to this problem in quantum physics. “It’s like the classic chor-police situation. One solution was to use higher mathematical algorithms to create encryption but we decided to opt for quantum physics (or mechanics) instead to prepare the encryption keys so that they cannot be cracked even by a quantum computer,” explained Srinivasa Rao Aluri, co-founder & chairman, QNu Labs. QNu Labs has developed a Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) system called Armos comprising hardware (two black boxes) and software that generate random encrypted keys that can be sent from one end to another safely without the threat of hackers stealing them. Armos can even store keys and passwords in a secure vault. The two black boxes on either end, for instance from a bank headquarter to a branch, are connected with the help of an optic fiber cable. The encrypted quantum keys are generated by one box and transmitted with the help of photons to the box at the other end. “We can generate quantum encryption keys on both sides with zero probability of anyone breaking or stealing them because if the key is intercepted it will get automatically dropped and will be of no use to the hacker. If the key reaches the other end, it means it was not intercepted and is secure,” explained Aluri. While today the system is able to operate when the two boxes are located at a maximum distance of 100 km from each other, the startup is now working on enhancing this distance to 500 km. “Today, Armos is the size of a small DVD player and in the future we want to shrink this to the size of a mobile phone and ultimately do it on a chip for which we are working on a project with Intel,” he said, adding that the startup is also working on a satellite -based solution so that distance will no longer be a problem. Prof Indranil Chakrabarty from the Centre for Security, Theory & Algorithms, (CSTAR), IIIT Hyderabad, points out that `Quantum Secure Communications’ will revolutionise the field of security with direct impact on areas such as banking, finance and defence. He said the security of communication depends on how secure your key is. “The security of the key in an existing communication system depends upon the mathematical complexity of the process of decoding the key. However, if the key is generated using the principle of quantum mechanics, this is no longer a mathematical problem and the laws of ‘nature’ will enforce security,” Chakrabarty added. Quantum Computing significantly increases today's computational power many times over. This will help us in obtaining significant advancement in the areas like cybersecurity, drug discovery, financial modelling, traffic optimization, weather forecasting and artificial Intelligence—Prof Indranil Chakrabarty | Centre for Security, Theory &amp; Algorithms, (cstar), IIIT HyderabadWe are working on multiple solutions to make networks and systems quantum proof across sectors be it defence, nuclear establishments, railway networks, power plants, pharma companies, telecom networks, banks &amp; financial institutions, healthcareSrinivasa Rao Aluri | Co-founder &amp; Chairman, QNU LabsWhat is Quantum Cryptography?The laws of quantum physics allow the photons or particles to be in a state of superposition, which means they represent 1s and 0s in multiple combinations at the same time. They are called qubits. While in classical cryptography, hackers use the public key to derive a private key to decrypt data, in quantum cryptography the keys are symmetrical and randomly generated in real time, making them un-hackable What is Quantum Key Distribution?QKD is a way to secure the network from code-breaking even by a quantum computer. The encrypted data is sent as classical bits but the keys are generated in real time and sent in quantum state so that anyone trying to hack it will find nothing. It’s like two people thinking about the same thing at the same time. QKD in defenceIn December 2020, DRDO conducted trials of QKD technology between two labs, DRDL and RCI, to showcase secure communication. The Quantum-based security solution against eavesdropping was validated at a 12-km range and 10dB (decibels) attenuation over fibre optic channel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/quantum-leap-this-tech-will-boost-communication-security/articleshow/81501185.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
March 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Modi has sold nation to corporates, alleges AAP||Bathinda: Prime Minister Narendra Modi was working to sell the nation, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president Bhagwant Mann alleged on Sunday. While addressing small rallies in Moga district, the Sangrur MP claimed that PM had kept telling people that he used to sell tea at the railway station and now as a Prime Minister he was on the way to selling the nation. His government was disbanding many public sector institutions and promoting corporates to take over agriculture sector, he alleged. Taking a dig at Captain Amarinder Singh and the Badals, Mann claimed they never supported the farmers, rather worked against their interests. These leaders had never stayed in their village, he claimed. “They have never farmed their own land. They do not understand the pain and toil of the farmers. That is why they work against the interests of the farmers,” Mann alleged. They are businessmen and when a ruler becomes a businessman, they mortgage the state to the private player, the MP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/modi-has-sold-nation-to-corporates-alleges-aap/articleshow/81500371.cms||---
---||Dehradun||Hill cutting work ongoing at vulnerable Tota Ghati stretch on Rishikesh-Badri highway for Char Dham road, geologists worried||DEHRADUN: The Tota Ghati area on the Rishikesh-Badrinath highway will remain closed for 11 hours everyday till March 31, because of hill cutting work underway on a 2-km stretch for the Centre’s all-weather Char Dham road project. Even as the work is being undertaken, a video circulated on social media a day ago showed large chunks of the hill side falling off and tumbling into the river flowing below. The sight has sent local residents into panic and environmentalists worried since the Tota Ghati area is a highly vulnerable stretch. Senior geologists and members of the SC-appointed high-powered committee (HPC) on the Char Dham project, Naveen Juyal and Hemant Dhyani, pointed out that Tota Ghati area is highly prone to landslides and blasting or hill cutting here would make the area susceptible to slope failure and cause colossal damage to the terrain, turning it into a ‘chronic landslide zone’ just like Lambagad near Badrinath, which witnesses recurrent landslides. “There is a 10km stretch in the area which is very, very critical, especially the parts around Kodiyala and Saaknidhar. These rocks have multiple joints and there are three different types of rocks – clay rich, sandstone and dolomite – all very fragile by nature. Ideally, these shouldn’t be touched, let alone be subjected to blasting or cutting. If a road has to be made in the area, it should have been widened from the valley side and not the mountain side,” said Juyal, former scientist and senior geologist at Physical Research Laboratory, Ahmedabad, Gujarat. He had been to the site last year as part of the HPC team visit. Saraswati Prakash Sati, senior professor of Environment Science at Uttarakhand University of Horticulture and Forestry, added, “These mountains are made of nothing but limestone and now they have developed Karst (an uneven topography which forms after erosion of rocks that dissolve into water, like limestone). Relentless blasting done in Tota Ghati area has led to fresh fractures and as a result, we now have loosened mountains which are falling off on their own.” Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Kirtinagar, Tehri, Akanksha Verma when queried about the matter, said, “On February 24, we got a request from national highway officials for road closure owing to road widening works for the Char Dham all-weather road project. We inspected the site the same day. We then compiled a report, sent it to higher authorities, pointing out that the zone in question is vulnerable and all precautions need to be taken while road cutting works. Presently, only slope cutting work is underway. Mountain blasting was done at Tota Ghati between March and December (last year).” She added that experts from the Geological Survey of India (GSI) and as well as authorities of THDC (Tehri Hydro Development Corporation Limited) were a part of the team that inspected construction works at Tota Ghati. “They have inspected the area and their report is awaited,” she added. Meanwhile, the administration has made provisions for commuters to travel through the stretch between 5am and 6pm or take an alternate route through Gaza to reach Srinagar or Kirtinagar. The decision was taken on Friday and led to huge traffic snarls over the weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hill-cutting-work-ongoing-at-vulnerable-tota-ghati-stretch-on-rishikesh-badri-highway-for-char-dham-road-geologists-worried/articleshow/81499429.cms||Shivani Azad
March 15, 2021||Gurgaon||‘Inaction against BKU leaders’: SHO suspended||By: J K SinghAMBALA: Superintendent of police (SP) Hamid Akhtar has placed Baldev Nagar station house officer (SHO) inspector Hamir Singh under suspension for letting off the BKU leaders charged with rioting, obscene act, defamation and criminal intimidation of Ambala City legislator Aseem Goel on March 11. Activists of BKU Charuni had protested outside the MLA’s house in Ambala city, a day after the no confidence motion against the Haryana government was defeated in the state legislative assembly, in protest against his support for the government and his alleged statement of farmers being “anti-national and traitors”. They had carried out protest a march and burnt Goel’s effigy. Among those booked were BKU Charuni Ambala district president Malkiat Singh, district vice-president Gulab Singh, Jalbera villager Jai Singh, and his son, Navdeep Singh, who became “Delhi Chalo” hero for climbing atop a water tank. The Ambala SP’s March 11 order stated: “DSP (headquarters) Sultan Singh, who reported the Inco Chowk protest in the jurisdiction of the Baldev Nagar police station, said the BKU leaders had abused MLA Aseem Goel. He recommended a departmental action against inspector SHO Hamir Singh for the inaction, misconduct, and negligence. The SHO is also transferred to the Police Lines and DSP Ambala-II Madan Lal has ordered a regular departmental enquiry against him.” When contacted, Ambala SP Hamid Akhtar said: “There should have been timely action on the day (when the farmers cordoned the house of MLA Goel) but there was not even a proper briefing of the senior officers.” Police sources claimed that on the day of protest Hamir was one of the four SHOs deployed at Inco Chowk and the MLA’s house with DSP Sultan Singh but others had been spared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/inaction-against-bku-leaders-sho-suspended/articleshow/81500359.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Pune||Rural survey picks up 516 positives from 3k samples||Pune: A health survey by the Zilla Parishad (ZP) has detected 516 Covid cases in the rural parts of Pune over the last three weeks. Officials said most of the cases were shopkeepers and traders who travel extensively for work. Ayush Prasad, CEO of the Pune ZP, said many of the new patients have been asked to home-isolate. “The situation is under control. We have been testing such individuals because they move to various places for their work,” he added.The survey checked over 73,000 people for symptoms. The 516 positives emerged from a total of 3,572 samples that were sent for testing, a health official said. The highest number of cases were from Ambegaon (80), followed by Junnar (74) and Bhor (55).“There is no specific reason for surge of cases in this category, from a particular area. But we have noticed that many of the cases move about a lot for their daily work,” said Dr Abhay Tidke, additional district health officer of the Pune zilla parishad.Officials said they have kept contact details of people in this category. “Our primary health centres are in regular contact with them. If a person starts showing Covid-like symptoms her/his swabs are immediately sent for testing,” Dr Tidke said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-survey-picks-up-516-positives-from-3k-samples/articleshow/81500363.cms||Sandip Dighe
March 15, 2021||Dehradun||CM’s statement on Covid test contradicts govt's, issue to be raised in High Court: Lawyers who filed PILs||NAINITAL: A day after newly-appointed chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat announced that there was no need for RT-PCR test report for pilgrims coming to Kumbh, lawyers who had filed PILs in the Uttarakhand high court (HC) on the state’s handling of the Covid situation said that the statement contradicts the assurances made by the state before the HC as well as the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by both the Centre and the state government. The Uttarakhand HC has been hearing a bunch of PILs concerned with the spread of Covid-19 as well as the arrangements made by the state in this regard. Speaking to TOI, Shiv Bhatt, counsel appearing for one of the petitioners said that he will move an application in the court regarding the statement as it goes against the assurances by the state as well as the SOPs issued by the Centre. “Government has been giving assurances that RT-PCR test is mandatory, but now the CM’s statement contradicts its stand. I will move an application and bring it to the court’s notice,” Bhatt said. Another counsel Dushyant Mainali said that even though the CM’s statement contradicts the SOPs and the government’s stand till now, the guidelines will remain in force unless the Centre amends them. “The issue will be raised before the court as the pandemic regulations issued by the state last year make it clear that the Centre’s guidelines are a law in Uttarakhand. If the government is planning not to implement the SOPs, then they are acting against the law. Therefore, unless the Centre amends the SOPs issued for the Kumbh, the existing guidelines will remain in force,” Mainali said. Another counsel, Piyush Garg, said that the CM’s statement at present is "political" and is yet to be followed by any written order. “As of now, there hasn’t been any government order that amends the SOPs. So, the statement is political in nature. But the concerns will be surely raised in the HC,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cms-statement-on-covid-test-contradicts-govts-issue-to-be-raised-in-hc-lawyers-who-filed-pils/articleshow/81499479.cms||Prashant Jha
March 15, 2021||Chandigarh||SKM to protesters: No illegal houses on border||Bathinda: The farmer organisations from Punjab have urged the protesters not to construct any permanent structures at the protest sites. In a statement issued on Sunday, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) asked farmers not to build pucca houses for summer at such sites as it was giving authorities reason to take action. Many brick and mortar structures are coming up at the Delhi borders and two FIRs were registered by Kundli police on Friday for multiple storey houses and illegal borewell at Singhu. SKM said of the 151 farmers arrested in various FIRs on or after January 26 violence, 147 have been released on bail so far. Several of those released are back at the protest sites. Release of four more (one from Punjab and three from Haryana) was still awaited. Ranjit Singh from Kajampur village in Shaheed Bhagat Singh district of Punjab, whose face was put under boots of a policeman on January 29 at Singhu border, has been denied bail. Now, the morcha will apply for bail in the Delhi high court. In addition, after a debate in the United Kingdom’s House of Commons, it could be the House of Representatives in Australia that could pick up a petition to discuss farm protest in India. The e-petition has four more days to collect signatures before the house of representatives there could pick it up. It was also stated that seven ‘Kisan Yatras’ on seven different routes are travelling throughout Bihar for the last four days. It was the ninth day of the Kisan Majdoor Jagriti Yatra that started from Uttarakhand and has covered distance of 600 km so far passing through nearly 300 village and towns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/skm-to-protesters-no-illegal-houses-on-border/articleshow/81500389.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Kozhikode||‘Party placed groupinterests abovewinnability factor’||Kozhikode: There were issues across Kerala and it was the inability of the leadership that led to these issues, said Congress leader MP K Sudhakaran at Kannur ahead of candidate declaration. He said winnability was supposed to be the only factor that should have been considered while choosing candidates but many leaders placed group interests above the winnability factor. “Group leaders took an adamant stand for group members and it triggered unrest across the state. The state leadership alone is responsible for the discontent among partymen,” he said. When asked if K C Venugopal made any unnecessary interference, Sudhakaran said everyone was interfering. “The crisis happened because of wrongful interference. If Congress leadership had made the selection based on set parameters, these problems wouldn’t have arisen,” he said. “If the decisions were taken with the consent of Kannur district leadership, we could have avoided issues like Mattanoor. It has come to a point where KPCC leadership can take any decision they want. It is my district and as working president, shouldn’t I know about these decisions? Shouldn’t our DCC know about these decisions,” asked Sudhakaran, adding that only limited discussions were made with him and that he doesn’t wish to reveal anything more. He, however, said mistakes and shortcomings have happened from various sides. "But I still believe that there is space in Congress even now to correct everything and move forward."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/party-placed-groupinterests-abovewinnability-factor/articleshow/81500397.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Bengal tour proves stir is political: BJP||Chandigarh: The farce that farmers’ agitation was non-political was over with the decision of farmer organisations to campaign in West Bengal elections, BJP national spokesperson Iqbal Singh Lalpura said on Sunday. Speaking at the Punjab BJP headquarters, former IPS officer Lalpura said farmers were being misled by many organisations, like the ‘Rajewal & Co’, who for their vested interests were ruining prosperous prospects of the agricultural sector. The government in its 11 rounds of talks had promised repeatedly that it could give assurance for the minimum support price (MSP) and other issues could be resolved but these leaders were not willing to address pertinent issues and were insisting on withdrawing new farm laws. “No companies are going to take away the land of farmers. MSP will be given. So why are these leaders misleading farmers?” he saids. He said these farmers’ organisations should actually explain who they were helping — the Congress or the Communist Party. He said it was a fact now that the Delhi borders were not drawing crowds and these farm leaders were aware that people were realising that it was a political movement. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bengal-tour-proves-stir-is-political-bjp/articleshow/81500394.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Pune||CoEP jumbo unit set to reopen by next week||PUNE: Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal on Sunday said the civic body would restart the jumbo Covid-19 care facility on the College of Engineering Pune (COeP) ground by next week. She said divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has issued a communiqué to this effect and that the Pune Municipal Corporation would seek formal approval at Monday’s steering committee meeting. MedBros Healthcare Services Private Limited, the agency which had earlier operated the jumbo unit, could be reappointed to run the facility for a 45-day period, with an extension if needed. “Having the jumbo care unit as an option provides more relief, as, under one roof, it can provide medical treatment to around 800 patients,” she said. IIT-Delhi carried out a structural and electrical audit of the facility recently and pronounced it in good enough shape for another three months. Agarwal added PMC was setting up other care units, including a 200-bed facility at Dalvi hospital. The PCMC commissioner Rajesh Patil said they were in no hurry to restart the Annasaheb Magar stadium jumbo unit, as they had enough beds available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/coep-jumbo-unit-set-to-reopen-by-next-week/articleshow/81500392.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Hry House lodges complaint against Majithia, others||Chandigarh: The Haryana assembly secretariat has moved a formal complaint with the SHO of Chandigarh, Sector 3 police station for action against Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLAs and their associates who breached the security of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on March 10. The complaint has been formally lodged by head marshal, chief of ward and watch staff of the Assembly, who are responsible for security measures at the secretariat. In the short complaint, the marshal elaborated upon the incident, which occurred at around 5.50pm. SAD MLAS who have been named as accused include Bikramjit Singh Majithia, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, Baldev Singh Khaira, Sukhwinder Kumar, Harinder Pal Singh Chandumajra, Kanwaljit Singh Barkandi, Manpreet Singh Ayali, Gurpartap Singh Wadala and Narinder Kumar Sharma. According to the complaint, while CM Manohar Lal Khattar was officially briefing media persons, the MLAs, with six to seven persons wearing black badges, protested against him and tried to attack him. The complaint said that the attempt was foiled by the CM security and security of Haryana police. Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said the secretariat is in touch with Chandigarh Police and home secretary, Chandigarh to take updates. “Further probe is in progress. We shall see the outcome of complaint. We have asked Chandigarh to take appropriate legal action,’’ said Gupta. The development comes a day after the speaker convened a joint meeting of home secretaries of Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh with senior police officials. The committee was formed to look into the incident and the Assembly had hinted at criminal action against Punjab MLAs who breached security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-house-lodges-complaint-against-majithia-others/articleshow/81500391.cms||---
---||Rajkot||Criminal booked for land grabbing||Rajkot: A 37-year-old man from Dhoraji town in Rajkot district was booked under the Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act 2020 for allegedly grabbing land belonging to the local civic body, a few weeks ago. According to Dhoraji police, Dhoraji municipality's planning officer Shailesh Bhalgamiya lodged a complaint against Salim alias Babar Ismail Matva, a resident of Dhoraji for grabbing municipality's land on Sanghariya Road and illegally constructing five shops on the land. However, before he rented out or sold, it came to the knowledge of the local urban body which lodged the complaint. “We have lodged a complaint against Matva. As many as 35 criminal cases including murder has been lodged against him till now. He escaped from the town after the latest case was lodged against him,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/criminal-booked-for-land-grabbing/articleshow/81498622.cms||---
---||---||EC report lists lapses, wonders why Mamata was taken to Kolkata hospital||NEW DELHI: There are no significant pointers to suggest a pre-meditated or planned attack on West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s convoy in Nandigram based on police inputs and available video footage, Election Commission’s special observers Ajay V Nayak and Vivek Dube have said in their joint report to the poll watchdog. The special observers based their conclusions on a report by East Midnapore district magistrate and superintendent of police (SP) and said there was a lack of coordination between security arrangements by the police headquarters and the local SP due to frequent changes to the CM’s tour programme. They said no approval was taken from the returning officer for the place where the incident took place and there was blatant disregard of security protocols. Accordingly, the special observers recommended “stringent action” against director security Vivek Sahay, who was sitting in the bulletproof vehicle in the convoy meant for the chief minister, for his “flippant” attitude towards the needs of the Z-plus protectee. He has also been pulled up for failure to ensure adherence to laid-down security protocols. The report’s suggestions became the basis for action against Sahay, DM Vibhu Goyal and SP Pravin Prakash over ‘bandobast’ lapses. The report of the Nandigram returning officer said the CM received an injury at the time of connecting with people assembled at Birulia Bazar. It did not mention any “attack” on the convoy or person of the CM. While noting that the matter was under investigation and it would be premature to come to any conclusion, Nayak and Dube said, “There are no significant pointers to suggest that there was any premeditated or planned attack on the convoy of the CM.” While observing that Banerjee is known to prefer using a normal vehicle rather than the bulletproof vehicle that is “sine qua non” for protection of the VIP, Dube and Nayak underlined that even if such people choose to flout security norms, “it is incumbent upon the security detail to prevail in such matters lest it should lead to tragic consequences”. Based on video footage in public domain, the special observers said there were a large number of people surrounding the CM and jostling around while her car was in motion. Stating the Banerjee seemed to be standing with the car-door open and greeting the people as the convoy moved, the observers said it was not clear why the security personnel travelling in other vehicles of the convoy did not come out to surround her vehicle to keep the crowds away. The special observers also wondered why the CM’s vehicle was not brought to a halt by the driver when she opened the door and was standing on the footboard. As for the version that the car door may have hit a pole and swung back, injuring the CM, the observers said the same could be established only after investigation. The report also said the lead security mobile was kept behind the VIP vehicle, when it should have been kept in the front as it is supposed to know the locations of all safe houses and medical centres where the VIP could have been rushed after the incident. Importantly, the observers said Banerjee, “for unknown reasons”, was rushed to SSKM Hospital in Kolkata, due to which a lot of time was wasted in providing her medical attention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/ec-report-lists-lapses-wonders-why-mamata-was-taken-to-kolkata-hospital/articleshow/81502322.cms||Bharti Jain
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid vax beneficiaries make a beeline for antibody tests||MUMBAI: Spike protein antibody is the new buzzword as vaccinated healthcare workers make a beeline for a blood test to check if the Covid-19 vaccine has done its job. The jury is still out on the need for these tests that detect proteins created by the immune system to fight the SARS-CoV-2 virus, but private laboratories last week started offering the tests to the general public as well. Cardiologist Dr VT Shah, who stayed away from cath labs for 11 months, was eager to resume practice after vaccination. A fortnight after taking the first dose on January 20, he took a spike antibody test at Breach Candy Hospital that came negative. He took the antibody test again after taking the second jab on February 20. “My levels were over 220,” said Shah. “It gave me confidence to resume practice, but I still wear a mask.” Some healthcare workers are using the test to time the second dose of vaccination. The time interval between the vaccine doses, particularly Covishield, has been a subject of debate with the WHO saying the second dose is most efficacious if taken between 8-12 weeks, while the Union health ministry has stuck to the minimum four-week gap. Dr Prince Surana, CEO of Surana Sethia Hospital in Chembur, said, “After the first dose, my spike protein levels rose to 80 U/Ml. If my antibody was not this high, I may have delayed taking the second dose.” Lab say they are only responding to societal demand. “The test will give us a lot of data on low, moderate and high antibody levels which can throw light on how much is adequate to fight the virus,” said Metropolis Healthcare president Dr Nilesh Shah. Dr Anupa Dixit from Suburban Diagnostics said the tests act as a reassurance at the end of two jabs. “The best time to check for the antibodies is 15 days after the second shot,” she said. Some believe the test may be unnecessary and even unreliable. Dr Sujata Baveja, who heads the microbiology department of Sion Hospital, said not all Covid-19 antibody tests kits are reliable. The US CDC doesn’t recommend antibody tests following vaccination and adds there is no information about revaccination or additional doses if one doesn’t show antibodies. State Covid task force member Dr Rahul Pandit said the neutralising antibody test may give people a false sense of complacency as they may feel they can wait before taking the vaccine or the second dose. According to immunologist Dr Mukesh Desai of Wadia Hospital, at times patients have higher protective T cells even though their antibodies may be undetectable. “When the efficacy of vaccines has been established, what is the point of taking an antibody test?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-covid-vax-beneficiaries-make-a-beeline-for-antibody-tests/articleshow/81500411.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: Nearly 3.3k fresh cases, highest in a day since September 30||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region on Sunday recorded its highest daily Covid-19 case tally in 165 days after 3,267 people tested positive. The last time more people tested positive was on September 30 (3,298). Also, on Sunday, 25 patients succumbed to the contagion, marking the highest daily toll since November 7 (26 fatalities). The region’s total death toll currently stands at 9,413. The progressive caseload for the region rose to 4,37,868 cases. More than 1,800 patients were discharged on Sunday, pushing the total number of recoveries to 4,06,894. The Pune Municipal Corporation accounted for 1,730 cases, while Pimpri Chinchwad reported 845 new cases. The rural areas (502), municipal councils (153) and cantonments (27) accounted for the rest, as per a report issued by the district health officer. PMC also had the highest recoveries (858). A total of 403 patients were discharged in Pimpri Chinchwad, 418 in the rural areas, 122 in municipal councils and 29 in cantonments, the report added. As of Sunday, there were 1,730 active cases in PMR — 7,255 patients were being treated in various hospitals, while 14,475 people opted for home isolation. As per data available with PMC, areas under its jurisdiction had had 765 patients who were being treated with oxygen support. The report added that the health condition of 355 patients, in various hospitals across PMC limits, was critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nearly-3-3k-fresh-cases-highest-in-a-day-since-sept-30/articleshow/81500406.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Dehradun||High Court appointed committee visits Kumbh area, finds shortcomings in various spots, terms facilities ‘pathetic’||NAINITAL/HARIDWAR: The committee constituted by the Uttarakhand high court (HC) to inspect the facilities for the Haridwar Maha Kumbh visited the Har-ki-Pauri area, Subhash ghat, women’s ghat, base hospital for Kumbh and several parking spots on Sunday. Social activist Sachin Dabral who has filed a PIL in the HC on the issue, told TOI, “We conducted inspection with mela officials and collected the evidence from the ground. Women’s ghat at Har-ki-Pauri is in quite a bad condition and women present there also complained about it at the time of inspection. Several other shortcomings also surfaced during the inspection and the committee will put all the evidence before the court.” Shiv Bhatt, counsel appearing for one of the petitioners who has filed a PIL before the HC on the state’s handling of the Covid pandemic said that most of the toilets were found to be dysfunctional, washrooms lacked running water and the secondary roads leading to ghats were still incomplete. “We visited several areas and in most of the locations, we found facilities to be in a pathetic state. Most of the washrooms have not been cleaned for days while almost none of them have running water. Even the roads leading up to prominent ghats are temporary while the authorities are blaming each other,” he said. Bhatt added that no social distancing norms were being followed at the ghats either. “We found that toilets were dysfunctional in the women’s ghat while no social distancing norms are being followed in any of the ghats,” he said. Bhatt was on a visit to Haridwar along with state’s chief standing counsel CS Rawat as well as mela officer Deepak Rawat and secretary of district legal services authority. When contacted, Deepak Rawat said that he cannot comment on the visit as he will submit his report to the HC. Meanwhile, CS Rawat did not respond to calls. All the members will submit a detailed report to the HC by March 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-appointed-committee-visits-kumbh-area-finds-shortcomings-in-various-spots-terms-facilities-pathetic/articleshow/81499497.cms||Prashant Jha
March 15, 2021||Pune||RT-PCR report must for staff conducting MPSC prelims||PUNE: All the staff members engaged in supervision and conduct of the state civil services examination on March 21 must get the RT-PCR test done. Candidates appearing for the exam will be permitted to travel for free to their centres through public transport or other modes. The state disaster management department has issued instructions about the conduct of the exam by Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC). Principal secretary of the state disaster management, relief and rehabilitation department, Aseem Gupta, in a notification on Friday to all district collectors in the state said, "It should be ensured that all staff that will be requisitioned for the conduct of the said examinations from the respective districts will get the RT-PCR test done before the examination. The expenditure incurred of the RT-PCR testing will be reimbursed by the MPSC." All students carrying valid hall tickets should be allowed to travel to their examination centres freely on the date of the examination without any impediment, Gupta has instructed. If any of the designated exam centres is falling in containment zone then the collectors have been asked to issue appropriate instructions to allow students carrying valid hall tickets as well as the government staff requisitioned for the conduct of the exam along with service providers appointed by the MPSC for frisking, thermal screening, sanitisation to enter the containment zones to reach the centres in time. Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation officials said buses will ferry the aspirants and the initiative has been taken considering the lockdown situations in many cities like Amravati, Aurangabad, Nagpur for a few days. It may hamper the commute of candidates with restrictions on movement of two- and three-wheelers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rt-pcr-report-must-for-staff-conducting-mpsc-prelims/articleshow/81500398.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
---||Dehradun||Uttarakhand locals welcome the onset of spring with Phool Dei||ALMORA: Traditional harvest festival Phool Dei was celebrated with much fervour in Uttarakhand on Sunday. The festival is celebrated annually on the first day of the Hindu month Chaitra to mark the onset of spring season. The festival was celebrated as Bal Lok Parv in the state. On the day, children arrived at the Governor’s House in Dehradun and showered flowers on the threshold of the Raj Bhavan. The girls held small baskets of attractive flowers in their hands and extended festive greetings to governor Baby Rani Maurya. According to the tradition of the festival, kids collect flowers from nearby areas or forests and go door-to-door to shower them on doorsteps wishing prosperity of the households. In return, the kids are given presents, including sweets, money, and others. “This folklore of Phool Dei gives the message of love towards nature and environmental protection. We have to connect future generations with our traditions and culture,” said Maurya. In Almora, several kids performed in cultural events. In the wake of Covid-19, the cultural events were organised with much precaution. Meanwhile, the locals also took a pledge to conserve nature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-locals-welcome-the-onset-of-spring-with-phool-dei/articleshow/81499505.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Kochi||Women seldom get a seat at the high table||KOCHI: When the newly formed Kerala queued up at the polling stations in 1957 for the very first state assembly elections, they chose to raise six out of the nine women contestants to power. If anybody had guessed that it was the beginning of steady growth for women to achieve a fair share of seats at the assembly in the decades to come, they were totally wrong. Except for 1996, during all other years, the number of winners always stayed in single digits - so much for Kerala’s contribution to the empowerment of the fair sex, a state that boasts of its history of matrilineal society, low female infanticide, a very healthy sex ratio, and highly literate women. Over the last six decades, the number of women candidates had gone up – there were 110 contestants in 2016 elections. However, that spike in the number of contestants didn't translate into an increase in representation in the assembly. Only eight managed to win their seats in that election - sadly, it is almost the similar figure the women had managed to win six decades ago. Hence it raises credible questions regarding how women are treated by the political parties in Kerala - why are they defeated in most of the constituencies, where they managed to secure a seat. Well, academicians had taken note of this. J. Devika and Binitha V. Thampi in their research article “Mobility Towards Work and Politics for Women in Kerala” gives a gender-perspective of the issue, looking at the socio-cultural aspects that contributed to the situation. “The movement into the public and politics, however, was more difficult to justify. The public was projected early as 'male space', but by the late 1920s, educated women were demanding entry, claiming to represent the group interests of 'women'. The opposition was strong,” they wrote. And as a result, “By the late 1930s many Congresswomen, active in anti-imperialist agitation, began to shift into Gandhian social work”. But things have changed now, said Devika, professor, Centre for Development Studies, Thiruvananthapuram. “Women are quite used to politics now and there is a very large number of women in panchayats,” she said. The percentage of women in local self-government bodies grew when Kerala amended the laws to ensure 50% of seats to women. “Now, the women occupy 54% of seats,” said Lathika Subhash, president of state Mahila Congress. First elected to the position of a student representative in 1980 in college days, she had risen within the party to the level of KPCC General Secretary. And in government, she served as the president of Kottayam Jilla Panchayat. Still, people like her have to fight to get an increase in representation in assembly elections. “This time, Mahila Congress is demanding 20% seats for women,” she said. Now the crucial question is are political parties reserving their winnable seats preferably to men? “When I contested in the assembly election [in 2011], I was pitted against the then chief minister Achuthanandan in Malampuzha,” said Subhash, implying that there was no chance of survival for her in that race. Devika cited a similar case of Sindhu Joy’s candidature against Oommen Chandy in Puthuppally, in 2006 elections. E K Santha, Assistant Professor, SRM University, Sikkim, had researched the women representation in CPM in Kerala. When contacted, she said, “The existing huge gender gap in the representative institutions in Kerala is, I think due to a combination of reasons like the unfinished agenda of the social reforms in Kerala, as these reforms also addressed gender questions by and large, lack of political will of all the mainstream political parties which is male-dominated. Though every party has their women’s organizations, largely they complement the activities of the respective political parties rather than running the organizations with a women’s rights perspective. Political parties including the left parties had done very little to address this issue so far,” she said. According to Santha, Kerala society itself is a male-dominated one and it naturally reflects in socio-economic, cultural, and political domains. “The prevailing patriarchal culture dominates the thought process of the women too. The reaction of women in the Sabarimala issue may be taken as an apt example. It is true that there are small women’s activists’ groups in Kerala but their impact is far and few,” she added. Will there ever be a tipping point for women to achieve half the seats in the state assembly? The only sure solution for the problem is reservation in the state assembly, said Lathika Subhash. “They did it in Rajya Sabha. Now the reservation is yet to happen in Lok Sabha and state assemblies,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/women-seldom-get-a-seat-at-the-high-table/articleshow/81500414.cms||Shenoy Karun
March 15, 2021||Pune||More venues, supply tweaks in plan to hit 50k daily jabs||Pune: Officials overseeing Covid vaccination in Pune circle (comprising Pune, Solapur and Satara districts) said they now plan to vaccinate at least 50,000 people every day. The plan, they said, will involve more private hospitals and sending more doses to sites recording good turnouts. The health department in the region currently vaccinates nearly 31,000 people daily, at 210 sites in Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural areas. Sanjog Kadam, deputy director (health), Pune circle, said a coordinated effort by authorities and private hospitals can help the region reach 50,000 beneficiaries daily. Sanjay Deshmukh, the assistant director (medical), Pune circle, said adding more hospitals to list of vaccination sites is the key. “We will only shortlist hospitals that have the infrastructure and manpower to carry out the vaccine drive,” he said. But tweaking the vaccine supply chain will also matter. “If a vaccination site, on average, is inoculating 100 beneficiaries every day, we will give it at least 500 doses. That supply should take care of their needs for five days,” Deshmukh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-venues-supply-tweaks-in-plan-to-hit-50k-daily-jabs/articleshow/81500408.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 15, 2021||Pune||PMC resettles hawkers on land in Deccan acquired for road widening||Pune: Can a private plot of land acquired for the purpose of 'traffic facilitation by widening a road' be used to resettle hawkers? Seventytwo-year-old Sanjeev Datar has been raising this question with the PMC for the last 35 years and is still persistent with his fight with the authorities over the issue.Datar, a dentist, once owned a plot of land where the Chitale sweets shop is located in Deccan Gymkhana. On June 13, 1981, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) standing committee passed a resolution to acquire around 78 metres of land on the side margins of his plot (CTS 759/54) to widen the road linking Garware subway to Deccan Gymkhana grounds.As per the PMC's records, the land acquisition process continued till 1986 while the official award was declared in September 1987, offering Datar's family a compensation of Rs 57,000 for the part of the plot acquired for widening the road. Since 1986, the widened section of the road, is been used as a designated hawker’s zone.As per the record, in 1986 the PMC had allowed 16 hawkers and over the years their numbers have surged to 38.Datar, who runs his dental clinic above Chitale, said the hawkers have virtually cordoned off the building and it becomes difficult to drive his vehicle inside the parking lot.“I never had any objection about the monetary compensation awarded,” Datar said, adding that he was convinced by the argument made by the then land acquisition officer M W Dabak who in his order justified the acquisition saying “with a view to provide better traffic facility, the PMC has decided to widen the road.”“But, for past 35 years, I have been questioning the civic body about how within a month after seeking possession of my land for 'traffic facilitation' it allowed a hawkers’ zone on the same land, an activity which obstructs traffic,” Datar said. He has two files full of objection letters that he has sent to the PMC over the years.The civic road department officials told TOI that the policy to use plots acquired for widening roads to resettle hawkers was wrong, but pleaded helplessness as the GB in November 1985 had passed a policy allowing such hawkers’ zones. “The hawkers around Chitale shop at Deccan Gymkhana are all authorized as per the general body’s resolution that was passed in November 1985,” the officer said.Local legislator promises to look into the problems Local BJP MLA Siddhartha Shirole told TOI that he was not aware about the complaints made by Datar, but assured that he will speak to him and investigate the issues raised by Datar.Besides Datar, the compound walls of the Gymkhana too got pushed behind as a near 100-meter-long strip of their land, measuring 313 square metres, was also acquired for the road widening in 1986. The result_cars of those visiting the Deccan area are parked all along the compound walls of Gymkhana grounds, besides the randomly parked two-wheelers of those visiting the stalls and vendors, defeating the purpose of road widening.Past experience triggers new fears for people “The officials can come any day near Chitale shop, and they will find the stalls here crowded and randomly parked vehicles of these visitors. We fear the same thing will happen when other internal lanes in our area get widened,” said Kishor Godbole, managing committee member, Deccan Gymkhana Colony Panchayat. “This is exactly the reason why the Panchayat has objected to the nine-metre road widening proposal,” he added. A senior officer of the Panchayat said they are not against the hawkers per say, but their activity needs to be streamlined. He said the Deccan vegetable market, located behind the building housing the sweet shop, was not a municipal property. “Ours is a planned colony and we had kept aside these vacant utility plots for common amenities. After PMC request, we allowed a vegetable market on our plot. The PMC should resettle the hawkers,”he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-resettles-hawkers-on-land-in-deccan-acquired-for-road-widening/articleshow/81499521.cms||Abhijit Atre
---||Nagpur||Out of work, three artistes attempt suicide, one dies||Nagpur: Strict restrictions on public gatherings, marriage functions and live shows right in the middle of the peak season has left in dire straits many artistes who earn their bread and butter by singing, dancing, and performing in shows. Over the last one week, three artistes have attempted suicide and one of them died on Saturday. Pravin Moon, a professional singer, attempted suicide on Saturday evening. The same day, dancer Kirti Gaikwad hanged herself do death. Earlier, drummer Yash Madankar had consumed mosquito repellent on March 4. These artistes are not demanding any allowance, or loan-waiver from the government, their only demand is to let them work, said others from their circles. “We earn the biggest chunk of our annual income during the March to May season. Last year, this season was washed out due to nationwide lockdown. We were hopeful of seeing some recovery this year,” said senior event coordinator and artiste Lucky Khan. “Live shows, orchestras are allowed to be organized with terms and conditions in Mumbai, Pune and other cities. But, there is blanket ban in Nagpur. We want to work. We are ready to follow the Covid rules. Our only request is to let us work,” said P Kumar, president of Oscar Sanskrutik Sangeet Kalavant Academy. “Artistes are helpless. These politicians only used artistes to raise funds. Artistes will not die of Covid-19, but they will die of starvation,” said senior theatre activist Sanjay Bhakre, known for bringing young talent to the stage. On Friday, professional lightmen, who provide lights in public functions and wedding events, formed their organization – Vidarbha Light Owners Association. “Now we have run out of courage. There’s no money, no income. Importantly, the government has no solution other than lockdown for the last one year on corona,” said Shankar Malode, president of this association. Activist Rahul Motwani, who runs a suicide prevention campaign in Nagpur, has appealed to youths not to take such extreme steps. “It’s unfortunate that we are losing young lives due to the restrictions. I appeal to hold on for some more time. They can always call on our helpline 9960191693, where we provide all possible support,” he said. “I wonder why Covid-19 is not there in Bengal, Orissa where all functions are going in full swing. Even in Maharashtra, theatre and cultural programs in Pune and Mumbai have started. So why not in Nagpur?,” wonders award winning light arranger Mithun Mitra. On Sunday, Pravin Moon, who attempted suicide, conducted a Facebook live from hospital. He narrated his psychological condition under which he took the extreme step on Saturday. “I am a man with a fighting spirit. But, I am running out of patience in the present situation. Amateur singers are doing singing programmes on Facebook which gives common people a notion that events are still on. But such online shows don’t give earnings to professionals like us,” he said. TOI also contacted Yash Madankar, who said ‘sorry’ to his fellow artists. “I should not have taken such an extreme step. So many friends and seniors came to help me. But, all of us are in trouble now. Events should start at least before Holi, or conditions will be even more critical,” he said. Defying restrictions, artistes are planning to start an indefinite hunger strike from Tuesday. RESTRICTIONS KILLING YOUTHS - Yash Madankar, 22, Manewada: Yash has been a drummer in orchestra for six years. He brought a new drum set last year. Consumed mosquito repellent on March 4. Saved - Pravin Moon, 35, Pardi: A professional singer, Pravin attempted suicide by cutting his wrist on Saturday evening while he was on Facebook live. His friends rushed home and saved him. Presently out of danger - Kirti Zilpe-Gaikawad, 25, Pardi: A professional dancer, Kirti used to perform in live shows. Financial crisis made her commit suicide by hanging herself||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/out-of-work-three-artistes-attempt-suicide-one-dies/articleshow/81500409.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 15, 2021||Dehradun||AAP protests against ex-CM’s announcement to turn Gairsain into commissionerate||ALMORA: The Uttarakhand unit of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) held a sit-in protest in Almora against the announcement to turn Gairsain into a commissionerate. The announcement was made by former CM Trivendra Singh Rawat during the assembly session in Gairsain. AAP’s Uttarakhand vice-president Amit Joshi said that the state government should let Almora be a part of the Kumaon division and no decision should be taken against the will of the people. He added that the party will intensify the stir if the decision is not retracted. “Almora is an integral part of Kumaon and the government should not attempt to snatch our identity,” added Joshi. It is worth mentioning that newly sworn-in CM Tirath Singh Rawat has already said that the decision relating to Gairsain commissionerate will be reviewed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aap-protests-against-ex-cms-announcement-to-turn-gairsain-into-commissionerate/articleshow/81499512.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Northern Rly GM inspects Ferozepur Division||Ludhiana: General manager (GM) of Northern Railways, Ashutosh Gangal visited Ludhiana railway station on Sunday, as part of the annual inspection of the railway station. GM was accompanied by other senior officers of the Ferozepur Division, including divisional railway manager (DRM) Rajesh Aggarwal. A spokesperson of the railways said under the routine annual inspection GM conducted a window trailing on Ludhiana-Beas-Jalandhar rail stretch and also visited Ludhiana and other stations. Spokesperson also said, “Ferozepur Division is among the biggest division under Indian Railways, which has its network spread in Punjab, Himachal and Jammu & Kashmir. The GM during his visit not only took stock of the developmental works under way in this division and also spoke to staff and also encouraged them to complete all the projects on time.” GM Gangal also checked all the newly built passenger facilities including newly built escalator at Beas railway station and also oversaw the 120km per hour speed trial on Jalandhar and Beas section and expressed his satisfaction on this. He also rewarded the maintenance team for the exception work being done by them and also inspected several bridges and their safety equipment and fittings. Meanwhile, several railway employees associated with Northern Railway Mens Union (NRMU) staged a protest against a senior official of the Ferozepur Division during GM’s visit to Ludhiana. Employees holding placards, shouted slogans against the official when he reached a platform at station for inspection. According to protestors this agitation was conducted against the anti worker attitude of this official and these will continue in the future as well until he is transferred from the division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/northern-rly-gm-inspects-ferozepur-division/articleshow/81501216.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Dehradun||90,000 elderly vaccinated for Covid-19 in 14 days||DEHRADUN: The Covid-19 vaccination drive is going on in full swing in Uttarakhand. In the last 14 days, the hill state managed to inoculate 89,237 people above the age of 65 years, according to the health department. Meanwhile, the state also recorded 24 cases of recovery from Covid-19, taking the cumulative tally of cured cases to 94,082. However, 52 new cases of coronavirus pushed the case tally to 97,806 in the state. The state also recorded one coronavirus-related death, taking the toll of the virus to 1,973. Among the new cases recorded on Sunday, the maximum of 30 infections were found in Dehradun, followed by nine in Udham Singh Nagar, six in Haridwar, three in Nainital, two in Uttarkashi, and one each in Pithoragarh and Rudraprayag districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/90k-elderly-vaccinated-for-covid-19-in-14-days/articleshow/81499515.cms||Ishita Mishra
---||Dehradun||52-year-old woman jumps in river to save 8-yr-old granddaughter, both swept away||PITHORAGARH: Tara Devi, 52, and her 8-year-old granddaughter Latika were swept away on Sunday in the Kali river that separates India and Nepal in Pithoragarh. The girl, who had come with her family from Khatima to Jhulaghat to attend a ceremony, went down to the river to drink water and fell into the water. Seeing her slip, her grandmother jumped in to rescue her but was swept away herself. The state disaster response force (SRRF) and police, with the help of local residents, continue to search for the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/52-year-old-woman-jumps-in-river-to-save-8-yr-old-granddaughter-both-swept-away/articleshow/81499522.cms||Prem Punetha
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Avoid gym, pool and gatherings Borivli, Dahisar societies told||MUMBAI: With cases rising in non-slum areas, BMC’s R-North ward, which covers parts of Borivli and Dahisar, has issued a slew of guidelines to housing societies and their staffers, including security guards and househelp. Most of the guidelines are part of the Covid safety norms. Among the guidelines presented by the ward’s medical health official Dr Avinash Vayadande during a webinar held on Saturday were to avoid gatherings and visiting common areas like gym and swimming pool, and follow Covid protocols of wearing a mask outside the house, santising the common areas and regularly washing hands. Security guards, domestic help and other staff should be routinely tested regularly at the nearest BMC dispensary as they could be asymptomatic carriers, Dr Vayadande said. R-North has a growth rate of 0.31%, almost close to the city’s overall growth rate of 0.37%. A civic official said that in the initial months of the pandemic, societies would strictly monitor those entering the premises with a thermal gun or check their SPO2 levels. “But as now people have developed a lethargic attitude towards safety protocols, we issued the guidelines. During the webinar, we also informed locals about the vaccination centres in the area,” said Dr Vayadande. Former Shiv Sena corporator Abhishek Ghosalkar from the ward appreciated BMC’s efforts to remind people of the Covid protocols. “The vaccination drive has begun, but we still need to maintain safety protocols to ensure our own safety and that of people around us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-avoid-gym-pool-and-gatherings-borivli-dahisar-societies-told/articleshow/81500444.cms||Richa Pinto
March 15, 2021||Dehradun||28th National Fencing Championship to kickstart today||RUDRAPUR: The 28th Junior National Fencing championship will kick off in Rudrapur on Monday. As many as 423 players from the different parts of the country will take part in the three-day-long championship to be held at Delhi Public School. Also, the 31st senior national fencing championship will be held in the city from March 19. Surjit Singh Grover, president of the Uttarakhand Fencing Association, “Teams from all Indian states and Union territories and Indian Army will participate in these events. The teams will be selected for the Olympic Games to be held in Tokyo in 2021 on the basis of performance in these championships.” General secretary of the Uttarakhand Olympic Association, DK Singh, said that the SOPs for the event include carrying negative RT-PCR certificates for both athletes and accompanying members. The federation is also planning on keeping antigen testing at the venue for additional safety. “Athletes have not participated in any competition for over a year now. We believe that this is the best time to initiate the championship. We will adhere to the best safety practices during the events,” said Rajeev Mehta, general secretary of the Indian Olympic Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/28th-national-fencing-championship-to-kickstart-today/articleshow/81499534.cms||Aakash Ahuja
March 15, 2021||Nagpur||152 more days required to vaccinate 18+ population of dist at current rate||NAGPUR: At the current rate, Nagpur district will require 152 days to give the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to all people above 18  years. Experts have stressed on the need to scale up the inoculation and completion of second dose of all citizens before the monsoon. Vaccination at a glanceAfter a slow start, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Zilla Parishad (ZP) have managed to increase number of vaccinations to almost 18,000 per day. As per the district administration, the population of the district is around 54 lakh. As per existing guidelines of ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), vaccination is permissible for those above 18 years of age. The Registrar General and Census Commissioner says those less than 18 years of age make up 41% of the population. This leaves 59% population above 18 years of age, or 31.86 lakh people from the district eligible for the vaccine. The government had rolled out vaccine for healthcare workers (HCW) from January 16, frontline workers (FLWs) from February 5, 60+ and 45+ with comorbidities from March 1. As on March 14, some 41,796 HCWs, 23,329 FLWs, 17,565 from 45+ with comorbidities and 65,943 from 60+ have taken the jab in the district for a total of 1,48,633. Thus, 30,37,367 people are remaining for the inoculation. Even if one assumes vaccination of 20,000 people per day in the district, it will take another 152 days for first dose of remaining population. Second dose is permissible after 28 days of first dose. This means vaccination for all may not be possible even after completion of monsoon if one considers the current rate. For last three weeks, the district is witnessing second wave, which is more contagious compared to peak of the pandemic witnessed in August and September last year. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI, “Cases and deaths were very high in August and September last year. Threat of viral disease, especially Covid-19 is high in monsoon and winter. Two doses for 18+ age group before monsoon will ensure very few deaths and help contain the spread in case of any another wave. Special permission for vaccination of all eligible people should be given to districts like Nagpur, Akola and Amravati, where case load is high currently.” Dr Shinde added the government should make available vaccination centres at all hospitals and clinics to ease workload on government hospitals. “Good response from senior citizens and comorbid indicates there is no confusion and apprehension about the vaccine. Many people below 45 years are eager to take vaccine but it is not available,” he said. NMC chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said vaccination will begin at another 10 urban primary health centres this week. At present, inoculation is going on at 131 centres in the district, including 61 in city and 70 in rural. Till now, government has permitted inoculation at 42 private hospitals, which are empanelled under its schemes. The state government on March 13 approved vaccination in only one more private hospital, which is not empanelled. The government is yet to consider list of 11 private hospitals submitted by NMC for this purpose. Collector Ravindra Thakare had recommended permission to the private hospital, which got approval. It has created a controversy as Thakare recommended only one private hospital despite many expressing eagerness to start inoculation. Also, NMC is authority for vaccination in the city. The government is yet to consider list of 11 private hospitals sent by the NMC despite majority having done a commendable job in vaccination of HCWs. Also, these hospitals are having readymade set up and experienced staff. Thakare did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said he will follow up on the issue with the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/152-more-days-required-to-vaccinate-18-population-of-dist-at-current-rate/articleshow/81500442.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 15, 2021||Kolkata||JEE Advanced will not take board syllabus reductions into account||KOLKATA: Though students who are appearing for their CBSE XII and ISC examinations have many topics deleted from their syllabus, they might face questions from these topics in the JEE Advanced examinations, which is the entrance test to the IITs. A team of experts from the IITs met and discussed the truncated syllabi of both CBSE XII and ISC and it was decided that JEE Advanced cannot take this into consideration. Candidates will be tested on the entire syllabus. This year, JEE Advanced will be conducted by IIT Kharagpur. Chairman of JEE Advanced, Debashish Chakraborty said there would be no omissions due to the pandemic situation. “Changing the syllabus for the JEE Advanced takes two years of deliberations and it cannot be done in the way that school boards function. The reduction of board syllabus came up in our study and discussions and we have decided against it,” he added. For CBSE XII, a total of 14 topics were removed in chemistry, including the ones on electrical and magnetic properties, band theory of metals, n and p type semi conductors, entire chapter on polymers, sizeable portions of biomolecules that includes enzymes, hormones etc have been removed in CBSE XII chemistry. In maths, sizeable portions in statistics (frequency distribution with equal means but different variances), probability, full chapter on reasoning, calculus, three dimensional geometry are among the deletions. In physics, large parts of semiconductor electronics, radioactivity, dual nature of radiation and matter etc were removed. In ISC maths, large parts in functions, differentiation, application of derivatives and probability have been removed. “We had anticipated this and told those who were aspiring to write JEE that they should not expect anything to be deleted there. Boards and competitive entrance exams are different ball games,” said Seema Sapru, principal of Heritage School. Joyoti Chowdhury, principal of DPS Ruby Park, too, said: “We didn’t test them on the deleted portions but taught them all, keeping this in mind.” Ramesh Batlish, head of FIITJEE, who has been training generations of students for JEE Mains and Advanced, said: “We told our students to ignore board deletions because board exams are generalised and meant for even those students who are not aiming to crack JEE. These are intense exams and you cannot do selective studies.” JEE Advanced has removed the criterion of a minimum 75% score in the board examinations. “This would have put a lot of stress on kids in this extraordinary situation and so we will consider just a pass percentage in Plus-II boards. There will be some more relaxations,” Chakraborty said. Candidates who had registered but could not reach their venues last year due to the lockdown, will be allowed to sit for JEE Advanced directly, without once again writing JEE Mains, he added. Once the JEE Mains results were declared finally and candidates are selected for JEE Advanced, the organising IIT will study the geographical location of all candidates and ensure that there is an increase in number of centres so that candidates do not have to travel very far from their residences for the exam, Chakraborty stressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jee-advanced-will-not-take-board-syllabus-reductions-into-account/articleshow/81499576.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 15, 2021||Pune||People at Blue Ridge bend & stretch for good health||Pune: Chants of ‘Om’ reverberated through the T9 Cricket Ground at Unit B of Blue Ridge Township, Hinjewadi on Saturday, bouncing off the grey and yellow high rises framing the setting sun. An hour-long yoga session began at 6pm in the IT hub, attended by chirpy 10-year-olds as well as senior citizens.The Times of India, in partnership with the Yoga Institute, Mumbai, has launched the Yoga At Your Doorstep campaign, as a part of which a series of yoga sessions will be conducted in housing societies every Saturday for residents. The session was organised adhering to the Covid-19 safety protocols — safe distance between participants in an open area. Lavishka Raisinghani and her friend Hrudaya Hardikar, both students of standard V in Blue Ridge school, chose to register for the session after learning about it from their parents’ WhatsApp group. “Yoga keeps us fit and is also very relaxing,” said Lavishka. Hrudaya, an athlete, said practising yoga is the best way to improve as an athlete.As the participants learnt various asanas (postures) and their benefits, Jagriti Trivedi, one of the participants, surprised the others by showcasing her proficiency in asanas including ‘shirshasana’ (headstand). Trivedi, 57, has been practising yoga for the last three years. “It helps me stay fit, gives me more stamina and makes me happy,” she said. Her daughter Surali hoped that one day she can emulate her mother and incorporate yoga into her routine. “Covid-19 has taken away many pleasures from our lives. It is often neglected but the pandemic has also put an end to many exercising, running and biking groups in the city, which were playing their roles in keeping people fit,” Rashmi Sharma, a young banker, said. Rashmi, who attended the session with her IT professional husband, added, “Doing yoga or any exercise on your own takes immense will power and we often struggle to take the time out for it.” Yoga teacher Vedesh Adya answered some questions fielded by the enthusiastic crowd. “Most were related to backache and how to control acidity. Yoga helps keep our mind and body fit,” said Adya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/people-at-blue-ridge-bend-stretch-for-good-health/articleshow/81499528.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Nagpur||Job lost in lockdown, Hyderabad teacher sells drugs||NAGPUR: Shivshankar Isampalli, 27, a dance teacher-turned-drug peddler from Hyderabad, was arrested near Panjari on Wardha road shortly after Saturday midnight for allegedly possessing more than 91kg marijuana, worth around Rs 14 lakh, in his car. He was heading to Delhi to deliver the narcotic consignment when intercepted. Spotting cops, Isampalli tried to flee, but was nabbed by naik constable Manoj Shahu of Beltarodi police station after a chase. Isampalli, a resident of Kukatpally, Hyderabad, was earning a monthly salary of Rs30,000 as a dance teacher at a reputed school in the city. It’s learnt that the art and students were central to the dance teacher’s life, until the lockdown left him bereft of his job. A father of two children, Isampalli searched for a job for a few months to be able to look after his family, but took to crime after failing to find employment. During interrogation, Isampalli said a fellow teacher introduced him to the narcotics racket in Hyderabad. He eventually accepted the offer of working as a drug peddler for Rs10,000 per trip. Though Isampalli claimed to have peddled drugs for the first time, the police feel otherwise. There were pictures of several cars in his mobile phone and many “suspicious” phone numbers which he could not explain, indicating his deeper involvement in the racket. “The narcotics consignment was handed over to him (Isampalli) by someone called Vinod in Hyderabad, who had told him to hand it over to a person in Delhi,” said a police source. Senior inspector Vijay Akot of Beltarodi police station, who worked under the supervision of zonal DCP Akshay Shinde, said the call details of the accused have been sought for further investigation. “The car was spotted by the beat marshal constable on patrolling duty. It seemed to be driven with something heavy in the vehicle but there was nobody except the driver inside. The vehicle was chased, caught and pulled side for checking. There was a concealed modified chamber inside the car in which the consignment had been kept,” said a cop who was part of the action. Isampalli was remanded to police custody till March 18 after being produced before the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/job-lost-in-lockdown-hyderabad-dance-teacher-turns-to-drug-smuggling/articleshow/81500440.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 15, 2021||Pune||Respite denied in case of conspiracy||Pun: The court of additional sessions judge G P Agrawal has rejected the bail application of Ajit Ashok Khavale, who, along with four others, was arrested on the charge of conspiracy and attempt to kill Mayur Hande (29), a building material supplier, at Mohammadwadi on October 12, last year. According to the prosecution, Hande had gone to offload building material at Mohammadwadi, when a man opened fire at him before running away from the spot. The bullet grazed past the victim’s cheek. In the ensuing investigation, the police arrested a total of five suspects, including Khavale, who has been in jail since October 19, last year. His lawyer argued that Khavale’s name did not figure in the FIR and that he had no link whatsoever with the crime. However, the prosecution argued that Khavale, along with another co-accused, purchased the firearm and later sold the same to the other co-accused, who fired at Hande at the behest of the main conspirator. Judge Agrawal said, “…what is seen from the record is that there is deep rooted conspiracy among the applicant and other co-accused to eliminate Mayur Hande. There is prima facie evidence against applicant and others which reveals from the CDR and tower location. In the event of release of the applicant on bail, he may tamper the prosecution evidence and will indulge in similar types of activities.” As such, the accused did not deserve any leniency, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/respite-denied-in-case-of-conspiracy/articleshow/81499584.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Pune||Restaurateur, waiter face murder charge in Pune||PUNE: The Hadapsar police on Saturday arrested an eatery owner from Hadapsar and a waiter for beating a 30-year-old construction worker to death after the latter picked up the owner’s smartphone from the counter. The incident happened on Thursday morning when the victim, Ravi Rathod, had gone to Shivshahi restaurant for breakfast. along with his colleague, Suresh Rathod (28). The police have arrested owner Anil More (35) and waiter Baburao Jadhav (29) under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. Suresh Rathod told TOI, “After finishing the breakfast, Ravi went to answer nature’s call and I went to pay the bill. I transferred Rs110 though an e-wallet. The owner, however, could not find his phone to check whether the amount had been credited to him. When he checked the CCTV footage, he saw Ravi picking up his smartphone from the counter before leaving the eatery.” The owner then began abusing Rathod and slapped him. “I told him that I would go home and take the smartphone from Ravi and return it to them. I even had told them that Ravi was under inebriated and might have accidentally picked up the smartphone. I offered to keep my smartphone, worth Rs5,000, and my Aaadhar card with the owner till I returned with his phone,” Rathod said. The owner forced Rathod to go along with him and a waiter to show them Ravi’s house. “After driving some distance, we saw Ravi walking along the rail tracks. The duo then beat him brutally, left him along the tracks and left after taking the owner’s smartphone,” Rathod said. “I returned with Ravi’s wife and shifted Ravi to a private hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries on Friday,” he said. Rathod said Ravi is survived by his wife and three children. Recently, he had adopted a child after the death of the kid’s parents. “He was not the thief. He may have picked up the phone by mistake,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurateur-waiter-face-murder-charge/articleshow/81499612.cms||---
---||Kolkata||Kolkata: ICH doctors save 10-month-old with rare lung condition||KOLKATA: A 10-month-old girl, who was rushed to the Institute of Child Health (ICH) Kolkata last month with a rare lung condition that can affect one in about 30,000 live births, has been discharged after doctors performed a life-saving surgery. It was followed by a stormy post-surgery treatment. “The child suffered from congenital lobar emphysema (CLE) in which air can enter the lung but cannot escape causing overinflation of the lung lobes. The air accumulated in the pleural cavity giving rise to a condition called tension pneumothorax and consequently cardiac arrest,” said Prabhas Prasun Giri, paediatric intensivist at ICH. The child, Monami Ghosh, had been suffering from recurrent cough and breathing difficulty for over four months. Her parents had initially taken her to a hospital in Nadia. She was then transferred to a top government hospital in Kolkata in mid-January. But after rapid decline in her condition she was shifted to the child specialty hospital in Park Circus. At ICH, the child was immediately put on ventilation support. Meanwhile, investigative tests were conducted on emergency basis and doctors detected the case as CLE. Her right lung was completely damaged. “It was an extremely challenging surgery. But we had to take a chance and conduct it on emergency basis as an attempt to save the child,” said paediatric surgeon Dr Tapan Jyoti Banerjee, whose team operated on the child. The damaged portion of the lung was removed through the procedure called lobectomy. “Doctors had said the chances of survival was only 1% but promised that they would do all that they could. Now she is back home. It has been nothing less than a miracle by the doctors at ICH,” said father Manmohan Ghosh, a mason, who lost job during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ich-docs-save-10-month-old-with-rare-lung-condition/articleshow/81499647.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 15, 2021||Nagpur||To expedite road works in forest areas, state decentralizes powers||NAGPUR: In a bid to expedite up-gradation and repairs of road works permitted in forest lands prior to the commencement of Forest Conservation Act (FCA), 1980, the state government has authorized APCCFs, CCFs, and respective field directors to allow such works. Earlier, such decisions were taken only by the state. These powers for issuing necessary permissions for the repair, maintenance, and blacktopping of roads constructed on forest lands will be for lands falling outside the protected areas (PAs) in their jurisdictions. However, for up-gradation of roads through national park, sanctuary, or conservation reserve, and community reserves, permission of state chief wildlife warden (CWLW) will be mandatory. Based on MoEFCC clarification, the state government on March 9, 2021, issued a detailed circular that authorizes territorial and wildlife APCCFs and CCFs to grant permission to such roads subject to conditions that no breaking up of forest land or felling of trees shall be allowed. While blacktopping, adequate precautions should be undertaken by the user agency to avoid any damage to flora and fauna. Besides, fire for melting of coal tar and mixing shall be lit at a safe distance from the trees or vegetation and avoiding dry or hot seasons. Fuel wood, if required, shall be purchased in advance from the forest depots and no crushing/breaking of stones shall be allowed inside forest areas. Readymade materials shall be used for up-gradation of such roads and no labour camp shall be allowed on forest land. Moreover, no widening of the road is allowed and both sides of the upgraded road shall be reinforced with brick/stone works, and vegetative measures to check soil erosion at the project cost in consultation with DFOs. In accordance with the proposal received from the user agency, the deputy conservator or DFO will conduct the site inspection either himself or through ACF and submit it to the competent authority. “If officials find the roads need widening then the proposal will have to be forwarded to the state and central government through a proper channel under the FCA, 1980,” said senior forest officials. CENTRE’S GUIDELINES * The up-gradation of roads, constructed in forest areas prior to October 25, 1980, from ‘kutcha’ to ‘pucca’ is permissible without attracting the provisions of FC Act * Blacktopping and bituminous work of forest roads (management works) which have been brought under Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojna (PMGSY) is permitted * User agency shall maintain curves of the roads, inside the forest, and will not straighten the same * Agencies shall install speed breakers and speed control signage at regular intervals to avoid an accident with wild animals * No tree felling is involved and no widening of the road should be undertaken without prior approval of the Central Government under the FCA, 1980||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/to-expedite-road-works-in-forest-areas-state-decentralizes-powers/articleshow/81500451.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 15, 2021||Pune||IMD forecasts warmer days ahead, cloud cover in Pune||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday forecast day temperatures in the city to rise to 37 degree celsius for Monday and Tuesday, and thereafter it remain at 36 degrees celsius till March 20. The city recorded the highest day temperature of 37 degrees celsius so far this season. Anupam Kashyapi, head of the forecast division of the IMD, said, “There is no rain-causing system present over the central parts of the country currently. The sky conditions have cleared and we have entered the summer season. The day temperature is expected to remain between 35 degree celsius to 37 degree celsius for next few days.” On Sunday, the Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded 36.4 degree celsius and 36.4 degree celsius above the normal by 1.2 degree and 0.4 degree, respectively. There is an increase in the night temperatures as well in the city. Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded 16.9 degrees celsius and 19.2 degrees celsius which were above the normal by 1.2 degree and 2.2 degree, respectively. The IMD has also predicted partly cloudy conditions in the evening hours from March 17 till March 20. “This condition would be mainly due to an interaction between northerly and southerly winds over Madhya Pradesh. The effect of which will be felt over parts of Madhya Maharashtra, which includes Pune, and Vidarbha region,” a senior met official said. Barring Aurangabad, Bramhapuri and Nagpur weather stations, all others recorded a rise in day temperature by one or two degrees. Nanded on Sunday recorded 39 degrees celsius, the hottest in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-forecasts-warmer-days-ahead-cloud-cover/articleshow/81499646.cms||Sandip Dighe
March 15, 2021||Nagpur||Schools take tough stance on NOC renewal, RTE admissions||NAGPUR: A fresh round of a stand-off between private unaided schools and the state government is on the cards, with the former taking a tough stand on school NOC renewal and RTE admissions. Unaided Schools’ Forum, a Mumbai-based organization which represents over a thousand schools in Maharashtra, has written to the state education department demanding that a recent GR on NOC renewal be scrapped. Subhash Chandra Kedia, honorary secretary of USF, said, “In the first week of March, the education department issued a GR regarding procedure for schools to renew their NOCs. This is based on a GR issued in August 2009 which says schools must renew it every three years.” USF says that 2009 GR had been challenged in court. “Bombay High Court has stayed the 2009 GR through an order dated November 14, 2011. This stay is still in operation. Hence it’s clear that the GR is illegal, void and amounts to contempt of the court for non-compliance of the HC order,” said Kedia. The second trouble seems to be brewing on the RTE admission front as schools have upped the ante regarding pending dues. Independent English Schools’ Association (IESA), a Pune-based organization with presence across the state, said they will not allow RTE admissions to go ahead till the entire payment backlog is cleared. Rajendra Dayma, president of IESA, said, “We had a meeting with our members and decided it’s a now or never kind of situation. The government is going ahead with the online RTE selection process but we will not complete the admission paperwork. For so many years we have been following all of their instructions, but when it comes to keeping their end of the bargain, the education department always backs away.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-take-tough-stance-on-noc-renewal-rte-admissions/articleshow/81500446.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 15, 2021||Kochi||Kerala Elections: Congress fields twice as many ‘youth’ as CPM||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Congress party's line-up of candidates for the assembly election gives an initial impression that the party is on a combative mode. The decision to replace over 55% old faces with new ones shows the importance the party attaches to the fight for power in Kerala. In the candidate list announced by KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran on Sunday, 46 candidates are below 50 years of age. Twenty-two of the total 86 candidates announced are below 60 years. Only three in the list are 70-plus. The candidate list matches with CPM on many counts. Like CPM, Congress too has 42 graduates, two PhD holders and two MBBS doctors. This time, the Congress leadership has walked their talk about giving opportunities to new and young people to contest in elections. It may be noted that CPM, which took much care in giving opportunity to new faces, has only 25 candidates below 50 years of age in its list. However, there is a cardinal difference in the approach by Congress and CPM in their approach to new faces. While the CPM rested 33 of its sitting MLAs to bring in new faces, the Congress has offered no sitting seat, except Irikkur, to the new entrants. Barring K C Joseph, all sitting MLAs of Congress would contest this election. Thus, the new faces in Congress, unlike in CPM, will have to sweat it out and wrest the seats from the LDF. But inclusion of more young and new faces to the party has left too many leaders disheartened. However, internal uproar of this kind is not new in Congress over candidate selection. But the level of disquiet this time is comparatively higher and wider. But, Congress insiders are of the view that the internal mutiny would be over in another few days as most leaders are aware of the growing threat from CPM and BJP. “Since seats are denied to a large number of leaders, across groups, the discontent is likely to subside soon. Group leaders generally try to pull the rug below when there is gross disparity in allocation of seats among groups. After all, there is not much changes in the group equations this time too. All the new faces belong to one group or another, said a senior Congress leader. “The Congress list of candidates surprises us all with a lot of new faces. It’s good that the leadership has finally understood the need to give opportunity to youngsters. But, it’s disappointing that Congress failed to give enough seats to women. The mix of candidates gives the feel that Congress considers the assembly elections as a do or die battle,’’ said political scientist G Gopakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cong-fields-twice-as-many-youth-as-cpm/articleshow/81500450.cms||B S Anilkumar
March 15, 2021||Bareilly||Forest officials ‘attacked’ by aides of mining mafia in Dudhwa Tiger Reserve||BAREILLY: Goons of mining mafia allegedly attacked forest officials who had impounded three tractors and a JCB machine from inside the buffer forests of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve. According to the officers, during a raided inside the Dhaurahra forest range they found illegal mining taking place and sought more reinforcement. Meanwhile, several people came in support of the accused and attacked them and got away with the impounded JCB machine, they alleged. Divisional forest officer Anil Patel told TOI, “It appears that the people who were permitted for mining outside the forest area had entered the reserve forest area. None of our staff was hurt, but the accused managed to get away with the JCB. However, we have impounded three sand-laden tractors. An identified and 25 unidentified accused were booked. "Most of the accused belong to neighbouring villages. We will conduct raids with the support of local police to arrest them,” added the DFO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/forest-officials-attacked-by-aides-of-mining-mafia-in-dudhwa-tiger-reserve/articleshow/81497657.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 15, 2021||Madurai||TN fishermen protest no-fishing zone||Chennai: Fishermen of Kattupallikuppam on the northern fringes of the city are going on a protest on Monday against the Adani port administration’s request to the National Hydrographic Office to declare a 7.7 sqkm area around the port as a 'no-fishing zone'. Arguing that fishing boats and nets posed a major security concern and safety hazard to the ships, the port management sought a ban. A letter was sent by the port administration in August 2019 to the director of National Hydrographic Office, Dehradun. The fishing community has strongly opposed this proposal. The Kattupallikuppam fishermen panchayat had sent an open letter to all political parties in the state to speak up against the decision of Adani port. D Kannan, a fisherman from Kattupallikuppam, said, "The ports and industries are gradually tightening the noose on fishermen and are strangling our livelihoods." More than 200 families of fishermen live in this fishing hamlet, who are dependent on coastal resources for their livelihood. When the Kattupalli port was created in 2008, the port management assured employment for families of 200 fishermen. However, all fishermen from this hamlet continue to work as temporary labourers till today. When L&T port sold its stakes to Adani group, fishermen thought their services would be regularised. But none of the workers were made permanent. "The port management is now demanding the government to declare a no-fishing zone in the area, which is as big as Chepauk cricket stadium... it will directly affect our livelihoods," he said. The open letter to political parties stated that increased shipping traffic is a danger to fishermen's lives and livelihood. “We have seen how the governments are eager to do whatever Adani asks. We are appealing to all political parties to speak out against this injustice. It is not only our village that does fishing in this area. Fishing vessels come all the way from Thiruvottiyur, Ennore and Pulicat to fish here,” it stated. Saravanan of Coastal Research Centre said the Adani port wanted a 7.7 km area to be declared as a no fishing zone. A request to this effect was sent by the Adani port to the government authorities. This information was obtained through an RTI application. When contacted, the state fisheries department officials said they have not received any communication from the Union government so far regarding declaration of 7.7 sqkm as no fishing zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-fishermen-protest-no-fishing-zone/articleshow/81500454.cms||P Oppili
March 15, 2021||Pune||Ahmedabad & Pune to get Duronto link||PUNE: The Western Railway will run the Superfast Duronto Special between Ahmedabad and Pune for the convenience of passengers and to tackle the rush. Train number 02297 Ahmedabad–Pune will leave Ahmedabad at 10.30pm every Tuesday, Friday and Sunday from March 16 and is scheduled to reach Pune at 7.10am the next day. Similarly, train number 02298 Pune–Ahmedabad will leave Pune at 9.35pm every Monday, Thursday and Saturday from March 15 and is expected to reach Ahmedabad at 6.40am the next day till further notice, officials added. Along the way, the train will halt at Vasai Road and Lonavala stations. This train will have 1st AC, AC 2 tier and AC 3 tier. The bookings will commence on March 15 at nominated PRS counters and on the IRCTC website. The train will run fully reserved, the rail authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ahmedabad-pune-to-get-duronto-link/articleshow/81499648.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s vaccine wastage dips to 3.2%; BMC plans 1 lakh jabs/day||MUMBAI: Vaccine wastage in the state has dropped to 3.2% since the second phase of senior citizens and people above 45 years with comorbidities began on March 1. Earlier, it was hovering around 5%, when only healthcare workers and frontliners were taking the shots. Vaccine wastage in Mumbai, BMC’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said, was 1%-2%. “On-spot registration really helped to cut down wastage. It has fallen further since the drive for senior citizens started,” she added. Mumbai is now clocking around 45,000 vaccinations a day, but additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani on Sunday told TOI that the BMC is now planning to vaccinate almost a lakh a day. “Our target is to finish vaccination before monsoon, which is by May-end,” he said. There are an estimated 30 lakh people from the prioritized groups in Mumbai of which only six lakh have got at least one dose. According to state officials, an estimated 90,000 doses have been wasted in Maharashtra since the inoculation drive started on January 16. They said it was well within the limit of 10% that has been factored in by the Centre. Dr Dilip Patil, immunisation officer, said the vaccine performance of every district, which included wastage ratios, was taken into consideration at the time of handing out more doses. “Vaccine management is an equally important element and we are very mindful to keep it to minimum,” he said. Typically, turnout plays an important role when it comes to vaccine management. In certain districts, an official said, the wastage was quite high initially. “It was as much as 1,000 doses in the first few days, but as soon as on-spot registrations started, the number reduced,” he said. “Covaxin saw more wastage in the beginning compared to Covishield,” a district health officer said. At Byculla’s JJ Hospital, which so far has been the only centre to administer Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin in the city, the wastage was significant in the initial days. Dr Lalit Sankhe, nodal officer of the centre, said unlike Covishield that contained 10 doses in a vial, Covaxin vials came with 20 doses. “So, when our turnout would be, say 48, we would be wasting up to 12 doses,” he said. But, since March, the firm has started sending vials with 10 doses. Dr Sankhe said this has brought down wastage in a big way. On Monday, five more centres, including BYL Nair Hospital, SevenHills Hospital, and BKC, Mulund and Dahisar jumbo facilities will start administering Covaxin alongside Covishield. Meanwhile, vaccination numbers had dipped marginally across the state on Saturday. From a high of over 2.5 lakh on Friday, it dropped to 1.3 lakh on Saturday. A total of 28 lakh vaccine doses have been administered of which nearly 3.4 lakh have got the second doses too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-mahas-vax-wastage-dips-to-3-2-bmc-plans-1l-jabs/day/articleshow/81500457.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 15, 2021||Aurangabad||Greater flamingos spotted at Jayakwadi sanctuary||Aurangabad: A flock of Greater flamingos was spotted at the Jayakwadi bird sanctuary on Saturday, much to the delight of environmentalists and nature lovers. Incidentally, these attractive winged creatures were missing during the bird census conducted on February 28. The delayed arrival of flamingos this year has been attributed to many reasons, including availability of other waterbodies on their migratory route.Assistant conservator of forest (wildlife) Rajendra Nale, who spotted the Greater flamingos at the Jayakwadi bird sanctuary on Saturday, said locals have confirmed the arrival of a large number of these birds. “Jayakwadi dam was holding massive quantities of water when the migration season of many birds, including Greater flamingos, started during winter last year. It may be the reason behind the delayed arrival of the flamingos this year. The flamingos migrate to India from parts of Europe and Africa and Jayakwadi dam is one their preferred destinations during the journey,” said Nale. Besides flamingos, Oriental pratincoles have also been spotted at the bird sanctuary after a long gap. Common cranes, which migrate from Siberia, have also marked their presence at the sanctuary. The bird census conducted recently spotted as many as 82 varieties of migratory and resident birds at the Jayakwadi sanctuary at 30 identified spots. “We could count over 41,600 birds at the identified spots. The bird population will be definitely more given that the Jayakwadi bird sanctuary is spread over a sprawling 339 sqkm. Only 20% of it could get covered during the census due to different limitations,” Nale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/greater-flamingos-spotted-at-jayakwadi-sanctuary/articleshow/81498055.cms||Prasad Joshi
March 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 20 Covid deaths, 1,501 new cases||CHANDIGARH: Punjab registered 20 Covid-19 deaths and 1,501 new cases, including six teachers and 10 students in Ludhiana, on Sunday. The number of Covid deaths in the state has reached 6,072 and the total number of positive cases to 1,97,755. In all, 839 patients have been discharged from hospitals. Mohali registered the highest number of 211 cases. It was followed by 197 in Ludhiana, 196 in Patiala, and 176 in Jalandhar. There were a total 11,550 Covid-19 active cases in the state when this report was filed. In all, 183 health workers, 267 frontline workers and 1,215 civilians (aged over 60 years or aged over 45 and with comorbidities) got their first dose of Covid vaccine on Sunday. Also, 91 health workers and 270 frontline workers got their second dose. A total of 2,05,925 health care and frontline workers have been vaccinated with the first dose and 66,478 with the second dose till date. Also, 94,267 persons above 60 years of age and over 45 years of age with comorbidities have got their first dose of vaccine so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-records-20-covid-deaths-1501-new-cases/articleshow/81500467.cms||---
---||Kolkata||Kolkata cop falls prey to cyber fraud||KOLKATA: Days after a senior IPS officer from central Kolkata became the victim of cyber crime, another divisional DCP — in charge of an important portion of the added areas of Kolkata — has fallen prey to cyber fraud. A fake Facebook profile was created in his name and financial help asked, claiming he was hospitalized. The IPS officer took to social media to warn people from falling prey to such a fake profile. “Friends, some fraud person has made a fake Profile in my name. Please don’t accept requests. I’m taking action,” he wrote on his original Facebook account. Incidentally, the fake account not only used the officer’s photo without permission, but had even used the photo of Lalbazar as the profile picture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cop-falls-prey-to-cyber-fraud/articleshow/81499656.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 15, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Cop donates summer hats to street vendors to beat the heat||CHENNAI: Street vendors in Aminjikarai, Triplicane and Kilpauk can finally heave a sigh of relief when they look for customers in the sweltering heat to sell their goods. An inspector from Triplicane police station has donated summer hats made of palm leaves to these hawkers. Inspector S Seetharaman ordered these hats online from Kanniyakumari with the slogan, ‘let’s not bargain, but respect them’. He said he wanted to help street vendors beat the heat when he saw them battling the heat while negotiating witth customers who were bargaining for a few rupees. In a week, he distributed it to 20 women in Aminjikarai and Kilpauk areas. “The elderly woman had to sit for more than five hours to sell five bundles of spinach. I couldn't stand for more than ten minutes, thus came this idea,” he said. He has also ordered more hats to be distributed to both elderly men and women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cop-donates-summer-hats-to-street-vendors-to-beat-the-heat/articleshow/81500462.cms||---
March 15, 2021||India||Clerics for NSA against Rizvi over Quran plea||MUZAFFARNAGAR: The petition seeking removal of 26 verses from the Quran is nothing but an attempt to tarnish the Muslim community’s image, Islamic seminary Darul Uloom, Deoband said on Sunday as it slammed former Shia Waqf board chief Waseem Rizvi for approaching the SC with it. V-C of Darul Uloom, Deoband, Abul Qasmi Nomani, said, “Not a word has changed in the Quran since this world came into being. And there is no scope for it too.” National vice-president of Jamat-Raza-e-Mustafa, Salman Hasan Khan, said, “ The National Security Act should be invoked against Rizvi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/clerics-for-nsa-against-rizvi-over-quran-plea/articleshow/81502328.cms||Mohd Dilshad
March 15, 2021||Ranchi||Man lynched on theft charges in Ranchi||RANCHI: A 27-year-old man identified as Mubarak Khan, a resident of Maheshpur near Sikri village of Angara block on the city outskirts, was lynched allegedly by a mob on suspicion of stealing tyres and battery of a two-wheeler early on Sunday. Police have recovered the body and started an investigation into the case after filing an FIR. Following the incident, there was a massive flare-up in the village with the kin and other villagers, saying Khan was killed because of personal enmity and demanding the arrest of the culprits. They stormed the Angara police station and some of them roamed the village with sticks and blocked the road. Police said they rushed a team to the village as soon as they learnt about the incident in the morning to retrieve the body and restore law and order. The body has been sent for post mortem and the FIR was filed against 18 named and several unnamed persons based on the statement by the brother of the deceased, Tabrak Khan. Tabrak charged some of the villagers with the murder of his brother because of personal enmity. He said his brother worked as a food van driver. Khan was also married and had two minor daughters. An official of the Angara police station told TOI that their preliminary investigations found that the deceased was tied to an electric pole and thrashed brutally after being caught fleeing while attempting to steal. “Some villagers claimed that around midnight, Khan broke into a house in the village to steal the tyre and battery from a bike. After being spotted by a few locals, he tried to flee but was caught. Later, he was tied to a pole and thrashed causing his death on the spot,” the official added. SP (Ranchi rural) Naushad Alam confirmed the development and said the victim died on the spot before he could be taken to the hospital. He said, “As soon as we came to know of the incident early in the morning, a police team was rushed to the village. Khan, however, had died.” Alam also said the claim by a section of the villagers that the deceased was stealing is being investigated. “But we have also learnt that a few days back, the deceased had arguments over some issue with some of the villagers. We are looking into all aspects to ensure the speedy arrest of the culprits in the case,” Alam said, adding that based on the statement of the victim’s brother, the FIR was filed against about one-and-half dozen named and many unnamed persons. This is the second reported incident of lynching in Ranchi in the last one week. On March 8, a mob had beaten up one Sachin Kumar Verma (21) near the Kotwali police station area in Ranchi over suspicion of vehicle theft. Sachin succumbed to his injuries at the sadar hospital. Meanwhile, opposition BJP said it has decided to take up the cases of lynching in the ongoing budget session of the assembly, which will resume from Monday. Taking a dig at the JMM-Congress-RJD government, BJP spokesperson Pratul Sahdeo questioned the "silence of liberal groups and human rights activists" over the incidents. He said, “Seculars, tukde-tukde gang and liberal groups' silence over the growing instances of lynching in Jharkhand is appalling. This exposes their double standards of judging BJP and non-BJP ruled states. The party will raise voice against the growing lawlessness in the assembly and on the streets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/man-lynched-on-theft-charges-in-ranchi/articleshow/81499737.cms||ASRP Mukesh
March 15, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand has only 291 functional PHCs, 2,800 doctors for 3.29 crore people: Report||RANCHI: According to data available with the state health department, Jharkhand’s basic state-run healthcare infrastructure, which includes primary, community healthcare centres (CHC) and health sub centres (HSC), are way less than the required as per the Indian Public Health Standards (IPHS). According to IPHS, a state needs to have one CHC for every 1.2 lakh population while a Primary Health Centre (PHC) is to be established for every 30,000 people. Meanwhile, HSCs are required to be opened for every 5,000 people. However, the compliance gap in Jharkhand is huge. As per state records, Jharkhand has 188 sanctioned CHCs, of which 171 are functional. This is only 68% of the total number required as per the population ratio. While Jharkhand needs a total of 1,096 PHCs to cater to a population of over 3.29 crore, the state has sanctioned a mere 330 PHCs across the state, of which 291 are functional. While Jharkhand has a total of 3,958 HSCs, it requires 6,580 as per IPHS standards. Jharkhand is also battling a crisis of manpower with merely 2,800 doctors employed with the state health services. While the figure rises to around 10,000 doctors when private practitioners are included, there is still a deficit of 22,900 as WHO mandates one doctor per 1,000 persons. On the lack of healthcare facilities and medical professionals, director in-chief, health services, Dr Marshal Aaind said the state government is committed to achieve the IPHS target and has made budgetary allocations for the same. “We are trying our best to rope in more medical professional and the state government is working on increasing healthcare facilities across the state,” he said. Meanwhile, an outfit representing medical professionals in Jharkhand blamed the lack of medical professionals in state on the policies of the state government and said there is lack of good salary and better facilities which are leading to a shortage of manpower as people from Jharkhand aren’t interested in serving the state. “Three years ago, the state health department had issued an advertisement to hire more than 550 doctors, but after all the rounds, only 32 joined. So one can imagine the disinterest among candidates,” said secretary of Jharkhand State Health Services Association Dr Bimlesh Kumar. On being asked about the reasons, Dr Kumar said, “The state is offering a mere Rs 65,000 to a specialist and is posting them in places where there is no infrastructure to use his skills, leave alone other facilities like lodging. If an MBBS can get the same salary at a private hospital, then why will a specialist join at that salary?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-has-only-291-functional-phcs-2800-doctors-for-3-29-crore-people-report/articleshow/81499696.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 15, 2021||Ranchi||At Congress rally, Oraon demands return of unused villagers’ land||RANCHI: The state Congress unit on Sunday organised a rally here for thousands of displaced people living in villages around the Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC) area to highlight the issues faced by them. While party leader and Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey demanded the government to set up a commission for the displaced villagers, state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, citing a clause in the Land Acquisition act, 2013, demanded HEC to return unused land to the villagers. Oraon also spoke in favour of total implementation of the Land Acquisition act, which was enacted during the UPA regime to safeguard rights of land owners against acquisition for industrial and other development purposes. Addressing the gathering, Oraon said, “The Land Acquisition act consists of a provision that if land acquired for industrial and other developmental purpose is lying unused for a prolonged period of time, then the plot must be returned to its owner. Recently, our government returned vast chunks of land to villagers in Hazaribag who had given the plots to National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). HEC should follow in NTPC’s footsteps and return unused land.” He criticised the PSU for selling the plots acquired for industrial purpose and said, “Rourkela Steel Plant had returned 5,000 acres of unused land to the Odisha government. Why can’t HEC do the same? Instead, it is selling it to private parties who are now acting like landlords. I appeal to the chief minister to initiate the necessary steps to take back the unused land from HEC immediately.” He added that those living across 32 villages around the HEC area have been neglected for long and appealed to them to fight for their rights. “The fight should be through democratic means,” he said. Bandhy Tirkey said it’s high time that the state government set up a commission for the displaced. “The commission will not only work for those displaced by HEC but will be a constitutional authority which will work for the cause of all displaced people in Jharkhand,” he added. Former Union minister Subodh Kant Sahay, who was also present at the rally, mentioned that he has been fighting for the cause of those displaced by HEC for years and recalled the time when he boycotted the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the state assembly building in solidarity with the villagers. The rally was also attended by Khijri MLA Rajesh Kachchap and the party’s co-working president, Rajesh Thakur, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/at-cong-rally-oraon-demands-return-of-unused-villagers-land/articleshow/81499653.cms||ASRP Mukesh
March 15, 2021||Vadodara||MSU prof bags 4th copyright in sociology||Vadodara: An assistant professor of Department of Sociology has become the first from the teaching staff of M S University’s Faculty of Arts to have four copyrights registered with the Copyright Office of Government of India. Dr Virendra Singh got his fourth copyright registered for the concept note of “applied role” under the subject of sociology. Earlier, Singh had received copyright for introducing a new approach — “sociology of prediction” — focused on synthesis of sciences. Apart from these, he had received copyrights for two concept notes — ‘piecemeal culture’— and ‘falsified historia socio- culture’ — focused on the impact of gap on the social knowledge of the second generation leading to social conflicts and social change. Singh had applied for the copyright for the current concept note “applied role” in the first week of December last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-prof-bags-4th-copyright-in-sociology/articleshow/81498455.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Ranchi||2nd meet on draft industrial policy today||RANCHI: Jharkhand government will organise its second consultation meet with stakeholders on the draft Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Policy (JIPP)-2021 in Ranchi to gather suggestions from the state’s industry captains and entrepreneurs. To be held at a hotel in Ranchi on Monday, the consultation meeting will be chaired by state industries secretary Puja Singhal and industries director Jitendra Kumar Singh. Sources in the state industries department said the state’s leading industries, trade and commerce bodies have been invited to attend the deliberation session. “Among those invited are Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), Jharkhand Small Industries Association and industry bodies in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Dhanbad and Dumka,” an official in the department said requesting anonymity. Representatives of FICCI, CII, Assocham and other trade bodies will also be present. Besides industry bodies, the state’s leading industrial houses from the steel, coal, aluminium and automobile sectors have also been invited to offer their suggestions, the official added. On March 6, the government held its first consultation meeting in New Delhi. It was attended by chief minister Hemant Soren. At the meeting, the government had unveiled its draft JIPP for suggestions. Praveen Kumar Jain (Chabra), the president of FJCCI, welcomed the move. “The draft policy speaks about giving investment subsidies and revival of sick industries in the state. However, we will have to wait and see how the government plans its implementation. We will formally suggest that the government sets up a monitoring committee under the development commissioner for time-bound implementation of the policy promises,” Jain told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2nd-meet-on-draft-industrial-policy-today/articleshow/81499275.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand Cong leaders to camp in poll-bound Bengal, Assam||Ranchi: The top brass of the state unit of Congress will soon start camping in poll-bound West Bengal and Assam to canvass for party candidates. State Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon is scheduled to visit Assam on March 24, whereas Pakur MLA and state rural development minister Alamgir Alam will head to West Bengal, incidentally he is also part of the three-member campaign committee of the party for the neighbouring state. Confirming the news, Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said that Congress leaders from Jharkhand will play a crucial role in the upcoming assembly polls. “All Congress ministers from Jharkhand have been assigned key roles by the party high command in the forthcoming elections in West Bengal and Assam,” Dubey said, adding that due to the ongoing Budget session, Oraon and Alam could not take part in the electioneering so far. Congress, which is a part of the mahagathbandhan government in Jharkhand, has four ministers in the state cabinet. In Assam, Oraon will primarily tour Dibrugarh and tea-estate pockets that have a sizeable population of tribals. In West Bengal, he said his focus areas will be Darjeeling, Alipurduar and Purulia, among others. Speaking to TOI on an earlier occasion, Oraon had said that he enjoys great rapport with tribals in Assam and this will help him woo votes in favour of Congress. Oraon’s cabinet colleague, Alam, will mostly concentrate on the Jangalmahal area bordering Jharkhand. Election in Assam for 126 assembly seats will be held in three phases from March 27. In West Bengal, the polls have been split in eight phases for 294 legislative seats. Polls in West Bengal, too, will commence from March 27. Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo, another party spokesperson, said other leaders have also been entrusted with key responsibilities for the crucial Assam and West Bengal polls. “Congress MLA from Mahagama, Dipika Pandey Singh, has been made the member of the screening committee to select candidates for Assam and has also been appointed the party observer for the Birbhum district in West Bengal. Health minister Banna Gupta is observer for Purulia, Bermo MLA Anup Singh for West Burdwan and Mani Shankar for Bankura,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-cong-leaders-to-camp-in-poll-bound-bengal-assam/articleshow/81499730.cms||ASRP Mukesh
March 15, 2021||Ranchi||Hemant’s Barhait aide found dead||DUMKA: Sahibganj Police recovered a 30-year-old man’s body, identified as Dhananjay Mishra (30), late on Saturday. The deceased was the cousin of Pankaj Mishra, JMM heavyweight in the district, and chief minister Hemant Soren’s representative in the Barhait constituency. He was reportedly missing since March 4 although an FIR was filed on March 13. The deceased hailed from Chhota Panchgarh locality under Jirwabadi police station. His body was found buried in a 15ft deep pit near a crusher plant at Ambadih village along the railway line. He was shot from point blank range. The deceased’s wife and a few others have been detained for questioning after Mishra’s mother filed an FIR where she accused her daughter-in-law of playing a role in his death, police said. Sahebganj SP Anuranjan Kispotta said none have been arrested yet. “All the suspects, including Mishra’s wife, are being interrogated,” he added. Dumka DIG Sudarshan Mandal, who went to Sahibganj, said, “Police are interrogating a few suspects, including Mishra’s wife. The deceased had criminal antecedents as three cases were lodged against him, including one under relevant sections of the arms act. He came out on bail a month back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemants-barhait-aide-found-dead/articleshow/81499756.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Rajkot||Guggulu finds its roots again in arid Kutch||Rajkot: A medicinal storehouse by itself, guggulu, or botanically known as commiphora, has been preserved by the forest department and several farmers of Bhuj and Nakhatrana talukas even as the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has declared the plant critically endangered. Pharma companies as well as Ayurvedic drug manufacturers use the plant’s gum resin to make drugs used for arthritis, lowering cholesterol, weight loss and a few skin diseases besides reducing blood sugar levels. Forest department in Kutch is cultivating this medicinal plant in around 5,000 hectare area with grants specially received from Ayush ministry’s National Medicinal Plants Board (NMPB). Nearly 15 to 20 farmers in Bhuj and Nakhatrana talukas of Kutch are cultivating the plant in the wasteland. Secretary of Ayush ministry, Rajesh Kotecha visited the cultivation land on March 9 along with a team of NMPB and scientists and emphasized on scaling up the cultivation process. Assistant conservator of forest, Kutch (east), H J Thakkar told TOI: “Guggulu is a local plant that doesn’t require much water and can survive in extreme climate conditions. This species typically fits arid conditions and especially thrives well in Kutch’s barren topography of high temperature, hot winds, irregular rain etc.” The plant requires eight years to mature before gum can be extracted from it, he said. “This plant can earn huge income to the farmers, as pharma and ayurvedic drug companies pay Rs 1,100 to 1,300 per kilogramme of gum. India used to export this gum once, but has now been reduced to being an importer of the gum. These plant species were pushed to extinction by unscientific methods of gum extraction by farmers,” Thakkar added. Mohabatsinh Sindhal, a farmer in Vandhai village of Kutch has cultivated guggulu in 700 acre land. “I am doing so to conserve the dying species. I am also motivating other farmers to cultivate nature's medicinal storehouse. More than 15 farmers have started cultivation in the last several years under my guidance. Earlier, in their greed to extract maximum benefit in minimum time, farmers extracted gum before the plant matured and in the process killed the plant itself.” Kutch farmers raise guggulu along with mango and date and other precious trees in their orchards. Mehul Premjiyani, who owns a farm on Bhuj-Nakhatrana road said, “I have planted nearly 1.25 lakh guggulu plants in 100 acre land last year. Many scientists have also visited my farm and advised me on how to raise these better. I will get gum only after a few years and if gum is extracted in limited quantities, the plant can survive for 50 years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/guggulu-finds-its-roots-again-in-arid-kutch/articleshow/81498625.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
March 15, 2021||Ranchi||Fake currency note printing unit busted||Jamshedpur: Steel City Police has busted a counterfeit money printing unit and arrested one Aftab Alam for allegedly running the unit and circulating fake currency in the local markets. Alam was nabbed on Saturday evening by a police patrolling party when he was buying fruits from a vendor in Jugsalai using a fake note of Rs 500. SSP M Tamil Vanan said, “Alam has confessed to his crime during our interrogation and said that he has been in this illegal business for over a month.” A printing machine, currency paper and counterfeit notes in the denomination of Rs 500, Rs 100 and Rs 50 worth over Rs 50,000 were seized from his rented house in Gulab Bagh area under Mango police station during a raid conducted shortly after he was caught. On Saturday evening, Alam bought bananas worth Rs 50 in Jugsalai and with a fake note of Rs 500 from the vendor. When the latter said he doesn’t have any change and asked for a note in a smaller denomination, Alam reportedly lost his temper and got into an argument with him. Seeing the commotion, a patrolling party from the local police station stopped at the fruit shop to inquire about the matter. Upon seeing the cops, Alam tore off the currency note and threw it by the side of the pavement in a hurry while the vendor was narrating the matter to the police. The cops became suspicious and brought Alam to the Jugsalai police station for questioning. It was during the interrogation that he broke down and revealed his fake currency racket, after which the cops raided his house. The accused told the police that he used to target local vendors and has circulated fake currency notes worth Rs 50,000 so far. Vanan said the culprit had also printed fake degree certificates of different colleges and universities. “Several fake certificates were found in his house,” he added. The accused worked as a labourer in various organisations at Latur in Maharashtra but he quit the job and returned to Jamshedpur last year as he was not happy with the meagre salary. He later learnt how to print fake currency notes by watching related videos on YouTube.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fake-currency-note-printing-unit-busted/articleshow/81499664.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Ranchi||Don’t offer namaz on streets: Police to Pelawal residents||Hazaribag: Police asked those residing in the Pelawal area to refrain from offering namaz on the streets to avoid “inconvenience to the commuters”. On Sunday, Hazaribag SP Karthik S said they also requested the residents during a peace committee meeting on Saturday night not to block the entire road while offering namaz in the interest of the public. “Those present at the peace committee meeting have agreed to comply with our request,” he said. The move comes after photographs of some people offering namaz by reportedly blocking the Pelawal road went viral on social media on Saturday morning. The road falls on the busy state highway and connects the Hazaribag town with Katkumsandi. To prevent any flare-up following the blockade, the three youths, who posted the photos on social media, were immediately detained. Later in the night, an emergency peace committee meeting was convened and the trio was released after a warning. The SP said, “When we learnt about some miscreants posting photos on social media of people offering namaz on the streets, we immediately traced and apprehended them as a safety measure ahead of the upcoming festivals like Holi and Ramzan. They were later released after a warning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dont-offer-namaz-on-streets-police-to-pelawal-residents/articleshow/81499675.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 61 new cases, 28 recoveries||Ranchi: Jharkhand reported 61 new Covid-19 cases while 28 people recovered from the disease on Sunday. Ranchi reported 36 infections followed by East Singhbhum with 11 cases. Ramgarh, Latehar, Koderma, Dumka, Chatra and Bokaro reported one case each. Pakur and Dhanbad reported two new cases. No casualties were reported on Sunday. As on Sunday evening, Jharkhand had 548 active cases, the highest of them in Ranchi (329). The infection tally was at 1,20,628 while the number of recoveries was at 1,18,987. The death toll stood at 1,093. As many as 11,061 people took their first shot of the vaccine on Sunday. Of them, 8,405 were senior citizens while 1,178 were in between 45-59 years with co-morbidities. Also, 4,697 health and frontline workers took their second jabs on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-records-61-new-cases-28-recoveries/articleshow/81499261.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||India||Quad leaders pen oped, talk of ‘free Indo-Pacific’||NEW DELHI: In a first, the four leaders of the Quad — Narendra Modi, Joe Biden, Yoshihide Suga and Scott Morrison — reaffirmed their commitment to a “free and open Indo-Pacific” in a joint oped in the Washington Post. Separately, US national security adviser Jake Sullivan said China was not only discussed at the Quad summit but also the US intended to take up Chinese aggression in Taiwan, Senkakus and eastern Ladakh in his forthcoming conversation with top Chinese officials. The oped may well signal the Quad’s response to Chinese statements that all four countries had different fish to fry in their ties with Beijing and that economic and other priorities would prevent them from really presenting a united front. The oped said, “We are striving to ensure that the Indo-Pacific is accessible and dynamic, governed by international law and bedrock principles such as freedom of navigation and peaceful resolution of disputes, and that all countries are able to make their own political choices, free from coercion.” Sullivan said at his press conference after the summit, “What we believe are fundamental interests and what our concerns with their activities are, whether it’s on Hong Kong or Xinjiang or in the Taiwan Strait, or frankly, the issues that we heard from our Quad partners: their coercion of Australia, their harassment around the Senkaku Islands, their aggression on the border with India.” There would be, he said, an in-person Quad summit later this year. On efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, the oped said, “Together, we pledge to expand and accelerate production in India of vaccines.” The oped added, “We know we can’t and will not succeed without cooperation. We will strengthen our partnerships in southeast Asia, starting with Asean and engage the IOR to meet this moment. The Quad is a flexible group of like-minded partners dedicated to advancing a common vision and to ensuring peace and prosperity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/quad-leaders-pen-oped-talk-of-free-indo-pacific/articleshow/81502330.cms||---
March 15, 2021||---||‘D’ coupled: Tale of two families’ battle to vote||GUWAHATI: Gouranga and Anjana Barman fought a 23-year legal battle to be rid of the dreaded “D” word against their names on Assam’s voters’ list. Relieved as they are to be finally recognised as Indian citizens by a foreigners’ tribunal in March 2020, neither will get to vote this  because their names don’t figure in the updated electoral rolls as legitimate voters. The Barmans, who are residents of Kamrup Metropolitan district, apparently didn’t submit a copy of the tribunal’s order at the relevant circle office in time for rectification of their status from “D (doubtful)” to bona fide voters. Advocate Sauradeep Dey, who represented the couple in their legal battle, said a copy of the document had been submitted to a teacher officiating as a booth-level officer. “The officer said they won’t be able to vote this time, and that only those who received their tribunal decisions earlier were eligible.” The qualifying date for inclusion in the updated electoral rolls for the assembly polls was January1. In the rolls published on January 18, the Barmans are still marked as “D” voters. “A simple, quick and well-advertised procedure should have been laid down to ensure those declared Indians before January 1 were able to vote,” Dey said. Sukumar, the Barmans’ 32-year-old son, attained voting age 14 years ago but has automatically been barred from casting his vote in at least three general and assembly elections since. While the Barmans feel they have been denied, Mohammad Nur Hussain and his wife Sahera Begum, who live in lower Assam’s Udalguri, couldn’t be happier about how things have panned out for them since spending 18 months in a detention centre as “foreigners”. A foreigners’ tribunal declared the couple Indian citizens in a retrial last December. The same month, they were able to vote in the Bodoland Territorial Council polls and are now eligible to do so in the assembly elections, too. “I had enrolled as a voter in 2005 and got to vote for the first time in 2006. Almost 12 years later, my wife and I were branded Bangladeshis and put in a detention centre. How could that be legal when I was born in Assam?" Hussain, a daily-wage worker, said. Nur’s wife was declared a foreigner on May 29, 2018. He received a similar verdict on March 30, 2019. In June that year, the couple was arrested and sent to a detention centre in Goalpara district. The outcome of the retrial may not have erased the unpleasant memories, but Nur and Sahera are trying to focus on the bright side. “It feels good that I can vote now and enjoy all the rights guaranteed to an Indian citizen,” Nur said. Assam has 1.08 lakh “D” voters, most of them Bengali-speaking Muslims as well as Hindus. This is a slightly lower figure than the 1.13 lakh that was officially cited in the assembly last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/assam/d-coupled-tale-of-two-families-battle-to-vote/articleshow/81502338.cms||Rokibuz Zaman
---||Nagpur||Umred tiger Surya kills and eats cub from another male||NAGPUR: Has Surya (T9), the dominant male of Umred-Karhandla-Paoni wildlife sanctuary, turned cannibalistic? On Saturday, the tiger not only killed one of three cubs of Collarwali (T1) tigress but also completely consumed its flesh. “This is not the first time where Surya has consumed another tiger’s flesh. On November 23, last year it had killed a tigress and removed latter’s fetuses. The tiger dragged the carcass in a nearby nullah and also consumed its flesh,” said Ravikiran Govekar, chief conservator of forests (CCF) & field director, Pench. For the past two-three days Surya was seen mating with Collarwali tigress, which already has three eight-month-old cubs. On Saturday evening, the tigress and Surya were seen with two cubs 30 feet away from them. On Sunday morning, the patrolling staff found one of the cubs killed and its paws, jaw, and skull found scattered. Tadoba’s Collarwali had made Karhandla its home in December 2017. “The remains of the cub show indication of scuffle and movement of an adult tiger nearby. Based on the pieces of evidence, it appears to be infanticide. We have deployed camera traps to know the whereabouts of the tigress and remaining two cubs,” said Govekar. State wildlife board member Kishor Rithe says, “Dominant tigers targeting cubs not sired by them is natural phenomenon. However, tigers feeding on them is something that needs to be studied. This happens in parks where tiger density is high. Such case was reported in Kanha National Park in February 2019.” Regular tourist to Karhandla Amrut Naik said, “In recent past, Collarwali was seen extending its area, especially after tigress C3 was poisoned along with its three cubs in January first week. Surya too is dominating the park and has already captured Gothangaon and Karhandla area. It has mated with tigress Fairy in Gothangaon and has five cubs." Meanwhile, the carcass of PTRF-84, the three-year-old hand-reared female cub of tigress Avni, that succumbed to injuries inflicted by another tigress in the wild in Pench Tiger Reserve was cremated. The Avni‘s cub (PTRF-84) was released in the wild on March 5 and recaptured on March 8 after it was attacked by another tigress. It died on Saturday night. This is the 10th tiger death in the last 72 days in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/umred-tiger-surya-kills-and-eats-cub-from-another-male/articleshow/81500574.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
---||---||Poll panel move vindicates security lapse claim, says TMC||KOLKATA: TMC on Sunday said EC’s move against three Bengal officials was a vindication of the party’s claims that there were lapses in Mamata Banerjee’s security on Wednesday while BJP described the poll panel decision as “apt”, saying those responsible for dereliction of duty should face action. Trinamool MP Saugata Roy said, “At least some steps have been taken by EC. Somebody should be held responsible for the injury of the CM.” Roy, however, chose not to read much into the report of the special observers that the CM’s injuries were not due to a “pre-planned attack” — which a TMC team had alleged in its meeting with EC. BJP MP Swapan Dasputa said, “EC found the steps (against officials) necessary and decided on it.” Justifying EC’s action, Bengal BJP vicepresident Jay Prakash Majumdar said, “How did so many people come so close to the CM? Why did the driver move when the door was open?” The state BJP on Sunday wrote to the Bengal chief electoral officer demanding that Mamata’s treatment history at SSKM hospital be made public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/poll-panel-move-vindicates-security-lapse-claim-says-tmc/articleshow/81502349.cms||Debashish Konar
March 15, 2021||Nagpur||CRly commissions Rs6.8cr lathe machine for wheels||NAGPUR: The Nagpur division of Central Railway (Crly) has commissioned a Rs6.80 crore surface wheel lathe machine at routine overhaul (ROH) depot in Ajni with a capacity of turning 20 wheels per shift. Senior divisional mechanical engineer (Sr DME) Akhilesh Choubey said, “The machine has been procured from Central Organization for Modernization of Workshops (COFMOW), a public sector undertaking in the country created in 1979 to modernize the workshops of Indian Railways.” Choubey said the trials of turning table had begun. The computer numerical control (CNC)-operated systems provide the precise design instructions where the material or part is clamped and rotated by the main spindle, while the cutting tool that works on the material, is mounted and moved in the various axes. “The CNC machine has a capacity to turn 20 wheels per shift. The fully automatic machine operation requires only 2-3 manpower. It will save railways Rs32.40 lakh as wheelsets were transported to Kurduwadi and Bhusawal workshops for turning by road,” said Choubey. The commissioning of this CNC wheel lathe will not only save the cost of transportation, but will also reduce the detention of wagons and will increase wagon turnaround, and thus revenue. The CRly official said this will also increase the availability of wheels for increasing the target of ROH of wagons. The maintenance of the machine is covered by the original equipment manufacturer for 7 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crly-commissions-rs6-8cr-lathe-machine-for-wheels/articleshow/81500577.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 15, 2021||Nagpur||TTEs now under app-based surveillance system||NAGPUR: Travelling ticket examiners (TTEs) of South East Central Railway’s (SECR) Nagpur division will now be monitored through the ‘Greenboard TTE’ app, which has been designed to generate real-time data output on the functioning of this crucial wing of the railway department. There are around 300 TTEs in the Nagpur division, who will be part of this new app-based system. The app, though introduced two months back but inaugurated in February, is the official app for the TTEs through which they would have to electronically sign in and sign off, replacing the entries of the manual register. The system also has the facilities of location tagging and biometrics to reduce the rampant manual roster manipulations. “The data generated through the app would be monitored by the divisional-level checking authorities,” said a source. The TTEs would now be able to apply for leaves through the app, which would enhance the transparency in the system. “The TTEs would be required to make entries of the fines collected, cases made and trains attended through the app, making all these digital data part of the decision-making process of the policy-making bodies,” he said. Sources from SECR also mentioned that the TTEs can report various events through the app like ‘accidental chain pulling’ (ACP) to the senior authorities for intervention. “A Bhopal-based technical team is monitoring the functioning of the app, which is still in its nascent stage. But it has a substantial role to play in the improvement of the services and functions in the coming days,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ttes-now-under-app-based-surveillance-system/articleshow/81500579.cms||Soumitra Bose
---||India||India set for Quad-plus navy drill as US defence secretary begins Asia tour||NEW DELHI: India is now steadily cranking up its naval exercises with the “Quad” countries and other key strategic allies, even as US secretary of defence Lloyd Austin on Saturday began his first tour to Asia to bolster military cooperation and ensure “credible deterrence” against China. Austin’s visit to New Delhi from March 19 to 21, after touring Japan and South Korea with secretary of state Antony Blinken, will come amidst the continuing military confrontation between India and China at the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh despite troop disengagement taking place on both sides of Pangong Tso last month. The focus of his talks with defence minister Rajnath Singh will be on further enhancing the robust bilateral defence relationship as well as ensuring “a free, open and inclusive” Indo-Pacific region, with an eye firmly on an aggressive and expansionist China, as was earlier reported by TOI. Read AlsoQuad leaders pen oped, talk of ‘free Indo-Pacific’NEW DELHI: In a first, the four leaders of the Quad — Narendra Modi, Joe Biden, Yoshihide Suga and Scott Morrison — reaffirmed their commitment to a “free and open Indo-Pacific” in a joint oped in the Washington Post. Separately, US national security adviser Jake Sullivan said China was not onlySpeaking at the US Indo-Pacific Command at Hawaii on Saturday, Austin said he was travelling to Japan, South Korea and India to strengthen “alliances and partnerships” as well as foster “credible deterrence” against China. South Korean defence minister Suh Wook, incidentally, is also slated to visit India later this month. With India, US, Japan and Australia making clear their intent to deter any “coercion” in the Indo-Pacific during their leaders’ Quad summit on Friday, their navies will join France for its “La Pérouse” exercise in the Bay of Bengal from April 4 to 7. Read AlsoBiden renews 'Quad' with allies despite China pressureThe Quad nations- US, India, Japan and Australia- held four-way naval exercises in the Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea in November 2020. Australia participated in the exercise for the first time in more than a decade.India will deploy its frontline warships and P-8I maritime patrol aircraft from the Eastern Naval Command at Vizag for this Quad-plus-France exercise. “France has initiated this exercise of like-minded countries with strategic congruence over the Indo-Pacific,” said an official. Then, the bilateral “Varuna” naval exercise between India and France will be expanded to include UAE in the northwest Arabian Sea near the strategically-located Persian Gulf from April 25 to 27. France will deploy its nuclear-powered aircraft carrier FNS Charles de Gaulle with its Rafale-M naval jets for the exercise. Read AlsoRepublicans welcome Quad summitWASHINGTON: Top American lawmakers from the opposition Republican party on Friday welcomed the virtual Quad summit and praised the Biden administration for working with leading democracies in the region to promote economic and security cooperation. "Members of the Quad, and other important regional“India accords great importance to the Varuna exercise with France, a key strategic partner with whom military interoperability and sharing of maritime intelligence has been enhanced over the years,” said the official. France, Germany, UK and some other countries are all keen to cooperate with the Quad countries, which had also conducted the 24 edition of the top-notch `Malabar’ naval exercise in November, to keep the Indo-Pacific secure in face of China’s belligerence. India, incidentally, has also inked reciprocal military logistics pacts with the other three Quad nations as well as France, South Korea and Singapore to enhance its strategic reach in the entire Indian Ocean region and beyond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-set-for-quad-plus-navy-drill-as-us-defence-secretary-begins-asia-tour/articleshow/81502359.cms||Rajat Pandit
March 15, 2021||Rajkot||Four booked for suicide abetment||Rajkot: Police booked man and his parents for allegedly driving a 20-year-old woman to suicide in Morbi district's Charavada village last month.Ankita Chauhan had hanged to death at her house on February 12, leaving behind a suicide note stating that she took the drastic step as her to-be husband Kalpesh Kanjariya had called off their engagement after keeping physical relationship with her."Fearing societal humiliation, she committed suicide. We have booked Kalpesh, his parents and one more relative," said police.Ankita and Kalpesh were formally engaged with proper rituals six months ago. But police said that Kalpesh forced her into physical relations several times and then called off the engagement and marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-booked-for-suicide-abetment/articleshow/81499312.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Gurgaon||At camp, bring papers, get HSRP fixed within a day||GURUGRAM: Beginning Monday, a three-day drive to ease the process of getting a high-security registration plate (HSRP) will be held for vehicle owners. The special camp will be organised by the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) at the Red Cross parking at Rajiv Chowk from 9.30am to 5.30pm. About four or five help desks will be set up, where a person can walk in with relevant documents like registration certificate and identification documents. Officials said they have been receiving more applications for HSRPs and hope to build on the momentum by facilitating on-spot registration. “It will be a walk-in facility where our team will help the residents with immediate online registration. Once registered, it will take 24 hours to generate the HSRP plates and the applicants will have to visit the camp the following day to get them fixed. We urge people to make the most of this camp,” said Ravi Bharadwaj, state head of Link Utsav, the company hired for installing HSRPs in the state. The camp will also dispose of pending applications. Several people have been complaining about the delay in getting their plates fixed even after registering online. “The online system is working well and we are getting about 700 to 1,000 applications on a daily basis. But there are a lot of people who are yet to get the plates and this drive will help our efforts to maximise the coverage,” said an official. Following a Supreme Court order, HSRPs have been made mandatory for all vehicles across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/at-camp-bring-papers-get-hsrp-fixed-within-a-day/articleshow/81500633.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
---||World||Global vaccination rates on rise, but many countries yet to start||More than 345 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered worldwide in the three months since mass inoculation began in December, but there is still a huge disparity in the vaccination rates between countries. Israel continues to stand out in the vaccination race, with 58% of its population having received at least one dose of either the Moderna or Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines, and 46% having received both required doses. Despite a slow start, Chile is making swift progress, with at least a quarter of its population having received at least one dose. Despite some initial criticism of Britain’s decision to delay second doses until 12 weeks after the first, the strategy seems to be paying off, as more than a third of its population has received at least one dose, far ahead of any of its European counterparts. Studies appear to have vindicated Britain’s decision after finding a single dose could avert most coronavirus-related hospitalisations. Some of the starkest differences can be found when comparing continents. In North America, 18 doses have been administered for every 100 people, while in South America, there have been just 4.9 vaccinations per 100 people amid growing outbreaks across much of the continent. Many African nations have yet to start vaccinations, with less than one dose administered across the continent per 100 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/global-vaccination-rates-on-rise-but-many-countries-yet-to-start/articleshow/81502367.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Career restart: Working moms share how they battled doubts after a break||Bengaluru: A month ago, Nansi Mishra wrote about her experience as a young working mother — how she can devote only four hours to professional engagements daily as her child needs her attention for the rest of the time. “But in those four hours, I make sure I am most focused and productive because my baby is letting me work, so that his mother can follow her dreams,” the co-founder of 100x Entrepreneur podcast series said on LinkedIn. The post struck a chord with women professionals, drawing more than 4.1 lakh overall reactions and 7,000 comments. Many related to it because of their own struggles and triumphs as nurturers and earners of the family. Read the entire story on TOI+||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/career-restart-working-moms-share-how-they-battled-doubts-after-a-break/articleshow/81501296.cms||Harsh Vora
March 15, 2021||Goa||BBSM to take MoI fight to the masses from today||Margao: Bhartiya Bhasha Suraksha Manch (BBSM) on Sunday announced the second phase of its 10-year-old agitation against the government’s policy on medium of instruction (MoI) from April 1 to 10. Meetings will be held across Goa from March 15 to 31 to ensure mass participation. At the workers’ meeting of BBSM at Porvorim on Sunday, a resolution was unanimously passed demanding that the government forthwith stop grants provided to primary schools with English as their MoI. A resolution demanding that the government grant permissions to open new Konkani/Marathi-medium primary schools as per its 2012 scheme was also passed. The meeting demanded that the government provide Rs 17 lakh special grants to all 91 Marathi/Konkani primary schools opened in 2012. They also demanded that the government restart its scheme of providing Rs 400 per student per month to all Marathi/Konkani medium primary schools. BBSM demanded that the government accept and implement the recommendations of the professor Madhav Kamat committee with the view to safeguarding the interests of the schools having mother tongue as the MoI. BBSM state convener Subhash Velingker, former chairman of Goa Board of Secondary and higher secondary education Pandurang Nadkarni, besides others, were present. Last month, Velingkar had said that chief minister Pramod Sawant was silent over the provisions of the new National Education Policy which recommends that education in the mother tongue be practiced at the primary school-level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bbsm-to-take-moi-fight-to-the-masses-from-today/articleshow/81500691.cms||---
March 15, 2021||World||Officials: US has 1,000 more troops in Afghanistan than it disclosed||KABUL: Facing a high-stakes choice and running out of time to make it, the Biden administration is wrestling with whether to follow through with a full withdrawal in the next seven weeks of the 2,500 American troops still in Afghanistan — except, as it turns out, that number is actually around 3,500. The US has about 1,000 more troops in Afghanistan than it has disclosed, according to US, European and Afghan officials. That adds another layer of complexity to the swirling debate at the White House over whether to stick with a deal, struck by the Trump administration and the Taliban, that calls for removing the remaining American forces by May 1. A thousand troops may seem like a small number, but the scope of the US presence has become a contentious issue in Afghanistan — where the Taliban want the Americans gone, while the government’s beleaguered security forces rely on US air support. The cloudy accounting around the troop numbers results from some Special Operations forces having been put “off the books,” according to a senior US official, as well as the presence of some temporary and transitioning units. Having more troops in a country than the defence department officially acknowledges is common practice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/officials-us-has-1000-more-troops-in-afghanistan-than-it-disclosed/articleshow/81502369.cms||---
March 15, 2021||World||Hindu community pardons mob for vandalising temple in Pak||PESHAWAR: The Hindu community in Pakistan’s restive Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has decided to pardon the mob that vandalised and burned down a century-old temple in the province. The local clerics and members of the Hindu community held a meeting on Saturday to resolve the dispute. As per the dialogue, informally called ‘jigra’, the accused have tendered an apology over the attack. The Muslim clerics have assured full protection to the Hindus and their rights as per the country’s constitution. A reconciliation statement would be presented to the Supreme Court, in a bid to secure the release of the accused. Speaking to the media, Pakistan Hindu Council chairman Ramesh Kumar said the incident had hurt the feelings of Hindus across the world. Kumar, who is also a member of the ruling PTI, said Khyber Pakhtunkhwa CM Mahmood Khan had chaired the ‘jigra’ meet and thanked him for the amicable settlement of the matter. Khan, in his address, had strongly condemned the attack, calling it an attempt to pollute the peaceful environment in the province. On December 30, a mob led by local clerics and members of the radical Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam party vandalised the temple. Nearly 50 people have been arrested. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/hindu-community-pardons-mob-for-vandalising-temple-in-pak/articleshow/81502372.cms||---
---||Goa||Aquarium fish in Cansaulim ponds may be first such record in Goa||PANAJI: The finding of a large population of an ornamental sucker fish species in a freshwater pond at Cansaulim may be the first report of this aquarium variety breeding in a natural habitat in Goa, scientists said. Fisheries scientists from Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Old Goa, have collected samples of the sucker fish (pterygoplichthys) from the rejects near the pond where a study on the dynamics of another invasive species entering Goan waters is underway. “We are analysing the samples and that will help us understand and assess how exotic fish invasion is affecting our inland waters,” ICAR fisheries scientist G B Sreekanth said. TOI had reported on March 9 how posts by animal rescuer Johnson Stephen on the presence of sucker fish in a pond at Cansaulim had alerted scientists. The popular aquarium species has turned out to be a major threat to local fish species and ecosystems in Kerala. With African catfish and Mozambique tilapia already carving out habitats in Goan waters, another threat looms for the declining native fish biodiversity. In the Cansaulim pond itself, the catch indicated an alarming presence of the exotic invasive species. “The sucker fish, which we throw out as rejects, is more than 30%. The major haul is of tilapia, and in some ponds of African catfish, both to the extent of 70%,” a local resident Honorato Saldanha said. The locals first spotted the sucker fish in fields during monsoon overflow. “It was about three to four years ago, and may have possibly come from the nearby river,” a local resident Neville Saldanha said. Locals and scientists are apprehensive even as invasive species remain an unexplored subject in Goa. “It is a matter of immediate concern and scientific investigation is needed for measures to avoid its further invasion It feeds both on smaller fishes, including frogs and algae,” well-known fisheries scientist Baban Ingole said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aquarium-fish-in-cansaulim-ponds-may-be-first-such-record-in-state/articleshow/81500713.cms||Paul Fernandes
March 15, 2021||India||In this week, Nagpur has seen its most Covid cases||NAGPUR: The number of Covid-19 positive cases in the 2nd week of March was the highest in the year-long pandemic in the district. According to the district civil surgeon, the district registered 12,773 positive cases of Covid-19 between March 7 and 14, with daily average of cases at 1,825. The number of cases crossed 20,000 in the district in March, indicating that the second wave is more contagious than the first. The district had registered the first peak of the pandemic in the last two weeks of August and four weeks of September last year. The cases in each of these six weeks were less than those registered in second week of March 2021. The district recorded 2,261 cases on March 13 and 2,252 cases on March 14. This is the first time that the district saw over 2,000 cases for two consecutive days. March 14 was the sixth time the district recorded over 2,000 cases in a day. Total number of cases in 14 days of March stand at 20,714. However, test positivity rate in second week of March is less than the four weeks of September due to higher number of tests conducted in March. Also, fatalities too are low in last seven days as compared to all weeks of September. The state’s public health department said active cases as on Sunday were 16,964, which was the second highest in the country after Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-this-week-nagpur-has-seen-its-most-covid-cases/articleshow/81502373.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 15, 2021||Goa||Marriott retaining wall prevents erosion, must stay up, says GCZMA||Panaji: Disposing a long-standing matter, the Goa coastal zone management authority (GCZMA) recently decided that the Goa Marriott at Miramar should be allowed to keep its retaining wall. Goa Foundation had sought its demolition as a violation of CRZ norms. However, GCZMA relied on reports by the WRD and the central water and power research station (CWPRS), which functions under the Union Jal Shakti ministry. The reports stated that the retaining wall was necessary in the anti-erosion measures being taken by the WRD from the Campal Park up to the hotel stretch of the Mandovi bank. Goa Foundation had argued that there was no need to call for the report from the CWPRS, Pune, when an earlier high court ruling in the matter had decided on its legality. “Considering the spirit of the directions of the honorable Bombay high court at Goa, CRZ regulations, reports of the expert body and the facts on the ground, the authority observes that the removal of the existing retaining wall may cause irreparable damage to the shoreline, resulting in eastward shifting of the river,” the GCZMA decision states. The authority said this shifting of the river can cause damage to the sea erosion prevention measures taken by the WRD on the stretch from Campal park to Youth Hostel and further. The GCZMA observed that an old retaining wall built by the WRD in 1978 had collapsed. “Therefore, in the interest of prevention of erosion of shoreline and to protect erosion prevention works put up by the WRD in the vicinity of the structure, the authority decides that the retaining wall should be left in the present condition and should be properly maintained,” the GCZMA said. It has, however, prohibited the hotel from carrying out any commercial activities in this part of the property. “The authority directs that the hotel shall not put the area between the retaining wall and the imaginary line drawn parallel to the HTL of 1991 as per the national centre for sustainable coastal management (NCSCM) report to any kind of commercial use. As a measure to clearly delineate this area, the hotel shall erect bio-fencing at the imaginary line under the supervision of experts of the GCZMA,” the body has said in its decision. The GCZMA pointed out that the WRD chief engineer “expressed serious concerns” over the impact of removal of the retaining wall on anti-erosion works in the stretch. The chief engineer also cautioned against shifting of the wall, the GCZMA observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/marriott-retaining-wall-prevents-erosion-must-stay-up-says-gczma/articleshow/81500743.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Goa||Customers of Mapusa Urban yet to get refund||Panaji: The Deposit Insurance & Credit Guarantee Corporation’s (DICGC) decision to give Mapusa Urban Co-operative Bank (MUCB) the go ahead to disburse funds to depositors has brought some relief to the customers. However, the depositors remain upset with the slow pace in disbursals, pointing out that though the DICGC gave the go ahead in February for Rs 7.05 crore to be released, no money has been released as yet. Some of the depositors, whose life’s savings are stuck with the bank, also demanded that the bank should immediately release a statement mentioning how much money has been recovered from the defaulters and the quantum of outstanding loan. “There prevails complete absence of information as to the mode and time-bound payment computed in favour of the depositors up to a monetary ceiling of Rs 5 lakh,” said Joseph Carneiro, one of the depositors. Carneiro has been writing letters to the DICGC, RBI, the state government and the liquidator of the bank, Daulat Hawaldar, seeking time bound disbursal of the funds and details about the loan defaulters. “The recovery figures from the borrowers by way of seizure of properties and assets belonging to the defaulters is a mystery wherein the depositors are entitled by right to know. The absence of these factors is worrisome to the improvised aggrieved depositors who amongst the poorer sections have resorted to doing menial jobs to sustain their children and dependents,” said Prabhakar Salgaonkar, another depositor . On February 1, DICGC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the RBI approved the release of Rs 7.05 cr from MUCB’s liquid funds to repay 45,262 depositors. A further approval for Rs 149.35 crore to be released to 12,977 claimants came on March 4. MUCB officials said that the disbursals will take time as they have to also check if any of the claimants have outstanding loans. Depositors claim that they have a right to know about the recovery of loans from “wilful defaulters” who they claim are responsible for the collapse of the former multi-state cooperative bank. MUCB officials said that the disbursals will take time as the former bank has to also check if any of the claimants have outstanding loans. Depositors claim that they have a right to know about the recovery of loans||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/customers-of-mapusa-urban-yet-to-get-refund/articleshow/81500801.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Goa||CZMP: Goencho Avaaz threatens fresh legal action||Saligao: The newly-formed political front, Goencho Avaaz, has decided to approach the high court seeking a fresh public hearing on the draft Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) if the government fails to accept their demand, vice-president, Roshan Mathias said Speaking at an awareness and guidance meet on the draft CZMP at Aldona on Sunday, Mathias explained the implications of ports limits shown on the CZMP, which he said must be opposed tooth and nail. He said that CZMPs have also been prepared for other states, but none of them, except the ones prepared by the Goa government, have port limits marked on them. The group’s co-convenor Viriato Fernandes said that this draconian plan will spell doom for several fishing and other communities living close to the coast. “Several fishing communities as well as citizens have approached us requesting for help. We will soon petition the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority to conduct a fresh public hearing,” Mathais said. “If the government declines our demand, we will have no other option but to approach the high court for justice.” Over 200 people attended the meeting.  They were shown the CZMP map and were guided on how to check the changes made on the map.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/czmp-goencho-avaaz-threatens-fresh-legal-action/articleshow/81500804.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Business||Not all windows to be shut for cryptocurrencies: FM||NEW DELHI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has indicated that not all windows for cryptocurrencies will be shut and a Cabinet note was being readied to formulate the next steps on the issue. Her comments, made in an interview during an event organised by a television channel on Saturday, have come as a huge relief for the cryptocurrency industry, which has been worried about a possible ban on its activities through a proposed legislation.  “I have said my view on this, saying the Supreme Court had commented on this cryptocurrency. Whilst we are very clear that the Reserve Bank may take a call on an official cryptocurrency or anything of that kind, but from our side we are very clear that we are not shutting all options off,” Sitharaman told the TV channel, when asked about her views on the debate over the status of cryptocurrencies in the country. “We will allow a certain amount of window for people to use so that experiments in the blockchain, bitcoin or whatever you may want to call it, the cryptocurrency experiments and fintech, which depends on such experiments, will have that window available for them, we are not going to shut it off all. But what kind of a formulation even for a crypto will be the content of the Cabinet note, which will get ready soon,” Sitharaman told the channel, putting at rest speculation about a complete ban on cryptocurrencies. There has been an intense debate over the status of cryptocurrencies and experts have debated over whether a complete ban was the best option or some amount of regulation is required to ensure that benefits of blockchain are harnessed and available to the fintech sector. The government was set to introduce a bill in the current Budget session — the Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill — to ban private crypto currency, while putting in place a framework for a launch of a digital currency by the RBI. Watch Cryptocurrency in India: Regulation or ban? Here's what experts have to say||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/not-all-windows-to-be-shut-for-cryptocurrencies-fm/articleshow/81502379.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Goa||Pipeline repair: PWD to recover expenses from gas contractor||Ponda: Holding the domestic gas network laying contractor responsible for the rupture of a major water pipeline at Curti-Ponda on Saturday, the water division of the public works department (PWD) said that it is planning to recover thecost ofrestoration work from the gas contractor. Entire Ponda constituency area as well as parts of Marcaim, Shiroda and Valpoi constituencies faced water shortage after the contractor ruptured the major pipeline. The pipeline supplies potable water to Ponda town, Curti-Khandepar and Bandora village Panchayats and parts of Borim and Usgao-Ganjem village Panchayats. The water division took up the restoration work on a war footing and replaced the damaged pipe with a new one by 5am on Sunday, followed by concrete support by 8.30am.Once the concrete support dried up, water supply was released, Nivruti Parsekar, an executive engineer of water division said, adding that they had to change the entire pipe. The contractor responsible for the damage had been entrusted by the Goa Natural Gas company to lay a PVC pipeline network. Parsekar said that since the damage was due to his negligence, the water division is planning to recover the entire restoration cost from the contractor. "While drilling the roadside area near the Shree Sateri Temple at Curti, on the outskirts of Ponda town, with a heavy-duty horizontal earth drilling machine, the contractor ruptured the water pipeline on Saturday evening,” he explained. Since it was a major pipeline, water oozed out from the damaged portion resulting in a flood-like situation in the vicinity and also entered nearby houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pipeline-repair-pwd-to-recover-expenses-from-gas-contractor/articleshow/81500880.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Vadodara||Man opens fire from air gun in Fatehpura||Vadodara: A fight between children took a turn for the worst after a resident of Fatehpura fired from an air gun on Sunday evening. Accused identified as Munaf fired at Samir Mansuri, while four other accused attacked him. According to the police, the air gun pellet didn’t hit anyone, but one person suffered injuries after being attacked with a sword. According to Samir’s younger brother Sohail, the children got into a fight over a petty issue on Sunday afternoon following which Samir went to talk with the family members of one of the kids. Later the accused came to meet Samir and attacked him. The police said that they have found one pellet fired from the air gun. A team of local cops and crime branch rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation. The cops are in the process of registering FIR at city police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-opens-fire-from-air-gun-in-fatehpura/articleshow/81498470.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Goa||Siolim MLA warns of vigilante action against rave parties||Panaji: Siolim MLA Vinod Palienkar has threatened to form a vigilante group to crack down on illegal rave parties and drug trade if the state government does not take steps to address the issue. He said that it was a matter of shame for chief minister Pramod Sawant and Goa Police that central agencies have been conducting raids in Goa and seizing drugs. The GFP legislator also said that he would raise the issue of drug trade and illegal rave parties in the coming assembly session. “The government needs to act in the interest of the people and it has to happen fast,” Palienkar said. “If the government cannot uphold the law, then I will take 40-50 boys and take law into our hands and ensure that things are put in their right place.” He said that either Sawant supported the illegal activities or lacked the political will to crackdown on them. Paliencar said that 10-12 rave parties are organised everyday in his constituency where drugs are freely sold. He said that he has informed chief secretary Parimal Rai about the same, but no action has been taken. “I tell the chief secretary who tells the IGP. The IGP calls the North SP, the North SP calls the local police inspector and for a day a raid will be conducted. Then it goes back to how it was,” he said. Palienkar alleged that the Anjuna police inspector of taking bribes from the organisers of rave parties and drug trafficker.“How can we believe that the local inspector does not know about the parties that are happening in the belt,” the MLA said. Officials of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) of Maharashtra and Goa conducted multiple raids, nabbed a few foreign nationals and seized a significant quantity of drugs from various locations in North Goa. The raids caught many, including some Goa Police officials, by surprise. It also gave rise to questions about Goa Police’s role in cracking down on the drug trade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/siolim-mla-warns-of-vigilante-action-against-rave-parties/articleshow/81500842.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
---||Business||Still want crypto ban, RBI to government||NEW DELHI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is sticking to its stand over cryptocurrencies and has conveyed to the government its decision to seek a ban on such instruments, having already expressed its serious concerns. While asserting that the technology of blockchain should be encouraged, the central bank has questioned the purpose of cryptocurrencies to be labelled as a currency. It has said that a currency is a sovereign right and cannot be assigned to any individual entity. The issue of these instruments being legal is also yet to be settled. The central bank has also raised security risks linked to cryptocurrencies, saying it could give rise to money laundering and terror financing, because of anonymity of the transactions. The regulator believes that the steps taken by the Modi government to restrict black money flow would be undone if it allowed cryptocurrency in the economy as a lot of illicit cash stashed overseas may return via this route. Last week, in an interview, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had told TOI that the regulator had conveyed its concerns to the government. “There are so many codes and so many transactions. It would be difficult to identify the source due to the complex nature of these instruments,” said an official referring to the RBI’s strong backing for a ban. It has also pointed out that reporting such transactions in keeping with global commitments would be difficult, given the tough task of identifying the beneficiaries and tracking the transactions. The RBI has also pointed to the dangers to macroeconomic management if these instruments are allowed as they would pose “serious risks” to the financial system of the country, sources said. In 2018, the central bank had issued a circular asking banks and other entities regulated by the RBI not to deal in virtual currencies (VCs) or “provide services for facilitating any person or entity in dealing with or settling VCs”. This circular was quashed by the Supreme Court in March last year on the ground of it being not proportionate. In recent weeks, the RBI has also talked about bringing its own digital currency, which is different from cryptocurrencies. The Centre has set up an inter-ministerial panel, chaired by the economic affairs secretary, which has submitted its report and the government is expected to take a decision on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/still-want-crypto-ban-rbi-to-govt/articleshow/81502386.cms||Sidhartha
March 15, 2021||Goa||Cyber cell busts fake job racket for sailors in Goa||PANAJI: The Goa police’s cyber crime cell (CCC) on Sunday busted an alleged fake employment racket for sailors, and arrested one person while escaping from Mumbai airport. Crime branch SP Shobhit Saxena told TOI that a case was registered at the CCC on the complaint of a shipping company, Ouvert Marine, where it was claimed that some unknown persons had made a fake website of the company mimicking the original one. He also said that the fake company used to then issue placement letters to aspiring sailors and ask them to pay fees for processing placements upto Rs 5 lakh per victim. Several complaints were received in this regard by DG Shipping. Saxena said that upon receiving the complaint, CCC took down the fake website and froze all accounts. A further investigation led the cell to the prime accused, who was identified as Sumit Upadhyay of Guwahati. “In order to hide his real identity, the accused used several fake identities and SIM cards, and travelled across UP, Delhi, Mumbai and Guwahati,” the SP said. However, a cyber crime cell located him, and a team was immediately sent to Guwahati to apprehend him with the help of Guwahati crime branch, led by DCP Barun Purkayastha. The accused then attempted to abscond to Mumbai, where a joint team of ATS Mumbai, under DIG Shivdeep Lande and led by PI Daya Naik, CISF Sahar Airport, and the Goa CCC, led by PSI Sarvesh Sawant, apprehended Sumit Upadhyay on the aircraft. Further investigation and recovery is on. The crime branch SP also said that the fake company used to then issue placement letters to aspiring sailors and ask them to pay fees for processing placements upto Rs 5 lakh per victim. Several complaints were received in this regard by DG Shipping||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cyber-cell-busts-fake-job-racket-for-sailors/articleshow/81500888.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Delhi||50 years on, 1971 batch recalls ‘7 legends’ of Bangladesh war||NEW DELHI: Exactly 50 years ago, on March 14, 1971, 338 newly inducted officers from the famous “1971 War Course” graduated from the Officers Training School (now OTA), in Madras, as it was then called. They were soon rushed to the eastern and western fronts to prepare for the imminent war against Pakistan. Less than nine months later, seven of them laid down their lives for the country. On Sunday, members of the1971 batch, led by Maj Gen C D Sawant (retd), gathered here to commemorate the golden jubilee of the commissioning of officers from SS(NT)-10 and Tech-2 course and paid homage to the “Seven Legends”. Legends Of ’71: Some Blown Into Pieces, Fate Of Others UnknownBefore placing a wreath at the National War Memorial, Maj Gen Sawant said, addressing the families of the martyrs, “We were fortunate to fight in the 1971 war. It was the greatest victory of any nation wherein a new nation, Bangladesh, was created and we captured 93,000 prisoners of war (the largest-ever surrender since WWII).” Of the 338 officers from the 1971 batch, 222 went on to get permanent commission. Six rose to the rank of Major General, 18 became Brigadiers and 60 Colonels. Many of them won several Army medals and honours for bravery, exemplary courage and dynamic leadership. “When we passed out from the OTS in March 1971, we were inducted into shortterm courses meant for officers. That time the war with Pakistan looked imminent. So in September, we were asked to leave the course and join operational field areas,” Brig R S Parmar told TOI. Other members of the “Tenacious Tenners”, as the No. 10 batch is popularly known, also paid tributes to the “seven comrades-inarms” in Chandigarh, Aizawl, Pune, Secunderabad and at OTA Chennai. They also remembered 67 other batchmates who have since passed away. The “seven legends” were Second Lt Bharat Singh Kasana (9 Dogra), 2nd Lt Dharampal Yadava (14 Kumaon), 2nd Lt S M Sabharwal (Regiment of Artillery), 2nd Lt Vikram Burn Appalswamy (164 Field Regiment), 2nd Lt S M Viney Kaul (165 Field Regiment), 2nd Lt Girija Shankar Nair (13 Guards) and 2nd Lt K M Mandanna (9 Engr Regiment). A few of them were blown away in enemy mine blasts and artillery fire, and their bodies never recovered, while the whereabouts of some others was never known. It is said that 2nd Lt Sabharwal from 18 Punjab captured three Pakistani posts in the Kargil sector. The officer, his radio operator and 18 men of his battalion went missing while attacking Point 4910. “My elder brother, then 22, captured a point in Kargil at night. But the next morning, Pakistan countered with a heavy force. It is said Sabharwal’s gun jammed. He and his men were either killed or made PoWs. There were some foreign reports about him languishing in a Pakistan jail. Till date, we do not know anything for sure,” Sabharwal’s brother Satish, along with his sibling Vinod, told TOI. 2nd Lt Dharampal destroyed several enemy bunkers on the eastern front. He was shot in the head attacking an enemy bunker. Bharat Singh Kasana, who received the Vir Chakra (posthumously), launched an attack on a well-entrenched enemy locality at Suadih, then East Pakistan. They captured the terrain but Kasana and his men died in the fighting. “Viney Kaul was the topper of his class and a silver gunner. A very decorated officer. He made the supreme sacrifice at such a young age. It feels so good that his class, the Army and the nation still remember him,” his niece, who came for the event, said. Lt Col S J M Jafri (retd), who was injured while retrieving anti-personnel mines laid by Pakistan, said, “The war lasted 13 days. When the ceasefire was declared on December 16, Pakistanis handed over the captured land to us, they did not tell us exact locations of the mines laid by them. Several of our jawans died later in mine-retrieving operations.” The Indian Army conducted several amphibious operations to capture fleeing Pakistani troops. Said Col Dhirendra Gupta (retd), “A special Romeo force was set up with the help of the Navy to capture the enemy running from Cox’s Bazar and Chittagong. We caught around 10,000 enemy troops.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/50-years-on-1971-batch-recalls-7-legends-of-bangladesh-war/articleshow/81502381.cms||Surendra Singh
---||Business||India beats Russia to fourth spot on forex kitty rankings||MUMBAI: India overtook Russia to become the nation with the fourth-largest foreign exchange reserve despite a drop in its international investments in dollar terms. While India’s forex holdings fell by $4.3 billion to $580.3 billion as of March 5, Russia’s drop was even sharper, resulting in its numbers coming down to $580.1 billion according to data from Bloomberg. According to data released by the RBI on Friday, after rising by $689 million during the last week of February to a record $584.5 billion, the central bank’s foreign holdings fell in the first week of March. The forex reserve rises when the RBI buys dollars to prevent a sharp appreciation of the domestic currency. The rupee had come under pressure on February 26 following a surge in government bond yields worldwide, closing 104 paise lower. When the currency comes under pressure, the RBI ends up selling its forex reserve to defend the rupee. A high forex reserve gives the RBI more leeway in maintaining monetary policy. According to a report by ICICI Securities, the RBI has added $130 billion in forex reserves (spot and forward markets) in the last 12 months and part of these can be spent to ensure stability in forex and interest rate markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-beats-russia-to-no-4-spot-on-forex-kitty-rankings/articleshow/81502388.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Goa||Exit NDA, then preach oppn unity to others: Cong to GFP||Margao: In a scathing yet veiled attack on GFP president Vijai Sardesai, state Congress president Girish Chodankar on Sunday dared “those still controlled by home minister Amit Shah to first show guts to come out of the NDA headed by BJP, and then preach to others on opposition unity”. “Congress has faced many wars and has emerged victorious time and again. Congress in Goa is capable enough to intercept and destroy the rockets fired from NDA territory under the control of BJP,” Chodankar said in a press note. “Some political parties are spreading false rumours and fake posts to show Congress as weak so that they get another opportunity to share power with BJP. But these tricks won’t work anymore as people have realised the hidden agenda of these local political outfits,” he added. Chodankar said that people want Congress “to teach BJP and all its allies as well as A, B and other teams of BJP a lesson”. He said that the Congress high command and local leadership was answerable to the people of Goa and “not to those who betrayed the people’s mandate”. “Standing strong by the ideology and principles of the party is the true spirit of democracy,” Chodankar said. “Turncoats and party-hoppers have destroyed politics in Goa. Congress made honest efforts to fight against BJP’s misrule right from 2012, when these local outfits were eating the cake of power sitting at the same table of corruption.” Some political parties are spreading false rumours and fake posts to show Congress as weak so that they get another opportunity to share power with BJP. But these tricks won’t work anymore||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/exit-nda-then-preach-oppn-unity-to-others-cong-to-gfp/articleshow/81500926.cms||---
---||Business||Skilled talent must to develop economy, says Naik||NEW DELHI: A M Naik, L&T group chairman, and chairman of the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC), says skilled manpower is foundation for quality work, economic development and exports. In an interview to TOI, Naik is optimistic about the economic recovery which is under way. Excerpts: How has the pandemic hurt the skilling process?It has been hit very badly. Things are improving now, people are coming back. L&T has been able to get its entire workforce back and we have a new set of people. 30-40% is the separation rate in the construction industry and we have to train all of them as new people come and every site — we have 600 sites — has a training centre. The Prime Minister, through action, has emphasised that skilling is the backbone of any country’s economic development. He appointed a full-scale Cabinet minister. We also have nine training centres and two more are coming up. Many people can build a building, but the quality of training will not be good unless the trainers are very good. You would need more than 100 such “training for trainer” institutes to improve the quality of trainers, who in turn can improve the quality of trainees. This is NSDC’s ecosystem and ITI has their own parallel ecosystem. Has the industry’s response improved to embrace skilling?All the big industries are doing their own training to suit the trade that is required for their products — like auto, truck, power. But there is no absolute standard for all of them. The real problem is 75% or more people are employed in the small-scale sector and they are the people who really suffer because they cannot afford to have a training camp for 50 or 20 people employed. That is what NSDC and ITIs have to capture. There are expectations of a massive expansion of the manufacturing sector. Will they find skilled workers?I think each industry who wants to come will have to take the raw materials, which is basic trainees, and work on them for six months or a year to train them to suit their needs. For example, Japan for the last three years wanted skilled manpower from India, because Japanese are ageing. It has taken us last three years to train 300 people for Japan, because Japan conducts their own tests and if they don’t pass, then you have to keep training. They need to train for one year on basic Japanese language. Now, Russia wants more than 100,000 people in their eastern side. Though nothing is spoken about, lots of Chinese have gone there and Russia is worried. They are interested if Indians can come there, but the problem is skilled manpower. Nobody wants unskilled and semiskilled people then invest in starting factories. India is not able to cope with that. What is your assessment of the infrastructure sector?Our real problem is qualification of contractors. 86 road projects are half done. We were approached for it, but as a practice, we don’t take up half-completed projects. I know of companies, who are qualified without experience — zero experience — are getting projects. Hydrocarbon refinery type of projects are given to a company which will never get completed. The tunnel, which has been talked about for last 10 years, is now given to a company which doesn’t know what a tunnel is. Why are we not qualifying people as per international norms, so that project gets done? How do you see the overall economic recovery?Well, it is inching forward. Unfortunately again, Covid has erupted in several states. I hope with arrival of vaccine and hastening of that process, we are going to sooner come out of this pandemic. I expect in the next year economic growth will be much higher, provided there is no crowd, there are no agitations for four months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/skilled-talent-must-to-develop-eco-says-naik/articleshow/81502399.cms||Surojit Gupta
March 15, 2021||Business||Accenture India switches to gender-neutral policies||BENGALURU: Accenture has become among the first in India to move away from gender binaries. Policies will focus on the caregiver rather than gender or marital status. Accenture India’s life insurance benefit was previously restricted to the employee’s spouse and family members. Now, the nominee can be anybody chosen by the employee. Accenture employees who identify themselves as LGBT+ can nominate their partners too. “We undertook an extensive review of our people policies with a view to making them gender-neutral and to ensure that our people feel valued, included and for them to benefit equally from our policies. We are breaking some of the gender stereotypes to focus on the role of a caregiver. Gendered language and people policies often also leave non-binary individuals feeling left out and prevents them from availing certain benefits,” said Lakshmi C, managing director and lead - human resources, Accenture India. Accenture has over 2 lakh employees in India. The policy changes came into effect in December. In parental leave policies, the focus is now on the primary and secondary caregivers, outside the definition of a traditional family construct. Maternal leave, which was previously restricted to those who identify themselves as women, has now been extended to all eligible employees who can bear and give birth to a child. “For instance, transmen who can bear a child are eligible for the 26-week leave,” Lakshmi said. In 2015, Accenture increased its maternity-leave benefits in India to 22 weeks of paid leave, up significantly from the then prevalent statutory requirement of 12 weeks. It currently offers 26 weeks of maternity leave. Paternal leave, which previously benefited those who identified themselves as men, has been extended to all secondary caregivers, irrespective of gender identity, to benefit those who identify as LGBT+. “That’s a big shift,” Lakshmi said. Surrogacy and adoption leaves have been extended to employees who are primary caregivers irrespective of their gender identity. Previously, only female employees were eligible for surrogacy leave. Adoption leave was previously open to employees who identified themselves as men and women. For bereavement leave, previously, an employee could avail this benefit of paid time in the event of the death of close family members defined as one’s spouse, children, parents, grandparents, siblings and parents’ in-laws. The definition of close family members has now been extended to cover partners of employees who identify as LGBT+. In 2016, Accenture was one of the first companies to introduce medical cover for gender reassignment surgery. “It’s a continued journey to create equality. We continue to leverage our HR people advisors, frontline supervisors and our internal channels to communicate these changes effectively," she said. In 2017, Accenture was among the first companies to set a global goal of achieving a gender-balanced workforce -- with 50% women and 50% men -- by 2025. Last year, it accomplished its commitment to growing the percentage of women managing directors at Accenture to 25%, globally, by the year 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/accenture-india-switches-to-gender-neutral-policies/articleshow/81502401.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
---||Noida||By 2023, Greater Noida will get 6 new substations||GREATER NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh Power Transmission Corporation Limited (UPPTCL) has planned to build six new substations of different capacity, ranging from 400kV to 220kV and 132kV, in Greater Noida by 2023. According to the officials from UPPTCL, they will also upgrade the existing 220kV substation in RC Green to 400kV. The steps are taken with a view to cater to the residential and industrial growth projected in the region in the coming years, especially with firms like Yotta and Japanese data centre, Vivo and Oppo setting up their plants here. Apart from that, 100MW will be procured from 400kV substation in Sector 123 in Noida for Greater Noida for which Rs 40 crore will be borne by the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA). Together, these substations are expected to improve the power supply of the city, especially areas such as sectors 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, Ecotech 1 and as well as of Greater Noida West. Similarly, additional 5 acre land has been requisitioned from Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) taking a total to 10 acres in Sector 32 of YEIDA area for the commissioned 220kV substation at Jewar which is expected to be upgraded by UPPTCL to 400kV capacity. The substation will cater to the development needs of YEIDA and neighbouring rural areas of Jewar, including the airport partly. The demand for the substations has risen with GNIDA and the power department anticipating a population growth from the current 8-10 lakh to 25 lakh in the next decade in Greater Noida, especially with the upcoming Jewar airport driving growth and investment opportunities in the region as per consulting agency RITES mobility plan. “A meeting was held between Noida Power Company Limited (NPCL) and UPPTCL on March 2 to finalise the details,” said Narendra Bhooshan, CEO, GNIDA. “Land has been identified for six new substations by GNIDA. Joint inspections have also been undertaken. All are given different areas ranging from 5,000sqm, 7,000sqm to 40,000sqm. Currently, official file work is underway after which they will hand over the land to us. The six substations will include 400 Kv capacity in Metro Depot, 400 Kv in Amarpura, 220 Kv each in village Jalpura and Knowledge Park 5 and 132Kv each in Ecotech 8 and 10,” said Puneet Gupta superintending engineer (Transmission) UPPTCL. While GNIDA has set aside Rs 1,000 crore for these projects, the time lag for their completion are projected by December 2022 to March 2023. “The move comes in consideration of the growing population, industrial development and upcoming Jewar airport in the vicinity,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/by-2023-greater-noida-will-get-6-new-substations/articleshow/81500244.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
March 15, 2021||Ghaziabad||‘On our toes’: How Noida & Ghaziabad are stepping up Covid vigil again||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Health officials in Noida and Ghaziabad have stepped up efforts to trace people coming in from other states as both districts have witnessed a marginal rise in Covid cases over the past few days. Noida reported 17 cases on Saturday, the maximum since January 11. Officials had heaved a sigh of relief when cases in the city had started to reduce in December. They continued to plunge till most of February, when cases remained in single digits. However, there has been a gradual increase in the city’s Covid count since March, when cases have mostly been on double digits. On Sunday though, only three persons tested positive in Noida. The cautious approach by officials is crucial, considering that neighbouring Delhi has reported more than 400 cases for four days in a row and Ghaziabad, too, has been witnessing a slight rise in its daily Covid tally. Officials, however, clarified that they were not planning any restrictions on movement through the border yet. “We are clear that the lockdown is over, and we will be as non-intrusive as possible. We just need to be on our toes now, increase vigilance and keep track of anyone with even the mildest of symptoms. The trend in neighbouring cities and some other districts of UP is definitely worrying and we have started planning strategies for Noida,” said Suhas LY, the district magistrate. The DM has also lined up a meeting with Delhi airport authorities on Monday to seek their help in keeping tabs on those travelling from Kerala and Maharashtra, where cases have been rising. “We will conduct an online meeting and ask the airport authorities to notify us about any travellers from these two states who are headed for Noida. We will keep a check on other entry points too, like bus depots and railway stations,” he added. Officials said that according to a state government analysis, cases have increased only in areas that have seen high traveller movement from Maharashtra and Kerala. These include districts such as Gonda and Basti, which recently saw many people coming in from Mumbai. The Noida administration is also planning to once again involve residents’ monitoring groups (mohalla nigrani samitis) and other RWAs to watch out for travellers from other states. Focused testing of those with symptoms will also be increased now, officials said. The Ghaziabad health department has also planned similar steps. Officials said they would increase from this week daily testing from the current average of 3,000 to 5,000. The officials have been issued instructions to increase surveillance in areas where cases are being reported. Tabs are being kept on people coming from Maharashtra and Kerala. However, health department officials rued they were not getting proper information from the authorities about people arriving from other states. Another issue with increasing testing is people’s reluctance to come to the booths, they added. Even RWAs are unwilling in assisting the department in conducting camps, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/on-our-toes-how-noida-gzb-are-stepping-up-covid-vigil-again/articleshow/81502479.cms||Snehil Sinha
March 15, 2021||Noida||‘On our toes’: How Noida & Ghaziabad are stepping up Covid vigil again||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Health officials in Noida and Ghaziabad have stepped up efforts to trace people coming in from other states as both districts have witnessed a marginal rise in Covid cases over the past few days. Noida reported 17 cases on Saturday, the maximum since January 11. Officials had heaved a sigh of relief when cases in the city had started to reduce in December. They continued to plunge till most of February, when cases remained in single digits. However, there has been a gradual increase in the city’s Covid count since March, when cases have mostly been on double digits. On Sunday though, only three persons tested positive in Noida. The cautious approach by officials is crucial, considering that neighbouring Delhi has reported more than 400 cases for four days in a row and Ghaziabad, too, has been witnessing a slight rise in its daily Covid tally. Officials, however, clarified that they were not planning any restrictions on movement through the border yet. “We are clear that the lockdown is over, and we will be as non-intrusive as possible. We just need to be on our toes now, increase vigilance and keep track of anyone with even the mildest of symptoms. The trend in neighbouring cities and some other districts of UP is definitely worrying and we have started planning strategies for Noida,” said Suhas LY, the district magistrate. The DM has also lined up a meeting with Delhi airport authorities on Monday to seek their help in keeping tabs on those travelling from Kerala and Maharashtra, where cases have been rising. “We will conduct an online meeting and ask the airport authorities to notify us about any travellers from these two states who are headed for Noida. We will keep a check on other entry points too, like bus depots and railway stations,” he added. Officials said that according to a state government analysis, cases have increased only in areas that have seen high traveller movement from Maharashtra and Kerala. These include districts such as Gonda and Basti, which recently saw many people coming in from Mumbai. The Noida administration is also planning to once again involve residents’ monitoring groups (mohalla nigrani samitis) and other RWAs to watch out for travellers from other states. Focused testing of those with symptoms will also be increased now, officials said. The Ghaziabad health department has also planned similar steps. Officials said they would increase from this week daily testing from the current average of 3,000 to 5,000. The officials have been issued instructions to increase surveillance in areas where cases are being reported. Tabs are being kept on people coming from Maharashtra and Kerala. However, health department officials rued they were not getting proper information from the authorities about people arriving from other states. Another issue with increasing testing is people’s reluctance to come to the booths, they added. Even RWAs are unwilling in assisting the department in conducting camps, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/on-our-toes-how-noida-gzb-are-stepping-up-covid-vigil-again/articleshow/81500266.cms||Snehil Sinha
March 15, 2021||India||CBI set to investigate irregularities at Army’s officer selection centre||NEW DELHI: The Army has handed over a case of malpractices at a selection center for officers in the Kapurthala district of Punjab to the CBI, which comes soon after the Pune Police arrested two majors and others in a separate case of an exam paper for recruitment of jawans being leaked. The Army detected gross malpractices in the selection center in Punjab, which conducts Services Selection Board (SSB) tests for officer-level entry into the armed forces, in a military intelligence operation. “The case was handed over to the CBI because the scope of investigation involves some civilian entities as well. The military intelligence conducted the initial operation after receiving complaints against a junior officer for being involved in irregularities,” said an officer. It later emerged that several other insiders, including some senior officials, as well as civilians and coaching centers could be involved in the scam. “The Army has zero-tolerance for financial irregularities, moral turpitude and corruption,” he added. SSBs around the country cater for selection of both permanent and shortservice commission officers into the armed forces. The boards evaluate suitability of candidates through personality, intelligence and physical tests after they clear written exams conducted by UPSC. As earlier reported by TOI, the Pune Police has arrested two majors and several others in the case involving the leak of an exam paper at different centers for recruitment of jawans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-set-to-investigate-irregularities-at-armys-officer-selection-centre/articleshow/81502408.cms||---
March 15, 2021||India||Sena blames NCP-held home dept, Pawar calls party meet||MUMBAI: A day after the NIA arrested assistant police inspector Sachin Waze for his alleged role in placing an explosive-laden car near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s home, a blame game began within the Maha Vikas Aghadi government led by Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday over the inept handling of the Waze episode. Many heads are expected to roll in the IPS and corridors of power, said bureaucrats. It was learnt that the Shiv Sena, Thackeray’s party, blamed the home department led by Anil Deshmukh of the NCP for the mess. NCP president Sharad Pawar called a meeting of NCP cabinet members on Monday to take stock of the political situation arising out of Waze’s arrest as well as the serious charges against former forest minister Sanjay Rathod. “The Waze episode has caused massive damage to the image of the government. On Sunday last week, it was proposed that when the house assembles on Monday, Deshmukh will declare the shunting out of Waze, but it was opposed by a NCP leader, who said that if the government accepts the demand made by leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis, then it will set a precedent. Every day, Fadnavis will come up with a demand for suspension or transfer of one or the other officer,” a Sena minister said. The Sena minister said CM Uddhav Thackeray had taken note of the entire episode and would act as early as possible. “We are still in the dark as to why an explosive-laden vehicle was placed outside Ambani’s residence. The CM is expected to discuss the situation with IPS officials on Sunday itself,” he said. NCP spokesperson and skill development minister Nawab Malik and Shiv Sena spokesperson Anil Parab said that since the NIA had taken over the probe from the Anti-Terrorism Squad, it would be appropriate to wait for its outcome. “Once we know the outcome of the probe, stern action will be taken against erring officials irrespective of their rank,” Malik said, a thought that was echoed by Parab. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the CM had already declared that no one would be spared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sena-blames-ncp-held-home-dept-pawar-calls-party-meet/articleshow/81502413.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
March 15, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Ruling party breaks into TDP ‘bastion’ Vizag, wins 58 seats||VISAKHAPATNAM: Bucking the trend of handing over the reins of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) to opposition parties, Vizag voters gave a clear mandate to the ruling YSRC in the GVMC election, the results of which were declared on Sunday. While the YSRC bagged 58 seats, the TDP was reduced to 30 seats. The results reflected the diverse composition of voters of Vizag city and their distinct preferences as each party clinched at least one ward, including Jana Sena three, BJP one, CPI one ward, CPM one ward and independents four. The TDP has lost its ‘bastion’ Vizag to the ruling party. The north coastal Andhra Pradesh and the Vizag city have often been considered as the fortress of the TDP. For instance, the TDP could retain all the four core Assembly constituencies of Vizag city in the 2019 general elections, despite the same election marking its near decimation in Andhra Pradesh. But the YSRC’s clean sweep presented altogether a different story for the TDP in north coastal Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. Even though it was widely believed that the Vizag Steel Plant privatisation issue may deal a blow to the ruling YSRC, political observers feel that it may have been mostly directed towards the BJP. The Left parties, which have been leading the fight against steel plant privatisation, have shown their impact in the wards falling into the steel plant area by winning two seats. The ruling party believes that their welfare and development initiatives and their formidable campaign strategy worked in their favour in the elections. The TDP leaders were left wondering what went wrong with the party at the ground-level. YSRC Rajya Sabha MP V Vijayasai Reddy said that the results are a reflection of good governance. “People voted for development and welfare initiatives. Going by the results, people of all the three regions accepted and extended their support to the three-capital concept, including branching out executive capital to Vizag city,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ruling-party-breaks-into-tdp-bastion-vizag-wins-58-seats/articleshow/81499316.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
March 15, 2021||Goa||Mastermind of Dabolim robbery nabbed at Kerala||VASCO: Vasco police have arrested the main accused behind the week-old Dabolim robbery case. Sanjay Verma, the mastermind behind the robbery at Pramod Dessai’s house was nabbed at Coimbatore in Kerela. A team of cops went to Kerala in search of Verma, who was found at his native place. They said he told them that he has a medical degree. According to Vasco police sources, on the day of the robbery, Verma, along with four others, tied Dessai in his house and took off with four cheques signed by Dessai. They ran away after his employee raised an alarm which alerted the neighbours. One of the accused, Sunil More, was caught by the public. After a massive manhunt, the second accused, Suraj Maruti Kambli, a resident of Ulhasnagar, Maharashtra, was located at Panaji bus stand that same evening while trying to board a bus for Mumbai. Interrogation of both the arrested accused revealed the name of another accused. Based on the inputs, teams were formed and another search was conducted from midnight to morning in which the third accused, Vishal Ahuja, was found near one of the casinos in Panaji. Most of the robbed articles have been recovered. All three accused are under police remand. Verma was produced before the judicial magistrate first class Vasco on Sunday and taken into six days police remand. Further investigations are being carried out. It may be recalled that Verma had come to stay at Dessai’s guest house at Alto-Dabolim for a week.  He made plan to loot Dessai and with the help of Ahuja and brought two more accused from Mumbai to commit the theft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mastermind-of-dabolim-robbery-nabbed-at-kerala/articleshow/81501087.cms||---
March 15, 2021||India||Relief for road crash to land in a/cs; entire process via emails||NEW DELHI:With 4.5 lakh road accidents and 1.5 lakh deaths each year, kin of the victims usually encountered a harrowing time during their protracted tussle with the insurance companies to get compensation monies even while enduring the emotional trauma for the loss of their blood relatives. It would now be a much simpler process almost entirely through emails, without even requiring the claimant's presence before the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), which would be transferring the awarded compensation amount deposited by the insurer through RTGS/NEFT directly to the claimant's account A little push from the Supreme Court bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy saw additional solicitor general Jayant Sud hold rounds of conferences with the state government counsel and hammer out an agreed procedure for speedy settling of accident claims and transfer of monies to needy claimants for providing them with some financial succour at the time of distress caused by loss of near and dear ones. The agreed procedure, forming part of Sud's submission, was filed before the SC on Saturday. Sud along with amicus curiae N Vijayraghavan and senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, in consultation with counsel for state governments, said "the police shall collect the documents relevant to the accident and for computation of compensation and shall verify the information and documents. These documents shall form part of the police report sent through email to the jurisdictional MACT and the concerned insurer." The ASG's note said the kin of the deceased could also send her/his claim application to the MACT by email. The Centre and states agreed that the MACT will issue summons through email to the insurance company along with the police report and the claim application. "The insurers shall email their offer of compensation for settling the claim to the tribunal as well as the claimant. The MACT shall consider the offer and demand of the insurer and claimant and pass an award and email it to both the insurer and claimant," the ASG said. What is conceptualised in the procedure next would be heartening to claimants, who used to run from pillar to post to get the monies from the insurers despite passing of awards by tribunals as the insurers mostly avoided immediate payments on the ground that they have appealed against it. But, now, as per the agreed procedure, the insurer would have to deposit the awarded compensation amount through RTGS/NEFT in a bank account opened by each MACT for the purpose of receiving money from insurance companies on account of awards passed by the tribunals. The concerned MACT would then transfer the insurer deposited award amount to claimants account again through bank transfers, the ASG said. For this purpose, the ASG suggested to the SC that all police stations, MACTs and insurers should have to maintain exclusive email accounts for communication on filing reports and insurance claims as well as award for compensation for accidents occurring within the jurisdiction of a MACT. Sud suggested that the insurance companies will have to appoint a nodal officer for each MACT and provide their contact details to the concerned state DGPs. The email IDs, of police, insurance companies, MACT and the nodal officer, shall be displayed prominently at each police station, tribunal and insurance company offices for the benefit of the claimants, the ASG said in his submission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/relief-for-road-crash-to-land-in-a/cs-entire-process-via-emails/articleshow/81502421.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 15, 2021||India||Downsized, but rail board still functioning at half its strength||NEW DELHI: The railway board has become slimmer and is now left with only two members against the sanctioned posts for four members. The government had last year restructured the Railway Board by bringing down the number of members, besides CEO and chairman, from seven to four by surrendering three posts. The members in the board are appointed by the appointments panel of the cabinet. Officials said two of the members retired in the past two months and no fresh appointment has been notified by the government. “The two members have got additional charges. The charge of member (infrastructure) has been given to the additional member,” a source said. Meanwhile, the railways performance even during the Covid pandemic has improved with the transporter registering 3.6% more loading of freight till Saturday compared to the same period in 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/downsized-but-rail-board-still-functioning-at-half-its-strength/articleshow/81502422.cms||Dipak K Dash
March 15, 2021||Goa||Accused get bail in birds seizure case||Colva: Additional sessions judge Cholu Gauns on Friday granted anticipatory bail to Gregory Bruno Fernandes and Blevia Fernandes. They were arrested for illegal captivity of protected species of birds and animals at their open hall in Varca. Forest officials had seized a Malabar giant squirrel, white-bellied sea eagle, black kite, vernal hanging parrot, 7 plum headed parakeet, 12 black headed munia and 6 rose ringed parakeet under the Wildlife Protection Act, during a search operation on March 4. The judge released them on personal bonds of Rs 25,000 and a surety of like amount each. The judge also told them to not directly or indirectly make any inducements, threats or promise to any person acquainted with the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/accused-get-bail-in-birds-seizure-case/articleshow/81501095.cms||---
---||Vijayawada||AIMIM makes electoral entry in AP with 1 ward||VIJAYAWADA: The All-India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has opened its account in the municipal elections held in Andhra Pradesh on March 10.The party’s candidate, Mama Jignu, registered victory at ward No. 16 of Hindupur municipality in Anantapur district on Sunday. The MIM has fought municipal polls in 47 wards, mostly from Rayalaseema, but managed to win only one seat. However, with this victory in a ward in Hindupur, the MIM has made a formal electoral entry in Andhra Pradesh. The party is now represented in electoral politics in Bihar, Maharashtra, and Gujarat, apart from Telangana. It has added AP to its list of electoral expansion across the country. Jignu got 883 votes and won with a majority of 123 votes against YSRC candidates Syed Ayesha. Jignu thanked the voters for giving her a chance. She promised to work for the ward’s development and work hard to resolve the water problem locally. She hoped that AIMIM would emerge as a strong force in the state soon. The party contested in 47 wards across 71 municipalities and 12 municipal corporations, which went for polling. The AIMIM fielded candidates at the wards with a sizeable population of minorities. The MIM polled a good percentage of votes in the wards it contested in Kurnool, Nandyal, Anantapur, Kadapa, and Nandikotkur municipalities. Two candidates, who contested in Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC), stood in third place after YSRC and TDP. The campaign conducted by the party chief and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi had enthused the party cadre. His solidarity with protests opposing the privatisation of the Vizag steel plant also impacted voters across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/aimim-makes-electoral-entry-in-ap-with-1-ward/articleshow/81499364.cms||Venu Lanka
March 15, 2021||Goa||Rabies cases down to zero in Ponda||PONDA: Though the canine population in Ponda has been increasing and even as packs of stray dogs are seen daily on streets, cases of dog bites dropped by 45% while cases of rabies were down to zero during the lockdown and pandemic period. Ponda has not recorded a single case of rabies from dog bites for over 26 months and neither have any deaths from dog bites been reported. Records of the Ponda sub-district hospital (SDH) also show that the number of cases from dog bites have declined over the last two years. From April to December 2019, SDH recorded 586 dog bites and this came down to 327 cases during the same period in 2020, which coincides with the lockdown and pandemic period. Medical superintendent, SDH Dr Vikas Kuwelkar said there were not cases of rabies nor were there any casualties reported from dog bites during the last two years. Ponda resident Rajesh Naik, a pet lover said that locals had taken to feeding street dogs during the lockdown, adding that the government had failed to provide on-site medical facilities to treat injured and sick pets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rabies-cases-down-to-zero-in-ponda/articleshow/81501145.cms||---
---||India||UP police unearth ‘land scam’ linked to Kamla Nehru trust||LUCKNOW: UP police on Sunday blew the lid off mammoth irregularities in leasing out government land in Rae Bareli to Kamla Nehru Educational Society in 2001. Twelve people, including former staffers of the Society, revenue officials and then additional district magistrate (ADM), were booked for fraud, tampering with government documents and damage to public property. The case was lodged by ADM (finance & revenue) Prem Prakash Upadhayay, who stated in his complaint that land in Ahmadpur village was illegally handed over to the Society as freehold property in connivance with revenue department employees. Those under probe include then ADM Madan Pal Arya, deputy registrar of revenue department Ghanshyam, revenue clerk Ram Krishna Srivastava and administrative officer in collectorate Vindhyavasini Prasad. Society members who have been booked include Vikram Kaul, son of late Congress MP Sheila Kaul, secretary Sunil Dev, Rae Bareli resident and trustee Sunil Kumar and its then chairman. Congress MLA from Rae Bareli Aditi Singh said, “I would like to thank UP CM for pushing for a probe and registering a case against the culprits. The Gandhi family has huge stakes in the Trust with Vikram Kaul and Salman Khursheed being members. The land was allocated for education of girls, but was never used for this purpose,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-police-unearth-land-scam-linked-to-kamla-nehru-trust/articleshow/81502426.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
March 15, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Five teenagers drown in dam near Dindigul||Five teenagers drowned in a dam at Athoor, about 15km from Dindigul on Sunday. The incident happened when a six-member group of friends from Bharathipuram had gone to take bath in the Kamarajar dam. While one of them went to buy drinking water, others attempted to take bath and drowned. Quoting Sudarshan, who had gone to buy water, police said none of the other teens knew swimming. The deceased, S Selvabarani, Loganathan and S Nagaraj, all aged 19, were BCom students of a Dindigul college. Karthigai Prabakaran, 19, another person who drowned, was working in an electrical store, while Bharath, 16, was studying in a government-aided school. A fire and rescue team retrieved the bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-five-teenagers-drown-in-dam-near-dindigul/articleshow/81502437.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Vijayawada||13 independents win in Chirala||Chirala: Backed by former YSRC MLA Amanchi Krishnamohan, 13 independents won in Chirala municipality in Prakasam district. Nowhere else have independents won in such big numbers. In the 32-member council, with 19 seats, YSRC is in a comfortable position to clinch chairperson post. Amanchi fielded rebels as the party preferred candidates backed by legislator Karanam Balaram who left TDP to join YSRC. Amanchi had fielded 26 rebels. He did not back down despite district minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy and Rajya Sabha member Vemireddy Prabhakar Reddy’s advice. TDP could win only two wards in Chirala. Curiously, Amanchi was the only independent who won in 2014 assembly polls. Later he joined TDP. In 2019 he contested as YSRC nominee but lost to TDP’s Balaram, who, however, joined YSRC after winning. Since then, Chirala has become a battleground for Balaram and Amanchi within YSRC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/13-independents-win-in-chirala/articleshow/81499374.cms||Samdani MN
March 15, 2021||India||Not stars, but workers, will work to ensure Cong win: G-23’s Sibal||NEW DELHI: Congress MP and member of G -23 Kapil Sibal Sunday said that the dissidents at the recent controversial meeting in Jammu spoke about strengthening the Congress and their objective was not antithetical to that of what the party stands for. While he denied that the leadership’s anger over the Jammu meeting was behind the decision to leave out senior members of the dissident bloc from the ongoing assembly elections’ “star campaigners list“, Sibal, according to media reports, tersely remarked, “We are not stars, we are Congress workers. And the workers will do whatever he can do to ensure that Congress wins… I think that the party has the discretion to decide who are stars and which are the stars who shine and which are the ones who have lost their lustre.” He said the good thing that happened from the G-23 letter to the leadership asking for reforms was that it was decided that elections will be held to the post of the party chief and the CWC. He said it was absurd to attribute personal motives like Parliament term or a Rajya Sabha nomination to the decision of leaders to ask the leadership for reforms. He said while only 23 Congress leaders signed the letter, there are “many many more who agree with us on these issues.” “All that we say is that the state that we are in today, we should work hard and embrace what the Congress stands for,“ Sibal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/not-stars-but-workers-will-work-to-ensure-cong-win-g-23s-sibal/articleshow/81502429.cms||---
March 15, 2021||World||Netherlands halts use of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine||AMSTERDAM: The Netherlands on Sunday joined a fast-growing list of countries suspending use of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine after reports of unexpected possible side effects from the injection. The vaccine will not be used until at least March 29 as a precaution, the Dutch government said in a statement. The announcement will lead to delays in rolling out shots in the Netherlands, which had pre-ordered 12 million doses of AstraZeneca's vaccine. Health authorities had scheduled around 290,000 AstraZeneca injections in the coming two weeks. The move, which follows a similar decision by Ireland earlier in the day, is based on reports from Denmark and Norway of possible serious side effects, the government said. Three health workers in Norway who had recently received the vaccine were being treated in hospital for bleeding, blood clots and a low count of blood platelets, Norwegian health authorities said on Saturday. No such cases had been found yet in the Netherlands, the Dutch Health ministry said, adding there was no proof yet of a direct link between the vaccine and the reports from Denmark and Norway. "We can't allow any doubts about the vaccine," Dutch Health minister Hugo de Jonge said. "We have to make sure everything is right, so it is wise to pause for now." AstraZeneca said on Sunday a review of safety data of people vaccinated with its Covid-19 vaccine has shown no evidence of an increased risk of blood clots. Late last week, the Dutch government said there was no reason to stop using the AstraZeneca vaccine, as the EMA said there was no indication it could cause blood clots. But De Jonge said his decision was informed by new reports, which would now be investigated by the European Medicines Agency (EMA). Along with Denmark, Norway and Ireland, Iceland has also suspended the use of the vaccine over clotting issues, while Thailand became the first country outside of Europe to do so on Friday. Italy's northern region of Piedmont on Sunday said it would stop using a batch of AstraZeneca vaccines after a teacher died following his vaccination on Saturday. Austria also stopped using a particular batch last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/netherlands-halts-use-of-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/81502444.cms||---
---||Business||Rising import of cheap, poor quality tea under lens||Kolkata:India, despite being the world’s second-largest producer of tea with a sizable surplus in its production-consumption ratio, has imported 47% more leaves at 23.4 million kg (mkg) in 2020 against 15.9 mkg in 2019. The country has been witnessing its import bill shoot up every year as some traders and packeters continue buying cheap and low-quality leaves from not-so-famous tea-producing nations, such as Argentina, Indonesia and Vietnam, and, in turn, spoiling the reputation and price discovery of Indian tea. Atul Asthana, MD and CEO, Goodricke Group, told TOI: “Importing poor quality tea spells disaster for the ailing industry. India’s own tea production is increasing at a faster rate than the consumption growth, resulting in a surplus of tea stock. On top of that, import of poor-quality tea is going to further create an imbalance in the supply-demand equation.” Tea Inc has spent Rs 403.2 crore for importing 23.4 mkg tea in 2020, while in 2019, the expense stood at Rs 239.1 crore for 15.9 mkg. Tea buys from Vietnam, Indonesia and Nepal have almost doubled in 2020 against that of 2019, according to the latest Tea Board data. “We have to find out the real reason behind the import of such low-priced and substandard tea. It is a pity that a giant and renowned tea producer like India is buying the morning cuppa from countries like Kenya (6.9mkg in 2020), Vietnam (1.6mkg), Indonesia (0.84mkg) and Argentina (0.6mkg). Questions of proper quality check as per FSSAI norms and detection of ‘country of origin’ arise here,” said Sujit Patra, secretary, Indian Tea Association (ITA), the premier planters’ body. Industry experts are sceptical of the fact that not all batches of the imported leaves are re-exported, and seldom any duty is paid for the ‘retained’ tea. In a letter to the Tea Board and the ministry of commerce and industry, the Indian Tea Exporters’ Association (ITEA) had drawn the government’s attention to the increase in duty-free tea imports, which are only meant for re-export. ITEA has demanded spot checks on use of tea imports and invoices. “While some tea imports from cheap tea-producing nations are genuinely used for blending and re-export as 'multi-origin tea', a portion of the duty-free imports is being offloaded in the Indian market or being re-exported as ‘Indian’ or ‘Assam’ tea, taking advantage of evading the 100% usual import duty on tea. This is nothing but a form of adulteration. It spoils true price discovery and the image of Indian tea,” pointed out Anshuman Kanoria, chairman, ITEA. Industry sources said that some exporters have been claiming and receiving MEIS subsidy from the government also on re-export of imported tea although this is not allowed as per the Foreign Trade Policy (FTP). According to the ITA secretary,50% value addition norm for re-export is too less for low-priced imported teas and it should be minimum 100% to make the level-playing field vis-a-vis indigenous tea. ITEA has sought proper vigil on the use of imported leaves in India and initiate an investigation into possible violations in re-export of the duty-free imported leaves. “All genuine exporters are being driven out of markets by such importers, some of whom may also be fudging books to dump duty-free imports into the Indian market by evading duty, resulting in a huge loss to the exchequer,” added Kanoria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rising-import-of-cheap-poor-quality-tea-under-lens/articleshow/81500401.cms||Sovon Manna
March 15, 2021||Business||FinTech edu startup eyes investor training||Kolkata: MarginValue, a FinTech Edu startup company is helping people become better investors and financial professionals. Bikram Gupta, founder of MarginValue, said, “We have to be very careful about how we go about investing. It is not as easy as it seems to be. One may permanently lose capital or may get very poor returns for years.” According to him, the recent phenomenal V-shape recovery in the indices has further sharpened the interest in the markets. However, the new participants may be indulging in risky investing behaviour, risking their capital for quick gains in the market and compounding the economic woes. Over 8,400 people have visited the MarginValue site and the page view count is at 50,000. Bharath Kamma, who is part of MarginValue’, said: “Learn to Earn is an epitome for perpetual growth of any individual and MarginValue focuses on this through laying out a solid foundation for understanding how to go about analysing and valuing companies. With us, the students, investors, professionals, and companies get an opportunity to experience how to go about investing with a margin of safety.” In our country, most of the engineering graduates enter the job market with hardly any financial knowledge, resulting in either “fear of losing capital” or “making uncalculated risks” when they invest in stocks, Kamma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fintech-edu-startup-eyes-investor-training/articleshow/81500412.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Business||Rlys posts record freight biz||Kolkata: Railways has achieved the highest ever freight loading, surpassing last year’s cumulative figures even before the end of the Covid-affected financial year. A release from the ministry revealed that railways clocked freight loading of 1145.7 million tonne (MT), which is higher as compared to last year’s cumulative loading of 1145.6 MT. Month-on-month and daily figures are also higher than last year’s. In March this year, loading was 43.4 MT, which is 10% higher than last year’s loading (39.3 MT) for the same period. On day-to-day basis, on Thursday, freight loading was 4 MT, which is 34% higher compared to the same date last year (3 MT). The average speed of freight trains till Thursday was 45.5 kmph, which is almost double against last year’s 23.3 kmph for the same period. “Railways has offered concessions to make the freight movement attractive. Strong emergence of business development units in zones and divisions, constant dialogue with the industry and logistics service providers, and faster speed are adding to the robust growth of freight business,” the statement said. Railways has used the pandemic as an opportunity to improve all-round performances. Extra-ordinary freight recovery is a big indicator of economic upswing, officials in the railways said. The achievement in the freight loading segment comes at a time when the railways’ passenger segment is still recovering from the Covid-19 blow due to which its services were completely suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rlys-posts-record-freight-biz/articleshow/81500449.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
---||India||The 'Seven Legends' of 1971 war course: When passed-out officers turned martyrs in 9 months||NEW DELHI: Exactly 50 years ago, on March 14, 1971, 338 newly inducted officers from the famous “1971 War Course” graduated from the Officers Training School (now OTA) in Madras. They were soon rushed to the eastern and western frontiers to prepare for the imminent war against Pakistan. Less than nine months later, seven of them laid down their lives for the country. On Sunday, several members of the 1971 batch, led by Major General C D Sawant (retired), gathered to commemorate the golden jubilee of the commissioning of the officers from SS(NT)-10 and Tech-2 course in Delhi and paid homage to the “Seven Legends” who sacrificed their lives in the war. Before placing a wreath at the National War Memorial, Maj Gen Sawant said, addressing the families of the martyrs, “We were fortunate to fight in the 1971 war. It was the greatest victory of any nation wherein a new nation, Bangladesh, was created and we captured 93,000 prisoners of war (the largest-ever surrender since WWII).” According to a report, an estimated 3 lakh people lost their lives in the 1971 Indo-Pak war. Of the remaining members of the 1971 batch, 222 went on to get permanent commission. Six rose to the rank of Major General, 18 became Brigadiers and 60 Colonels. Many of them won several Army medals and honours for bravery, exemplary courage and dynamic leadership.“When we passed out from the OTS in March 1971, we were inducted into short-term courses meant for officers. That time the war with Pakistan looked imminent. So in September, we got the instruction to leave the course and join operational areas,” Brig R S Parmar (Retd) told TOI. Other members of the “Tenacious Tenners”, as the No. 10 batch is popularly known, also paid tributes to the “seven comrades-in-arms” in Chandigarh, Aizawl, Pune, Secunderabad and at OTA Chennai. They also remembered 67 other batchmates who have since passed away. The “Seven Legends” were Second Lt Bharat Singh Kasana (9 Dogra), 2nd Lt Dharampal Yadava (14 Kumaon), 2nd Lt S M Sabharwal (Regiment of Artillery), 2nd Lt Vikram Burn Appalswamy (164 Field Regiment), 2nd Lt S M Viney Kaul (165 Field Regiment), 2nd Lt Girija Shankar Nair (13 Guards) and 2nd Lt K M Mandanna (9 Engr Regiment). A few of them were blown away in enemy mine blasts and artillery fire, and their bodies never recovered, while the whereabouts of some others were never known. It is said that 2nd Lt Sabharwal from 18 Punjab captured three Pakistani posts in the Kargil sector. The officer, his radio operator and 18 men of his battalion went missing while attacking Point 4910. “My elder brother, then 22, captured a point in Kargil at night. But the next morning, Pakistan countered with a heavy force. It is said Sabharwal’s gun jammed. He and his men were either killed or made PoWs. There were some foreign reports about him languishing in a Pakistan jail. Till date, we do not know anything for sure,” Sabharwal’s brother Satish, along with his sibling Vinod, told TOI. 2nd Lt Dharampal destroyed several enemy bunkers on the eastern front. He was shot in the head while attacking an enemy bunker. "When my father Dharampal ji laid down his life, I was four years old and my sister was just two years old. We feel privileged that the government still remembers the sacrifices of my father and his colleagues and invited us on this occasion. My sister Suvida Yadav, who is an ex-sarpanch and even went to Pakistan as a peace ambassador, and I always try to follow the right path that our father had shown to us," says Dharampal's son Devender Kumar. Bharat Singh Kasana, who received the Vir Chakra (posthumously), launched an attack on a well-entrenched enemy locality at Suadih, then East Pakistan. They captured the terrain but Kasana and his men died in the fighting. “Viney Kaul was the topper of his class and a silver gunner. A very decorated officer. He made the supreme sacrifice in Jalalabad at such a young age of 21. It's a great feeling and we feel so honoured that his class, the Army and the nation still remember him,” his niece, who came for the event, said. His coursemate, former Army officer V K Sharma said that Viney and his radio operator died in the enemy's artillery shelling. Lt Col S J M Jafri (retd), who was injured while retrieving anti-personnel mines laid by Pakistan, said, “The war lasted 13 days in December. But many lost their lives in operations before the war started and after the ceasefire was announced. When the ceasefire was declared on December 16, Pakistanis handed over the captured land to us but they did not tell us exact locations of the mines laid by them. Several of our jawans died later in mine-retrieving operations.” While Major Gaonkar G R (retd) won a sena medal for winning the Battle of Dhamdaha, his batchmate Major Vishwambhar Singh (retd) participated in the Battle of Dera Baba Nanak in which several Pakistanis were killed. The Indian Army even conducted several amphibious operations to capture the Pakistani troops. Col Dhirendra Gupta (retd), whose team captured Jessore, told TOI, “A special Romeo force was set up with the help of the Indian Navy. It’s objective was to capture the enemy running from Cox's Bazar and Chittagong. We sailed on a civilian cargo ship called ‘Vishwa Vijay’ from Diamond Harbour in Kolkata to Chittagong in Bangladesh to block the fleeing Pakistani troops. We captured around 10,000 enemy troops and brought the PoWs back to Kolkata by the same ship.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/the-seven-legends-of-1971-war-course-when-passed-out-officers-turned-martyrs-in-9-months/articleshow/81502456.cms||Surendra Singh
March 15, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu elections: AIADMK manifesto promises free houses & govt jobs for all||The ruling AIADMK on Sunday dangled several free offers, from houses to washing machines, and loan waivers, if voted back to power. The party manifesto was released by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam at the party headquarters in Chennai on Sunday evening. The BJP ally said it would urge the Centre to scrap the Citizenship Amendment Act and strive to bring education to the state list from the concurrent list of the Constitution. It also promised door-delivery of PDS goods and 2 GB free data for college students throughout the year. The AIADMK and its rival DMK have been competing with each other to offer welfare schemes, jobs and free housing. The DMK manifesto, released on Saturday, was replete with sops, targeting women and youth. According to the final electoral roll, female voters are marginally higher at 3.18 crore against 3.08 crore male voters. Trying to match the DMK, the AIADMK reiterated its plan to pay ₹1,500 for housewives every month and deliver six LPG domestic cylinders free of cost. It also offered 50% concession in bus fares for women travelling in town buses. The party had announced this on International Women’s Day. Leading the slew of freebies offered by the AIADMK was the Amma Housing scheme, which will provide free houses to the homeless. While in the rural areas, the government will buy housing sites and build concrete houses for free, in urban areas it will construct residential apartments for the homeless on government land. It has promised a government job to at least one member of every household. The DMK had promised 75% jobs to Tamils in the state. Promising free washing machines and solar stoves for all BPL families, the AIADMK has offered free cable TV service to all households. “People have largely benefited from this government. While those affected by natural disasters have been compensated, ‘kudimaramathu’ work to cleanse waterways helped save every drop of water,” Palaniswami told reporters. Farmers will be paid ₹7,500 a year as sustenance allowance. Fixing MSPs for cash crops, subsidized loan to buy farm equipment have been promised. The party, which has already waived crop loans, offered to clear education loans of students, a promise made by the DMK too. It said 2GB free data will be given to students throughout the year. “The socially-deprived people, who continue to struggle to make both ends meet, have to be taken care of by the government by offering such gadgets to socially elevate them. Unfortunately, washing machines need running water and offering them free in a state where piped water supply remains a dream for a large majority of households, seems a bit of an aberration,” an AIADMK insider, who did not want to be named, told TOI. “Waiving of education loans was roughly estimated to be around ₹4,000 crore ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections,” another source in the ruling party said. But a senior DMK leader had estimated that the “education loan” waiver would cost the exchequer around ₹10,000 crore. The AIADMK has also promised to lower petrol and diesel prices and has offered to shut Tasmac liquor outlets in a phased manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-elections-aiadmk-plays-freebie-card-to-retain-power/articleshow/81502473.cms||D Govardan
---||---||Tamil Nadu elections: AIADMK manifesto promises free houses & govt jobs for all||The ruling AIADMK on Sunday dangled several free offers, from houses to washing machines, and loan waivers, if voted back to power. The party manifesto was released by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam at the party headquarters in Chennai on Sunday evening. The BJP ally said it would urge the Centre to scrap the Citizenship Amendment Act and strive to bring education to the state list from the concurrent list of the Constitution. It also promised door-delivery of PDS goods and 2 GB free data for college students throughout the year. The AIADMK and its rival DMK have been competing with each other to offer welfare schemes, jobs and free housing. The DMK manifesto, released on Saturday, was replete with sops, targeting women and youth. According to the final electoral roll, female voters are marginally higher at 3.18 crore against 3.08 crore male voters. Trying to match the DMK, the AIADMK reiterated its plan to pay ₹1,500 for housewives every month and deliver six LPG domestic cylinders free of cost. It also offered 50% concession in bus fares for women travelling in town buses. The party had announced this on International Women’s Day. Leading the slew of freebies offered by the AIADMK was the Amma Housing scheme, which will provide free houses to the homeless. While in the rural areas, the government will buy housing sites and build concrete houses for free, in urban areas it will construct residential apartments for the homeless on government land. It has promised a government job to at least one member of every household. The DMK had promised 75% jobs to Tamils in the state. Promising free washing machines and solar stoves for all BPL families, the AIADMK has offered free cable TV service to all households. “People have largely benefited from this government. While those affected by natural disasters have been compensated, ‘kudimaramathu’ work to cleanse waterways helped save every drop of water,” Palaniswami told reporters. Farmers will be paid ₹7,500 a year as sustenance allowance. Fixing MSPs for cash crops, subsidized loan to buy farm equipment have been promised. The party, which has already waived crop loans, offered to clear education loans of students, a promise made by the DMK too. It said 2GB free data will be given to students throughout the year. “The socially-deprived people, who continue to struggle to make both ends meet, have to be taken care of by the government by offering such gadgets to socially elevate them. Unfortunately, washing machines need running water and offering them free in a state where piped water supply remains a dream for a large majority of households, seems a bit of an aberration,” an AIADMK insider, who did not want to be named, told TOI. “Waiving of education loans was roughly estimated to be around ₹4,000 crore ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections,” another source in the ruling party said. But a senior DMK leader had estimated that the “education loan” waiver would cost the exchequer around ₹10,000 crore. The AIADMK has also promised to lower petrol and diesel prices and has offered to shut Tasmac liquor outlets in a phased manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/tamil-nadu-elections-aiadmk-plays-freebie-card-to-retain-power/articleshow/81502465.cms||D Govardan
March 15, 2021||Vadodara||‘Buy our gift cards or face money laundering cases||Vadodara: The special operations group (SOG) busted an international cyber fraud and arrested 13 persons including three who were operating a call centre from the city on Sunday. Cops have also seized cash and gadgets worth Rs 6.42 lakh from the gang that defrauded unsuspecting victims in the United States. According to the police, Jayesh alias Mike Hargunani is the mastermind of the crime that was executed from a residential apartment in Harni. The police said that Jayesh had launched an organization called Social Security Administration to run his clandestine operation. “He and his gang used to call American citizens and dupe them claiming that their name has cropped up in a drug or money laundering racket. When the scared victims asked for a way out, the gang used to ask them to buy gift cards towards the fee,” police said. The victims used to buy gift cards worth $100-500 online and give serial number as well as PIN to the gang. The accused used to get the money converted to Indian rupees and later brought the amount to India via angadia. The police said that the racket was operational for past 20 days. “We had received a tip-off that a call centre was being run from the first floor of a residential apartment in Harni following which we raided the spot,” a SOG official said. The accused have been identified as Jayesh Hargunani, Ishwar Hargunani, Kamlesh Hargunani, residents of Vadodara. Besides the Hargunanis, five from NE included Anoop Kumar Bhattacharya and Minku Kumar Bhattacharya from Assam; and Vinod Sangpaliyang, Manish Kshetri, Kamal Kshetri all from Mehgalaya. The gang also had two persons from Jharkhand, Ranjit Sinha and Prakash Sinha, besides Nitinsinh Bohra from Uttarakhand, Avinash Verma from Uttar Pradesh and Sonu Pandey of Ahmedabad. “We are also trying to ascertain if they are accused in similar crimes,” cops added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/buy-our-gift-cards-or-face-money-laundering-cases/articleshow/81498481.cms||---
---||Ranchi||Ranchi div awaits orders as suspense over regularisation of train continues||Ranchi: The Ranchi railway division is awaiting instructions from the South Eastern Railways (SER) over the resumption of express and passenger trains originating from its jurisdiction. Although speculations are abound over a possible resumption of normal railway services from April 1, the division is yet to get a formal communiqué in this regard. At present, there are 40 pairs of express and passenger trains which are operating out of the division. These trains, however, are being run as special trains and festival trains, which has resulted in a spike in prices of tickets across all classes by at least 1.3 times. The spike in prices has led to dissatisfaction among passengers, who are being forced to shell out extra money. In pre-Covid times, as many as 66 pairs of express and passenger trains were operated by the division. However, sources in the division said the Railway Board has asked the officials to prep up at least two-long distance trains for their resumption from April. One of them is Ranchi-Anand Vihar Sampark Kranti Express and the other is Hatia-Ernakulam Dharti Aba Express. “There has been no instruction, as of now, for resuming regular long-distance trains to Maharashtra and Karnataka,” a senior official told TOI on the condition of anonymity. While the division has been asked to prep up a couple of trains, the recent announcement by SER of extending the operations of six pairs of special trains till the end of June has triggered speculations. In a press statement issued last week, the SER extended the operation of Hatia-Yeshwantpur special, Hatia-LTT special, Hatia-Purnia Court special, Tatanagar-Howrah special, Hatia-Islampur special, and Ranchi-Howrah special trains till the end of June. While chief public relations officer of Ranchi division Niraj Kumar refused to comment when contacted, Jharkhand Passenger Association general secretary Prem Kataruka said: “At a time when people are struggling with the economic woes caused by Covid-19 and the prolonged lockdown, what is the logic behind running special trains where passengers are being charged anywhere between 25%-50% higher than the actual price of tickets? The special trains should be suspended at once and regular express trains should be resumed to provide relief to the passengers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-div-awaits-orders-as-suspense-over-regularisation-of-train-continues/articleshow/81498947.cms||Dhritiman Ray
March 15, 2021||Kolkata||On martyrs’ day, TMC and BJP spar over Nandigram||Nandigram: Politics took centre stage on Nandigram martyrs’ day, with Trinamool Congress and BJP trying to point the finger at the other. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee in a statement on Sunday said: “As a mark of respect and encouraged by my brothers and sisters of Nandigram, I am contesting the Bengal polls as a Trinamool Congress candidate from this historic place. It is my great honour to be here and work along with members of Shaheed families against anti-Bengal forces.” Banerjee further said: “On this day, in 2007, innocent villagers were killed in firing at Nandigram. Many bodies could not be found. It was a dark chapter in the history of the state. Heartfelt tribute to all those who lost their lives.” “In memory of those who lost their lives in Nandigram, we observe March 14 as Krishak Dibas every year and give away the Krishak Ratna awards. Farmers are our pride and our government is working for their all-round development,” she added. Banerjee, who tries to visit Nandigram on this occasion every year, sent senior leaders to pay respects to the martyrs. In Nandigram, 100-odd protesters gathered at Sahid Bedi in Sonachura, where BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari too was trying to pay his respects. Trinamool leader Khokon Sheet, one of the prominent faces of the Nandigram movement, led the protesters. He said: “Suvendu has no right to come here. Locals have donated land and money for this Bedi. He should not do politics with those who gave their lives.” Police later pushed back the protesters to allow Suvendu to enter the zone. Trinamool’s Abu Sufian said: “People were agitated because of Suvendu’s repeated false claims and attacks on the party leader.” Suvendu attacked Trinamool on its Nandigram claims. “I have been coming here every year since 2008 to pay tribute to the sacrifices made by people of Nandigram,” he said. “It is ironic that those who have given promotions to police officers responsible for the Nandigram massacre, are now observing Nandigram Divas.,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/on-martyrs-day-tmc-and-bjp-spar-over-nandigram/articleshow/81501017.cms||Suman Mandal
March 15, 2021||Ranchi||CM asks officials to arrange livelihood for man who walked on foot from Delhi to Sahibganj||Ranchi: A day after 54-year-old Berjom Bamda Pahadiya arrived home at Amarbitha in Sahibganj district after walking 1,200 km on foot from Delhi for seven months since August, chief minister Hemant Soren on Sunday directed the district administration to connect him and his family members with MNREGA and other livelihood schemes to ensure they don’t go hungry. Moved by his struggle to return home after losing his job and money during the Covid-19-induced lockdown last year, Hemant asked Jharkhand State Livelihood Mission Society to explore livelihood opportunities. Meanwhile, Sahibganj deputy commissioner Ramniwas Yadav wasn’t available for comments. Reportedly, Pahadiya had gone to Delhi for a job with the help of an agent last year. However, he got duped there and was robbed of his belongings and cash in Delhi. Without money, he was forced to travel back home walking along the rail tracks. On March 11, he was spotted by a local NGO upon reaching Dhanbad, who later arranged for a bus for his travel. He reached home on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cm-asks-officials-to-arrange-livelihood-for-man-who-walked-on-foot-from-delhi-to-sahibganj/articleshow/81498965.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 15, 2021||Kolkata||Wheelchair-bound CM back on campaign trail||Kolkata: “Always remember, a wounded tiger is more dangerous”. These words playing on her lips, chief minister Mamata Banerjee was back on the election trail on Sunday, travelling 5.4km in a rally in the city in a wheelchair, her plastered left leg on a raised footrest, less than 48 hours since being discharged from hospital. The chief minister made it clear what her priority was. “I am in a lot of pain,” she said. “But the responsibility of protecting democracy is far more important. The sight of democracy being trampled on is unbearable. I will move around the whole of Bengal with my injured leg, sitting on a wheelchair; khela hobe (the game is on),” she told the gathering at the Hazra crossing in south Kolkata, sitting on a wheelchair-friendly dais. Banerjee asked supporters gathered there — the majority of whom were local youth leaders and college students — to maintain peace and show restraint. “The Hazra crossing is a place of historic significance for me,” she said, adding, “This is the place where I suffered a life-threatening attack (in August 1990, during a Congress-called strike, where she received two blows on her head and had to be administered 16 stitches), and this is also the place that has given me my life back,” leaving the dais for a helicopter ride to Durgapur. “I have faced a number of assaults and attacks throughout my life. But I never bow my head. In the last few days, whenever someone has asked me if I was in pain, I have said the pain is there but if I stay on bed rest, who will reach out to the people of Bengal? That would have meant success for the conspirators,” she said on top of the 20ft x 10ft dais, which was made accessible for her through a 21ft ramp. Speaking about her temporary inconvenience, the CM said that she was a person who could easily walk “20-25 kilometres”. “When I walk, my mind also becomes active. When my legs don’t move, it seems like there are dark spots across my mind and body. But I don’t care,” she emphasised. She also shared her medical update. She said doctors had advised her 15 days’ bed rest, which she refused. “The doctors have plastered my leg and I need to see them again after seven days, while a team of doctors will stay with me.” The day began with Banerjee making a surprise appearance at a Mayo Road party meeting, which was initially supposed to be led by her nephew and Diamond Harbour MP, Abhishek Banerjee. Senior leaders and party supporters were supposed to march from the crossing to the Hazra Road connector. Minutes before the start of the rally, Abhishek announced that the CM had decided to attend the entire rally as well. “It would be foolish to even think that injuring Mamata Banerjee can make Trinamool Congress go on the back foot. Bhanga paae lorai hobe, bhanga paaei juddho hobe, bhanga paaei jeta hobe, bhanga paaei abar Nabanna dokhol hobe. (She will fight with an injured leg, go to war on a broken leg, win with a broken leg and conquer Nabanna again on a broken leg),” said Abhishek before announcing the CM’s arrival. The CM reached the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road around 1.45pm and placed a garland beside Mahatma Gandhi’s statue before she kicked off the rally, leading from the front in her wheelchair. Attended by several senior Trinamool leaders, the rally began at 1.55pm as it took the JL Nehru Road-Asutosh Mukherjee Road route to head for the venue. The rally took more than an hour to cross the 5.4km stretch, which Banerjee, with her usual speed, covers in around 30 minutes, with the CM occasionally waving at supporters and curious onlookers who had gathered on both sides of the road, mostl of them taking pictures on their cellphones. “This is perhaps the slowest rally she has ever been part of. I remember, prior to the Lok Sabha election in 2014, she had led a rally from Jadavpur to Rajabazar, covering more than 12km in a little more than an hour. Several senior leaders had run out of breath and had left the rally midway, but she was undaunted. This rally was uncharacteristic when you compare the speed, but holds a far stronger message about her indomitable spirit,” said a senior party member who participated in Sunday’s rally. Traffic on both flanks were suspended during the entire period, with occasional restrictions on vehicular movement on Park Street and AJC Bose Road flyovers when the rally was passing underneath. Cops had also cordoned off the entire stretch of the rally with ropes, and uniformed policemen were there to ensure security. As party supporters armed with flags, conch shells and flower petals lined up the road, party leaders like Aroop Biswas, Abhishek Banerjee and Firhad Hakim took turns to push the CM’s wheelchair alongside her security guards and family members who, too, participated. “This is a historic rally and I am proud to be part of it,” said Biswas, rushing to the venue to check whether the ramp and other preparations for wheelchair access were in place. At Durgapur, where she reached at 4.30pm, she participated in another wheelchair-bound roadshow from Gandhi More to City Centre, a 300-metre stretch that took her 10 minutes. Asansol north candidate Malay Ghatak and Durgapur west candidate Biswanath Parial walked beside her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wheelchair-bound-cm-back-on-campaign-trail/articleshow/81501348.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
March 15, 2021||Kolkata||4 MPs, 8 defectors pack BJP’s 3rd & 4th-phase list||Kolkata: Junior Union minister Babul Supriyo, former state minister Rajib Banerjee, Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta and economist Ashok Lahiri figure in the list of 63 candidates the BJP has announced — 27 for the third phase (April 6) and 36 for the fourth phase (April 10) of the polls — of a total of 75 seats spread over parts of the city’s fringes, Coochbehar, Alipurduar, Howrah, Hooghly and South 24 Parganas. BJP national general secretary Arun Singh released the list on Sunday following a meeting of the party’s central election committee (CEC) on Saturday, attended by PM Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh. Supriyo, the BJP’s MP from Asansol, is among the four MPs the party has fielded as candidates in the assembly polls. He is contesting from Tollygunge, Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee from Chinsurah, Coochbehar MP Nisith Pramanik from Dinhata, and Rajya member Swapan Dasgupta from Hooghly’s Tarakeswar. Former ministers in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet Rajib Banerjee and 88-year-old Rabindranath Bhattacharya (popularly known as ‘Mastermoshai’) are contesting from Howrah’s Domjur and Hooghly’s Singur seats, respectively. Other than the two, the BJP’s list has a few more turncoats: Dipak Haldar (formerly TMC) from Diamond Harbour, Rinku Naskar (formerly CPM) from Jadavpur, Prabir Ghoshal (formerly TMC) from Uttarpara, Biswanath Karak (formerly Forward Bloc) from Goghat, Manoj Oraon (formerly RSP) from Kumargram and Dilip Singh (formerly a Trinamool-backed trade union leader) from Champdani. BJP has fielded former chief economic advisor to the government of India, Ashok Lahiri, from the Alipurduar assembly constituency. A Presidency College alumnus, Lahiri served as executive director at the Asian Development Bank and also as director of the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. The party has fielded columnist Rantideb Sengupta from Dakshin Howrah. Like in the Trinamool list, the BJP list scores fairly high in star power: actor Yash Dasgupta will be taking on Trinamool and CPM from Hooghly’s Chanditala; actor Payal Sarkar is the BJP candidate from Behala East, Tanushree Chakraborty will contest from Howrah’s Shyampur and Anjana Basu from Sonarpur South. Two professionals, other than Ashok Lahiri and Rantideb Sengupta, have made it to the list. Advocate Kabir Shankar Bose is the BJP candidate from Serampore and oncologist Indranil Khan is the party’s nominee for the Kasba assembly seat. BJP organisers have also made it to the list: Sushil Barman from Mathabhanga, Biman Ghosh from Pursura. BJP Howrah South candidate, Rantideb Sengupta, was initially reluctant to contest but later changed his mind at the request of the party’s state leadership. “I will start my campaign from tomorrow,” Sengupta said. There was resentment in Singur over BJP’s fielding Bhattacharya, the former Trinamool minister, who switched loyalties along with his son only a few days ago. BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said: “There is resentment in the party ranks. We understand the sentiments of the BJP workers who have been fighting the Trinamool in Singur. But this is a temporary phenomenon,” Basu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-mps-8-defectors-pack-bjps-3rd-4th-phase-list/articleshow/81501532.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Ranchi||2 localities in Palamu village push each other to sign up for vax||Daltonganj: For vaccinators at Bansdeeh village’s upgraded health sub-centre in Nilamber Pitamberpur block (formerly Lesliganj) of Palamu district, the target of inoculating 200 beneficiaries with Covid vaccine was supposed to be a cakewalk. However, the recent death of a 68-year-old woman, who had taken the shot a few days ago, has led the people hailing from two otherwise peacefully co-existing tolas (hamlets) to push each other to first sign up for the vaccination. The tussle has led to only 10 persons taking the vaccine shots. The population of 5,000 in this village is divided between a Koeri tola and a Scheduled Caste tola. Vaccinators say, despite attempts, people of the two hamlets are dragging their feet in fear. Elaborating on the issue, ANM Sudha Kumari, said, “The old woman who died hailed from the Scheduled Caste hamlet. She had several ailments and her death cannot be linked to the vaccination, but the people here are unwilling after the incident.” Sudha and her colleague Sonam have been reaching out to the people of both the hamlets but with little success. To allay fears, Palamu civil surgeon John F Kennedy visited the village on Saturday and spoke to several people. After his visit, Kennedy said, “The problem is peculiar and I had come here to speak to the people. I hope they will soon sign up for the vaccination and have asked Sudha and Sonam to convince them and speak to them about the benefits of being inoculated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-localities-in-palamu-village-push-each-other-to-sign-up-for-vax/articleshow/81498958.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee injury: EC suspends security director & SP, shunts DM over ‘lapses’||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission on Sunday ordered the removal and suspension of West Bengal director of security Vivek Sahay and Midnapore East SP Praween Prakash, and transferred district magistrate Vibhu Goel for poor police bandobast last week, when CM Mamata Banerjee received injuries during campaigning in Nandigram, even as the reports by special observers Ajay V Nayak and Vivek Dube said there were no significant pointers to suggest a premeditated or planned attack on Banerjee. The special observers’ report said that as an investigation was ongoing, it would be premature to come to any further conclusions regarding the incident. They also cited the Nandigram returning officer’s inputs that didn’t mention any attack on the convoy or the CM. The EC’s actions on Sunday followed reports on the Nandigram incident received from the Bengal chief secretary and its special poll observers that pointed to non-adherence of laid-down security protocols for ‘Z-plus protectee’ Banerjee. Smita Pandey will be the new DM and Sunil Kumar Yadav will be the new police chief of East Midnapore. The EC has asked charges to be framed against Prakash for “major failure of bandobast” and has also taken a serious view of Sahay “grossly failing in discharge of his primary duty as director security to protect the Z-plus protectee”. It further asked the CS, in consultation with the DGP, to post a successor to Sahay, against whom charges are to be framed in a week. The observers said there was lack of coordination between security arrangements by the police headquarters and the local SP due to frequent changes to the chief minister’s tour programme; no approval was taken from the returning officer for the place where the incident happened; and that there was blatant disregard of security protocols. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, in his report to the EC, said the presence of police force at the incident spot was not adequate given the stature of the protectee, and that deployment of additional police personnel could have averted the incident. He, however, maintained that all Z-plus protocols were followed. The officer also pointed to the lack of overall coordination between the directorate of security and the local/district police for the chief minister’s visit. While underlining that the district administration had overall responsibility for providing foolproof security arrangements for Banerjee’s visit, the special observers said the district police were required to provide a strong route bandobast for the VVIP’s travel, especially when they posted a contingent of 18 police personnel at the nearby temple for the CM’s expected visit. Among other decisions was the constitution of a committee of the chief secretary and the DGP to identify within three days the other proximate security personnel below director security, “who failed in their duties to prevent the incident and protect the Z+ protectee VVIP and take suitable action”. The chief secretary was asked by the poll panel to ensure that investigation of the police case relating to the Nandigram incident was completed and action taken as per law in the next 15 days. It sought a report by March 31. The EC also wrote to all chief electoral officers, reiterating its instructions seeking strict compliance of security protocols by ‘star campaigners’ as per their category of protection. The EC has also appointed ex-IPS officer and former DGP (intelligence) of Punjab, Anil Kumar Sharma, as the second special police observer in Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-injury-ec-suspends-security-dir-sp-shunts-dm-over-lapses/articleshow/81501317.cms||Bharti Jain
March 15, 2021||Ranchi||Youth stabbed by unidentified miscreants in Jamshedpur||JAMSHEDPUR: A youth in his early twenties was stabbed in broad daylight by unidentified criminals on Sunday. The victim, identified as Md Shamim and a resident of Dhatkidih under Bistupur police station, sustained serious injuries and is undergoing treatment at the Tata Main Hospital here. Shamim elder sister said a few youths, who were loitering near their house since early morning, called out her brother. Her family was later informed that Shamim was stabbed and rushed to the hospital. The victim is a Class VI dropout and fell and into bad company. He often took up odd jobs and the reason for the attack is not known, Shamim's family members said. Police said the perpetrators would be arrested soon and they are waiting for Shamim to recover to get his statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/youth-stabbed-by-unidentified-miscreants-in-steel-city/articleshow/81498894.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
March 15, 2021||Ranchi||Nursing institute shut, probe ordered into sexual harassment of students||RANCHI: A day after the director of a nursing institute was arrested for sexually harassing over a dozen nursing students of his institute, Khunti district administration sealed the institute and started a high-level probe into the incident. Meanwhile, accused Parvez Alam has been sent to a jail on Sunday morning after he was arrested late on Saturday evening. Khunti SP Ashutosh Shekhar said, “The accused was arrested on Saturday evening and has been transferred to Jail. A case under Sections 354, 354A and 509 of the IPC has been registered against him at Khunti police station.” Talking to TOI, Khunti deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan said, “Khunti SP and I had visited the nursing institute campus today (Sunday) and ordered an inquiry by a team of three senior officials led by Khunti assistant collector Arvind Kumar. The inquiry has been ordered on the basis of the findings of a preliminary report submitted by a probe team led by a BDO rank official who visited the campus after the incident came to light.” On being asked whether the nursing institute has proper affiliation and the said NGO has been allowed by competent authority to run a training institute, Ranjan said, “We are conducting an inquiry on all aspects and once it is completed, proper action will be taken if any norms are found to have been violated.” Meanwhile, sources in Khunti confirmed that the nursing institute being run by Hora, the NGO, has ten persons as its members and only two teachers. The accused, who is the director of the nursing training institute, also happens to be the treasurer of the NGO. Notably, the Khunti district administration has constituted a three-member committee led by Khunti BDO Sabita Singh after 15 students of the nursing institute had alleged that Parvez had sexually harassed them on the pretext of a test. Meanwhile, four victims registered their statements before a magistrate under Section 164 CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nursing-institute-shut-probe-ordered-into-sexual-harassment-of-students/articleshow/81498907.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 15, 2021||Kolkata||Denied choice of seats, Sovan & Baisakhi quit BJP||Kolkata: Minutes after he got a call from a senior BJP leader asking him to contest from Behala West and being informed that Baisakhi Banerjee will not make it to any candidate list, Sovan Chatterjee and Banerjee resigned from the party on Sunday evening and “dissociated” themselves from it. Senior party leaders have reached out to both to “reconsider their decision”, but both “refused to give in”, till reports last came in. Banerjee later told TOI that not giving Chatterjee his choice of seat (Behala East) was like “defeating him even before he contests”. Chatterjee, a former minister and city mayor, e-mailed Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. Chatterjee, in an e-mail to Dilip Ghosh, said: “I got a call from honourable Shiv Prakash ji who told me that the party has decided to give me ticket from Behala West and also not to give Baisakhi Banerjee, co-convener, Kolkata Zone, any ticket from anywhere.” Chatterjee wrote he was “extremely humiliated and pained to accept this decision”, adding, the “party’s decision not to give me a nomination from Behala East is a moral defeat for me and I have never compromised with my principles.” BJP has nominated actor Payal Sarkar, a political debutant, to contest from Behala East against TMC candidate Ratna Chatterjee, who is Chatterjee’s estranged wife. No immediate reaction was available from the Bengal BJP. Chatterjee said that he had always told party seniors that “Baisakhi and I have contributed jointly.... But you have decided to overlook her contribution and have decided not to give her an opportunity to contest polls. I tender my protest against that also.” Banerjee, in a separate e-mail to Ghosh, cited the party’s decision to “overlook the contribution” of Chatterjee. “I feel it is essential to tender my protest against such unilateral decision not to grant him ticket from Behala East, an area where every house bears testimony to the developmental work,” she wrote. Speaking to TOI, Banerjee said: “We have sent a letter to Dilip Ghosh, Amitava Chakraborty (Bengal BJP’s general secretary, organisation), Shiv Prakash (BJP’s national joint general secretary, organisation) and Arvind Menon (BJP national secretary). Menon ji called him (Chatterjee) later asking him to reconsider the decision, but Sovan has decided not to give in,” adding, “We resigned from the primary membership of the party. Honestly, we did not join BJP to face the same thing we had seen in Trinamool then.” According to sources close to Sovan and Baisakhi, both felt that “Baisakhi is much more competent that many other women that are getting nomination.” The source also said that the duo was “trying to clean up the party in South 24 Parganas. There were complaints against some (leaders), which both probed and shared inputs with the leadership.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/denied-choice-of-seats-sovan-baisakhi-quit-bjp/articleshow/81501484.cms||Rohit Khanna
March 15, 2021||Kolkata||Kisan Morcha urges protest ‘icon’ Singur to reject BJP||Kolkata/Singur: More than a decade after they fought together in Singur, the epicentre of the farmers’ movement in Bengal during the Left Front tenure, leaders and activists scattered in different camps are now raising the pitch against one another. On Sunday, BJP fielded Rabindranath Bhattacharya against TMC’s Becharam Manna from Singur. Soon after, activist Medha Patkar, who was also involved in the agitation, raised questions about Bhattacharya’s commitment. Patkar, now in the state as part of Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s ‘No-Vote-To-BJP’ campaign, said: “Why don’t you ask Rabindranath babu if he has stopped fighting for farmers? Has he started believing in dividing people on religious lines now?” Both Bhattacharya and Patkar went on a fast against the Tata’s car project and forcible acquisition of land. “In Maharashtra, people resisted the BJP and have changed the government. You need to resist the BJP here as well. The rights and future of farmers are at stake and farmers of Singur have to come forward to show their solidarity. Kisan ekta (unity) at Singur can strengthen the farmers’ movement across the country,” Patkar said at Sunday’s mahapanchayat. Like in Nandigram on Saturday, senior Left leaders chose to give the SKM rally a miss in Singur. CPM leader Bhaktaram Pan said, “We are busy in election campaigns so we could not attend. But some of our supporters have attended the meeting. We stro- ngly support their cause.” TMC’s Manna supported the cause of the nationwide farmers’ stir. “Singur has been an icon of farmers’ movements. People of Singur will reject the BJP. This anti-farmer government will be shown the door in the next Lok Sabha election,” he said. The 88-year-old Bhattacharya — one of the frontline leaders of the Singur movement — said: “If the BJP government goes against the interest of farmers, we will surely protest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kisan-morcha-urges-protest-icon-singur-to-reject-bjp/articleshow/81501060.cms||Rohit Khanna
---||Hyderabad||Modern art, humour and good vibes on show at this exhibition||After celebrating Mahashivarathri in Coimbatore, Tollywood celebs returned to the city on Saturday, right on time to soak in some art and culture. An exhibition of artworks, titled License to Laugh, was launched at a city art gallery on Saturday. The exhibition, which was curated by Lina Vincent, featured work by artists like Chitra Ganesh, Farhad Hussain, Gurjeet Singh, Princess Pea, Smruthi Gargi Eswar, Thukral & Tagra and Tushar Waghela. The aim of the show was to embrace ‘humour as a weapon’. Several Tollywood celebs and P3Ps, including Rakul Preet Singh, Lakshmi Manchu, Neha Shetty, Sidhu Jonnalagadda, Sushmita Konidela, Aman Preet Singh and Shilpa Reddy were spotted at the do, clicking pictures together and savouring the art work. Artist Lakshmi Nambiar, who organised the event, said, “Given that we’re slowly coming out of a period of darkness with the pandemic, we wanted to showcase art that’s all about satire and humour. Seven artists from across the country have showcased their best work.” The exhibition, which opened to the public from Sunday, will be around for three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/modern-art-humour-and-good-vibes-on-show-at-this-exhibition/articleshow/81496221.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Kolkata||Ramps will be a fixture for Didi’s rally dais in Purulia & Bankura too||Kolkata: A 20ft by 10ft dais with a 21ft-long ramp on Asutosh Mukherjee Road, right in front of the entrance to Jatin Das Park, to allow chief minister Mamata Banerjee climb the dais on a wheelchair, is likely to be a constant in all public meetings she addresses till she is back on her feet. The dais in Hazra is being replicated in Purulia and Bankura, where Banerjee is expected to address five public rallies on Monday and Tuesday. Instructions have also reached party leaders in Purulia to even the surface of the stretch on which a wheelchair-bound Banerjee will head for the dais from the helipad in Balarampur and Jhalda. They have also been told to set up ramps to allow the CM to climb the dais in a wheelchair. Balarampur block Trinamool Youth Congress president Sunny Mukherjee said: “Ramps are being added to the dais.” Banerjee is likely to reach Bankura at 11am on Tuesday. She will address three rallies there. Party’s district leader Arup Chakraborty said: “Special ramps will be set up for all the dais from where the CM will speak. Work will begin tomorrow and we are taking help of technical experts.” “The CM,” he added, “was to reach here on Sunday. But her injury-induced delay led to postponing plans. Party workers, who were very anxious, are now brimming with excitement. We will do whatever it takes to ensure she faces the least discomfiture with her injuries.” In Hazra, decorators were told to ensure the dais floor was smooth. The 3ft-wide ramp with small railings on either side ensured the wheelchair could be pushed easily without fear of toppling over. “We were informed about constructing the two dais on Hazra Road and Mayo Road on Saturday night and were specifically asked to ensure the ramp was smooth enough for a decent climb,” said Kamal Tapadar of Modern Decorators. Associated with Trinamool for the past two decades, officials of Modern Decorators said unlike other party dais they had built over the years, the stress was entirely on the ramp this time. “Our earlier briefs involved making the stairs short and wide with a high handrail to ensure elderly party leaders could climb easily. Stress was also given on increasing the dais height so that speakers could be visible from a distance. But this time, the ramp replaced the stairs and we were also asked to keep the dais at a lower height so the ramp slope didn’t become steep,” said Tapadar. Trinamool leader and former Kolkata Municipal Corporation MMIC, Baiswanor Chatterjee, who was overseeing the dais construction, said he was relieved after the programme went off smoothly. “This was her first public address after the injury and we wanted to ensure the dais was perfect for her,” Chatterjee said, his eyes on a large banner of a wheelchair-borne CM (taken while Banerjee was leaving SSKM Hospital on Friday) put up atop the dais. (With inputs from Amit Singh Deo in Purulia and Falguni Banerjee in Bankura)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ramps-will-be-a-fixture-for-didis-rally-dais-in-purulia-bankura-too/articleshow/81500948.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
March 15, 2021||Kolkata||EC, other agencies are looking into Nandigram ‘incident’: Shah||Kharagpur: Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the Election Commission and other agencies were “looking into the incident”, referring to chief minister Mamata Banerjee sustaining injuries in Nandigram on March 10, and that they should be “allowed to work”. “I don’t want to comment on that. I can pray for her quick recovery,” Shah added. The home minister also did not comment directly on allegations by some Bengal BJP leaders, who had dubbed the incident a “drama aimed to generate public sympathy”. “People in Bengal know everything,” he said. Shah, who is likely to hold a meeting in Nandigram soon, claimed BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari would win the election by a “large margin”. “I am sure Suvendu will win,” he said. The minister did not elaborate on the issue but said that winds of change had started blowing across Nandigram. Without directly referring to the CM’s multiple temple visits in Nandigram, Shah said: “The pujas that you are seeing now (in Nandigram) are results of the ‘parivartan’ (change) slogan. But I am afraid it is too late for them to do that.” During his interaction with reporters, Shah said there could be bickering among BJP workers over choice of candidates, but the party was disciplined enough to overcome differences. He was responding to allegations of dissent among party leaders on being denied a poll ticket. On MPs contesting Bengal polls, Shah said: “Our MPs have a right to fight the state assembly elections and represent people. Why should Mamata Banerjee be scared of that?” Asked about the CM’s statement that she cannot be “broken”, the Union minister said: “We don’t want to break anybody. We want to break the nexus of extortion and corruption in the state.” Shah flew into Kharagpur from Nazira, Assam but was delayed by two-and-a-half hours. As time passed, the crowd that started gathering near Prem Hari Bhavan at Malancha continued to swell. Drums, gates made of balloons and cultural events awaited his arrival. Assuming Shah would be late, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh wanted to start the rally as the home minister had decided to join midway. But the crowd would not move without Shah and kept waiting. The minister joined the rally at 6.35pm and apologized for the delay. “The sea of people in front of me proves that ‘parivartan’ has started. I can see the verdict of the Kharagpur constituency. I can assure you that our government will now bring real change in the state,” Shah told a frenzied crowd. Heavy police presence was evident on the 1km stretch that the Union minister’s roadshow covered. Road stretches were barricaded on both sides. Police monitored from rooftops as well. Officials from other districts too joined in to ensure the home minister’s security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ec-other-agencies-are-looking-into-nandigram-incident-shah/articleshow/81500871.cms||Sujoy Khanra
---||---||Tamil Nadu assembly polls: Khushbu Sundar to lead BJP’s charge in DMK bastion||BJP state president L Murugan from Dharapuram in Tirupur district and actor-turned-politician Khushbu Sundar from Chennai’s Thousand Lights were among the first list of 17 candidates announced by the party on Sunday. While the last-minute inclusion of Dr P Saravanan, sitting Thiruparankundram MLA who joined the party just hours earlier from the DMK was stunning, release of the list by national general secretary Arun Singh in Hindi and English drew criticism, with many expecting it in Tamil. Khushbu Sundar being named against DMK’s Dr N Ezhilan in the DMK bastion too was a surprise, with Ku Ka Selvam, sitting MLA, expected to get it, but Murugan said the man who had recently joined the party had “expressed unwillingness to contest.” Among the other prominent names, BJP state vicepresident and former IPS officer K Annamalai, projected as the party’s future in the Dravidian land, will take on DMK’s R Elango in Aravakurichi, national women wing president Vanathi Srinivasan will face off MNM chief Kamal Haasan and Congress’s Mayura S Jayakumar in Coimbatore (south). Former national secretary H Raja, elected from Karaikudi in 2001, has been named from there again. State youth wing president Vinoj P Selvam will contest from Chennai Harbour against DMK strongman P K Sekar Babu, who is the sitting MLA, former AIADMK minister Nainar Nagendran will contest from Tirunelveli and S Thanigaivelu will take on former minister E V Velu in Tiruvannamalai. Others on the list are: M R Gandhi (Nagercoil), C K Saraswathi (Modakurichi), D Periyasamy (Tittakudi), Poondi S Venkatesan (Thiruvaiyaru), D Kuppuram (Ramanathapuram), P Ramesh (Colachel), G Pandurangan (Virudhunagar) and former MLA V A T Kalivarathan (Tirukkoyilur). The names of candidates for Vilavancode, Thalli and Udhagamandalam are expected on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-khushbu-sundar-to-lead-bjps-charge-in-dmk-bastion/articleshow/81502521.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
March 15, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu assembly polls: Khushbu Sundar to lead BJP’s charge in DMK bastion||BJP state president L Murugan from Dharapuram in Tirupur district and actor-turned-politician Khushbu Sundar from Chennai’s Thousand Lights were among the first list of 17 candidates announced by the party on Sunday. While the last-minute inclusion of Dr P Saravanan, sitting Thiruparankundram MLA who joined the party just hours earlier from the DMK was stunning, release of the list by national general secretary Arun Singh in Hindi and English drew criticism, with many expecting it in Tamil. Khushbu Sundar being named against DMK’s Dr N Ezhilan in the DMK bastion too was a surprise, with Ku Ka Selvam, sitting MLA, expected to get it, but Murugan said the man who had recently joined the party had “expressed unwillingness to contest.” Among the other prominent names, BJP state vicepresident and former IPS officer K Annamalai, projected as the party’s future in the Dravidian land, will take on DMK’s R Elango in Aravakurichi, national women wing president Vanathi Srinivasan will face off MNM chief Kamal Haasan and Congress’s Mayura S Jayakumar in Coimbatore (south). Former national secretary H Raja, elected from Karaikudi in 2001, has been named from there again. State youth wing president Vinoj P Selvam will contest from Chennai Harbour against DMK strongman P K Sekar Babu, who is the sitting MLA, former AIADMK minister Nainar Nagendran will contest from Tirunelveli and S Thanigaivelu will take on former minister E V Velu in Tiruvannamalai. Others on the list are: M R Gandhi (Nagercoil), C K Saraswathi (Modakurichi), D Periyasamy (Tittakudi), Poondi S Venkatesan (Thiruvaiyaru), D Kuppuram (Ramanathapuram), P Ramesh (Colachel), G Pandurangan (Virudhunagar) and former MLA V A T Kalivarathan (Tirukkoyilur). The names of candidates for Vilavancode, Thalli and Udhagamandalam are expected on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-khushbu-sundar-to-lead-bjps-charge-in-dmk-bastion/articleshow/81502522.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
March 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Ready to give security to woman in CD case: Karnataka govt||BENGALURU: Home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said his government is prepared to give protection to the woman who purportedly features in a sex clip involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. “I have directed the SIT chief to provide adequate security to her and her family if she’s willing to cooperate with the investigation,” he said. This follows a video message allegedly released by the woman soon after Ramesh Jarkiholi filed a complaint against unknown persons on Saturday. In the 34-second clip, the woman urges Bommai to give her protection. “I do not know how the video was recorded and released to the media but since its release, my modesty has been outraged while my family’s reputation is gone forever. Nobody is there to protect our family. We don’t have any political support. He lured me with a job offer,” she says in the video, whose authenticity is yet to be verified. Cong to raise issue during session, seek inquiryFollowing the message, Jarkiholi had rushed to Bommai’s residence. “Within an hour of lodging my complaint, she surfaced in another video. This is a clear case of a political conspiracy against me. Let her come out in the open and complain,” he said. As the budget session resumes after a four-day break on Monday, principal opposition Congress has decided to raise the issue and seek an inquiry into the incident, besides urging the government to provide protection to the woman. “I don’t want to talk about this in public. Whatever I want to say, I will reveal it in the assembly,” said opposition leader Siddaramaiah. KPCC president DK Shivakumar in Shivamogga said he suspects the BJP is behind the CD scandal. But his colleague and Ramesh’s brother Satish Jarkiholi, the party’s working president, did not echo his view. “It is not possible to fix somebody without evidence. It all depends on the outcome of the SIT investigation. Ramesh has already filed a complaint and the woman should reveal what injustice was meted out to her so that the truth comes out,” he said in Dharwad. Satish said if there is a conspiracy to malign Ramesh, it will be unearthed by the SIT. “There should not be any hurry in taking this case to its logical end,” Satish added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ready-to-give-security-to-woman-in-cd-case-karnataka-govt/articleshow/81502570.cms||---
March 15, 2021||---||Tamil Nadu assembly elections: BJP fields DMK MLA within hours of his joining party||Angry cadres locked the BJP office at K Pudur after coming to know that Dr P Saravanan, the sitting DMK MLA of Thiruparankundram who joined BJP only on Sunday morning, was given the ticket to contest from the Madurai North seat in the same evening. Saravanan, who has a history of switching loyalties, had started his political career with the MDMK but moved to the BJP six years ago. He then joined the DMK, was made its doctors’ wing secretary and given the ticket to contest the Thiruparankundram bypoll in 2019, which he won by 2,396 votes. However, upset that he was not given a ticket this time by the DMK, Saravanan joined the BJP on Sunday morning and sought to justify it by saying he had been in talks with the party for the past two months. As word got out that he was their party’s candidate for Madurai North, many BJP cadres gathered in front of the party’s election office at K Pudur and carried out a protest. They wanted the BJP state secretary R Srinivasan to be given the ticket instead. “It is a very wrong move by party leadership to give ticket to a renowned turncoat,’’ said Madurai rural district BJP secretary A Nagarajan. ``R Srinivasan has been in the party for 32 years and even spends his pension for party activities,’’ he said, adding that even cadres of ally the AIADMK won’t work for Saravanan. BJP state president L Murugan defended the decision saying Saravanan has done a lot of service in the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/tamil-nadu-assembly-elections-bjp-fields-dmk-mla-within-hours-of-his-joining-party/articleshow/81502572.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
March 15, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu assembly elections: BJP fields DMK MLA within hours of his joining party||Angry cadres locked the BJP office at K Pudur after coming to know that Dr P Saravanan, the sitting DMK MLA of Thiruparankundram who joined BJP only on Sunday morning, was given the ticket to contest from the Madurai North seat in the same evening. Saravanan, who has a history of switching loyalties, had started his political career with the MDMK but moved to the BJP six years ago. He then joined the DMK, was made its doctors’ wing secretary and given the ticket to contest the Thiruparankundram bypoll in 2019, which he won by 2,396 votes. However, upset that he was not given a ticket this time by the DMK, Saravanan joined the BJP on Sunday morning and sought to justify it by saying he had been in talks with the party for the past two months. As word got out that he was their party’s candidate for Madurai North, many BJP cadres gathered in front of the party’s election office at K Pudur and carried out a protest. They wanted the BJP state secretary R Srinivasan to be given the ticket instead. “It is a very wrong move by party leadership to give ticket to a renowned turncoat,’’ said Madurai rural district BJP secretary A Nagarajan. ``R Srinivasan has been in the party for 32 years and even spends his pension for party activities,’’ he said, adding that even cadres of ally the AIADMK won’t work for Saravanan. BJP state president L Murugan defended the decision saying Saravanan has done a lot of service in the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tamil-nadu-assembly-elections-bjp-fields-dmk-mla-within-hours-of-his-joining-party/articleshow/81502573.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
---||---||Tamil Nadu minister resists flying squad check, booked||Information and publicity minister and AIADMK candidate in Kovilpatti, Kadambur C Raju, has been booked under two sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for preventing a flying squad from checking his vehicle on Friday evening.  Police said the community service register (CSR) issued based on the complaint lodged by the squad official Marimuthu has been converted to an FIR. The minister had picked an argument with the official for checking his vehicle and two others which accompanied him at Uthupatti village between Kadambur and Kovilpatti. Meanwhile, district election officer K Senthil Raj dismissed as rumour reports that Marimuthu, a highways department assistant engineer, was transferred and that later the order was revoked. A probe by the district revenue officer into the incident is under way as both sides have lodged complaints||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/tamil-nadu-minister-resists-flying-squad-check-booked/articleshow/81502585.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu minister resists flying squad check, booked||Information and publicity minister and AIADMK candidate in Kovilpatti, Kadambur C Raju, has been booked under two sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for preventing a flying squad from checking his vehicle on Friday evening.  Police said the community service register (CSR) issued based on the complaint lodged by the squad official Marimuthu has been converted to an FIR. The minister had picked an argument with the official for checking his vehicle and two others which accompanied him at Uthupatti village between Kadambur and Kovilpatti. Meanwhile, district election officer K Senthil Raj dismissed as rumour reports that Marimuthu, a highways department assistant engineer, was transferred and that later the order was revoked. A probe by the district revenue officer into the incident is under way as both sides have lodged complaints||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-minister-resists-flying-squad-check-booked/articleshow/81502586.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Do not open new universities, fix all gaps first, say ex-VCs||BENGALURU: The Forum of Former Vice-Chancellors of Karnataka has urged the state not to establish new universities in the state. Saying Karnataka has over 65 varsities, the forum said the government should, instead, look at establishing PG centres or upgrading existing government colleges to autonomous colleges. It emphasised the need to liberate “many existing universities from academic as well as financial paralysis”. Many new varsities in K’taka struggling to survive: ExpertThe forum’s statement comes in the backdrop of reports that a university for organic agriculture and six private universities are being mooted. Karnataka has 32 state universities, 14 deemed-to-be universities, 17 state private universities, one open university and one central university. “Almost all universities are suffering from a lack of adequate infrastructure, faculty and finances. Many of them have shrunk as mere ‘teaching shops’ as they are run by guest faculty. There is little or no research,” said the forum. Many point out that the government does not have enough funds to support new varsities. “ We have only a couple of self-financing universities. Others are able to sustain themselves because most of them have only half of the required faculty,” said Dr R Chandrashekhara, former VC of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences. MK Shridhar, academician, said, “Instead of strengthening existing institutions, it’s not wise to divide whatever little we have among more number of institutions. This is a similar mistake the country did with government schools. Whatever the government announces, it should be followed by strong measures to build it.” According to experts, starting a new university will require around Rs 300 crore. “Many of the new universities are in a narrow discipline of knowledge. These can be added just as a new branch or a PG centre instead of a new university. Many new universities are struggling to survive and grow,” said Prof RN Sreenivas Gowda, secretary of the forum. Some educationists believe the forum’s statement is prima facie not based on any data. “The government must not be guided by superficial statements based on convenience and perceptions. There has been no research done on what could the mobility be in the future,” said an educationist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-do-not-open-new-universities-fix-all-gaps-first-say-ex-vcs/articleshow/81502584.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
March 15, 2021||Bengaluru||17-year-old girl ends life in Karnataka after sister elopes||HAVERI: Afraid that she wouldn’t be able to marry, a 17-year-old girl whose sister eloped with her lover, decided to end her life in Tadasa village, in Haveri district. Depressed by the desertion of one daughter and the death of the other, the mother attempted suicide soon after. She survived and is recovering at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences . The FIR states that Shweta Yattinamani, 17, killed herself by drinking poison after her elder sister Anita eloped with her neighbour. Shwetha was convinced that her marriage prospects were bleak given her sister’s elopement, and took the extreme step. Shweta’s mother Manjavva, 52, allegedly drank the remaining poison in the bottle, police said. Manjavva’s husband Mallappa Yattinamani was not at home when his daughter and wife drank poison. “The couple had four daughters, two of whom were married. Theirs was a poor family but both Mallappa and Manjavva had dreams of marrying their younger daughters. While Malappa was searching for a groom for Anita, she fell in love with a neighbour, Mahesh, an orphan, with whom she ran away. We do not know where the two of them are now,” said Dileep, an acquaintance of the family. Mallappa said he tried to convince Anita against eloping with Mahesh, but she did not heed his advice. “My wife rank a small amount of the poison and luckily survived. She is recovering,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/17-year-old-girl-ends-life-in-karnataka-after-sister-elopes/articleshow/81502596.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
March 15, 2021||Vadodara||VMC wakes up to Covid surge, forms flying squads||Vadodara: With the city witnessing a surge in positive cases again, Joint Enforcement Teams (JET) and flying squads of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and city police will strictly implement Covid guidelines in Vadodara. Total 24 JETs in 12 administrative wards of VMC and one flying squad each in four administrative wards will move around the city to ensure that Covid-19 guidelines are strictly implemented. “We need to urgently break this cycle of doubling of cases. We appeal to everybody to support this collective fight against Covid-19 through use of mask, social distancing and self-discipline,” said Dr Vinod Rao, officer on special duty (OSD) for Covid-19. On Sunday, Rao also appointed Sudhir Patel, deputy municipal commissioner of VMC, as administrator of GMERS, Gotri and SSG Hospital – the two dedicated Covid-19 public hospitals in Vadodara. Patel has replaced Ashok Patel, CEO of VUDA, who was earlier appointed as administrator at the two hospitals. The VUDA CEO is currently engaged as election observer at Tamil Nadu. Along with Sudhir Patel, Dr Minoo Patel and Dr Sheetal Mistry have been appointed as advisors to OSD at SSG Hospital and GMERS, Gotri hospital with effect from Sunday. Meanwhile, Vadodara city and the district continued to witness spike in cases. On Sunday, 63 new Covid-19 positive cases were registered after which, the total number of Covid-19 cases since the beginning of the pandemic touched 25,435. The 63 new cases were result of 2,609 samples tested since Saturday evening. The official death toll remained at 242 with VMC not declaring any fresh death due to Covid-19. Sunday also registered 61 discharges as two patients from government hospitals, eight from private hospitals and rest from home isolation were discharged. With this, the total number of discharges has touched 24,581. Going by VMC’s bulletin, there are 612 active cases in Vadodara city and district. Of these, condition of 472 patients is said to be stable. While 96 patients are being treated with oxygen support, 44 others are being treated under ventilator or BI-PAP machine. There are 993 individuals currently under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmc-wakes-up-to-covid-surge-forms-flying-squads/articleshow/81498486.cms||---
March 15, 2021||India||Centre proposes easing norm for lease of forest land to non-govt entities for forestry use||NEW DELHI: The environment and forest ministry (MoEFCC) has proposed to do away with a provision in the Forest Conservation Act, which mandates the states to take prior approval from the Centre to lease any forest land for forestry purpose to any private person or agency or authority, which is not controlled by the government. The proposed amendments to the law also seek to expand the scope of forestry use to include ecotourism, safaris and zoos. Currently, prior approval from the Centre under FC Act is mandatory for leasing out any forest land for both forestry and non-forestry uses. The proposed amendment to the Act circulated by the MoEFCC for inter-ministerial consultation also seeks to expand the activities which can be treated as forestry activities including silvicultural operations, forest and wildlife training infrastructure, establishment of zoos and safaris managed by government or any authority under the Wildlife Protection Act. The ecotourism facilities approved Forest Working Plan or Working Scheme approved by the Central government will also be covered. A senior official from Indian Forest Service said currently nearly 20% of the country's land is under forest departments and these are seen as the cheap land available. “The mandatory provision to take prior permission from the Centre under the FC Act acts as a deterrent. Many state governments have been demanding that they should have more say in diversion of forest land for non-forestry activities. Getting approvals from states is much easier,” the official said. Justifying the proposal to amend the FC Act, the MoEFCC has cited how there is apprehension on the applicability of the law over plantation raised even in non-forest land. It has said this has been continuing since the Supreme Court passed an order on December 12, 1996 specifying that the prior permission from Centre is required for non-forest use of any forest land irrespective of their types and classifications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-proposes-easing-norm-for-lease-of-forest-land-to-non-govt-entities-for-forestry-use/articleshow/81502724.cms||Dipak K Dash
March 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: Court rejects bail for man charged with rape, stalking||PUNE: The court of additional sessions judge Madhuri M Deshpande rejected the bail plea of Amol Navnath Dhavne (24), a mobile shop owner, facing a trial for stalking, kidnapping and raping a call-centre employee (20) at an isolated place in Kharadi. The alleged incident occurred between the wee hours on December 31 last year while the woman was on her way back home after a late-night shift. The prosecution case is that Dhavne intercepted her and forced her to accompany him on his motorcycle to an isolated place where he sexually assaulted her. Judge Deshpande referred to the FIR and observed on March 12, “It appears that the accused kidnapped the complainant and made her sit on his two-wheeler and took her to a lonely place and committed forcible sexual intercourse with her. After the said incident she lodged a report on December 31, 2020. Her medical examination was conducted the same day.” The judge referred to the medical report and said the same support the contention of the FIR. “Prima facie involvement of the accused appears in the offence in question. If the present accused is released on bail, he will pressurize the prosecution witnesses and complainant. Though the charge-sheet is filed, I am of the view that apprehension of the prosecution is well-founded from the act of the accused. Therefore, considering the nature of offence and role played by the accused in the offence in question at this stage it will not be proper to release the accused on bail.” The accused had argued that it was a consensual physical relationship and the woman falsely implicated him following a quarrel after he withdrew money from an ATM. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-court-rejects-bail-for-man-charged-with-rape-stalking/articleshow/81502773.cms||Vishwas Kothari
March 15, 2021||India||Upping women trial court judges numbers more important than selecting a few to SC||A 71-year-old Supreme Court on Saturday bid farewell to its seventh woman Judge, Justice Indu Malhotra. Justice Indira Banerjee is the eighth, who will retire in September next year. Like the first woman SC Judge M Fathima Beevi, Malhotra had a less than three year tenure. While Malhotra was the first woman advocate to become a SC Judge, Beevi was recalled from retirement to become a SC judge in October 1989. She retired from Kerala HC as a Judge in April 1989. Five years after retiring as the first Muslim woman SC Judge, Beevi was appointed Governor of Tamil Nadu in January 1997. But she had to resign in 2001 when her controversial decision to appoint J Jayalalithaa as chief minister, despite her conviction and consequent disqualification to contest elections, was struck down by the SC. Between Beevi and Malhotra, there were five women SC Judges in Justices Sujata V Manohar, Ruma Pal, Gyan Sudha Misra, Ranjana Prakash Desai and R Banumathi. Having covered the courts of all women judges, except Beevi, one can tell from experience that Manohar and Pal, and to some extent Malhotra, left their marks in the annals of the highest court. Pal was the best of the lot. In her, India lost an opportunity to have its first woman chief justice. She had an unmissable presence in the court. She donned a stern exterior but had a soft core. She didn’t fear to routinely puncture buoyant gas balloon arguments of renowned lawyers. She even had chastised a crassly outspoken brother judge on the bench. Above all Justice Pal was fearless. She was the first woman judge to criticise the ‘opaque’ Collegium system of judge appointment. Her views became part of the SC’s famous judgment in 2015 that quashed the National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC), which had hurt the Narendra Modi government in a big way. Only Manohar and Pal became senior enough in the SC to be part of the SC Collegium, which selects judges for the HC and SC. The minuscule number of women Judges in HCs and SC has been the cog of the decades-old discourse highlighting their poor representation in judiciary. That there are around 80 women among 1000-odd Judges in 25 High Courts does little to help change the discourse. Among the eight women SC Judges, only two came from the hinterland of India. Beevi started her career as a Munsif in Kerala subordinate judicial service in 1958. Banumathi was appointed District Judge in 1988, after eight years of practice in mofussil courts at Tirupattur, Krishnagiri and Harur in Tamil Nadu. All other women Judges had practiced in big High Courts in the metropolis. Just three months back, attorney general K K Venugopal had an impassioned argument for augmenting the numbers of women in judiciary while addressing the SC in a case that complained against trial and HC judges often making insensitive remarks against women in their orders. Venugopal had said, “Improving the representation of women in the judiciary could also go a long way towards a more balanced and empathetic approach in cases involving sexual violence… This initiative must come from the SC itself, considering that the power of appointment rests almost exclusively with the SC Collegium. The goal must be to achieve at least 50% representation of women in all leadership positions,” Justice D Y Chandrachud lent his weight for improving the women’s number in the judiciary by saying that just one woman judge in SC is a worrisome situation. The change must happen at the grassroots level, the talent pool from which High Court Judges are selected. It is easy to spot a talent from among women advocates whose numbers are high in big HCs like Delhi, Calcutta, Bombay and Madras. But, it is time for the HCs and SC to look for talented women from the pool of judicial officers. Most trial court judges retire at the level of district judge. Few are appointed as HC Judges, but get a tenure of three to five years, insufficient to make it to the zone of consideration for appointment as SC Judges. As a result, most judicial officers, who get appointed as HC Judges, find no motivation to make a noticeable contribution to the justice delivery system. In this gloomy weather for women in the judiciary, a heartening development is taking place - steady increase in the number of women trial court judges, thanks to 33% reservation for them. Given the trend, it is possible that women could form 50% of trial court judges in the next decade. In the coming days, the HC and SC collegium need to scout talent from judicial officers’ pool, with an eye on women, and select them as HC judges at the age of 45 or so, bucking the present trend of their selection a few years before retirement. Only then more women HC Judges would figure in the zone of consideration, albeit in a decade, for selection as SC Judges and the country will find more women competing with men for a place in the hallowed chambers of the highest court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/upping-women-trial-court-judges-numbers-more-important-than-selecting-a-few-to-sc/articleshow/81502775.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 15, 2021||India||Arrested terrorist was planning political killings in Doda: Army||JAMMU: Terrorist Firdaus Ahmed Natnoo, who was arrested from Jammu’s Doda district with a cache of arms and ammunition on Friday, was planning to execute “sensational political killings” to revive terrorism in the district, the Army said on Sunday. Natnoo’s affiliation is yet to be disclosed. “Natnoo was involved in revitalizing the terror footprint in Doda, which had been declared terrorist-free after the encounter killing of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Tahir Ahmed Bhat alias Uqaab on May 17 last year,” said Jammu-based defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand. “As per intelligence inputs, Natnoo was planning the political murders to revive terrorism in the region besides grabbing headlines. He and his associates — tasked with luring youth into terrorism, procuring arms and fundraising — were being tracked by security forces for the past two months,” the spokesperson said. “Early Friday, a joint team of the Army, CRPF, SSB and J&K Police launched a cordon-and-search operation in Bekhriyan, Udhiyanpur and Nagri, Doda town and arrested Natnoo from his Bekhriyan residence while he was trying to escape. Three Chinese pistols with five magazines, 15 rounds and a silencer were recovered from him, besides incriminating material like personal diaries, a photo album, a will cum suicide note and a machine to probably dig underground hideouts,” Lt Col Anand said. A case was registered in this connection and further investigation was underway, the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/arrested-terrorist-was-planning-political-killings-in-doda-army/articleshow/81502820.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
March 15, 2021||Vadodara||An artist’s impression of Varanasi||Vadodara: In 2008, on his first trip to Europe, he was surprised when some Europeans referred to India as Varanasi. The foreigners’ reverence for the holy city conjured up such a pull that instead of Mumbai, where he was then based, this artist directly reached Varanasi from Geneva. Now, Nilaoyy K Nandi, an alumnus of MS University’s Faculty of Fine Arts, has put up a solo show titled ‘Varanasi Blues’ in the city exhibiting paintings that he has prepared on Varanasi since the last 12 years. “Upon hearing so much about Varanasi in Europe where I had put up a solo show, I realised that I had never been to Varanasi nor given it much thought. This intrigued me and something stirred deep within,” said Nandi, who lived there for many months. “I lived on Assi Ghat as the energy there inspired me to paint and thus began my love for this lovely and vibrant city,” said Nandi, 50, who in the last 12 years has prepared 15 paintings on the ancient city. Nandi’s works revolve around the famed ghats of the Varanasi, the Ganga river that flows by, the temples along the banks and stories in and around Varanasi. “Through my paintings, I have depicted various aspects of Varanasi, its beautiful stories and iconography which I have decoded through my paintings,” said Nandi, who clarifies that he is not affiliated to any political party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/an-artists-impression-of-varanasi/articleshow/81498520.cms||Prashant Rupera
March 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination on all seven days, PHCs to start inoculation too||Chandigarh: After the recent upswing in Covid-19 cases, Punjab chief secretary (CS) Vini Mahajan on Sunday gave directions to carry out Covid-19 vaccination at all designated hospitals on all seven days of the week and incorporate more public and private healthcare facilities, including all government primary health centres, as vaccination centers. She directed all the deputy commissioners (DCs) and other officials to spruce up necessary arrangements and remain prepared to effectively tackle the third Covid wave in the state. All DCs, senior superintendents of police, municipal commissioners, civil surgeons and others were present in the meeting. Mahajan asked all the districts to step up the testing of the contacts to break the chain of transmission. The state had witnessed its first peak in September last year as it touched 2,896 cases per day, followed by a second peak in November last year with 843 cases per day. Punjab recorded 1,501 new Covid cases on Sunday. The DCs and civil surgeons were to advise private hospitals falling to increase their Covid bed capacity and the private hospitals, which have not been yet verified for Level-3 Covid care, to be verified quickly. The chief secretary also said the laboratories must test 28,000 to 30,000 Covid samples per day. As suggested by medical experts, the districts had been told to ask the private hospitals treating the level-2 and level-3 patients, to postpone routine elective surgeries for at least two weeks, to make way for additional requirements of Covid beds. Mahajan also said that night curfews have already been imposed in eight districts. Principal secretary health Hussan Lal said nearly 50% healthcare and frontline workers had been inoculated with the first dose, while the second dose is also being given to these beneficiaries. Punjab has received 19.15 lakh doses of Covishield and 1.37 lakh doses of Covaxin so far. He said field officials have been maintaining the contacts tracing to around 20 persons per positive case. Box : Covid positive after 2nd dose Health and medical education adviser Dr K K Talwar said there might be a possibility that the beneficiaries may test Covid positive even after the second dose of vaccination, because the vaccine creates the desired level of protection only after two weeks of the second dose. Even if any beneficiary gets positive after more than two weeks of the second dose, the severity of the infection would be milder and the beneficiary may not need hospitalisation, he said. New protocols for pandemic management had been approved, which shall soon be notified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vaccination-on-all-seven-days-phcs-to-start-inoculation-too/articleshow/81500472.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Shimla||Two die of Covid in Himachal Pradesh, 78 test positive||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported two Covid deaths and 78 positive cases on Sunday while 60 positive patients have recovered. The state has a total of 59,675 positive cases of which 760 cases are active, 57,908 patients have recovered while 993 patients have died. A total of 11,56,208 persons have been tested for Covid-19 till date, of whom 10,96,491 persons tested negative while results of 42 samples are awaited. Positive cases reported include eight from Hamirpur district, 15 from Kangra, 3 from Mandi, 7 from Shimla, 7 from Sirmaur, 11 from Solan and 27 from Una. Those who have recovered include 17 from Bilaspur district, 21 from Kangra, one from Kullu, one from Mandi, one from Shimla, 8 from Sirmaur, 6 from Solan and five from Una district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/2-die-of-covid-in-hp-78-test-positive/articleshow/81500484.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Karnal reports 100 Covid cases, Haryana 440||CHANDIGARH: With 100 new cases and a death, Karnal on Sunday became the start point of a second Covid-19 wave in Haryana, which reported 440 fresh positives, besides 296 recoveries and that one loss. The state gave 1,938 first and second doses of the vaccine in select districts, taking the inoculation count to 5,22,363. The outbreak in Sainik School made Karnal the new hotspot. The health authorities have made mini containment zones and increased contact tracing and testing. The state has 2,75,137 total cases, 3,075 deaths, 2,68,968 recoveries, and 3,095 active cases. The recovery rate came down to 97.76%. The state tested 18,096 people during the day. The positivity rate was 4.67% and the death rate stable at 1.12%. Karnal’s one death was of a 78-year-old man, while Gurugram reported the second highest 65 new cases, taking its tally to 59,849 cases, 359 deaths, and 570 active cases. Also, 54 new cases were reported from Kurukshetra, 49 from Ambala, 47 from Panchkula, 39 from Faridabad, 21 from Kaithal, 16 from Yamunanagar , 14 from Sonipat, and 13 from Panipat. The other 12 districts reported fewer than 10 cases. Sirsa, Palwal, Nuh, and Charkhi Dadri report no new case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/karnal-reports-100-cases-hry-440/articleshow/81500479.cms||---
March 15, 2021||Gurgaon||Speeding dumper hits motorcycle, one killed||Gurgaon: A man lost his life in a road accident after his motorcycle was hit by a speeding dumper truck near Naharpur Rupa underpass on Saturday. According to police, the accident happened around 4pm when the victim, identified as Virender Singh, and his nephew Sohan Singh were headed to their village in Rajasthan on a motorcycle. They had crossed Rajiv Chowk when a speeding dumper rammed into them from behind near the underpass. “My uncle was thrown to the road because of the collision, and the dumper ran over him. I too suffered injuries in the accident. The driver sped off,” Sohan said in his statement to police. Sohan managed to take his uncle to the nearby government hospital, where doctors declared Virender brought dead. He then informed the police and submitted a complaint against the dumper driver. A case has been registered under sections 279 (rash driving or riding in a public way) and 304A (negligence causing death) of the IPC. In another accident on the same day, a youth died after a vehicle hit him near Sidhrawali. According to police, the victim, identified as Vishnu Kumar, had stepped out to get samosas from a local eatery in the area along with his friends Sachin Kumar, Manish and Nasir. “They were walking on the road when a vehicle came from behind and hit them,” said the investigating officer. The control room received a call and the four youths were rushed to a nearby hospital. While Vishnu was declared brought dead, the other three received treatment for their injuries. A case has been registered at Bilaspur police station under sections 279 and 304A of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/speeding-dumper-hits-motorcycle-one-killed/articleshow/81500488.cms||---
