01-11-2020||Diwali is the best of times — a time to celebrate life||Covid-19 & the flickering lights of Diwali||The shadow of pandemic looms large over one festival the whole of India, markets, the economy look forward to. Lay-offs, salary cuts, fear of losing jobs have all added to the lockdown and unlocking blues.Despite the gloom, there is a visible buzz in the bazaars and lit-up markets, though traders say the pick-up in sales is below expectation. Many have not stocked up on Diwali goodies or have placed minimal orders. However, some are hopeful that shops would do better business in the fortnight ahead in the absence of Diwali melas.People are afraid to step out or are doing so cautiously, particularly those with young kids and/or old parents at home. And they are also clear about not exchanging Diwali gifts. There are others who may go for intimate gatherings.A cheerless corporate worldThe pandemic has not only snuffed out lives and livelihoods, but has also affected the gifting spirit and budget of many corporates. A private bank placed an order for ‘Saregama Carvaan Mini” as a festival gift this year for their high net worth individual customers. Last year, it had gifted ‘Saregama Carvaaan’ that was twice the cost.Most of the corporate sector is likely to scale down on Diwali gifts this year, says a senior executive working with a private firm. However, experts believe the reduction in gift price would be more for outside vendors and partners than employees.While many companies may not give any bonus or gift, most firms say budgetary allocation for corporate gifting this year will witness a cut of 30 to 60 per cent compared to last year.Change in gifting patternsThe corporate gifting option too has been seeing a major change. Many corporates are opting for e-gift vouchers for contactless distribution. Other items for both employees and clients include durable goods, gold coins, cash rewards, dry fruits, juices and biscuits hampers, wearable fitness devices, etc.“Many corporates are opting for local, customised gifts for their clients to continue building relationships when they aren’t able to connect face to face,” says Leo Shastri, director, Usha Exim Pvt Ltd.As many companies have extended the work-from-home time period, they are also looking for Wi-Fi improvement products, range extenders, noise cancellation headphones, mikes, webcams, bluetooth speakers, laptop tables, white boards, flasks, masks and sanitisers as festival gifts for staff.Festive push to recoveryNavratras and Durga Puja not only usher in festivities, but are also catalysts for a productive business season. The sale of consumer durables and automobiles peaks around this auspicious time. The corporate sector is banking on it even this time.“While festivities are low key, we are hoping that people spend. The recent green shoots of economic recovery give confidence that while subdued, it should be pushed further by the festive season,” says Assocham’s secretary general Deepak Sood.Vehicle Sales drive economyPassenger vehicle sales across the country climbed 26.45 per cent during the year to 2,72,027 units in September, shows data released by the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers. Last year, in the same period, 2,15,124 units were sold. Domestic two-wheeler sales stood at 18,49,546 units, up 11.64 per cent from 16,56,658 units last year. Of this, the motorcycle sales saw 17.30 per cent on-year rise at 12,24,117 units, while scooter sales inched up 0.08 per cent higher at 5,56,205 units. Also, car deliveries during Navratras saw a sharp year-on-year double-digit increase for most companies.Tweaking celebration stylesCelebrations are in for some interesting tweaking. People are scaling down or cancelling gatherings in view of the Covid protocol. Ludhiana-based doctor couple Dr Anshu and Dr Ravinder Vatsyayan have cancelled the Karva Chauth get-together, an annual feature for two decades now. However, the mithai shopping remains part of their Diwali itinerary. “I don’t think that home chefs or home-made mithai will supplant the commercial preparations,” says Dr Anshu, adding that people have had enough of do-it-yourself cooking.However, for many health-conscious people, buying sweets from the market is a big ‘no’. Sharanjit, a retired teacher, says, “For us, it will be home-made mithai. There may not be variety, but at least it will be safe.”Predictably enough, mithai sales are down this year, though Ludhiana’s Manik Jain of Sharman Jain Sweets is optimistic, “The scenario will improve. Around 40 per cent of the decline is due to the pandemic, while 60 per cent is due to fall in income.” Maguun Gupta from Khushi Ram & Sons sweet shop here says, “The festival season has just started. As of now, it’s pheniya, matthi, desi mithai. We are hoping for a good response.”Immunity laddoos woo back peopleMost owners of sweet shops in Jalandhar say their sales have improved since the Navratras, but are down compared to last year. Bigger sweet shop owners, however, have evolved ways to attract back customers. Says Ramesh Mittal, owner of Lovely Sweets, “Maintaining high standards in hygiene and proper sanitisation has helped us gain the confidence of people. All those who were earlier going to mohalla shops in routine are also preferring to come to us. Our ‘immunity laddoos’ having ingredients such as tulsi and other herbs have also had good sales.” Sharing some innovative ways to boost sales, says Mittal, “We have installed UV lightboxes to ensure that the sweets remain germ-free and have a good shelf life. We have tied up with shops in Delhi and Hyderabad airports, besides Swiggy and Zomato for home delivery.”Most corporate houses and business firms in the region have decided not to socialise and exchange any gifts with friends and relatives. Rajesh Kharbanda, CMD of Nivia Sports, says, “Even though the economy is back on track, we will be limiting the celebrations to our workforce.” Sharad Aggarwal, president, Northern Chamber of Small and Medium Industries, agrees, “Most firms will be taking to e-greeting. There seems to be a decline in corporate gifting. Most do not want to indulge in extravagance. However, there will be distribution of sweets and small gifts in almost all factories.”Glimmer of hopeIn Chandigarh, at the Sector 18 market, the hub of electronic and electrical goods, especially Chinese lights, the footfall is lesser than before. Raj Mehndiratta of Raj Enterprises here is feeling the pandemic blues. “Looking at the sales at Dasehra, business during Diwali may be down by 30 to 40 per cent. Customers have slowly started pouring in and we are hopeful more will come for Diwali shopping.”At a nearby shop, 76-year-old RP Gupta of Universal Electric Company says, “We have been cautious in ordering our stock this year. The sales haven’t been good but as the festival nears, people are likely to venture out and buy the decorations.”The pandemic, it seems, has been kind to some. In front of the Sector 20 temple, Kamlesh Bhatnagar (72) has been selling earthen diyas for decades together. “This Ganesh Chaturthi, we didn’t expect much sale but due to high demand, we had to add more idols. The sale during the Navratras, too, was quite good, so we are keeping our full stock of diyas ready for Diwali,” says Kamlesh. She, however, rues the fact that they don’t get any government support.Bollywood plays it safeFor years now, Diwali has been a sought-after release date for big-ticket films. In 2019, Akshay Kumar-starrer Housefull 4 might not have won over critics but collected more than Rs200 crore at the box-office. The trend of Diwali releases has been in for quite some time now. In 2012, Shah Rukh Khan-starrer Jab Tak Hai Jaan had audiences turn out in huge numbers on Diwali day itself for the first day shows. SRK’s most Diwali releases have had a 100 per cent success ratio.However, this year, Covid-19 has cast its ominous shadow on the entertainment industry, which has taken a big hit. Theatres were the first to close in the lockdown and the last to reopen on October 15. Since then, only rereleases have found their way to cinema halls. No big filmmaker is ready to take the risk. While two big-budget films, Sooryavanshi and ‘83, are ready, the directors, Rohit Shetty and Kabir Khan, have decided to play it safe and pushed the release dates further. The only brave maker has been Zee Studios as Abhishek Sharma directorial Suraj Pe Mangal Bhari will be releasing on Friday on the eve of Diwali. Whether it will be able to break the box-office in slumber remains to be seen. Its fate could decide the future course of film releases. Meanwhile, Akshay Kumar-starrer Laxmii and Hansal Mehta’s Chhalaang are all set for a digital release this Diwali.Tribune team:Vijay C Roy, Minna Zutshi, Deepkamal Kaur, Seema Sachdeva, Nonika SinghTribune photos: pradeep tewari, Malkiat Singh and Ashwani Dhiman||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/covid-19-the-flickering-lights-of-diwali-164217
01-11-2020||Pushpesh Pant||There is no zing without hing||Well, if not all mankind, then food lovers in India at least can be put in two sharply divided categories — those who love hing and can’t live without it, and those who can’t bear its fetid stench that gives asafoetida its name. It was the Europeans in the Middle Ages that gave it a bad name by branding it the ‘Devil’s Dung’. But ask any hardcore shakahari who eschews garlic and onions, and you will only hear paeans of its praise. The ‘aromatic’ substance has myriad time-tested therapeutic properties — digestive, carminative, anti-flatulent... In case of respiratory disorders, it is prized in the kitchens of many regions in India.Gaanth Gobhi flavoured with HingIngredientsMethod: Wash the gaanth gobhi well. Quarter the bulbs and cut the stems. Don’t tear or chop the leaves. Heat oil in a pan to smoking point. Reduce the flame to medium and put in the hing. As it dissolves, add the gobhi along with leaves. Stir gently, sprinkle salt and put in the chillies. Add a cup of hot water and bring to boil. Reduce the flame and simmer uncovered till done. The dish should retain a watery gravy. Tastes great with both steamed rice and roti. Hing is a latex-like resin of the feral plant that is milked and dried to obtain asafoetida. Iran and Afghanistan are its main producers, but travellers have also chronicled hing sourced from Kashmir.Myriad usesChaat would lose its seductive power if hing is excluded from the moveable feast. Pani puri would turn insipid and chutneys and sprinklers would miss their zing. In southern India, sambar and rasam depend on a tempering of hing for their characteristic favour and in Bengal, hinger kochuri prepared for festive feasts relies on it. It is believed that hing reached Bengal with Marwari immigrants, maybe via Bihar. The strictly vegetarian Marwari traders, who have a penchant for rich, hard-to-digest foods, find this ingredient indispensable to cope with the deep-fried staples prepared with ‘heavy’ lentils and ghee.photos: istockElsewhere in the Hindi heartland, following the prescriptions of Ayurveda, people have used it in all recipes that have ingredients that can cause an imbalance of vaat — one of the three basic doshas. As a matter of fact, traditional vaids often dispensed hingashtak choorna to their patients suffering from chronic gastric disorders.Hing is indispensable to most of the pickling spice blends, but it shines in solitary splendour in the hingwala aam ka sukha achaar prepared in Vaishya and Khatri families of Uttar Pradesh. Slices of unripe mango are generously anointed with strong-flavoured hing. The basic preservative is salt and the pickle isn’t touched by oil. It is the ideal companion for cold puris on a picnic or the now almost extinct long train journeys. It’s worth reminding ourselves that it also adds a subtle flavour to non-vegetarian delicacies. It is the cornerstone of Kashmiri Pandit wazwaan and enlivens the rogan josh and many other kaliyas and salans in the company of saunf and saunth.Historical rootsHistorians believe that hing was brought to India by Greek soldiers in Alexander’s army. This seems plausible. But, it is equally reasonable to argue that Indians had encountered it even earlier through their contacts with the Persian empire. The boundaries of undivided India extended to present-day Afghanistan and Iran where the best hing is produced.The Greeks carried asafoetida to Europe but residents of that continent didn’t acquire a taste for it. We hear of the good-old hing being used in rites of exorcism and sometimes for medicinal purposes.Arguably, the most delicate way of enjoying hing was discovered by the Iranians. The platter on which hot kebabs were served was infused with the aroma of this noble resin by scattering just a few grains of pure asafoetida on it.Recent plans announced by the government to grow hing-bearing ferula plants in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand have made many people sit up and take a new look at this familiar ingredient. Most are unaware that what we use in our everyday cooking is not pure hing but a compound — grains of strong stuff ground and bound together with flour.Hopefully, swadeshi hing will replicate the tea story. Or will the geographical indicator elude us? The lovers of hing aren’t bothered as long as their supply of high-grade hing remains uninterrupted from Kabul-Kandahar and beyond via Dubai perchance.What we are sharing with our readers this time is a vegetarian recipe that allows hing to shine as a solitaire. We owe this to our good friend Rashmi Dar, an accomplished cook. This is a delicacy that can be enjoyed by all, including the weight watchers and salad lovers or soup addicts. It’s truly a recipe for all seasons. Some of our friends like to jazz it up by adding bari or tempering with whole dried red chillies. For us, however, it’s sheer bliss playing an unalloyed duet with hing! After all, its many delights aren’t limited to hing jeere ke aloo alone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/there-is-no-zing-without-hing-164287
01-11-2020||Pushpa Girimaji||Glass tempered for your safety||The accident at the Perumbavoor branch of Bank of Baroda this June was indeed tragic, but it need not have been so. If only the bank had bothered about the safety of its customers and installed tempered safety glass made to Indian Standards specifications, 46-year-old Beena Paul would be alive today.The bank’s door was made of annealed glass, which by all safety norms, should not have been used in the door. This glass not only breaks easily on human impact, but produces jagged shards that can cause grievous injury and death. And that’s exactly what happened to Beena — the sharp glass pieces pierced her abdomen, leading to her death. If the bank had used third-party quality certified, tempered safety glass, it would not have broken so easily and even if it did, it would have disintegrated into small, blunt granular pieces, least likely to cause such injuries.That should answer your question about the safety of glass doors — the risk of injury arises only when builders install unsafe, annealed glass, instead of toughened, tempered safety glass or laminated safety glass. Both are not easy to break and even if they do shatter, the former breaks into small granular fragments while with the latter, the pieces are remain together due to the plastic layer that is baked between the two pieces of glass.Of course, just any tempered or laminated glass will not do. They have to have the required thickness and should have passed a number of safety tests such as fragmentation test, resistance to shock, resistance to human impact, fracture and adhesion test, etc. That is the reason why they should comply with the standards formulated by the Bureau of Indian Standards and should bear the ISI mark.Since ‘walk through’ accidents involving glass doors or partitions or walls are caused on account of the see-through nature of the glass or in other words, the impression of unimpeded path of travel, it is also absolutely necessary to have manifestations to make the glass visible.In fact, an important document in this regard is the ‘Guidelines on the use of Glass in Buildings: Human Safety’. Drawn up by the Confederation of Construction Products and Services (CCPS), a non profit organisation, with active participation of all stakeholders, both private and government, the guidelines tell you what kind of glass should be used in certain critical areas of buildings to prevent injuries to users. The guidelines also tell you about the kind of manifestations the glass should have to make it visible. Brought out first in 2007, the guidelines have been updated regularly, the last being in 2015.The Central Public Works Department, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, has often written to the state governments and asked them to incorporate the guidelines in their building bylaws so as to make it mandatory. I must also mention that Part 4 (safety related to human impact) of the Code of Practice for Use of Glass in Buildings, brought out by the BIS, also deals with the topic. The glass and glazing safety requirements also figure in the National Building Code-2016.Thus we have very good codes, guidelines and standards on glass safety in buildings, but what is absolutely essential is their stringent implementation by local authorities.As far as public and commercial buildings are concerned, consumers must demand that the civic authorities stringently enforce glass safety norms. When it comes to residential buildings, those buying the apartments should cross check and make sure that the builder has used only ISI-mark appropriate tempered or laminated safety glass. If you are renovating your home and using glass for doors, walls, partitions, bathrooms or even skylight, you must make sure that the glass has the relevant ISI mark.In fact, from April 1, 2021, ISI certification becomes mandatory for tempered and laminated safety glass. As per the Safety Glass (Quality Control) order issued by the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry, no safety glass can be sold or used without the ISI mark, indicating their conformity with IS 2553(Part 1) 2018: Safety Glass specification for architectural, building and general uses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/glass-tempered-for-your-safety-164288
01-11-2020||---||World Vegan Day: Living as a vegan||Rashi MathurHaving grown up in a culture where milk or milk-based products permeate every meal anywhere in India, people often confuse veganism as a dietary fad. Adopting veganism involves not only switching to a plant-based diet, but also abstaining from using any product that harms animals and environment. Definitely not a cakewalk, but a conscious cohort has taken the road.Take, for instance, Jairoop Riar. Ten years ago, she saw a PETA video on the treatment meted out to dairy animals and felt compelled to turn vegetarian and stopped consuming milk. Over time, she has become vegan and has stopped wearing woolen and silk clothes. She runs a cloud kitchen, Forks and Knives, that provides vegan bakery products. Similar is Abhishek Kaushal’s story. He took up a course on Animal Ethics and was shocked to learn about the agony faced by animals for the sake of human beings. Last year, he too became a vegan.A boon for fitness enthusiastsRoopika Dhillon, a CrossFit trainer, adopted a vegan lifestyle two years ago, and it has helped her improve her strength. “Contrary to the belief that we need to consume protein from animal sources, I have seen a drastic improvement in my fitness levels. Without meat, cream and cheese, health is bound to improve,” she insists.Veganism suits everyone, be it professional athletes or regular office-goers, says Vaibhav Garg, a clinical and sports nutritionist. On adapting to change, he explains, “It will not take the body much time to adjust when it is fed what is actually meant for it. We are herbivores and the human anatomy is in sync with this way of eating. The only problem that may arise is withdrawal symptoms. Otherwise, athletes/fitness enthusiasts can get enough protein from plant-based foods.”Health benefitsVegans swear by the positive changes in their life. Sakshi Aneja, a digital marketing student, has type-2 diabetes. An animal lover, she turned vegan two years ago. “Since then, I have seen improvement in my health,” she says. Anil Kumar, who became vegan in 1995, says his cholesterol levels have been among the lowest since he switched to a vegan way of life.Changing habitsPrompted by a research project on climate change, Sakshi Chomwal, a student, last year made a New Year resolution to be a vegan and has been adopting it in a phased manner. She has given away her leather bags and belts. “It is hard when you want to eat out and are unable to find vegan products. Some restaurants customise food as per preference, but one has to be careful with the selection. Even the bread has to be yeast-free.”Abhishek misses roadside tea stalls and cheddar and mozzarella cheese. “I know the chaiwala will not use oat milk for me. Initially, resisting temptation is tough, but when you experience what switching from cow milk to plant milk does to your body, the cravings gradually decrease,” he shares.The capitalist society functions as per demand, believes Jairoop. She says that with more people turning to veganism, a lot of substitutes have become accessible. “Polyurethane leather and fleece jackets are widely available. People are experimenting with mock meat, vegan butter and cheese, curd made of soy and coconut milk. There are options galore!” she says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/world-vegan-day-living-as-a-vegan-164289
01-11-2020||Purnima Sharma||Aishwarya Sridhar gets Wildlife Photographer of the Year award||Could it be true, I wondered,” gushes Aishwarya Sridhar, 23-year-old wildlife photographer and conservationist, talking of the moment when she was declared winner of this year’s Wildlife Photographer of the Year award announced by the Natural History Museum in London. Out of 50,000 entries from 80 countries, she struck gold in the adult category.Against the backdrop of a dark night sky in the Bhandardara forest, a tree illuminated with the warm bioluminescent glow of fireflies is what forms the subject of Sridhar’s prize-winning photograph entitled ‘Lights of Passion’. “Reading about them in the papers, I had been keen to capture the phenomenon that these tiny creatures offer for just a couple of weeks before the monsoon. It happens during their mating season — when the male fireflies emit a special light to attract their mates,” informs Sridhar, who had trekked for about two hours in almost pitch dark conditions to reach the spot of her choice. “The area, we were warned by the locals, was often invaded by leopards, wild boars and venomous snakes, but we were not to be deterred,” adds the young photographer and nature conservationist, who, through her work, would also like to focus attention on not just the beauty of fireflies but also on how adverse environmental conditions, cutting of forests and growing pollution are affecting their population. “And something needs to be done for them,” she adds.“Having seen and studied winning entries over the years, I had a hunch that this one might get selected,” confesses the self-taught lenswoman. And it was the “third-time lucky attempt” for Sridhar whose entries in the past two years had made it to the penultimate round.Sridhar’s tryst with wildlife commenced from the time she, as an eight-year-old, would accompany her father for nature walks in and around Mumbai. And her love for photography took root when she was gifted with a small, “point-and-shoot camera” on her 11th birthday. “That’s when I started documenting the subjects of my choice — be it flowers, insects or birds. My first photo of the big cat, a tiger, was at Pench — with the same camera, of course,” she smiles.Besides bagging the Sanctuary Asia Young Naturalist award at age 15, Sridhar was soon giving talks on her experiences, and conducting campaigns on wildlife conservation not just in school but even on bigger platforms, including television. One of her biggest success stories was initiating efforts to protect Mumbai’s 523-hectare piece of wetland in Panje. “This was among many other water bodies that I had, over the years, seen getting reclaimed. So, I put up a petition to the government and managed to save this area’s last abode of migratory birds — from flamingos to painted storks, red-necked phalarope (that came in after a gap of 15 years) and bar-tailed godwit — that come in from as far as Siberia, among others,” informs the wildlife crusader.After completing her graduation in mass media, Sridhar became even more determined to focus all her energies on saving and protecting wildlife and the environment. And she sure has a smorgasbord of fascinating experiences to share, including one of witnessing a tigress training her cubs to hunt and kill. “Waiting in the blazing heat of the sun at 46ºC was no damper as we sat hoping for them to make an appearance anytime soon. That they were closeby was apparent — the excited alarm calls by langoors, deer and peacocks around were a clear give away. Finally, after a five-hour wait, what unfolded before us was this beautiful, unforgettable experience,” smiles Sridhar. For one who takes delight in the rugged outdoors and revelling in encounters with wildlife, it comes as no surprise that clubbing at music soirees with friends is nowhere on her priority list. “For me, this is real chilling out,” she laughs.Having been confined to her home like the rest of the world, courtesy Covid-19, Sridhar is keeping her fingers crossed for the situation to ease out soon. “I wish this wasn’t happening but some things are beyond our control,” she says matter-of-factly but rues missing out not just on precious moments out in the wild but also the award ceremony at the NHML. “I would have loved to be there to personally collect the award but instead had to be content with the virtual ceremony,” she smiles. “But of course, there’s always a next time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/aishwarya-sridhar-gets-wildlife-photographer-of-the-year-award-164290
01-11-2020||Syed Saad Ahmed||Poornima Seetharaman gets into Games Hall of Fame||Bengaluru-based Poornima Seetharaman, 36, is the first Indian to be inducted in the Women in Games (WIGJ) Hall of Fame. The Hall of Fame by WIGJ, a leading global force on gender equality in the gaming business, is considered the ultimate recognition for women in the industry. An engineer by training, Poornima joined the gaming industry in 2006 and has since worked on BioShock, FarmVille and How to Train Your Dragon franchises, among other games. Presently, she is the lead game designer at Zynga, a developer of social games played by millions around the world. Usually reluctant to put herself out there, Poornima nevertheless filed nomination for the award, and was selected from 61 top entries. Her accomplishment will put the spotlight on the fast-growing Indian gaming industry. In an interview, she shares her journey, the joys of her job and the challenges she faced. Excerpts:What are your earliest memories of video games?My earliest memories are of Nintendo and Game Boy clones, playing Mario, Duck Hunt, Tetris, etc. My interest in games developed when my parents bought me a PC for academic purpose, and my friends introduced me to Age of Empires II (AoE) and Warcraft III.When did you realise you wanted to make a career in gaming?In college, I used to design AoE campaigns (game scenarios). I enjoyed doing that, but didn’t realise that was a part of game design. I played Zeus, a city-building game that piqued my interest in Greek mythology. It helped me realise that games are not just a pastime — these can teach you a lot and make you think. I started working as a programmer in a gaming company by chance and they had a game design opening. On recommendation of a college mate who was working there, I was given a month’s time to make a game design document (GDD) for a game similar to Neverwinter Nights but for mobile. They gave me the Dungeons & Dragons manual. I fell in love with the game design. It took me back to the kind of fun I had designing campaigns for AoE. That’s how I realised game design and development are my passion.How is working in the industry different from when you started?There are more resources to learn things today — you can pick up any skill through a YouTube tutorial. Back then, we only had a couple of books and articles. It was largely trial and error. Help was limited to your team or company. Today, you can reach out to people across the country as well as internationally. It took me 14 years to get where I am, but today, someone good can progress that much in five to six years.Gamergate highlighted misogyny in the gaming industry at a global level. Has there been similar harassment of female professionals in India?I have faced harassment, although it wasn’t that extreme. That is also because I had amazing colleagues who helped me. But I have heard many horror stories. I have also experienced interview bias. A friend and I interviewed for the same position and the questions we were asked were different. Leadership roles usually go to men. I remember once when a new management role had opened up, a guy was selected. When I approached the top brass, they said, “We didn’t know you were interested in that role.” Even though you may be capable and deliver results, it is taken for granted that as a woman, you won’t aspire for a leadership role.How is diversity in teams helpful?While I could quote many examples, I refrain from answering this question because it implies that women and marginalised groups need to offer something extra to be considered for a job. Why should we bring anything extra as long as we have the same skill set as others? Nobody asks what benefits men bring to the table. Attributes like gender shouldn’t matter as long as someone has the requisite skills.Where do you find inspiration for game designs?I find inspiration from a lot of things, but primarily from other games I play. I teach at NID and sometimes even the games my students make inspire me. Besides, movies, mythology and music too give me ideas.What do you like most about your job?I enjoy bringing joy to people with my games. Games are more than just fun. They can be a medium to bond with your family, learn new things, trigger thoughts, share meaningful messages or make a socio-cultural impact.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/poornima-seetharaman-gets-into-games-hall-of-fame-164291
01-11-2020||Bindu Gopal Rao||Two Karnataka farmers are rice conservators||Did you know that there are more than 19,000 variants of traditional rice in India? And that there were lakhs of varieties of rice that have been lost? Well surprising as this may seem, it is true, and there are two Karnataka farmers who are working tirelessly to save the traditional paddy variants from extinction while adopting organic farming practices.Preserving for posterity“Our focus remains on reviving the ‘lost’ traditional varieties and my main interest is exploration of man’s relationship with the land, food and the environment that surrounds us.” These words on a poster with a picture of Bhattada Boregowda, a paddy farmer who has set up a rice museum in Shivalli village in Mandya district catches your attention immediately. Started in 2009, this is the first rice museum set up by a farmer. The stairway to the museum has a colourful painting of Lord Balarama with his trademark ‘hal’ (plough) with the title ‘Farmer’s God’. Started by Boregowda, who is called Paddy Boregowda or Bhattada Boregowda (Bhatta means paddy in Kannada), the museum is home to a variety of rice variants. It also showcases some old farming tools in a large hall in his brother’s house. The walls are lined with awards and citations he has received and there are placards that detail the name, crop duration, yield per acre and season of the paddy varieties. The walls are beautifully painted with activities of paddy cultivation as well as ancillary activities like basket-weaving, cow-milking and the like. At one end of the wall is a massive painting that depicts a village that was executed by a Mumbai-based artist. “Once I learnt of lakhs of rice varieties that have been lost, I started collecting traditional varieties of rice and growing them. I felt that was necessary as the coming generations may not even know of the existence of these varieties if these are not conserved,” says Boregowda. He currently has collected more than 210 traditional varieties of rice. “In 2018, I noticed a distinct ear of paddy that seemed like Sona Masuri which I isolated and grew separately. Then I cultivated it in smaller patches, got the seeds and was able to grow over two acres. The new variety is called Sidda Sanna.”Live museumThe Rice Diversity Center in Kirugavalu in Malavalli Taluk has been setup by another farmer Syed Ghani Khan. This rice museum is located on the first floor of his house and displays more than 1,300 varieties of native rice. Incidentally, he also has an outdoor display of paddy that he grows in sacks and calls it a live museum. “I have grown 1,134 varieties of rice in a 30 by 40 square feet land, and this is to show how the different kinds of paddy look. Visitors can actually see paddy growing, which is a great way to showcase the variants,” says Khan. The museum has been developed after he received a grant from Nabard to the tune of Rs5 lakh and showcases paddy variants that are named with details like crop duration, stalk height, rice colour, region of origin, season, yield and typical characteristics. Placards are being developed for all variants and are printed in Kannada and English. In the museum, there are paddy ears hanging from the roof with small labels as well as lined up in bottles. One part of the museum’s ceiling also has a colourful display of corns growing in the farm. One can see paddy of different colours — white, brown, black and green as well as variants like saline, dry land, deep water and medicinal rice.A visit to the two rice museums is an eye-opener in conservation and the need to preserve traditional paddy variants for generations to come.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/two-karnataka-farmers-are-rice-conservators-164292
