02-08-2020||Shristi Nangalia||At work, at home||WITH the spread of coronavirus, all public and institutional places, including offices, have been shut until further notice. Working from home has become the new normal. With people being pushed indoors, the real estate industry is anticipating a spike in the demand of residences with dedicated home offices. Many Indian companies are reconsidering investment in commercial real estate as they look forward to effectuate work from home for their workforce on a long-term basis. Real estate developers and product manufacturers, too, are gearing up to provide suitable solutions for setting up of home offices.According to a recent research by Anarock, financially strong and organised residential real estate players are likely to occupy 75-80 per cent market share, with a demand for townships to rise in the coming years. The work from home concept may become the next fulcrum for home-buying decisions, and there will be a rising need for functional and flexible homes with an ability to convert rooms into workspaces. Architects, interior designers and product designers are, simultaneously, filling the gaps by designing prefab outdoor sheds for backyard offices, studio room layouts for interiors and compact, agile workstations that can be installed at multiple spots across the house.For homeowners, who have enough space to model a dedicated office space, get prepared for transition in terms of productivity and organisation. Here are some tips to keep in mind when designing your home office:Finding the right spotDepending upon the nature of work and space required, allocate an area in your house for work office. For those who can do with just a work desk and a chair, the space under the staircase, dead end of a hallway or a nook in the living of family room might be perfect to install your workstation. For those who need a more elaborate home office, find a place where you can integrate a secluded cabin or room. It can be by your terrace or balcony, in the backyard, or even the garage. Natural lighting and ventilation are a plus!Go for adjustable desksLong hours of work demand a comfortable desk and seat. A height-adjustable desk integrated with storage and a basic ergonomic office chair is generally fit for all home offices. Portable standing desk is also a convenient alternative. Make sure that both the standing and sitting positions of your desk don’t keep your neck or shoulders hunched over as you work. When picking the furniture, keep in mind extra seats for visiting colleagues or guests too. Besides your local manufacturers, a few trusted manufactures of office furniture are IKEA, AFC, Featherlite, Godrej Interio, Herman Miller, etc. Many DIY options are also available at online stores like Amazon, PepperFry, HomeTown and Home Centre.Balance light & temperatureTo manage tasks efficiently and increase wellbeing, lighting and temperature control are top considerations in structuring a home office. Maintaining the right balance of light and temperature induces better concentration, thereby boosting productivity.Add storage spaceAdequate storage in a workspace is a must. Not just to keep things organised and tidy, storage can be used to increase the aesthetic quality of the space too. Choose from free-standing cupboards to wall hung cabinets, designer open shelves to glass shelves… as per the décor you wish to actuate and the things you want to accommodate.Make the space engrossingPunching a few accentuating touches like a lively wallpaper, framed quotations or art, small planters, designer lamps, etc. can not only add personality and character to your home office, but also keep you focused and intrigued. Moreover, it helps you switch between home and work mode seamlessly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/at-work-at-home-121004
02-08-2020||Pooja Khanna Tyagi||Be an eco-warrior||A carbon footprint measures the amount of greenhouse gases that our homes are responsible for creating. A large carbon footprint means that our household activities release more greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide, which can have a negative impact on the environment. Therefore, it is essential to reduce the carbon footprint of our house by making clever choices in terms of what we buy, consume, and also make some basic changes in our daily lives.Save electricityTurn off the lights and fans when not in use and switch to energy-efficient LED lights, which last longer than CFL and incandescent lights. Open the windows to bring in maximum natural light to illuminate the indoors during the day. Additionally, turn off the power outlet of all electrical appliances when not in use.When you go out to buy electrical appliances like TVs, computers, air conditioners or microwave, go for energy efficient models with a good star rating. Invest in renewable energy sources like solar panels, solar heaters and solar-powered lights.Conserve energyAn energy-efficient house will reduce carbon emissions and help in saving electricity costs. Conserve energy in summers by drawing the curtains to prevent indoor heat gain during the peak hours of the day. If there are any gaps around the frames of the doors and windows, then use caulk insulation or weather stripping to prevent the leakage of cool air.Use the leftoversCheck and organise the fridge regularly. Consider setting up a compost bin for handling the leftovers. Compost is rich in nutrients, and once it decomposes, it can be used to fertilise the garden.Plant trees around the houseGrow plants indoors or outdoors as they absorb carbon dioxide and are a great way to reduce the carbon emissions from our house. Plant trees around the building because they help in reducing the recurring air-conditioning costs by providing shade and preventing indoor heat gain.Green’s the wordGo for furniture made in green materials like wood from sustainable forests, bamboo, glass or metal. Fabric for the curtains, upholstery, bed linen and towels should be manufactured with organic cotton or renewable natural fibres.Prevent water wastageAnother way to reduce the carbon footprint of our houses is by preventing the wastage of water. Some of the simple steps include fixing of all the leaky faucets and fixtures. Don’t forget to close the faucet in between rinses while brushing your teeth or washing dishes.REDUCE, RECYCLE, REUSEThe process of reducing, reusing, and recycling conserves energy and reduces the greenhouse gas emissions from various activities like resource extraction, manufacturing and transportation. Avoid single-use plastic items, buy less plastic-packaged food and take reusable bags for grocery shopping. Invest in non-disposable household goods and replace items like plastic water bottles and containers with green materials like aluminium, glass or steel. Before selling household junk, segregate the waste into plastic, glass, newspapers, aluminium, steel and electronic waste so that these can be recycled efficiently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/be-an-eco-warrior-120993
02-08-2020||Amarjeet Batth||Design your garden anew||Increased humidity and temperature during the monsoon are favourable for the growth of plants. This is the time to lay new grass, sow late summer vegetables, care for seasonal flowers and prepare chrysanthemum cuttings. Also maintenance operations like removal of weeds, annual application of manure, besides selective pruning and managing pest attacks are done during this period.Rainwash the indoor foliageExotic foliage pot plants like areca, chlamandorea, raphis palm, aglaonema, dieffenbachia, schefflera, drascena, syhgonium, philodendrum, which are usually kept indoors, must be brought outdoors for a rain wash. Drain excess water.Prepare Chrysanthemum cuttingsTerminal cuttings of 3”-4” taken from the mother stock should be treated with root promoting hormone and planted in sand under shade. The cuttings take two to three weeks to get ready. Cutting in ‘thumb pots’ are also available in nurseries. Since chrysanthemum is prone to diseases, pot mixture should be completely disinfected. The best time to do so is during peak summer. Prepare pot mixture consisting of one part garden soil, one part of farm yard manure (FYM), two parts of leaf mould and two tablespoons of bone meal. While planting the seedlings, add diammonium phosphate (DAP) and administer a dose of Captan (0.3 %) 2 ml in one litre of water to avoid rotting of cuttings. Three plants in claypots of 10 inches and five plants in a 12 inch pot are ideally planted. Initially, keep these in semi-shade. Later shift these to a sunny location. Rotate the pots every two to three days.Time for the LiliesA favourable time to plant your favourite lilies like crinum Asiaticum (spider lily), a tall bulbous perennial with strap-shaped leaves and scented spidery-looking white flowers, tuberose (rajnigandha), which gives sporadic flowering and aroma, or zephyranthus (rain lily), which sparkles the garden in three colours of white, yellow and pink. Daffodils, hyacinths, iris, tulip, freesia, gladiolus, lily Asiatic, lily oriental and ranunculus should be planted in September-October.Make way for the rosesNew plantation of roses is done from September till January. It requires a well drained sunny spot with at least six hours of direct sunlight. The plant-to-plant distance should be two feet in the flowerbed. The pit should be two feet wide and two feet deep. It is to be filled with FYM and superphosphate to ensure strong root growth.Organic Veggies on your plateGo in for a spree of summer bhindi, brinjal, tomato, bitter gourd, cucumber, long melon (tar), kaddu, coriander, mint and chillies. Grow vegetables on raised beds with proper drainage, especially in the rainy season.Plant fruit treesA suitable time to plant mango, citrus fruits (kinnow, lemon, etc), papaya, guava, ber, litchi, loquat in the home garden. Dig a pit 3’x3’and add FYM. Yearly dose of FYM in August-September.Lay the grassLight loamy soil allows air circulation and good drainage. Use vermicompost, one kg per sq m and apply 2 kg DAP per 500 sq feet. Irrigate the lawn to make the soil soft. Dig the soil deep so that the weeds are removed. Mowing should be done frequently. Ensure proper drainage. Fortnightly apply urea 15 gm/ sq m.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/design-your-garden-anew-121002
02-08-2020||BN Goswamy||The Ghadarite Journals: Chronicle of India’s freedom struggle||Champions of Liberty in all Lands! Be strong in hope. You are calumniated in your day. I was misinterpreted by the loyalists of my day. Had I failed, the scaffold would have been my doom. Had I failed, I would have deserved the same honour. I stood true to my cause even when victory was fled. In that I merited success. You must act likewise.— George Washington, as cited by the Ghadar movement leaders in their paperBreathe not his name. Let it sleep in the shade where cold and un-honoured his relics are laid.— A poet, writing in honour of Robert Emmet, self-denying 18th century Irish patriotLIVING as we do in our times — our freedom established, our Constitution more or less in place, fundamental rights, as we hear, ‘guaranteed’ — it is near impossible for us to re-imagine, or reconstruct, the image of India of a hundred years ago. Historians might do it, or at least try their hand at it, and an occasional reference/image/event might force our attention on that era. But, by and large, for nearly all of us, ‘the past’, as they say, ‘is another country’. We might keep paying sarsari homage to our freedom struggle, but the feel of what it must have been to be in those times is apt to escape us.The Angrezi Raj, with all its ‘barkats’ which were tom-tommed by official organs was firmly there; the idea of complete independence — “poorna swaraj” — was on the other hand striking root; different voices were being raised and heard, from extreme to mild to feeble; different strategies for throwing off the colonial yoke were being worked out. Stirring times. I recall my father occasionally reciting snippets of Ram Prashad Bismil’s mantric poem — Sarfaroshi ki tamanna ab hamaare dil mein hai — but this was long after we had gained our freedom; my mother would, in a trembling voice, sing out sometimes the words of that achingly beautiful, sadness-laden women’s song — Aao ni saiyyo aj ral mal baithiye — intended to be sung at Bhagat Singh’s funeral procession, as if it were a marriage party. Why? Because is he not headed for the home of his Bride — that is Death: maut kudi parnaawan chaleya.All this said, how am I entitled to be writing about all this? I have done no research on the period, nor have I ever been close to the sources. I do it despite this, however, for I wish to share what I came upon, purely by chance the other day: an image of the cover of a journal that a group of patriotic Indians, based in the United States, had started publishing in the twenties from San Francisco. I might have missed it had the journal not been titled: The United States of India. I had never heard of it. One knew about that fiery group, including those that founded the Ghadar Party there, but of this journal I knew nothing. Suddenly, from that page, and a few others that I was able to track, jumped out names that one had heard of, and viewed with great respect: among others, Lala Hardayal, Sohan Singh Bhakna, Kartar Singh Sarabha, Taraknath Das, Rash Behari Bose, Vishnu Pingle, Mohammed Barkatullah; Gulab Kaur. The only graphic that appeared on the front page of the inaugural edition of the journal — vol. I, no. 1 — dated July, 1923, was arresting: a young sari-clad woman, hugging a bunch of blooming lotuses to her bosom, standing atop the globe, and blowing into a thin long bugle-like instrument on which the word ‘Independence” was carved. She, meant to be seen possibly as the Motherland, looked freshly bathed and ready to plunge into action. Her hair, streaming and falling down her shoulders, spread behind her and, quite subtly, turned into the map of India. The message was clear: a clarion call was being sounded. The journal, to be published once a month, was, it declared, meant to be a ‘Review of political, economic, social and intellectual independence of India’, and it was the Pacific Coast Hindustani Association, operating from 5, Wood Street in San Francisco, which published it. The subscription? One dollar per year.This journal, it turns out, had precedents. The Ghadar Party — Ghadar meaning rebellion — had been founded in 1913, and had started publishing a journal in Urdu and Gurmukhi, titled Ghadar. Kartar Singh Sarabha, studying then at the University of California at Berkeley, had put the aims of the party succinctly: “Today there begins ‘Ghadar’ in foreign lands, but in our country’s tongue, a war against the British Raj. What is our name? Ghadar. What is our work? Ghadar. Where will be the Revolution? In India. The time will soon come when rifles and blood will take the place of pens and ink.” The reference to movements in India that relied on ‘pens and ink’ pointed clearly in the direction of the parties that were beginning to oppose the British through legal and peaceful means: the movement that came a bit later to be led by Gandhiji, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel, and others. This, in the U.S., was a movement different from theirs: for it was fiercely assertive, committed to violent means if left with no choice, and fearless. When its members were caught and hung by British authorities — in harrowingly large numbers sometimes: one issue reporting as many as 400 hangings between 1915 and 1916 — these journals kept publishing the names and photographs of those who had died thus as martyrs — true martyrs, not simply fearless heroes — in the cause of Indian freedom. One can question of course the methods they chose, but not their passion, the flame they kept burning in their hearts.A wonderful poem that Faiz Sahib wrote, not about the Ghadarites but about all those who die for a Cause, says it all. Hum jo taareek raahon mein maare gaye. [There were we: killed, one after the other, in dark nameless lanes….] A lump rises in the throat as you read it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-ghadarite-journals-chronicle-of-indias-freedom-struggle-121003
02-08-2020||Sarika Sharma||New York’s Richard Taittinger Gallery brings Maria Qamar’s feminist pop art to India||HER works are unmistakably Indian. Her heroines sport bindis and tikkas. They deal with desi dilemmas. They love desi lingo. They curse in desi too. Half Indian, half Bangladeshi, Maria Qamar’s desi pop art first took Instagram by storm and then, exactly a year ago, she broke into the New York art world with her first US solo exhibition, Fraaaandship!, at Richard Taittinger Gallery. Her works now come to India, courtesy Richard Taittinger Gallery and Tao Art Gallery in Mumbai, which are showcasing her new show, virtually.Raised in Canada, Qamar was nine when the twin towers were ripped apart in America. As a young girl in a post-9/11 world, she had to endure bullying and racism. She later recalled, “I started going home and drawing comics about these experiences.” Qamar found her artistic voice five years ago through Instagram under the name @Hatecopy where her illustrations resonated with the desi community, particularly the second generation.The new show, Me Meraself and I, expresses the depression and loneliness of extended solitude, courtesy Covid-19. “Me Meraself and I was an exhibition created in isolation, much like my previous works. The exception now is that, with the global pandemic and the rise of social awareness towards racial injustice, the effects on our collective mental health are more prevalent. This has made me more aware of my personal traumas, and what it means to be truly alone,” she says.In the exhibition, Qamar engages with ways in which we turned to social media and technology to reach out and to cope. Works such as Naach and Then You Broke Up with Me on Zoom speak of the space digital apps have been occupying in our lives. Theek Thaak, a play on Tik Tok, points to the limited capacity of digital apps.Qamar’s first exhibition at Richard Tattitinger was about South Asian millennials abroad. We ask her if she is an extension of the same, while taking a feminist view, and Qamar returns: “A feminist lens is the only lens I know to look through. My work has always been and will continue to be about female empowerment.”Straight out of comic books, the works are interspersed with Hinglish idioms. How does a western audience respond to that, we wonder, but Qamar says the work is primarily made for a South Asian audience. “Many desi viewers have found the work very relatable. The reception in a broader sense has been positive overall as it invites even non-South Asian audiences to learn about our culture and language. We often have viewers Googling terms they don’t know and it is great to see people engage with the language and themes of the work.”However, a spokesperson for Richard Taittinger Gallery’s gallery says that while many viewers in New York City do not speak these languages, her works are very relatable and have been very well received by viewers and collectors from different backgrounds. “It has been incredibly rewarding to have visitors who see themselves reflected in the work, and who have commented about how satisfying it has been to see their culture represented on gallery walls.”In the last couple of years, Qamar has taken her works to Europe (December 2019), painted murals on restaurant walls, designed cutlery, written a book (Trust No Aunty) — all pop-hued, all for what she calls a naya zamaana...||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/new-yorks-richard-taittinger-gallery-brings-maria-qamars-feminist-pop-art-to-india-121005
02-08-2020||Mona||Drive-in cinemas come calling||IN the new normal, everything across the spectrum is under transformation. The same might be just true for our good-old cinema too. With ‘Unlock 3.0’ keeping cinemas out of the few privileges that we enjoy in these times of pandemic, the chorus regarding drive-in theatres is growing louder. A concept that had hitherto not taken off in India despite attempts, it is a go-to entertainment mode in other parts of the world. However, looks like things might be in for change.A result of Covid-19 was entertainment entrepreneur Viren Khanna’s initiative 369 Drive-In at Mullur, Bengaluru. Must we say, it was lapped up rather enthusiastically! Set up to beat the Covid blues, this drive-in cinema has folks enjoying films while sitting in the safety and comfort of their cars. “A giant LED screen has been set up, we ensure zero contact, no one is allowed out of the car but for using the restrooms, which are sanitised at regular intervals,” shares Khanna. Courtesy a tie-up with Yash Raj, they have screened Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge and Chak De! India. They have collaborated with a Hollywood studio offering Lion King but a two-week lockdown has made them take a temporary break. “We would be back next week with more movies,” promises Khanna, who is willing to provide know-how to anyone aiming to set up a drive-in theatre.Drive-in cinemas are a western concept, but are not new to India either. While some attempts were made in the 1970s in cities like Ahmedabad, Mumbai and Bengaluru, besides some places in South India, it is Sunset, in Ahmedabad, that holds the distinction of the longest-running drive-in cinema in India. It has a capacity to park more than 600 cars and has arrangements for those without cars too. Prarthana Beach drive-in theatre in Chennai — with raised ramps for cars and galleries for those without vehicles — has been a high of East Coast Road. Gurgaon Talkies in Gurugram has been another attempt. Other ventures have not been as successful. While India’s weather is least ideal for this experience, apparently it was the mosquitoes and the marshy land that it stood on that took down the drive-in theatre in Bandra, Mumbai.In a pandemic-hit world, however, the scales seem to have tilted towards this unique experience. Wing Commander Sandeep Sharma still remembers when he first went to the drive-in theatre in Ahmedabad. “It was like watching a film in the box in single screen cinemas,” he laughs. Many a happy family nights followed thereafter and he is ever ready to go for another show.Even if purists feel film watching is a personal, intense activity and cannot happen in an informal setting, like a car, those who have experienced it once say it is all about having a good time. Academician Sharda Kaushik might say she wouldn’t trade a regular cinema experience with a drive-in cinema, she likes it nonetheless. Her first run-in with one happened when she was in her teens. It felt like a picnic and her last time, also at Ahmedabad, was like being at a fair. “There were vendors, a cafeteria and waiters were going about bringing snacks, collecting plates.” Karanbir Singh had his first experience at Galaxy drive-in theatre in Perth (Australia). Driving in to what seemed like a parking, they bought tickets and were allotted parking space. By tuning to a certain frequency, the movie sound played through their car’s music system. “We watched Aladdin. Many people had brought their pets with them. Some people came in an Ute and enjoyed the movie while sitting in its open trunk, wrapped in blankets. It was not normal cinema, it was more comfortable and relaxing,” vouches Singh.Seems like something perfect to beat the pandemic blues while staying safe. What say?Region gearing up for a dateEfforts are underway to bring drive-in cinema to Punjab. If all goes goes well, Pankaj Gaur will bring the experience of drive-in cinema to the tricity within the next month. “We have put together a plan, whether cinemas open or not. In the near future, drive-in cinema could be the new normal.” At the same time, Lalit Agnihotri, who has been into hospitality and marketing for the last two decades, has been trying to bring drive-in cinema to Punjab. “The current scenario demands a space where people can enjoy movie viewing while maintaining safe distance.” He is in touch with banquet halls and cinema chains to put his plan into action. “Looks like the big fat Indian wedding is a goner. Drive-in cinemas could salvage the losses of those who have invested heavily into both banquets and cinemas. It could be good for the state exchequer too in terms of entertainment tax,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/drive-in-cinemas-come-calling-121006
02-08-2020||Aditi Tandon||Pandemic’s unfair deal||THOSE who knew Shikha Pandey still can’t believe she died by suicide early last month. The young and upcoming regulatory practices lawyer was going places until Covid-19 struck, changing everything. The triggers behind Shikha’s untimely death may never be fully known but her suicide has led Delhi High Court lawyers to launch the first virtual canteen where women advocates, coping with Covid-19-induced challenges of loneliness, job loss and salary cuts, can come and bond.“A canteen plays a crucial part in a lawyer’s life. It is a place where we meet and talk about work and life situations. Covid-19 restrictions have erased physical spaces and women are finding it hard to cope with new realities. The pandemic is impacting young women disproportionately as they lose jobs and see no signs of recovery. The virtual canteen is a way of staying together in pandemic times,” says advocate Sunieta Ojha about the initiative that’s growing in membership.Attempts to create digital communities of people with special focus on women are underway across the country and cut across spaces. When Covid-19 had just hit the world making work from home the new normal, gender experts had hoped the transformation would induce gender chore parity. But that has remained a dream.Avtar Group, India’s only organisation providing solutions in diversity and inclusion to corporates, recently estimated that the average time Indian women spend doing house jobs daily was 18 times more than men.“The number one challenge for working women is navigating the work-life integration maze as corporates shift to work from home. Women in most Indian households carry a greater share of domestic duties. This has been compounded by the absence of domestic help. We recently used the OECD gender chore report to estimate the gender chore gap in India and found that on an average, Indian women spend a staggering 352 minutes a day attending to cooking, cleaning and caring whereas Indian men spend only 19 minutes a day doing the same jobs,” says Saundarya Rajesh, founder president of Avtar. Rajesh sees the gender chore gap reducing but the pace of change is excruciatingly slow.Victims of gender disparityEvidence from the job sector is also looking grimmer for women than for men. The Indian Society of Labour Economics recently found that more than 54 per cent jobs in non-urban locations were at potential risk. Another estimate by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) says among urban jobs, self employment has taken the greatest hit with losses to the extent of 80 per cent and company employment has dipped through the Covid period by about 20 per cent, railing upwards in the week ending July.“CMIE also found that the rate of job loss for Indian women is 17.6 per cent more than that for men in the Covid-19-induced situation. These are disturbing trends which, if not addressed, can lead to reversal of gender diversity gains from the pre-pandemic era. Also, although close to 49 pc of India’s university graduates are women, they tend to be concentrated on low-skills jobs. This puts them at greater risk of retrenchment when disruptors like Covid strike. One can say women are the shock absorbers of society, and at its disposable frontlines,” social entrepreneur Saundarya Rajesh notes.Growing domestic abuseWork-life integration woes apart, the greater challenge threatening women worldwide is the growing domestic abuse as victims remain trapped with perpetrators at home due to Covid-induced restrictions.Executive director of UN Women Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka noted as early as April 6 that with billions sheltering at home due to Covid-19, a shadow pandemic of violence against women was raging.“Confinement is fostering strain created by security, health, and money worries. And it is increasing isolation for women with violent partners separating them from people and resources that can best help them,” Phumzile said, even as UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres acknowledged that women were losing paid employment globally and their unpaid care work was rising exponentially as an outcome of school closures and the increased needs of elder people.The UN even warned nations saying if not dealt with, the shadow pandemic would add to the economic impact of Covid-19.“The global cost of violence against women has been estimated at approximately $1.5 trillion, a figure that can only be rising as violence increases now and continues in the aftermath of the pandemic,” Phumzile says.But timely warnings have not helped. India is yet to comply with the UN advisory to make women shelter homes part of essential services during Covid, this even when the burden of domestic violence against Indian women has doubled since January 2020.In the week after the lockdown starting March 24, the National Commission for Women received 257 complaints of crimes against women. This was a marked rise from data recorded between March 2 and 8 when 116 complaints came. Cases of domestic violence more than doubled from 30 to 69 over the same period.Further decline imminentNCW chairperson Rekha Sharma says these trends have held and progressively the country is witnessing other negative impacts of the pandemic on women.“Women are losing more jobs than men, the new normal of remote education and remote working is posing fresh challenges of integration and online safety,” she notes.While urban Indian women still have access to some support, the poor migrants lurking on the margins of society have been the hardest hit by the pandemic.The UN recently said nearly 60 per cent women globally working in the informal economy, earning less and saving less, were at greater risk of falling into poverty due to Covid-19.The post-lockdown reverse migration in India showed this was true.March witnessed tragic deaths of scores of labourers, including poor women who died of fatigue and starvation unable to cope with the pressures of walking back home which was miles away.Rural India, though mostly spared of the virus, continues to reel under economic stress with experts saying that Indian women workforce participation is all set to hit the lowest levels ever.Women workforce participation has already been declining over the past decade and is set to fall further post-Covid-19 since women are disproportionately represented in the informal and agricultural sectors, says Geeta Sen, Director, Ramalinga Centre on Equity and Social Determinants of Health.Government’s immediate response to Covid addressed the upper and middle classes and the informal sector was left to fend for itself. The poor need cash to survive and you are giving them loans, rues Sen.Absence of support servicesFalling household incomes are also creating new vulnerabilities for Indian women, who lag at the bottom of policy priority lists.Meera, a domestic help in the national capital, who lost her job during Covid, has suffered abuse at the hands of her alcoholic husband for months. She says she flagged the violence to the local police but received no help.“I ended up getting more beatings from my husband when he learnt I had raised an alarm,” says Meera, lamenting that systems do not work.Closure of courts has compounded the woes of women who don’t know where to go to seek justice.Alarmed by the absence of support services for victims of domestic abuse, a division bench of Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Rajnesh Oswal of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court recently took suo motu cognisance of the issue. The judges directed the UTs of JK and Ladakh to designate informal safe spaces for women, such as grocery stores and pharmacies where women can report domestic violence without alerting the perpetrator and designate safe spaces like hotels and schools as shelters for women victims compelled to leave homes due to their domestic situation.Justice Mittal even directed the creation of dedicated funding to address issues of violence against women and girls as part of Covid-19 response noting, “Judicial notice can be taken of the fact that the plight of victims of domestic violence in the UTs of JK and Ladakh must be no different as that of similarly placed victims in other jurisdictions.”Little has been done on the ground and access to justice is still missing.With court hearings going virtual, women in domestic violence situations are finding it hard to hire lawyers for help.Seema Sharma, faculty, Law School, University of Jammu, says barring the JK High Court judgment on domestic violence, one has not seen many judicial pronouncements on Covid-induced challenges being faced by women. “Disruption of justice is a huge concern with courts taking up only urgent matters for virtual hearings,” Sharma says.Women’s problems clearly do not yet make the cut as urgent matters.India fights backHow the world is respondingArgentina: Pharmacies declared safe spaces for victims of abuse to report.France: Grocery stores are housing counselling services and victims are being asked to access pharmacies and inform pharmacists about the abuse directly or using a code word — mask 19, if they are accompanied by their abuser. France also reserved 20,000 hotel rooms for victims of domestic violence.Spain: Not fining women violators of lockdown.Canada: Set aside millions of dollars to support women NGOs and shelters.UK: Women’s Equality Party has called for special police powers to evict perpetrators from homes for the duration of the lockdown, and for the authorities to waive court fees for the protection orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/pandemics-unfair-deal-120991
