03-08-2020||Vijay C Roy||Don’t compromise on quality||PM Narendra Modi’s call for making India atmanirbhar (self-reliant) has led to a debate on the potential of the agriculture sector to become self-sufficient. Experts say we are self-reliant in cereals, wheat and paddy, but are heavily dependent on imports for oilseeds and pulses, to name a few.According to them, India has the capacity to replace imports and produce globally competitive products. They stress upon the need for a focused approach with the right blend of policy formulation and implementation to become self-reliant. The question arises: what kind of support is needed to make India atmanirbhar in agriculture?“When the Central government frames a policy, it must involve stakeholders in the whole process. Only then can we become atmanirbhar in agriculture,” says Ajay Vir Jakhar, Chairman, Punjab State Farmers’ and Farm Workers’ Commission.Agriculture is a state subject, but the money comes from the Centre. “The Centre comes up with the agriculture policy without consulting the state government, the implementing agency. The Centre must ensure that the beneficiaries or stakeholders participate actively in framing the policy,” he adds.There is also a dire need for independent evaluation of government programmes. “This can help in identifying the lapses in implementation so that these are not repeated. The lessons learnt can be used to design new programmes,” Jakhar says.Rather than calculating the cost of cultivation, the government must calculate the real cost of growing food to protect the interests of farmers. “Further, it’s time to plan for nutritional self-reliance and the focus should be on atmanirbharta in poultry, pulses and oilseed production and not just cereals, wheat and paddy,” he adds.Cluster-based farmingTo become self-sufficient, cluster-based farming is the need of the hour, with customised incentives for each crop. A one-size-fits-all strategy must be done away with, opines Puneet Singh Thind, a farmer and president of Northern Farmers’ Mega FPO (Farmer Producer Organisation).The cluster-based approach is aimed at forming a consolidated, cultivable holding dedicated to specific foodgrains, vegetables, fruits and other horticulture crops. As per farmers, a cluster system can give a fillip to the production of pulses and oilseeds. The demand for pulses, oilseeds and horticulture crops has outgrown supply in the past decade or so.“Also, instead of trying out random crops based on unsolicited advice, we should concentrate on specific crops suitable to micro agro climate and demand,” says Puneet. According to experts, based on an area’s production plans, only identified crops and practices should be incentivised in a particular region.Experts state that food safety and quality assurance are areas of concern for Indian agriculture, necessitating the adoption of good agriculture practices. Farmers say government procurement should promote quality production through exports and not monoculture through public distribution at nearly free of cost.Experts say the existing model of agriculture is not self-reliant. Considering a village as a unit, agriculture in the village is dependent on external sources in two ways: all inputs — seeds, fertilisers, pesticides etc. — come from the market and at the agricultural produce is also sold in the city markets. This model makes farmer dependent on the government, the market and companies.“Seeds, fertilisers and pesticides should be locally produced in an organic way because all these inputs have a huge market. Every year, crores of rupees go out of a village. If this money stays in the village, it will make the village prosperous and self-reliant,” says Umendra Dutt, Executive Director, Kheti Virasat Mission (Punjab), an NGO engaged in the promotion of organic food and farming.He adds, “We are implementing MGNREGA by investing crores of rupees in order to generate employment in villages and running Skill India for training the people, even as our entire model of agriculture is creating unemployment due to dependence on machines and the market. If agriculture becomes organic and provides livelihood to other people in the villages, the country won’t need MGNREGA and skill programmes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/dont-compromise-on-quality-121451
03-08-2020||Deepender Deswal||The long road ahead||THE agriculture sector is not enthused by the Atmanirbhar Bharat slogan. Farmers feel that the government’s insistence on their self-reliance is a climbdown on its promise of doubling their income.“As far as foodgrain production is concerned, the peasantry in Haryana and Punjab is not only self-reliant but also contributes to the national food kitty in a big way. What we want is an improvement in our living standards,” says Prabhu Ram, a farmer of Kirtan village in Hisar district who owns five acres. He says despite utilising the services of the entire family throughout the year, he is not able to earn enough to afford good schooling for his children or own a car. “After pouring blood and sweat into farming, we still don’t have a decent lifestyle,” he rues.Dr Kuldeep Dhindsa, an agriculture expert, says the implementation of the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission can put the farmers in a much better position and uplift the sector as a whole, adding that farmers should be given the minimum support price (MSP) for their produce.Ramesh Kumar, a farmer of Bhiwani, says flawed policies like the recent ordinances issued in the name of agricultural reforms are ruining farmers. “These retrograde steps could prove counter-productive instead of making the sector self-reliant,” he claims, adding that the attempt to introduce privatisation in the sector would spell doom for the farmers.The Vice Chancellor of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (HAU), Prof Samar Singh, says the farm sector employs 55 per cent of the population and contributes 17 per cent to the GDP. “A great performance by the farmers of Haryana and Punjab ensured that the country became self-reliant in food production. However, the sharp deceleration of agriculture growth in both states is intriguing,” he adds.The VC says the state government’s steps to provide irrigation facilities, all-weather roads to provide rural connectivity and assured market for agricultural produce has helped the farmers. “The future of agricultural prosperity lies in the high-value sectors of agriculture. The state needs to promote crop diversification and encourage the food processing industry, besides micro irrigation technology and sectors such as livestock, fisheries and horticulture,” he says, adding that paddy cultivation is leading to massive depletion of the water table.Prof SS Punia, head of the Agronomy Department, HAU, says milk processing needs to be promoted aggressively by the state government. Although Haryana is among the toppers in ‘per capita per day’ availability of milk in the country, only 10 per cent of the total production of the state is processed by the organised sector (co-operatives and private players), which is very low compared to Gujarat (about 50 per cent).“The government should provide incentives to the private sector to improve milk processing and set up several plants to process at least 30-35 per cent of the total production in the coming five years. Linking maize farmers with the dairy sector will help increase milk production through the supply of quality feed. But the abundance of liquid milk will put a downward pressure on its price. The government should incentivise the setting up of milk processing units; The state government can also make the rearing of cattle more profitable to farmers through its vibrant dairy sector, besides developing meat processing, especially of buffaloes, as an export-oriented industry,” he says.Stumbling blockPrabhu Ram, a farmer of Hisar’s Kirtan village who owns five acres, says despite utilising services of his family throughout the year, he is not able to earn enough to afford good schooling for his kids or own a car. “After pouring blood and sweat into farming, we still don’t have a decent lifestyle,” he rues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-long-road-ahead-121452
