03-05-2020||Nonika Singh||Irrfan Khan, a director’s delight||Tributes are still pouring in. Epitaphs are still being penned, one of the most moving and revealing by none other than Sutapa Sikdar, Irrfan Khan’s wife. But then actors like Irrfan come rare, like those shooting stars, only once in a while. While his demise is being mourned as a personal loss by so many people, even by those who knew him only through the characters he essayed, we wonder what the magic of Irrfan Khan was like for his directors. Was he a director’s actor, a method actor or far more enigmatic? What made him ‘shine the brightest in the universe’, as Homi Adajania, the director of his swansong, Angrezi Medium, wrote in an Instagram post.Saket Chaudhary, whose film Hindi Medium would go down as Irrfan’s first superhit in mainstream cinema, shares, “There certainly was a method to his acting, but way beyond the standard notion of a method actor. He would understand the director’s vision but give it an interpretation that would enhance the vision.”Sudhir Mishra, who directed him in Yeh Saali Zindagi and in an Amazon Prime series, Gormint, which Irrfan had to drop out of because of ill health, calls him a co-writer. He shares how Irrfan would often give suggestions that would tempt directors to turn around the whole scene on its head. Mishra adds, “He was so damn good that he would challenge you in the most inspiring and creative way.”In Tanuja Chandra’s Qarib Qarib Singlle, a love story, Irrfan became one with the rather oddball character of Yogi, seeking a partner on a dating site. According to Chandra, his biggest strength as an actor was his ability to connect deeply with his character, to look into its soul. “That’s precisely why he could look so natural, unique yet real, not larger than life but believable, adorable with frailties, silliness, humanity and sweetness intact.” Even though both Chaudhary and Chandra cast him in avatars he was not best known for – one comic and the other romantic — there was no ambiguity or doubt in their minds. Chaudhary had seen his charm and comic timing in Shoojit Sircar’s Piku and Anurag Basu’s Life in a Metro. His serious image, he feels, became the biggest asset in a comedy. In Anees Bazmee’s masala entertainer Thank You, Irrfan’s presence, seeming more like an anachronism, may have rankled his fans but he was a natural on the commercial turf too. Bazmee says, “A brilliant actor can break and fit into any mould.”The acknowledgement of his brilliance is not an afterthought or an epithet affixed to him after his demise. “We always knew that, it was first Tigmanshu Dhulia and later Vishal Bhardwaj who introduced us to his brilliance,” says Mishra. “With him around, one could focus on the bigger picture. He facilitated story-telling, let it flow.” Chaudhary puts it succinctly, “He did not just act, he created.”While writing the character of Raj Batra in Hindi Medium, Chaudhary didn’t have Irrfan in mind initially. But soon after he etched the opening sequence of this charming ‘fake’ boutique owner of Chandni Chowk, he knew it had to be Irrfan. For Chandra, Yogi was Irrfan and vice-versa right from the start. As she and her co-writer Gazal Dhaliwal began sketching the character of a staunch feminist, a kind and loving person, she knew no one else would fit the bill.For directors, how Irrfan loved to discuss the story and characters was also a source of delight. “He liked being spontaneous. Retakes, he feared, would make him monotonous,” Chandra says. Bazmee recalls how once a dialogue and a scene he had penned wasn’t sounding funny enough, but Irrfan, with his wide-eyed innocence, delivered it with panache. Chaudhary recalls how he had decided to edit out one scene which had some dialogues but very little action. He reminisces: “Irrfan enacted the sequence with the emotions in his eyes mirroring the guilt and emotional turmoil. As a director, even I could not have envisioned it.”Among his strengths, Chaudhary believes, was his ability to catch an interesting thing about a character and elaborate it through his performance. Besides, he could distil every experience of his life into acting. Is that what made him the actor he was? “He thought of the film as a whole, not just his own part or character. Besides, he had huge regard for every artiste, not merely his co-stars,” says Mishra.Director of Revolver Rani, Sai Kabir, remembers him as a philosopher, a Zen master, mysterious yet simple. Kabir’s dream project, Divine Lovers with Irrfan, an Indo-French production, may have fallen through, but the director’s awe and admiration for him and his craft is intact. “An actor who knew how to prepare, yet never let it show,” says Kabir. Mishra, who shot a few scenes of Gormint with Irrfan, was awestruck by how he got into the skin of the character of a has-been Punjabi star without caricaturing it one bit. Yet, Irrfan was aware of his limitations. Mishra says, “He had this amazing ability to look at himself from the outside and evolve.” Anup Singh, who made the brilliant Qissa and The Song of Scorpions with him, called him ‘a sum of thousand suns’.Clearly, his relationship with his directors was one of mutual inspiration. As Sam Mendes says, “I want to inspire and be inspired.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/irrfan-khan-a-directors-delight-79799
03-05-2020||Pushpesh Pant||Lady’s fingers in different drapes||Lady’s fingers aka okra is better known to Indians as bhindi. It is relished in many versions. Kurkuri (crisply fried), paired with onions, achaari (stuffed with pickling spices), cooked on dum in Awadh or presented as do pyaaza, khatti chooran wali in Hyderabad, besani in Rajasthan or encountered as tave ki at marriage banquets. Then there are variations of the bhrawaan theme. The popular filling in Maharashtra is a mixture of peanuts, sesame seeds, desiccated coconut, a dash of crumbled jaggery and a strong dose of hot chillies.Parsis like it mild and dip it in chilled curd after frying. Mind you this is no raita but a regular subzi. They have a penchant for eggs and also have another recipe eenda ma bheenda where fried okra is heaped on a base of scrambled eggs cooked the Parsi way. And how can we forget bhindi masala that dunks crisply fried bhindi into a tomato-onion-garlic-ginger concoction that makes it look like a close cousin of other equally unimaginative kadahi recipes.In the days of lockdown, we find ourselves recalling myriad bhindi delicacies we have come across. One of the most breathtaking vendakai curries we have enjoyed is the Brahmin recipe from Udupi, the town that houses a major Krishna shrine and muth. This dish doesn’t just eschew onions and garlic, it also dispenses the tomatoes brought in by the Portuguese. The gravy relies on grated coconut and chilli paste. A dash of tamarind pulp is added to fix the stickiness of bhindi and to balance the sourness, some crumbled jaggery is thrown in. Served with rice, it is sheer bliss.In Mangalore, there is no taboo on onions, garlic or tomatoes. Here, tamarind and jaggery join hands with pungent red chillies. The real twist here is coconut milk that is added to obtain a thin gravy and reduce the pungency. In Tamil Nadu, bhindi enriches kuzhambu, a kadhi-like preparation — a very satisfying accompaniment to rice on a hot summer day you yearn for a light meal.North Indians seem to have an unreasonable mental block against bhindi in thick or thin gravies. They taste as good with phulka as with rice. There are non-vegetarian combos. We were recently treated to an absolutely stunning bhindi murgh by dhrupad maestro Ustad Wasifuddin Dagar. The finicky Ustad himself wasn’t too pleased as he had wanted bhindi gosht to be prepared! However, soon enough, another friend Atiya Zaidi, who is originally from Jaunpur, shared this recipe and we are just waiting for the mutton shops to reopen before we experiment with it.Bhindi in gravyIngredientsBhindi (wiped clean and 300 g cut into 2-inch pieces)Curd 500 ml Ginger-garlic paste 1/2 tspCumin powder 1/4 tspCoriander powder 1/2 tsp Oil 1/2 cupSalt to tasteTemperingSprig of curry leavesGreen chilli 1 (deseeded and chopped)Red chilli 1 wholeMustard seeds 1/4 tspCumin seeds 1/4 tspMethodHeat oil in a pan, add ginger-garlic paste to it and stir briskly for 15 seconds. Add the powdered spices along with salt, put in the bhindi and stir fry on high flame till these are a little crisp but retain their green colour. Take off the flame. Whisk the curd and put the fried bhindi in it. Prepare the tempering by heating some oil and spluttering the seeds in it. Then put in the chillies and curry leaves as these change colour. Pour it over the bhindi in curd. Serve chilled or at room temperature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/ladys-fingers-in-different-drapes-79787
03-05-2020||Pooja Khanna Tyagi||Landscaping ideas for your garden||Since the COVID-19 outbreak has made us housebound, let’s make the most of this time and plan a home improvement project which can be pursued, now with the limited resources available and, to the fullest once the lockdown opens. One such project could be landscaping the front lawn, backyard or terrace garden of your bungalow, row house or apartment. Here’s how to go about it: Chalk out your requirementsDetermine the functional requirements of your garden and make a list of the design features that you would like to introduce. You can consider an outdoor playground for children, a kitchen garden, an outdoor entertaining space and a patio to name a few. Make a rough sketch to accommodate all your requirements, divide the outdoors into distinct zones and strategically allocate space for the same.  Clutter-free spaceOrganise your garden and give it a clutter-free look by removing things that are not required in the garden. Some of the basic items that tend to get accumulated over a period of time include broken pots, dead plants, leaves, junk metal and glass items. Green path Create a pathway with some stepping stones or paver blocks and lay them in a straight line or in a gentle curve. This will upgrade the look of the garden and prevent grass from getting damaged while walking on the lawn. Beautify the boundary wallConvert the boundary wall into a green wall by growing climbers on it or beautify it by painting some motifs or decorative patterns. If you possess some wall sculptures in materials like terracotta or natural stone, then fix them on the boundary wall to give it an artistic look. Arrange potted plantsUse a limited number of potted plants to create a stepped look. Arrange the tallest plants behind and the shortest plants in the front. Create a sculpture by keeping a big plant in the centre and surrounding it with smaller plants. Mark the periphery of the garden with flowering plants.If you have some paint at home, try to give the earthen pots a fresh coat. Pots painted in vibrant colours like red, blue or yellow add to the beauty, especially when arranged in a repetitive pattern. Recycle your old tyres and plastic bottles by growing plants in these. Accessorise it wellDecorate with a cluster of oversized pots in different sizes or add some interesting garden accessories and keep it in one corner of the garden. If you have stone sculptures of Lord Buddha or Lord Ganesha , use these to complement the overall look of your garden. Add organic kitchen gardenDedicate a small area for an organic kitchen garden where the vegetables can be grown in earthen pots or growbags. The area demarcated for the kitchen garden should get at least six hours of sunlight during the day. Start your kitchen garden by growing curry leaves, basil, lemon grass, coriander, cabbage, lemons, tomatoes and lady’s finger, to name a few.Minimalist planIf you want a streamlined, neat and easy-to-maintain garden, opt for a minimalist garden. This garden can be designed by creating a boundary with hedges and by using only three species of flowering plants. Go for plants with evergreen foliage as these shall impart a green colour throughout the year. Use only limited materials like stone, wood or limestone for the minimalist garden and use grey coloured pots for the plants.Add to the to-do listWhen the COVID-19 lockdown is over, you can enhance the look of your garden with a built-in or portable water feature, a gazebo, garden furniture and other accessories. Introduce soft lighting by adding different types of garden lights like lanterns, fairylights, spotlights and LED strip lights for recessed lighting.Miyawaki techniqueUse the Miyawaki method of afforestation which was introduced by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki to create a mini-forest in your backyard or a vacant plot of land. A dense forest can be achieved by planting dozens of native plant species close to each other in a minimal space which can be as small as 20 square feet. All the plants grow 10 times faster and become self sustainable and maintenance-free after three years. Since the plants are closely spaced, they grow upwards instead of sideways as they receive sunlight only from the top.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/landscaping-ideas-for-your-garden-79790
03-05-2020||Amarjeet Batth||Say hello to your greens||“If you have a garden and a library, you have everything you need”— Marcus Tullius Cicero, a Roman philosopherA garden enthusiast may have often assisted the ‘mali’ but seldom may have carried the garden operations independently. Now is the time to get to know your greens, especially when the gardener is not around. If the size of the green area in your house is small, take a close look at your plants. Try visiting every part of the garden if the spread is large. Look into the requirement of each plant like water, nutrition, diseases and pests, etc. Address their grievances and they will never let you down. Here’s a look at some basic garden operations that you can take care of in the present situation:Time to waterTo a beginner, watering is all a plant needs. However, many a time we fail the plant by over-watering it. Water requirements vary from plant to plant, and depend on its growth phase as well as climate of the area. Some plants need more moisture compared to others. Others require a dry interval between two successive irrigations. Therefore, it is mandatory to specifically know the water requirements of the plant. Most plants need wet feet and dry ankles.The thumb rule is to observe the plant early in the morning. If the leaves are drooping, the plant needs watering. Almost all garden plants need well-drained soil and do not tolerate water-logging. Do not over-water drought-loving plants and under-water moisture-loving plants. In a garden, plants should be placed in such a way that water requirement of all in a group are similar. Use a watering can or a mug to water. It will allow you to place water at the base of the plants, which will keep the foliage dry.Know your soilIt is important to know the type of soil in your garden. Other factors of concern are the location: sunny/shady/partially shady. Check the ground gradient. Is it steep or gradual? How’s the wind flow? All these give a better understanding of water requirements and one must plan the irrigation technique accordingly.Mist it rightMisting is done to remove fine dust on indoor plant foliage. It also improves their appearance, increases humidity and prevents spider mite infestations. It must be done on both sides of the foliage in the morning hours so that the leaves get dry by evening. Use a misting pump for fine mist, and then wipe it with a clean and dry muslin cloth.Pull out the weedsThe first thing which gets your attention in a lawn is the weeds. A weed-free flowerbed, pots or lawn enhance the beauty of the garden. Any unwanted growth is a weed as it competes with the plant for space, sunlight, moisture and nutrients. Weeds need to be removed as soon as these are spotted. Thus, no fixed schedule can be made to remove these. The most readily available tool is your hand. Simply pull the weeds out. Remove weeds when these are small and the soil is moist. Keep hand-hoes of various blade widths depending on the place of operation, narrow for pots, wide for flowerbeds and specially designed for removing weeds in grass. Weeds can be reduced by mulching.Remove the spent flowersDeadheading is one of the most effective techniques, in which you use your fingers as a tool. When the flowers are on the verge of fading, remove the spent flowers. It can help prolonging the bloom or yield another flush. Garden pruners make a clean and clear cut when a stem is to be pruned.Pruning the plantsPruning is a continuous and round-the-year activity, which is done to remove the dead and diseased parts, intermingling and weak shoots and removal of suckers. Pruning helps in improving the appearance of the plant. Hard pruning, however, is done in December-January when the plants go under dormancy. That is the time to remove structurally unsound unproductive parts and prepare nursery specimens.Mistakes we often makeSelecting a wrong spot: Take care when selecting where you are growing your plants and vegetables. Ensure there’s ample sunlight and moisture.Poor soil: Vegetables flourish in soil enriched with manure and leaf-mould.Planting beyond need: Grow plants considering the quantity you need.Inadequate spacing: Don’t ignore the fact that plants grow in size. Leave adequate spacing between the plants.Planting in one lot: You need a lot of veggies on a regular basis. Rather than planting these in one lot, grow once a fortnightly.Not harvesting timely: The crop will rot or seed if not harvested in time. It’ll not wait for you. Harvest the crop timely and store in a refrigerator.If there are seeds in stock, you can sow these:Summer vegetablesSummer flowers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/say-hello-to-your-greens-79789
03-05-2020||Pushpa Girimaji||Amid lockdown, battling bill payment blues||I am a senior citizen living alone. I have always paid my electricity, water, fixed and cellphone and even cable TV and internet charges through cheques. Because of the lockdown necessitated by Covid-19, I have not been able to make any cheque payments and now need some assistance to pay online. I have been getting text messages from some non-government organisations, offering to help people like me. Can I take their help?I would advise you against it because you do not know who they are. Today there are a number of fraudsters preying on people like you, who are suddenly finding themselves in a situation where they cannot even call a young net-savvy neighbour to help out.You must know that a number of e-mails and text messages are being sent by conmen in the name of public utilities, asking consumers to click on the link provided and fill in their personal details, including credit card details, to pay their bills. Many consumers have fallen for such baits.Fraudsters are also making attempts to rob consumers of their hard-earned money through phone calls, claiming to be from their utility. By offering assistance in making the payment, they extract important financial information and before consumers realise it, they would have lost considerable amount of money.A senior citizen who received such a call from what she believed to be her telecom service provider, lost Rs10,000. According to her, she was constantly getting calls from her telecom service provider about non-payment of bill and her attempts to pay online through the service provider’s website were proving futile. She sent emails to the service provider and all she got were automated replies. So when she got a call from someone claiming to be an executive of her telecom service provider, she presumed that the call was in response to her email and gave him her credit card details and even the OTP number that she got on her phone. It was only when she got a message about a spending of Rs10,000 instead of her bill amount of Rs650 that she realised she had been duped!The cheaters are not using just utility payments to defraud consumers, they are also exploiting their fear of contracting coronavirus by offering ‘guaranteed’ cures! Remember those con emails about a relative or a friend being stranded in a foreign land without money and requesting urgent money transfer to a bank account? Now you have them again, this time about a friend or a relative suffering from Covid-19 needing money for treatment! There are also hoax calls, selling airline tickets for a future date at throwaway prices, insurance policies covering coronavirus treatment at a very nominal rate, online tuition for children, jobs requiring work from home, to name just a few. There are also phony offers of refund of cancelled tickets or hotel stays and sale of groceries at throwaway prices. So, one needs to be extra careful during these times and not give out any personal or financial information to anyone or click on any suspicious link sent through email or text messaging.How do I ensure the safety of my onlinepayment?Making online payments is easy and quick and this is the best time to start. However, you need to take some precautions. First and foremost, make sure that you have the latest anti-virus software, or an active anti-virus software that is downloading the latest security updates. This will protect you from malware to a large extent.The next step is to go to the utility’s portal to make the payment. Make sure that it’s a genuine site — go through it carefully before going further. Check the details of your bill, payment history and such other details that show whether it is a genuine site. Before putting any credit card details on the payment page, check the browser window — it should have a green padlock to indicate that it is secure, along with the letters https — the S signifying that it is secure. If you do not see this, leave the page and do not continue.It’s safer to use a credit card with a low credit limit than a debit card linked to your bank account. Never save any details of your credit card on the website. Do log out and save the receipt issued by the utility. If you have a printer, you can take a print out too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/amid-lockdown-battling-bill-payment-blues-79788
03-05-2020||Shoma Abhyankar||The world in your kitchen||The neon lit picture of a fat roll of flatbread oozing with bright greens, reddest onions and beans slathered in creamy dip sitting next to bubbly chilled amber beverage, tantalised my senses from the cafe wall, forcing me to hastily gulp the drool that threatened to slobber down my lips. I was at a food court, unable to decide between my options of pizzas, nachos, shwarma, donuts and chhole bhature!This was one of the weekends in pre-lockdown era. But times have changed. The luxury of eating out has come to a grinding halt. The lockdown has forced us to stay at home and make do with whatever essential ingredients we manage to buy from over-burdened home delivery apps.While traditional recipes are resurfacing and home cooks are whipping up a storm in kitchens, the longing for fancy foods from across the world still lingers. The mouth-watering images and strange names might make some of us wonder whether those could ever be home-cooked, especially with limited pantry supplies during lockdown. But it would surprise many that there are a lot of common ingredients between western food and ours. And there are some foods from across the world that can be perfectly replicated at Indian homes with regular basic ingredients during these times to break the monotony of taste and cooking same food every day.The rice and bean burrito (pronounced bur-i-toe), originating in Mexico, for instance, is a food on the go with tortilla (pronounced tor-tia with a soft ‘t’) or maida chapatti stuffed with cooked rice and black beans in thick gravy.With most of the Indian households equipped with self-rising flour or maida, garlic, chilli powder, cumin or jeera, rice, black rajma, onions and tomatoes, this Mexican food is super easy to concoct in an Indian kitchen and that too without compromising much on taste.Hummus and falafel from Mediterranean and Middle East regions are prepared from the humble chhola or kabuli chana of Indian pantry.Hummus, a creamy dip prepared from a paste of boiled chickpeas or chhola, lemon juice, garlic and paste of sesame seeds, is usually served with crudités or thick slices of carrots, cucumber, radish or stiff bread. And the falafel is nothing but a deep fried chhola tikki, to be honest. Soaked overnight, the raw chhole coarsely ground with onions, ginger, garlic, green chillies, coriander and salt are shaped into flat balls and deep fried to give falafel which can be either served as is or rolled into a chapatti with onions and tomatoes in form of ‘falafel roll’.Another food item that once upon a time used to scare me just because of its name was polenta. Polenta originated in central Italy as a poor man’s food. Traditionally it was made from a variety of cereals like buckwheat, millet or wheat. However, in the 16th century, when Americans introduced corn or maize, polenta increasingly became more of a corn meal preparation. Even if cornmeal or makki ka atta is not available in every Indian household, frozen corn seeds are usually easily available. For a bowl of polenta, either cook coarsely ground makki ka aata in a pot with enough water to make a thick paste. Alternatively, frozen corn seeds can be cooked and run through food processor for a creamy polenta served with a drizzle of butter and chopped coriander. People of Maharashtraprepare a similar dish, fajita, from corn seeds. Bhutte ka kees is also a very popular snack in Madhya Pradesh. The Indian version leans towards a dry consistency though.Foods like bruschetta, spring rolls, dumplings or quiche and more from far-off lands sound complicated but with raw materials commonly found in Indian kitchens, these seemingly fancy food items are not a tough nut to crack at homes even during the difficult times of lockdown.Indian kitchens are much richer with a wider variety of grains, cereals and condiments. So instead of getting intimidated, it helps to remind oneself that pancakes and crepes, after all, are but just the names of distant ‘white’ cousins of our desi cheela or uttapams with a slightly different upbringing!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-world-in-your-kitchen-79786
03-05-2020||Saibal Chatterjee||Punjab in Rishi Kapoor’s veins||Hindi cinema of the 1970s and 1980s, the two decades that saw Rishi Kapoor at his peak, rarely, if ever, sought geographical or cultural specificity in the stories that it told. The Mumbai movie industry catered to a pan-Indian audience. In the films that it produced, therefore, it refrained from placing its characters in a defined ethos. On the stray occasions that it did, the manner of doing so was strictly superficial.Kapoor, a Punjabi by birth, was a youth icon whose appeal transcended linguistic boundaries. Several of the major directors that the hugely popular actor worked with had roots in Punjab but they did not always set their films in the state. His illustrious father, Raj Kapoor, who launched his career as a lead actor in 1973 by casting him in the super-successful Bobby, was born in Peshawar, North West Frontier Province.Lyallpur in undivided Punjab was the birthplace of H.S. Rawail, with whom the actor did 1976’s Laila Majnu. And Yash Chopra, who cast Kapoor in the multi-starrer Kabhie Kabhie in 1976 and went on to do other films with him, including Chandni (1989), was born in Lahore. But with Rishi Kapoor, they did not ever make a trip back to their roots.Making of a starIt wasn’t until the mid-1980s that Kapoor played a role in a film that was located wholly in Punjab — Sukhwant Dhadda’s Ek Chadar Maili Si. Adapted from Rajinder Singh Bedi’s Sahitya Akademi Award-winning Urdu novel of the same name, the social drama wasn’t a box-office success. But all these years later, the film stands out as a shining example of a piece of formidable literature that was effectively brought to life on the big screen with the aid of great performances from the actors and outstanding cinematography.Ek Chadar Maili Si, which had outstanding performances from Hema Malini and Rishi Kapoor as a mother of four and her younger brother-in-law in rural Punjab whose relationship undergoes a transformation when the former’s alcoholic husband (played by Kulbhushan Kharbanda) is killed in a case of mistaken identity by the brother of a sexually assaulted girl.The film deserves to be rediscovered by audiences. It ranks among the four best screen adaptations of works by Punjabi writers, alongside Chandraprakash Dwivedi’s Pinjar (based on Amrita Pritam’s celebrated novel), Mani Kaul’s Uski Roti (a 1969 film adapted from a Mohan Rakesh short story) and Rajendra Bhatia’s Pavitra Paapi (1970), based on Nanak Singh’s novel of the same name. The last-named film came into existence at the insistence of Rawalpindi-born Balraj Sahni, a great admirer of the writer’s literary output.In the context of Rishi Kapoor’s career, Ek Chadar Maili Si, set in pre-Independence Punjab, is a marked departure. It was the only literary adaptation that the actor was ever a part of. The film allowed him to traverse the entire gamut from a happy-go-lucky youngster in love with a bubbly nomadic girl (Poonam Dhillon) to an emotionally conflicted man who, under the pressure of social custom, is required to marry his sister-in-law, who is more than 10 years older than him.Ek Chadar Maili Si was a sharp critique of the practice of chaadar daalna, which was prevalent in parts of Punjab. Kapoor’s interpretation of the character of Mangal contained the seeds of his evolution in the new millennium as an able character actor who played a wide range of roles with panache in films such as Do Dooni Char, Kapoor & Sons, Mulk and Agneepath.In Habib Faisal’s Do Dooni Chaar (2010), Kapoor is a Punjabi middle-class mathematics teacher Santosh Duggal, who lives with his family in a cramped apartment in Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar. The teacher depends on a rickety scooter to get him around town but he nurtures the hope of buying a car someday. Do Dooni Chaar was a slice-of-life drama enlivened by Kapoor’s chemistry with his real-life wife Neetu Singh, with whom he was reuniting on the screen after a long hiatus. The film revealed the actor’s ability to play down his starry qualities and flesh out a completely believable middle-aged Delhiite.The patriarch arrivesAround the same period, Kapoor had two films that had him in the role of a Punjabi patriarch — Sadiyaan (2010) and Patiala House (2011). In the former, helmed by Raj Kanwar, who directed Shahrukh Khan’s debut film (Deewana, 1992) and also launched the career of Priyanka Chopra (Andaaz, 2003), Kapoor is Rajveer, the head of a Lahore-based family who, in 1947, flees across the newly drawn border with his wife Amrit (Rekha). In the house they move into, Amrit finds a boy abandoned by a Muslim family that has left everything behind to escape the Partition riots. Rajveer and Amrit raise the foundling as their own son. He grows up as a Sikh boy Ishaan. On a trip to Kashmir, he falls in love with a Muslim girl. The latter’s family rejects his proposal for marriage. When Rajveer and Amrit get wind of the development, they decide to reveal that Ishaan is actually a Muslim boy.Sadiyaan was a box-office failure, but Nikhil Advani’s Patiala House, loosely inspired by the life and career of English left-arm spinner Monty Panesar, who was addressed by his fans as the Sikh of Tweak. The film had Kapoor in the role of an ageing turbaned Sikh Londoner who cannot reconcile himself with the idea of his son (Akshay Kumar) playing for England. His father eventually relents: it takes an imitation of Lala Amarnath’s unusual bowling style — a short run-up and delivery off the wrong foot — to bring the old man around. The climax was a doff of the hat to Lala Amarnath’s iconic status in Indian cricket history. Kapoor had played another London-based turbaned Sikh with customary aplomb in Imtiaz Ali’s Love Aaj Kal. His character, hotelier Veer Singh Panesar, gives life-altering tips to the protagonist, played by Saif Ali Khan, on matters of the heart. Veer narrates his own love story set in the 1960s, with Saif also playing the old man’s younger avatar.A different actThe last phase of Kapoor’s acting career, during which he played his age, allowed him to explore human foibles and frailties with greater leeway than his stint as a romantic hero afforded him. It wasn’t surprising that directors opted to use the emotional warmth that his screen persona exuded by casting him as an avuncular Punjabi gentleman who could be cantankerous when things did not go his way.Be it the temperamental Bhajanlal Bhalla in Umesh Shukla’s All is Well (2015), the impish 90-year-old Amarjeet Kapoor in Kapoor & Sons (2016), the larger-than-life Guggi Tandon in the romantic comedy Patel Ki Punjabi Shaadi (2017) or the standoffish long-time Old Delhi resident Raj Mathur in Leena Yadav’s Rajma Chawal, Kapoor gave his all to every role he played, revealing his amazing versatility and adaptability.Punjabi cinematographer-filmmaker Manmohan Singh (whose credits as director of photography include the epochal 1981 Punjabi film Chann Pardesi, besides Lekin…, Maachis, Chandni, Betaab and Dil to Pagal Hai) cast Kapoor opposite Tabu in the romantic drama Pehla Pehla Pyar (1994) but the ethos of the film was indeterminate.One of Kapoor’s last films, Jhootha Kahin Ka, was directed by Punjab’s very own Smeep Kang. It was, however, a Hindi-language comedy-drama that did not have much do in a direct sense with Punjab. But Kapoor, as always, stood out in an ensemble cast.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/punjab-in-rishi-kapoors-veins-79767
