04-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Winds of change sweep farm sector||THE spread of the Covid-19 pandemic has changed the way agriculture is practised. In an agrarian economy like that of Punjab, the ‘Covid-compliant’ practices adopted by farmers and their clients (government agencies as well as private traders) are an unchartered territory, but these might stay even after the crisis is over.Farmers, especially dairy farmers and vegetable growers, have suffered losses because of the restrictions on movement at wholesale markets, necessitated to stop the spread of the pandemic. However, the ongoing procurement of wheat has given the farmers a much-needed economic push. The tech-assisted practices adopted for procurement, which initially met with strong resistance, have given farmers confidence, helping them sell their produce successfully, and these will be the new normal in food procurement.The pandemic has spurred the government machinery to ensure adequate supply of fertilisers and seeds for the next crop to be sown in Punjab. The state government has already brought 22 lakh packets (of the 27 lakh needed) of hybrid cotton seed, for sowing on over 5 lakh hectares of farmland. Of the 6,000 tonnes of maize seeds required for sowing, 4,600 tonnes have been brought to the state. Of the state’s urea requirement of 13 lakh quintals, to be used till August, 7 lakh quintals have been brought to the state in special trains.Kahan Singh Pannu, Secretary, Agriculture, Punjab, says that this year all agriculture practices have been closely monitored. “From harvesting of wheat as per a defined schedule, while maintaining social distancing, to a regulated passage of harvested grains to the mandis, from getting the seeds and fertilisers in special trains to learning to work in the fields on their own without migrant labour — agriculture in Punjab has seen a 360-degree change. Many of these practices will continue to stay much after we have overcome the Covid crisis,” he says.MS Sidhu, an eminent agro-economist, says, “I feel that because of the challenge posed by the unavailability of labour for transplanting paddy and the losses suffered by vegetable growers, a higher targeted area could be brought under cotton, maize and basmati, which has a good market and ensures good remuneration for farmers,” he reasons.Randeep Sangatpura, a small farmer at Sangatpura village near Lehragaga in Sangrur district, says though a majority of the farmers found it difficult to shift to tech-assisted procurement (where one could take the produce to mandis only after an electronic pass was generated), it did bring in some transparency in procurement. “The lockdown curbs were eased for farmers, helping us harvest the crop on time and buy seeds and fertilisers. Another important change in agriculture practices has been a clarion call given by the farmer unions themselves, asking farmers not to burn wheat straw as it could lead to several respiratory ailments, which could trigger the spread of Covid-19,” he says.Though the government and the courts have been repeatedly giving directions to farmers and the authorities to stop burning crop stubble, the farmer unions have opposed it, saying that farmers would stop only if an additional incentive is given to them. “This shows the new environment consciousness that has arisen among farmers because of this crisis,” he adds.While the wheat growers are happy, the small vegetable growers have been the worst sufferers, along with the dairy farmers. Gora Singh, a farmer from Bhaini Bagha village in Mansa, rues that last year, the capsicum he had sown on four acres had fetched him Rs 15-20 per kg, but the price has now crashed to Rs 2 per kg. “While farmers are getting a lower rate for their produce, the common man is paying the same price as that of last year. The government must bring in a minimum support price for vegetables at this crucial time and save us from financial ruin,” he adds.Pannu says the government is cognisant of the crash in prices of capsicum, tomato and melon. “Our entire focus is on ensuring that there is no distress sale of these vegetables presently sown in the fields. “We have roped in Punjab Agro Foodgrain Corporation to tie up with agencies in Azadpur Mandi in Delhi and traders in Jammu and Kashmir to sell these crops at reasonable rates,” he adds.Send your feedback to infocus@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/winds-of-change-sweep-farm-sector-80141
04-05-2020||Parveen Arora||Curbs eased, but all’s not well||IT was a long wait for Arvinder Singh Kalra, a farmer from Luthera village in Haryana’s Fatehabad district, bordering Punjab, to sell his wheat produce. He had harvested the crop on 72 acres on April 15. “I received a phone call for bringing the produce to the grain market on April 22, but due to the arhtiyas’ strike, I had to go back with the crop and store it at my home. I am waiting for a phone call from the market committee for another appointment for selling my produce,” says Kalra, who are among the farmers who have suffered due to the new norms of inviting a limited number of farmers as per the schedule by sending messages or phone calls.The nationwide lockdown owing to the Covid-19 pandemic forced the Haryana Government to delay procurement, which started on April 20, with at least 1,871 purchase centres set up against 477 last year.A cross-section of the farmers says they are among the worst-hit by the lockdown even though they are allowed to continue farm work and sell their produce. They consider restrictions imposed by the government on procurement as an obstacle to the smooth sale of wheat. “No doubt, the government has given relaxations to the farming community to harvest and sell crops, but we had to persuade the police at most of the nakas to let us go out for work in the fields. Due to the lockdown, we are facing labour shortage during harvesting,” says Sewa Singh Arya, former state president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU).Mahaveer Dhillon, a farmer from Kirmach village in Kurukshetra district, says the token system of inviting farmers is not fit for small and marginal farmers as they do not have sufficient storage and resources to take their produce to the store room. “I had harvested wheat on 22 acres on April 18, but had to wait for my turn till April 25. I had to store the crop for a few days. The whole process of unloading in the store and later loading with the help of a JCB machine or labour to bring the crop to the grain market has led to extra expenses of Rs 3,500 per tractor-trailer. Earlier, we used to sell our produce on the day of harvesting,” he claims.He says the lockdown relaxations given by the government have helped the farming community a lot in harvesting and around 90 per cent of the crop has been harvested, but selling it is still a challenge for farmers. “Farmers should be called with the consent of the arhtiyas,” he adds.Apart from the lockdown, rain and hailstorm have created hurdles for farmers, not only delaying the harvesting but also reducing the wheat yield by 3-5 quintals per acre and the production of dry fodder by 1-2 trailers per acre. “Rain has hit production and made the grain colourless. I have harvested 16 quintals per acre against 23-24 quintals last year,” says Jitender Kumar, another farmer. He rues that the dry fodder production has reduced to 50 per cent. “Earlier, I used to get about four trailers of dry fodder from one acre, but now I receive only two trailers,” he adds.Farmers of Haryana who have cultivated their crops in neighbouring states, particularly UP, are still waiting for relaxations for bringing their crop to Haryana’s grain markets. “I have cultivated the crop on 3.5 acres at Khorsama village near Badoli and I got a movement pass for UP from the Agriculture Department Karnal, but I could not do harvesting as I am not allowed to bring my crop to Karnal till the procurement of farmers in Haryana is over. My commission agent told me to wait,” says Dilbag Singh, a farmer of Behlolpur village in Karnal.Slow lifting irks Haryana farmersAs per data gathered by The Tribune, 34.22 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of wheat of 3.37 lakh farmers was purchased till April 30 at various centres of Haryana, but slow lifting caused inconvenience. “We admit that inviting a limited number of farmers to sell their crop at purchase centres has posed problems for some farmers, but it was necessary to maintain social distancing to curb spread of the pandemic,” says Raj Kumar Beniwal, chief marketing enforcement officer, Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/curbs-eased-but-alls-not-well-80139
