04-04-2020||Puneetinder Kaur Sidhu||Stalking in times of self-isolation||Life is what happens to you when you are busy making other plans. Regardless of who — American writer Allen Saunders or British singer John Lennon — famously mouthed this quote, truer words were never spoken. If things had gone on as earlier, I would have just concluded another edition of the food and nightlife awards I anchor every year. Following that, I would’ve been winging my way to the Northeast, for a trot-about in its many alluring charms.As it turned out, we got hit between the eyes by a tiny albeit lethal virus. It has, in every literal sense, brought an otherwise frenzied world to a grinding halt. Now suddenly, we find our furiously washed hands filled with the time we earlier complained never having enough of. To pursue creative interests, to up-skill, to plough through that bedside book-pile or binge-watch web series. And — as it turned out for me — to stalk foodies on social media with a vengeance!I assure you it all started out very innocently — in order to idle away some post-prandial time, before going back to doing, well, little else. I spent hours scrolling across beautifully composed food images, sat through helpful how-to videos, salivated over elaborate recipes. Soon enough, all manner of culinary creativity (or lack of) began popping up on my timeline, aided partly by algorithms, mostly by house-bound people desiring to share, showcase and stay connected. I voyeuristically relished and moved on. Then, a few days into the lockdown, I expectedly ran out of all pre-cooked frozen casseroles. That’s when I sat up and started to focus on stories and recipes that employed the remaining ingredients crowding my refrigerator. I found that Delectable Reveries, curated by Vernika Awal, offered several fuss-free and quick-to-replicate ideas. Although with the abundance of time presently at hand, it’s not such a bad idea to summon the patience and try out her version of slow-cooked maah di daal. You can thank me later.A timely forward by a thoughtful friend resulted in a cache of healthy meal ideas. The Internet-sourced recipes to go along largely employ vegetables with an extended shelf-life — onions, potatoes, tomatoes, garlic and ginger. They proved immensely helpful while I waited for the disruption in essential supplies to normalise. You may want to look them up at Recipe Dabba. Around the same time, I stumbled across Chef Vikas Chawla’s simple yet meticulously executed recipe videos. His lockdown repertoire includes nutritious and immunity-boosting food, fashioned from staples most likely to be available in North Indian kitchens. Number one on my soon-as-I-can list is his imaginative whole-wheat, turmeric and black pepper cake. What’s more, it’s eggless. Chef Vikas’ videos are often garnished with an appearance by his life-coach wife Anuradha sharing hacks to help cope with self-isolation. Theirs is a ‘jugalbandi’ I’ve begun to greatly look forward to nowadays.For several years now, I’ve been following nutrition consultant Sangeeta Khanna ever since I first chanced upon her pepper-corn enriched kinnow marmalade at a farm-stay in Hoshiarpur. I find her trail mixes are a very enervating way to crunch through inopportune hunger pangs and temptation. Especially now that fitness schedules are curtailed and snacking opportunities present themselves everywhere, every hour. Above all, I was thrilled to find an informative and detailed post by the usually social media shy Chef Manjit Gill. To benefit from this matchless font of culinary wisdom, I suggest you visit his Facebook profile first instant you can. Meanwhile, keep isolated, sleep well, stay fit and also indulge in some positive foodie-stalking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/stalking-in-times-of-self-isolation-65506
04-04-2020|| Jagvir Goyal||Of home affairs||National lockdown has confined the people to their houses. Apart from working from home, watching news, movies and sharing messages on social media, there isn’t much to do. You can make the most of this period by attending to some areas your house that demand your attention. Here are some guidelines:Let the fittings shineChromium-plated bathroom and kitchen fittings are also known, in short, as CP fittings. Use of CP fittings in houses has become a universal phenomenon now. These fittings keep shining for years if maintained properly. The most important step towards their maintenance is to wipe these clean with a soft dry rug every morning after use. The rug shouldn’t cause any scratches on the fittings nor should your finger ring run over the fittings. Clean the fittings with soapy solution every fortnight. This will remove any scale or stains on them. Use your bathing soap only. Don’t use strong detergents. Don’t apply any acid solution on the fittings. If this regime is not followed, CP fittings lose their shine and turn greenish after sometime. Use a CP cleaner (if you have one at home) to restore the shine of the fittings. Apply it on the fittings with the help of a sponge. Leave it on for 10 minutes. Wipe clean with a wet rug.Declutter your wardrobeCheck your wardrobe and dispose of surplus garments from the overflowing shelves. The ones that you haven’t worn for past two seasons, you’ll probably never wear. Check other items in your cupboards and dispose of useless items. Reset your wardrobe to give it a systematic look.Restore clogged overhead showersOverhead showers have a number of small holes to deliver water in spray form. Often, these holes get clogged by the salts present in water. These showers have elastic spray jets provided in the holes. Cleaning such showers of salts clogging the holes is easy. Just rub these silicon jets with your hand or wet flannel and restore the rain from all holes. In case a long time has elapsed since the cleaning of the shower, you may unscrew it and clean it well.On the ceiling fansCeiling fans gather layers of dirt on the blades within a short time. These layers of dirt are more so in the lobby and kitchen. An exhaust fan may remove smoke but not the grease that the frying work causes in the kitchen. Dirty ceiling fans speak of poor upkeep of the house. Use this free time to clean the fans. Don’t forget the verandah and terrace fans as birds often leave these dirty.Wipe clean the wall lightsWall lights and tubes are among the most neglected objects in the house and these keep gathering dust on their upper portions and are often not cleaned for months together. Cleaning these by gently wiping off the dirt deposited on them.Remove wall stainsWalls are, these days, painted and finished with costly plastic emulsion, which has the advantage of easy cleaning in case there are some dirty marks visible on it. Often, the walls get stained due to inadvertent touching with soiled hands. Wipe off these stains with a moist piece of clean cloth. Don’t rub hard.Clean the bottle trapsBottle traps provided below the wash basins need regular cleaning every six months.The process is simple. Just unscrew the bottle at the bottom, clean it of all the dirt and hair collected in it, re-screw it back and fit properly to make it work efficiently. Check those noisy exhaust fansWith time, the exhaust fans provided in the washrooms or kitchens become noisy. Clean off all grease by removing them and then refitting them as this job can be easily done.Clean the AC filtersSummer is approaching and soon you’ll need to run the ACs. During winter, the air conditioner filters keep gathering dust and get choked with dirt. Remove the AC filters, wash off all dirt and refit these to make the ACs perform efficiently.Scan all fittings & areasTake a close survey of the house and make a list of the jobs that need to be done. Schedule these for a date after the lockdown period when you’ll be able to get the required maintenance workers.For an uninterrupted flowAll reputed companies making taps, spouts and faucets provide these with aerators. These convert the flowing water to beautiful milky foam flow. These, however, need to be cleaned at regular intervals. Otherwise their fine mesh gets clogged and not only the foam effect is over but the flow is also reduced. Remove the aerators by unscrewing these in an anticlockwise direction with your fingers, clean the mesh and refit these. The water flow will be restored.— The writer is former HoD and engineer-in-chief, Civil Engineering Department in a Punjab PSU||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/of-home-affairs-65509
04-04-2020||Aradhika Sharma||Hunter’s creed||“Why are you loitering around the forest?” Mrs. Leopard (Sheeba) demanded of Mr. Leopard (Tarzan). The jungle news channel — The Babbler Brigade — reported this morning that many wild animals are foraying into the city. Why don’t you venture forth and find us a fine, plump dog for lunch?“I’m watching ‘Human Kingdom’ on Hiss-tory Channel,” Tarzan responded. “They are showcasing new species of exterminators that people call ‘Cars’. I could be run over by one of those if I leave the forest. We can eat a rabbit today.”“No way, dude!” Sheeba flicked her tail angrily. “Our cubs, Spotty and Hunter, are refusing to eat rabbit again today. The Babbler Brigade assured me that the roads are empty, and the humans have mysteriously been imprisoned by a mutated animal called Covid.”“Hain! Is this Covid more powerful than Sher Khan? Is he the new King-Kong of the jungle?” Tarzan questioned.“I can’t comment about the politics of it. All I want is food. You are a predator, dammit! Go and predate,” Sheeba growled.“But is it safe to venture into human land?”“What?” Sheeba bared her fangs. “Have I wed a coward? Are you a leopard or a gun-toting human?”Tarzen backtracked: “I’m going. I’m going. I was just asking…”“Humph! For your information, nilgais and deer are sauntering along the roads of Chandigarh; turtles are emerging en-masse in Orissa, a spotted civet strolled on a market road in Kozhikode and a puma turned up in Centre Santiago, Chile. So, you have no excuse to lurk in the jungle.”“Hmm…” Tarzan said, clearly disinclining to venture into hostile territory.“Arre, all the governments of the world have mandated human idleness. No biped is expected to move beyond their walls. Even the Humans’ Babbler Brigade — what they call ‘Twitter’ — has declared that wildlife is reclaiming its space. We are free, free, free!” Sheeba clapped her claws.“Now that homo sapiens are in cages, perhaps they will realise how important nature is to all living beings and think of us before ravaging our terrain in future,” Tarzan ruminated.Sheeba snorted: “Humans are selfish and have short memories. The moment King-Kong Covid loses his power they’ll be back with a vengeance. But right now, when all our kind is feeling emboldened to explore, you should step out and get some tasty treats for the cubs.”“I’ll admit that I’m wary,” Tarzan said. “Humans are sly creatures. This might be a complex trap to capture those of us that are left.”“Ofo!” Sheeba exclaimed. “The crows were telling that a human ventured into the local park for a walk and they all swooped on him and drove him away. I tell you, it’s our time to roam, graze and explore new pastures.”Tarzan yawned and stretched: “I’ll hunt you a fox from the Jungle, dear, but I shan’t ignore the wisdom of centuries: never trust humans. At most we can hope that now that they know what captivity feels like, they won’t pay to go to zoos or circuses in future.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/hunters-creed-65508
04-04-2020||Pushpesh Pant||At home on a culinary trip||It has been well said that nothing concentrates the mind as solitary confinement. Truth be told. We rant alone in our home prisons. But going out isn’t an option. This is the best time, we think, to rediscover the joy of cooking, and enjoying food in a leisurely manner we had all but forgotten. With so much time unexpectedly on our hands, we can give the pressure cooker a well-deserved rest and can, at last, keep aside the noisy electric mixer-blender.The grinding stone may not be easy to locate but we are sure the good old mortar and pestle can be found lying neglected on a cupboard shelf. Just try pounding fresh spices just before use and notice the difference these make. Coarsely pound pepper, red chilli flakes, even coriander and cumin release their enchanting aromas, and once you get used to this process, it will be difficult to cling on to the factory-produced powders when you come after the quarantine. Crushing garlic cloves and small pieces of scraped ginger can be given the same ‘loving’ treatment. We can assure you that it will not take long to master different strokes for different folks i.e. dry spice seeds, garlic, onions, etc. From Maharashtrian thecha to Kerala upakaris, this is the gadget that delivers the best results.Slow down and cookThere has been much talk about slow cooking and zero-waste cooking by our celebrity chefs who have ‘picked up this bug abroad’ (sorry, for the scary reference in the present context!)How easily we have forgotten that our ancestors cooked everything slow from bati on uple (cowdung cakes) to meat on dum in a patili tightly sealed with dough paste and glowing embers put on top. They understood that this was the way food best retained its nutrients.No one in the countryside could afford to waste anything. Vegetables were peeled with a sharp knife removing only a thin layer of outer skin and good use was made of stems, stalks, leaves and flowers. The cuisine of Bengal, Assam and Odisha has many delicacies that rely on scraps like chorchori. No one is asking you yet to turn the garbage bin upside in search of edible stuff. Suffice to note that very little should go into it in the first place.Boiling, steaming, stir-frying and pan-grilling should be used rather than deep frying. Go slow not only on fats but also refined sugar and salt for the next three weeks. This will cleanse your palate and make it sensitive to delightful forgotten flavours — sour and naturally sweet. Lime, tamarind, carrots and beetroot will begin to register their healthy presence.Consider cooking ‘one-dish meals’ giving new meaning to sharing potluck. Handi cooking was popular in this country long before the casseroles were introduced by the firangs. We understand that you can’t go out shopping for ethnic clay pots during the curfew but any large vessel with a tight-fitting lid will do. Khichdi and biryani/pulav are passé. Try your hand at tehari, kabooli or better still bisi bele hunna.Make it family timeInvolve all members of the family in the play — not task or chore — of preparing a meal. You don’t have to arm the tiny tot with the sharp knife but all else regardless of gender and age must join in. No time like this to bond with children who in normal times are way from home — at school or with peers after school — or glued to the smartphone. Recall and narrate food lore from your childhood, adolescence and youth. Forgotten festive delicacies and lost family recipes.Memories of food can span generations so easily! In the eighth decade of my life, I recall my 70-years plus old nani sitting on a morha, stirring a pot of chharra alu or Kathiawari karhi in Almora circa. Mid-1950s what her mother-in-law used to cook in the same kitchen at the turn of the 20th century! And, my son now touching 50 dismisses my gastronomic experiments with disdain judging these by the exacting standards my mother had imparted to him when he was an eight-year-old.A healthy mind and joyous optimistic outlook are our body’s best defence. Remember all miraculous immunity boosting ingredients that are being prescribed by nutritionists and quacks with gay abandon have to be activated by triggers from the brain once these are imbibed. Don’t give up easily. Challenge the young ones to take off as top guns in the kitchen. Let them cook for the family what they are addicted to pasta and burgers with whatever is at hand. Jugad is one of the greatest contributions of India to the world. Now is the time to substitute, improvise and innovate. Tabletop cooking, with an induction cooker at hand, can provide an opportunity to experiment with desi adaptations of fondue. Those artistically inclined can indulge in fanciful plating emulating abstract painters with assorted edible chutneys, pachadis and achaars.Discover each dayWe, on our part, have decried to embark on a 21-day journey — ‘Discovery of Culinary India’. Cooking one dish from a region/ food zone a day to break the monotony bringing back to sweet not so silent thoughts of remembrances of things past — what we have eaten at different places. We are avoiding fowl, fish or flesh for no reason but as a matter of respect to extra caution some of our dear readers may be observing after the Wuhan disclosures regarding exotic meats. We have great pleasure in sharing some of these with our readers.Small portion of steamed rice or a slice or two of the proverbial loaf of bread paired with any of these will provide a silver lining to any gloomy day darkened by a virus cloud.Aloo dumIngredientsBaby potatoes (boiled, peeled, pricked all over with fork) 250gTomatoes (medium-sized) twoBay leaf oneCloves threeCardamom oneCinnamon stick 2 inchTurmeric powder 1/2 tspKashmiri red chilli powder 3/4 tspCoriander powder 1/2 tspFennel seeds 1/2 tspGreen chillies (deseeded sot) 1-2Lemon juice 1 tspSugar 1 tspMustard oil 2tbspMethodIn a pan, heat oil to smoking point. Add whole spices. When these change colour, add potatoes and stir fry till these turn golden. Add powdered spices, along with salt and sugar. Stir fry till well mixed with spices. Add tomatoes and cook till tomatoes are mushy. Drape potatoes with thick sauce-like gravy. Garnish with green chillies and coriander leaves. Sprinkle lemon juice, only if preferred.Tomato kasundhiIngredientsTomatoes (250g, washed quartered) 4 largeMustard oil 1/4 cupVinegar 2 tbspGarlic cloves 6-8Turmeric 1 tspGinger (scraped, grated) 2 inch pieceRed chilli powder 1 tspMustard seeds 1/2 tspSugar 1 tsp (or as per taste)MethodTo prepare this chutney, grind all ingredients, except tomatoes, in vinegar to obtain a smooth paste. In a pan, heat oil to smoking point. Add the spice paste and stir on medium flame till the oil separates. Add tomatoes with salt. Cook for about five to seven minutes. Simmer over low flame for about an hour. Cool and serve.Kande ki SabziIngredientsOnions (medium sized peeled and sliced fine) 4Red chilli powder 1/4 tspTurmeric powder 1/4 tspCumin powder 1/2 tspCoriander powder 1/2 tspOil 1/4 cupSalt to tasteMethodHeat oil in a pan to smoking point then reduce flame. Put in 1/4 of sliced onions and stir-fry till rich brown. Add the rest of the onions, along with spice powders and salt dissolved in a little water to avoid burning. Stir well and sprinkle a little water if required. Cook on low flame till done to taste. Garnish with chopped green chillies.Sindhi karhiIngredientsBesan 3-4 tbspPotatoes (medium-sized, peeled and quartered) twoDrum sticks (cut in 3 inch pieces) twoCauliflower (small head, broken into large florets) oneTomatoes (pureed) 3-4Ginger paste 1tspTamarind pulp 1tspRed chilli powder 1 tspCoriander powder 1 tspTurmeric powder 1/2 tspWhole red chillies twoMustard seeds 1/4 tspOil 1/4 cupSalt to tasteA handful of beans (strung and cut into 2 inch pieces)A large pinch of asafetidaA sprig of coriander leavesMethodHeat oil in a pan and put in the asafoetida, as it dissolves add spice seeds. When these begin to splutter, put in the ginger paste stir-fry for 30 seconds briskly and add the besan. Stir-fry till lightly browned and it releases its aroma. Add tomato puree and continue cooking on medium flame till tomatoes are cooked. Add powdered spices, along with salt. Now add two to three cups of water and bring to boil. Put in the vegetables, cover with a lid and cook till vegetables aredone but are not mushy. Add water, if thinner consistency is preferred. Temper with mustard seeds and whole red chillies. Garnish with coriander leaves.Bisi Bele BhatIngredientsRice (picked, washed and drained) 1 cupTuvar/Arhar dal (picked, washed and drained) 1/2 cup or little moreMustard seeds 1/4 tspFenugreek seeds 1/4 tspTamarind pulp 1 tspTurmeric 1/2 tspRed chilli powder 1/2 tspCoriander powder 1 tspCumin powder 1/2 tspTomatoes (medium-sized, quartered) twoOnion (optional) (medium-sized, sliced thick) oneDrum sticks (scraped and cut in2 inch pieces) 1 smallCapsicum (cored and quartered) 1 smallBeans (strung and cut) 4-5Carrot (scraped and cut in discs) oneJaggery (crumbled) 1tbspOil or ghee 1/4 cupSalt to tasteA pinch of asafoetidaMethodHeat oil in a pot and add asafoetida.As soon as it dissolves, add mustard and methi seeds. As these crackle, add powdered spices. Stir well and add the vegetables. Stir fry for two minutes. Add tamarind pulp and jaggery then add the rice and daal. Pour 3 cups of water. Bring to boil, reduce heat and cook covered til done to preferred consistency. You may use any vegetables at hand and even a pinch of samara masala, if you like. Mix well before serving!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/at-home-on-a-culinary-trip-65505
