04-10-2020||Shristi Nangalia||Water feature for your interiors||Water, being an element of nature, promotes an overall feel of relaxation and calmness, besides introducing motion and vitality. Water features are common in gardens and outdoor areas, but of late these are gaining prominence in interiors of the house as well. According to a research by Alissa M. Clouse for the University of Southern Mississippi, water enables a positive psychological response from individuals by triggering the sense of sight, smell and hearing. The human brain connects with the rhythmic sound of water splashing and sprinkling against itself.A water feature in the house adds to the décor of the interiors and helps maintain serene ambience, irrespective of the outdoor environment. It can be installed in entryway, living room, hallway, bedroom and dining area. According to the available space, you can pick from the below-mentioned water features to take the décor to the next level:A miniature garden indoorsIf you have sufficient space at the right location with necessary waterproofing and drainage systems, you can replicate a small part of a garden or create a miniature garden with indoor plants, rocks, sculptures and a water feature. Setups like these need a lot of care and attention, but offer immersive experience to hang out, relax and de-stress right within the confines of the interior.Fountain of joyAnother space-demanding but much-loved feature that you can invite is a fountain. Fountains come in many sizes, shapes and designs. Choose one keeping in mind the extra effort needed to invest in maintaining the fixture.A subtle lily poolUnlike miniature gardens and fountains that demand a lot of space and attention, a kund or lily pool can be placed as a subtle accompaniment or backdrop for the interiors. An overflowing vase or small-sized fountain can be integrated with the kund or lily pool to effectuate the sound of burbling water. Finally, a touch-up of surrounding indoor greens, floating lily flowers and a couple of sculptures or urns can complete the setting.Make way for the waterfallAn indoor waterfall feature, reminiscent of natural mountain springs, can create the stimulating indoor-outdoor appeal. Enhanced by tactile materials and lighting, even a waterfall of a small-scale can produce strong impressions. Portable waterfalls are also available in the market; these are hassle-free, movable, and equally therapeutic.Vertical flowWhen space is limited, vertical spaces like walls of the living area, the double and triple-height space of the staircase area, etc. can be rightly put to use by installing a water wall. A water wall offers a quieter sound of water because the water, rather than dropping or splashing, simply trickles down the textured face.The overflowing urnOverflowing urns are also great for home interiors when there is very little space to spare. Like fountains, urns offer a strong focal point while occupying a relatively smaller area.A word of caution here. While water features lend beauty to the house, be prepared to spend time and money in maintaining these regularly. Also make sure to employ skilled labour when installing the water feature so as to avoid operational issues. Remove trash and leaves from the water from the fixture regularly. Drain the water and clean the installation thoroughly once in a while to avoid build-up of algae inside the water and mosquitoes around the fixture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/water-feature-for-your-interiors-150873
04-10-2020||Pooja Khanna Tyagi||A haven for the elderly||If you have senior citizens staying with you, it is essential to create a comfortable living environment, which can take care of their physical and mental well-being. Of utmost importance is ensuring their safety so that they can perform their daily activities with ease. The following tips will help you create a home that allows them to stay mobile and supports active ageing.Ensure good lightingMake sure that the entire house is well lit and there are no dark zones or corners. Consider increasing the wattage of lights. It is better to go for bright white light instead of warm white or warm yellow light. Incorporate night light so that the elders can safely visit the bathroom during the dark hours.Obstacle-free passagesRemoving extra furniture, loose carpets, rugs and electric cords. These may emerge as tripping zones. All the pathways and circulation passages should be wide, clear and free from obstacles so that they have sufficient space to move around confidently. Avoid using slippery material like granite and gloss finish tiles for the flooring. The doors and pathways should be clear and wide enough to allow movement of a wheelchair, if necessary. Additionally, there should be provision of a ramp for wheelchair access at the entrance of the house.Remove the clutterThe house should be clutter-free and well-organised. Organise the storage in such a way that the frequently used items are in lower cabinets and there is a bedside table so that the elders can access their medicines and personal belongings easily. Make sure that the bedroom has high beds, the furniture does not have sharp edges and the seating has a good back and hand support.Safety features in bathroomsThe bathroom has the tendency to become slippery when wet. Go for anti-slip tiles in the bathroom area. For additional safety, keep non-slip bath mats within the shower area as well as outside the shower area. Add a bench in the shower area so that the seniors can take a shower in sitting position. Install grab bars near the shower and commode for additional support. If the bathroom has an existing bathtub, it is advisable to replace it with a walk-in shower. Go for a raised toilet seat in the bathroom so that aging adults can go to the bathroom independently. The commode should be about 17-inches high as it is less stressful on the knees and back.Go for door leversMake sure the doors have levers instead of knobs as these provide better grip and are easy to open and close.Ensure proper supportCheck the house for potential tripping and falling hazards like uneven surfaces on the walkway and driveway. Install an extra handrail on the stair wall for additional support.Bring the sun inThe house should be well ventilated with plenty of natural light, plants and neutral coloured walls which create a relaxing ambience. Make sure that the windows open easily and bring in maximum sunlight which is a great source of vitamin D.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/a-haven-for-the-elderly-150872
04-10-2020||Jagvir Goyal||Plan your house well||Careful house planning pays rich dividends. Never rush to finalise your house plan. Concentrate over it many times, visualise each room and space planned in it. Visit a few recently completed houses, get ideas and examine the house plan critically. Once groundwork is started, it becomes difficult to make too many changes. Here are some points that must be kept in mind while planning your house:Basement to the rescueMost urban estates offer low-lying plots these days. Plan a basement instead of filling earth in a low-lying plot. Basements serve as a good area for storage, home theatre, gym or office. These also save the floors from settlement caused by the earth filled below floors. Plan good illumination, ventilation and drainage for basement.Design windows and doors carefullyLarge-sized windows are preferred these days with the sill almost at the skirting level. Choose a window design that allows proper ventilation of rooms. Add openable shutters at the sides and provide central panel with fixed toughened glass. Provide wire mesh shutters and glazed shutters in double rebate at sides and let the air flow in. Have wire mesh doors for all outer doors as per requirement of the Indian climate.Watch for staircase headwayCheck the staircase flights to provide enough headway below them and avoid putting the signboard ‘watch your head’ later on. If a flight passes over a doorway, check that its soffit is clear of the top level of door.Avoid multiple flooring levelsKeep same floor level for all rooms. Multiple levels can lead to accidental falling during night hours. The floor level of the bathroom, however, should be half inch below the main floor level.Provide for water filter & piped gasWhile designing the kitchen, plan convenient space for water filter and dish washer. While water filter is essential, you may like to add dishwasher anytime later. Also the future belongs to piped gas supply. Make necessary provision to connect to the mains whenever piped gas arrives in your city.Bedroom in the frontGone are the times when kitchen used to be essentially in front of the house. ‘Kitchen time’ has reduced dramatically these days, thanks to the availability of multiple kitchen appliances. So plan a bedroom in the front and feel in control of the house. Plan walk-in-closets next to the bedrooms. These prove to be great wardrobe organisers. You’ll get ample space to dress up. Make provision for multiple mirrors in the walk-in-closets.Access to back courtyardIf it’s a corner plot, plan an entry to back courtyard from the side wall after getting permission from the authorities. If it is not a corner plot, then plan a side passage to reach the back courtyard from the main gate. It will be a useful addition.LED panels for effectAvoid hanging LEDs directly on the walls by drilling holes in them. Make provision for LED panels. Hide any loose wires behind it and create space for remotes, audio and video accessories.Invest in solar powerThe future belongs to solar power. Make provision for solar unit on the roof and connect it to bi-directional meter. Earn savings after one-time investment.Plan cutout area safelyA cutout is planned to provide ventilation to the toilets. Use a cut out by adding green plants and a washbasin to it. Plan the roofing carefully and make it safe from burglary. Cover the cut out with iron bars grid and a polycarbonate sheet. This will make room for ventilation through verticals as well as keep the place safe.Go for RCC slab onlyAvoid using RB (reinforced brick) slabs howsoever your mason insists. Go for RCC (reinforced cement concrete) slabs designed by a competent engineer. These prove cheaper and are much more durable.Use tiles in face workSleek tiles in the facework give a unique and attractive front elevation to the house. The tiles are mostly maintenance free and lend character to the house. Combine their use with plastered and painted surface to create a striking front elevation.Make it roomyDon’t cram the house with too many rooms and dingy washrooms. Plan lesser number of rooms with the right proportion. Go for good-sized bathrooms.— The writer is former HoD and engineer-in-chief, Civil Engineering Department in a Punjab PSU||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/plan-your-house-well-150870
04-10-2020||Akshay Kumar’s Avocado Toast||What celebrities pack for lunch||The actor gives this millennial favourite a desi twist, with chatpata chaat masala playing off the sweetness of fresh pomegranate pearlsIngredientsPreparationIn a bowl, mash the ripe avocado. Add olive oil, a pinch of Himalayan pink salt and a pinch of chaat masala. Mix all of these together. Slather this on pieces of toasted bread. Garnish with pomegranate pearls.Shikhar Dhawan’s Rawa Masala UttapamGive your breakfast a lift, with a power-packed rawa uttapam like the one Shikhar Dhawan kickstarts his day with. Want kids to eat them? Just tell them it’s what their fav cricketers eat for breakfast.IngredientsPreparationSoak the rawa in water and keep it overnight. The next day, add the vegetables to the rawa batter and add salt to taste. Heat a pan and add 1 tbsp oil to it. Once the oil is hot, spread the batter like a pancake on it. Cook evenly on both sides from 2-3 minutes each. Serve with sambar and coconut chutney.Sonali Bendre’s Sweet Potato KhichdiFuss-free and loved by all, this twist on the typical sabudana khichdi is an extension of the actress’ cheerful personality.IngredientsPreparationHeat a pan and add olive oil to it. Once the oil is heated, add cumin and mustard to it. Once they begin to crackle, add green chillies and curry leaves. To this add roasted peanuts; followed by boiled sweet potatoes and salt to taste. Mix it well. Garnish with grated coconut and coriander and serve.Katrina Kaif’s idli and coconut chutneyWe finally have something in common with Katrina Kaif. We love soft cloudy idlis as much as she does. This rice-dal based dish, paired with coconut chutney is the original happy meal.IngredientsFor temperingFor the idli batterWash the rice and soak in water (approx 6-7 glasses) for 3-4 hours. Wash the urad dal and soak in a separate vessel (approx 2 -3 glasses of water) for 2-3 hours. Drain the excess water in another bowl and grind the urad dal in a mixer-grinder until the time the batter turns white , fluffy and light. After that, drain the excess water from the soaked rice and add it to the grinder and grind the rice to a smooth consistency. Once the rice is ground, remove and add the rice batter to the urad dal batter, add salt and mix well using your hands or a spatula. Beat the batter to make it more airy and allow the batter to rest/ ferment in a warm place for at least 6-8 hours.For the idli steamerGrease the idli plates with some oil. Spoon the batter into the depression of the plates. Steam cook till done. Switch off the gas and remove the plates from the steamer. Wait for it to cool for at least 5-7 minutes and then using a spoon, run it on the side of the idli plate to remove them and serve.For the coconut chutneyAdd the coconut, roasted chana dal, green chillies into the small jar of the mixer. Add water and allow it to soak for around 5 minutes. Grind it coarsely. Transfer it to a serving bowl. Heat a small pan/iron ladle with oil and temper with mustard seeds, urad dal and curry leaves. Pour it over the chutney. Mix well and serve with idlis.Excerpted with permission of Juggernaut from ‘WHAT’S IN YOUR DABBA? Celebrities, Chefs and Foodies Share Their Favourite Easy Recipes’ by Tweak India||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/what-celebrities-pack-for-lunch-150868
04-10-2020||Pushpa Girimaji||Check your sweets for best before date||In September, I bought 30 rasgullas from a well-known sweet shop. The owner assured me that they would stay absolutely fresh for seven days if I kept them refrigerated. However, the sweets went bad on the third day. How does one determine the true shelf life of these sweets?As per the ‘Guidance Note on Safety and Quality of Traditional Milk Products” released by the food safety regulator, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), this year, Bengali sweets like rasgullas have a shelf life of just two days from the date of manufacture, when refrigerated.So, in order to sell his stock, the shopkeeper misled you on the shelf life, unmindful of the fact that stale sweets, particularly milk products, can cause food poisoning. In order to prevent just these kind of unfair trade practices and ensure food safety, the FSSAI has now mandated that, from October 1, all businesses selling non-packed sweets should display on the tray or the container, the ‘best before date’ of the product. The FSSAI has given the food business operator the option to determine the shelf life, depending on the product and the local conditions.As you are probably aware, all pre-packed food items, including sweets, should indicate the date of manufacture, ‘best before’ or ‘use before’ date, the list of ingredients used and the FSSAI registration or licence number, as per FSSAI (Packaging and Labelling) Regulations, 2011. However, non-packed foods have never been subject to mandatory declaration of shelf life. Since sweets, especially milk products, have a short shelf life and can get spoilt very fast, the FSSAI decided to make it mandatory for sweet sellers to declare the best before date.In fact, on February 24 this year, the FSSAI issued an order making declaration of ‘date of manufacture’ as well as the ‘best before date’ mandatory from June 1, 2020. However, following the lockdown and the disruption caused on account of Covid-19, the date of enforcement was postponed to August 1 and subsequently to October 1.In its September 25 order, the FSSAI has made the declaration of only the ‘best before date’ mandatory, while the ‘date of manufacture’ is voluntary. This is disappointing, but I do hope that this is only the first step and soon the ‘date of manufacture’ and the list of ingredients will also become mandatory.In case of non-compliance of this order, complain to the FSSAI on their WhatsApp number: 9868686868, or on their toll free number: 1800 11 2100, or mail at compliance@fssai.gov.in.What action can I take against the retailer who gave me a false assurance on the shelf life and later refusing to refund my money?I do hope that you have a cash receipt as proof of purchase. If you do, I would suggest that you take the following action: (a) warn other consumers about this shop through the social media; (b) file a complaint before the consumer court seeking refund of the cost of the sweets and compensation; (c) complain to the local food safety officer about the shop.A retailer who lies about the shelf life of the product may well have used substandard or prohibited ingredients (such as non-permitted colours) or prepared them in unhygienic conditions. He may also give an incorrect indication of shelf life. A check would be useful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/check-your-sweets-for-best-before-date-150839
04-10-2020||Pushpesh Pant||Presenting Shahi potatoes||Our last visit to the vegetable vendor made us painfully aware that you may call aloo by any name, it is still cheaper than most other vegetables. Tomatoes, peas, cauliflower, broccoli, carrots, etc. all are beyond the reach of common man.So, we returned home with half a kg potatoes and a problem on our hands: how to cook and serve these to our fussy family. We thought of various recipes of dum aloo but decided against all of them as we had tried them during the lockdown. We finally settled on a hybrid: potatoes in peanut-based gravy that has a nutty flavour and a rich feel.This recipe requires a little patience, but the effort is worthwhile as it turns the ubiquitous potato into a delicacy. The flavour is contributed by the pickling spices inspired by the Nepali aloo ka aachar. The texture is intriguing and brings to mind Kashmiri dum aloo. A bay leaf, 2-3 cloves and a small stick of cinnamon create the illusion of a korma. Enjoy!Shahi AlooIngredientsTemperingMethod||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/presenting-shahi-potatoes-150834
04-10-2020||Bindu Gopal Rao||Home chefs find opportunity in pandemic||Earlier this year, as the pandemic struck and the lockdown shut hotels and restaurants, Chef Harry found himself stuck at home, without salary. A senior chef de partie at a hotel in Zirakpur, Punjab, he immediately took the plunge and decided to start The Avpreet Kitchen with his wife and parents.“Sitting at home and brooding over the situation wouldn’t have done me any good. I knew people from my area were itching for restaurant food but were wary of ordering from outside. However, when it came to food cooked by people they knew, they didn’t mind. I then decided to take the plunge and became a home chef. I applied for the FSSAI Food License and spread the word on WhatsApp,” says Chef Harry aka Harjot Singh. He now gets about 20 orders for lunch and dinner on a given day.With eating out the only outdoor activity for most urban Indians, lockdown was like a big blow. Even as India unlocked, only home chefs and bakers from the immediate neighbourhood seemed like the safest bet, the only ones to be trusted, if at all. This was also the much-needed opportunity for several like Mumbai-based journalist Priyanka Pani, who always had a penchant for food. Employed with a London-based FinTech publication, the lockdown left her with too much time at hand and she started doing chat sessions on food. “I soon discovered that homecooked food had immense potential with people happy to rely on someone they knew.” The result was MyDidi's Kitchen in August.She now cooks delicacies from Odisha, her home state, and is happy to promote Odia specialties like the famous brown rasgullas. From an order or two in the first week, business has grown to 15 a day. Priyanka has a house help, who lives with her, to assist her in the kitchen and has a substantial number of monthly subscribers. “This has helped me earn some extra bucks while managing my regular job. The margins are at a healthy 30 to 40 per cent since I don’t have to bear rental or labour costs. We deliver through startups like Dunzo and Wefast,” adds Pani.Good food promoted through fancy photos, thanks to smartphones, on social media have made outreach easier for these home chefs. Agrees Bengaluru-based Aiylapanda Nisheen Subbaiah, who has always had family and friends raving about her baking. When the lockdown shut the school she works with, she went pro with Nishi’s Love + Flour. She gets about three to four orders per day and handles them on her own.Praveen Sawhney, who runs Greenolive Home Kitchen at Noida, is another one to turn home chef. “My family made me realise that there was a large void in the food space that needed to be filled. People were craving good food, but were skeptical about ordering from restaurants. So, we decided to start this small weekend kitchen,” says Sawhney, who was earlier running a boutique hotel in Goa. While his children take care of marketing and delivery, his wife packs the food. They work out of the two kitchens at their house and serve about 20-25 families every weekend. We wonder if he will go back to his original vocation once things are okay, and he says, “I don’t know. I am so in love with food!” And so are we!Aggregators galoreThe popularity of home chefs can be gauged from the fact that there are platforms that aggregate home chefs too. Shef, for instance, is a Mumbai-based food-tech platform that brings over 300 home chefs and bakers from across the city under one roof. Co-founder Deepti Verma Chhabria says the platform is designed to offer authentic home-cooked food having a wide variety of cuisines to offer. “Our platform brings together a vast variety of national, regional and international cuisines from basic yellow curry to Lebanese, Mediterranean. With people keen to experiment, we have been receiving an amazing response for desserts and international food.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/home-chefs-find-opportunity-in-pandemic-150823
04-10-2020||From Kangra to AIIMS in New Delhi||The Doctors Guleria of AIIMS||The Centre has unlocked virtually everything even as Covid-19 cases are rising. Is that a concern?Randeep Guleria: We haven’t reached a situation where we can say the disease has plateaued but at the same time, it’s important to restart the economy. People must understand that we are still in the thick of the pandemic and their responsibility in terms of wearing masks, maintaining physical distance and washing hands is more today than it was during the lockdown when restrictions made adherence to precautions easy. There’s a Covid fatigue in people and that’s a concern.Will the virus get more virulent in winter?RG: The combination of air pollution and other viral infections like influenza as well as Covid-19 will increase hospitalisation and the burden on health system in winter.Should we expect a Covid peak in the upcoming festive season?RG: That’s a concern. People tend to crowd during festivals and cases may rise. For the country as a whole, it will take some time to say we have peaked and cases are coming down, but I hope we can weather the storm as far as the festive season goes.What is the burden of asymptomatic cases in India?RG: Nearly 40 to 60 per cent patients may be asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. So there are a large number of people who can spread the virus but don’t take precautions assuming they are Covid-free. That’s why infections continue to spread. Everyone must wear masks to break the chain of transmission.When can we expect the vaccine?RG: By early next year, but the challenge is how we market it once we have it; how do we produce enough doses, syringes, vials, how do we train people and ensure an efficient cold chain so the vaccine reaches the priority populations. The government is working on this.What level of vaccine efficacy are you expecting?RG: Any efficacy over 50 to 60 per cent will be acceptable as that will give us some decrease in case numbers. We can vaccinate high-risk groups and reduce cases enough for normal activities to restart.Is the virus in India mutating?RG: Current news is that the virus hasn’t changed significantly for a vaccine not to be effective. Unlike influenza virus, this virus continues to be relative stable. That’s very good news for vaccine development.of money, manpower, sweat and blood, you can’t open those many specialties. New institutes should have been called something else. — Dr JS GuleriaDr JS Guleria, you have practised medicine for nearly 70 years now. Why do you think India’s Covid mortality is so low?JS Guleria: India has inherent immunity and the previous BCG vaccine could have played a role.Despite the strictest lockdown, why are India’s cases the second highest in the world?RG: Certain things happened during the lockdown which were not expected. Migrants started going home and many people didn’t follow the lockdown strictly and moved around. The lockdown served us more in preparing healthcare facilities better. We also reached a stage where we were trying to restart the economy and lifted the lockdown when we did not have a downward trend. That’s why we have been emphasising that although the lockdown has been lifted, our responsibility in terms of Covid-appropriate behaviour continues.What are your abiding memories of Himachal?JSG: The memory of my school in Kangra’s Indora, which was the only boarding school at the time. It was up to Class X and was located in a jungle. Our bathroom used to be 3 km away; our breakfast was two chapattis made of wheat and chana; lunch was Ganga Jamuni daal. It was a very rigid life, but I guess that is the reason why I am 93 today.You studied medicine at Amritsar. What brought you to AIIMS-Delhi?JSG: I actually wanted to be an agriculturist but was rejected in the interview for admission to Punjab Agricultural College, Lyallpur. Then I decided to study medicine and joined DAV College, Lahore. After Partition, I returned to Kangra and then pursued MD at Amritsar Medical College. Just when I got selected for Punjab Civil Medical Services, a pensionable job, I learnt of an opening in AIIMS, New Delhi, which had just been set up then. I paid three-month salary to Amritsar Medical College to be relieved of PCMS to join AIIMS. Even though everyone advised me against leaving a pensionable job (AIIMS job was not pensionable at the time), I took the plunge because I wanted to teach. I was selected. When I joined AIIMS, there was no building or hospital. We built the institution brick by brick. I remember when we opened the cardiology lab at AIIMS, we swept the floors ourselves. What’s so special about AIIMS that the government is replicating the model across states? Can AIIMS-like institutes ever equal AIIMS-Delhi?JSG: No. Calling new medical colleges as AIIMS-like institutes is the biggest disservice to AIIMS-Delhi. Other institutes can never come up like AIIMS-Delhi. You cannot put in that kind of money, manpower, sweat and blood, you can’t open up those many specialties. New institutes should have been called something else. AIIMS-Delhi is one of a kind that has fulfilled its mandate of patient care, teaching and research against all odds.Dr Randeep studied medicine at IGMC-Shimla and PGI-Chandigarh. What brought him to AIIMS?JSG: Between 1984 and 1992, Dr Randeep was in the PGI and was an Assistant Professor there. I asked him to come to Delhi. My advice to him was to stay closer to the national capital. And of course he wanted to be in Delhi because we, his parents, were there.You attended to Pt Nehru in his last days? What do you remember?JSG: Pt Nehru was in Bhubaneswar in May 1964 when he suffered a paralysis of the left side. Three AIIMS doctors were flown urgently. I was a Junior Assistant Professor then. My duty was to look after Pt Nehru and stay with him. Since he could not walk on his own, I would shoulder him around. This routine lasted till Pt Nehru died. I particularly remember an occasion when Lord Mountbatten came to visit Pt Nehru, who had gone off to sleep. He waited for Pt Nehru till he woke up.You were also the first doctor to attend to former PM Indira Gandhi when she was brought to AIIMS on October 31, 1984?JSG: Yes, she was accompanied by RK Dhawan, ML Fotedar and Sonia Gandhi. She was brought dead but the then Health Minister B Shankaranand asked us not to declare her dead till Rajiv Gandhi arrived. He was out of the city. Both Pt Nehru and Mrs Gandhi respected doctors a lot.Dr Randeep, what are your memories as a personal physician to late PM Vajpayee?RG: Vajpayeeji had a lot of respect for doctors and would often invite me over for breakfast. His sense of humour was great.What are your memories of Kangra?RG: I have been going to Himachal regularly both to my grandparents‘ place, to our village Manjra and to Dharamshala. Dharamsala I remember a lot because I grew up there, we used to go there regularly, my grandmother used to be there and my mother used to go regularly. We used to go to Mc Leodganj for picnics regularly. Now it has become such a crowded place, a tourist spot with so much traffic jam. For a large number of years there was no electricity in our village and lamps were used. We would sleep on the roof and watch the fireflies. It was a sight.Has healthcare in Himachal improved since you left?RG: Himachal is among the few northern states to do well on healthcare improvement. Today ambulance services from Himachal go all the way up to PGI. I was a member of the Himachal Health Commission and we have seen the transformation. We had IGMC-Shimla, but now we have a government medical college in Tanda. AIIMS is coming up in Bilaspur. Many private medical colleges have also come up.How do you both see each other as professionals?RG: My father is an astute clinician. People say he has a sixth sense and can diagnose what no one else can. Even in Covid times, he continues to see patients on the sly and I have a tough time trying to stop him from being exposed.JSG: Dr Randeep is an excellent clinician, teacher and human being. As AIIMS Director, you have to see many VIPs, but he has never refused a poor patient. While he became AIIMS Director, I missed the post. I was shortlisted and told by the then Health Minister that I was being appointed Director, but later my junior was appointed. I became Dean and continued to work for AIIMS. In 1958 when I joined, there was no building in AIIMS. We were given a ward each for medical and surgery in Safdarjung Hospital where we would teach. I admitted the first patient in AIIMS on December 31, 1959 by the name of Mr Khema after the nursing hostel was converted into a hospital. We set up the OPD clinics for cardiology, medicine and chest at AIIMS and instituted the DM degree.During your times, medicine was more of a mission, but now it is considered a profession.JSG: Yes, we were driven by a vision to build AIIMS. In my times, it took 14 years to get a car from government quota. Today, allurements have led to unethical situations.Tele-consultation is a norm in Covid times. Can technology replace patient-doctor interface?JSG: Never. I must see my patients. Human-to-human contact is irreplaceable.RG: Medicine is all about being able to look at and understand the patient. Tele-consultation can supplement healthcare in Covid times, but can never totally replace the patient-doctor interaction. Medicine is both a science and art, and the art of medicine is linked to seeing the patient.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-doctors-guleria-of-aiims-150817
