05-07-2020||Pushpesh Pant||The reinvented dhaba post-Covid||The writer of these lines, dear readers, is no gypsy woman with sharp protruding teeth and head covered in a colourful scarf sitting in front of a crystal ball; but truth be told — the urge to gaze into the future is strong. What will we be eating, how and where ‘After the Lockdown’ are questions that concern us all.Food business will take a long time — no one knows how long — to recover from the near-mortal blow the Covid-19 virus has dealt it. Even after trains are back on tracks and planes fly again, few people would be courageous enough to step out to eat. What is more, with the economy in doldrums, not many will have disposable incomes to splurge on trendsetting exotic (and expensive!) eateries offering varieties of local and global cuisines. Those who had till six months back ecstatically unveiled plans for rapid expansion in India and abroad are at the moment desperately trying to cut their losses. Worst hit are going to be the luxury hotels, home to iconic ethnic restaurants. Each one of them, with zero occupancy and hundreds of rooms to maintain, is struggling to cope. The state of upmarket standalone restaurants is no better.A semblance of stabilitySo where does that leave other purveyors of food? The situation today is akin to the post-Partition days in the immediate aftermath of World War II. The magnitude of tragedy crippled the economy and tore apart the social fabric scarring minds and pushed the country towards a precipice. It was the humble dhaba, which played a significant role in re-establishing a semblance of stability. The roadside eateries, based on tandoor, replicated the sanjha chulha — the traditional community kitchens — in the villages of undivided Punjab. The food served was basic, great value for money, prepared before your eyes and had a taste of home fare. It was a place where the refugees converged, exchanged information about government’s relief measures and hoped against hope to be reunited with their loved ones separated in the blood-stained tumult. No one had heard of ‘social distancing’ then. Strategies of survival hinged on bonding with fellow sufferers.Cut to the presentUnlike those times, social distancing today has disturbed the circumstances people have to eat. Survival of the refugees, migrants and daily wage earners displaced internally depends on the availability of inexpensive food at reliable outlets. Those living in shared accommodation in pigeonhole-sized rooms can’t observe social distancing. Rather than die of starvation they would risk contagion. The only precaution they can take is to keep the duration of exposure as short as possible and consume the food bought maintaining a safe distance from other customers. Not all can take home packed food as this would involve using dishes and washing them. Disposable biodegradable utensils are likely to emerge as the norm.A novelty in the hill townWhen I was a student in Nainital in the closing years of 1950s, dhaba was a novelty in the hill town. Sher e Punjab in Talli Tal called itself a hotel but was identified as a dhaba. Those strictly vegetarian avoided it as it was rumoured that the same ladle that stirred the chicken curry was used to make the kali daal lip-smacking flavourful. Orthodox prohibitions crumbled with the passage of time as the young and old discovered that the dhaba offered good value for money, the food was freshly prepared and was refreshingly different from the insipid home fare.Many years later, motoring down the legendary GT Road researching the text and photographing the highway, we discovered that not all dhabas specialise in tandoori chicken or saag gosht. There are Amritsariyan de dhabe that proudly proclaim that they are Vaishno — 100 per cent vegetarian. Somewhere near Kanpur, the Punjabi dhaba makes way for the Yadav or Brahmin dhaba and yellow daal finally displaces maahdi makhni.Creating a pan Indian palateTo cut a long story very short, it is not the high profile restaurants that have shaped Indian taste since Independence but the humble dhaba that has created a pan-Indian palate. Even delux eateries have had to accommodate the dhaba classics on their menu.Dhabas have, in the past seven decades and more, proliferated all over the land and evolved in response to changing times. East Coast Road (ECR) Dhaba, a popular eating destination en route Puducherry from Mahabalipuram-Chennai, blended flavours of Chettinad with Punjab. Sardarji ka Dhaba in Garhiahaat in Kolkata had endeared itself to the residents of the city by tweaking its fare to their palate. Midway Points in Murthal and Gajraula have emerged as destinations worth visiting for a great meal on their own. Pit Stops for long-distance truck drivers’ dhaba have also gentrified. Purveyors of other regional cuisines flatter them by imitating their style of operations. Today from Surat in Gujarat to Sib Sagar in Assam, we encounter not only the Punjabi dhaba but also affordable family eateries serving food from Udupi, Malabar, Goa and Kashmir.Hundreds of millions of Indians staying away from home have for years relied on faceless vendors owners of pushcarts and kiosks, holes in the walls outlets to feed them cheap, hot fixed thali meals of parantha, pickle and a spoonful of raita, puri subzi or tawa roti daal and tarkari. Hunger pangs are quelled resorting to affordable relief provided by eat-on-the-run kulche matar, vada pav, paav bhaji, bread pakora, chow-mein, bun omelette and now momo and litti chokha. A half plate of Muradabadi biryani was the current rage in the Capital before the virus wreaked its havoc.Harbinger of hopeWe believe that in days and nights to come the ‘reincarnated dhaba’ will dominate the food scene in India. They don’t have backbreaking overheads — rentals and salaries — are mostly small-scale operations surviving on slim margins of profit. Most ply their business in open spaces where the rules to enforce social distancing don’t really apply. It is sufficient if the physical contact between the buyer and seller is brief. These countless outlets can easily transform themselves as neighbourhood takeaway and delivery-at-doorstep options.Is it too much to expect that the government will prioritise the relief package for them enabling better hygiene and waste disposal. Multinational and Indian companies who have so far concentrated on upmarket clients, hotels and restaurants better look at this bottom-of-the-pyramid opportunity. Ready-made gravies, sauces not only for exotic Chindian or Thai but regional Indian delicacies developed for the 21st century dhaba appear to present a win-win situation for all.A large number of professionals employed in the F&B sector have been laid off or have been sent on unpaid leave or accepted sizeable payouts. Many of them are young, on the threshold of their careers. Perhaps they can be helped out with bank loans, subsidies to tide over the lean season by providing back up to small-micro sized f&b outlets. This may well prove the fastest way for the dhaba to come to our rescue in a powerful new incarnation!Plate up the 4 PsDr Izzat Hussein, our friend, a doctor trained in the Indian system of medicine turned heritage chef, firmly believes that the 4 Ps have always and will continue to ensure that those who cook and feed people professionally need not worry about customers.1 The first P represents panic that propels people to have a carefree binge before —‘who knows the world may end tonight?’ Shades of Last Tango in Paris, you may say. 2The second P represents passion. Passion is well known to make people reckless enough to happily imperil their lives on the chance to experience ecstasy. Whiff of good food, a mere rumour will continue to embolden them to take myriad risks.3 The third P stands for pleasures (mostly forbidden) that seduce us in adolescence and continue to tempt dangerously in old age. Addiction to nicotine and alcohol are extremely difficult to ‘cure’, relapses are common and who doesn’t know that those on a medical diet flounder repeatedly as the flesh is weak?4The final P is perhaps the most crucial — Power that mediates the other Ps. The rich and the powerful will try to enhance their wealth by investing in risky businesses and profit from the misery of the poor. Laws aren’t for the powerful! These investments are likely to keep getting rich dividends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-reinvented-dhaba-post-covid-108758
05-07-2020||Pooja Khanna Tyagi||Smart ways to keep your home cool||As the mercury rises during the peak summer months, here are some proactive steps that can be taken to prevent indoor heat gain within the home and reduce the usage of air conditioners, thereby ensuring good savings on electricity bills.Cross ventilateOpen the windows and cross ventilate the house in the morning to allow a free flow of cool air. This process will reduce the indoor temperature so there will be no need to switch on the air conditioner (AC) during the early hours of the day.Get the AC ServicedGet the air conditioners serviced annually so that the technician cleans the outdoor coils, the filters and checks the level of the refrigerant of. This will improve the energy efficency and performance of the AC.Go for energy efficient ACGo for ACs with 5-star or 4-star ratings as these consume less power. One can also consider split ACs with inverter technology which adjust the power consumption of the compressor.Seal the door & window framesIf there are large gaps or cracks around the doors and windows, then seal the gaps with caulk and use weather stripping to prevent leakage of indoor cool air and the entry of outdoor hot air.Use drapes to cover windowsSince maximum amount of heat enters through the windows, close the windows during the warmest hours of the day. Pull down the blinds or draw the curtains to prevent indoor heat gain and go for light coloured drapes that reflect heat.Remove heavy carpetsBare the floor by removing heavy carpets as theyhave the tendency to retain heat. Use soothing colours for the upholstery and other fabrics as they reflect heat.Keep the roof coolHeat gain can be reduced within the highest floor of the building by painting the terrace with reflective cool roof paint or white lime wash. Alternately, one can keep the upper floors cooler by creating a shaded area on the roof or by designing a rooftop garden with grass and potted plants.Grow trees and indoor plantsPlant leafy deciduous trees around the home because they provide ample shade in summer. It will be useful in lowering cooling costs in the long run. Keep the interiors naturally cooler with indoor plants like peace lily, Boston fern and areca palm as these species of plants release moisture to cool and humidify the surrounding air.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/smart-ways-to-keep-your-home-cool-108793
05-07-2020||Sonali Aggarwal||The courtyard story||Kya hai sukoon? Ghar ke aangan ki mitti mein pehli baarish ki boond.” This recent tweet by actor Ayushmann Khurrana sums up the value of a courtyard. The courtyard, aangan (in Hindi) or vedaah, as it is known in Punjab, has been an intrinsic part of our culture. From grand palaces to havelis to the humblest of abodes, the open-to-sky courtyard has had a place right in the heart of things.The courtyard was never lonely. From routine chores to extended family meetings to celebrations and festivities, the courtyard has been a hub of activity all year around. Women carried out household chores in and around the courtyard, absorbed in animated gossip, the men with big moustaches lay sprawled across the charpoys and little kids needed no activity other than climbing atop their snoring dadus (grandfathers) and taus (uncles), tweaking their moustaches and giggling endlessly. In the hot summer months, the courtyard was a perfect setting for lazy passive activity too. So popular was the courtyard that the youth of the house had tough time sneaking out undetected! That was then, and the setting, rural.The changing faceWith urbanisation, lifestyles underwent a change and people became more outgoing. Joint family structures were shaken, family time took a backseat and the need for collective spaces reduced. The central courtyard got divided into two — the front and the rear yards of a house.The front yard, though envied for having bagged a more prestigious position, was sad at heart. Its cheeks hurt from keeping an ever-smiling face, for it was the formal and ornamental ‘face of the house’. And the rear yard, relegated to the purpose of a mere service yard, was hugely envious. However, the courtyard smiled sportingly, because though partitioned, it did still exist!With gradual environmental degradation and global warming, a need was felt to close up from, rather than open up to natural elements. Technology took over and more and more activities started happening indoors. With space at a premium, the new generation eyed the open courtyards greedily. Like an indulgent grandfather, the courtyard allowed itself to be squeezed further and hovered patiently in the periphery, as a shaded balcony or a protective verandah. Though it had lost both its spaciousness and importance at the heart of things, the courtyard was confident that the innocent young generation will soon see the light of the day.A place for everyoneThe nature connect: The benefits of the daily dose of sunlight and natural ventilation are not unknown. A simple cup of tea at the start of a day, or at the end of an exhausting one, can do wonders in a natural refreshing environment. The best part is that one can enjoy whatever joys different seasons usher in without stepping out from one’s house.A meaningful space: A sensibly sized courtyard can act as a great ‘connector’ bringing families together. A courtyard large enough to ensure privacy among rooms around it and so placed as to ensure interaction through movement across it can prove to be a win-win situation. Supplemented with some comfortable seating area, it can be an ideal spot for reading, reflection, meditation and cozy chats. It can be a place to unwind, entertain guests and enjoy the simple pleasures in life.The many avatarsA central courtyard has the advantage of providing an outdoor space without compromising on a family’s privacy.Making memoriesIn times of restricted movement and sojourns into lush green mountains or to refreshing seas seeming quite far off, a courtyard becomes more valuable than ever. Realising the importance of a ‘courtyard-like space’ in the present urban environment, a wave of sensitive designers have been working silently on ways to keep it alive in its ‘spirit’. From a central open green to just a serene landscaped corner tucked under a staircase, the spirit of the courtyard can be brought in, into any house, into any space.In words of master architect BV Doshi:“Celebrate life.Celebrate a habitat.Make spaces that change with changing weather and changing moods. A space that makes memories for its inhabitants.”The Cordoba Courtyards The courtyard has been a favourite — be it in India, or anywhere in the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-courtyard-story-108814
05-07-2020||Jagvir Goyal||Rain ready your house||Rains provide a welcome relief from the summer heat. For home owners, these can become a problem if they cause leakages and damage the house. Take care of the following to avoid any leakages or dampness.Check catchment areaMake sure that the catchment area of your house, i.e. the area that receives rainfall, doesn’t allow any ingress of rainwater into the walls and rooms. Ensure that there’s proper slope towards the drainage pipes or spouts. Large-sized roofs can be suitably divided towards rainwater pipes by preparing a drainage plan of the roof.Seal the tile jointsWhether you have brick tiles, stone or waterproof tiles, check the grouting and flush pointing on the roof. Get the joints grouted and sealed well. Next, check the corner joint of parapet and the terrace for any fine cracks, which can allow ingress of water below the terrace finish and find a weak spot in RCC or RB slab to permeate inside the rooms. Always provide a cement concrete fillet or ‘Gola’ of size 3 inch x 3 inch all along this joint.Rainwater pipes & gratingsIn India, lot of debris, bird droppings and dead leaves accumulate on open terraces. Make sure the terrace is cleaned during pre-monsoon and monsoon. Else, the wind will sweep all debris towards the rainwater pipes and block their mouth gratings. In case the rainwater pipes are provided at the corners of terrace, these should be provided with slanting gratings to avoid blockage.Projections & window sillsIn addition to roof drainage system, check the projections over windows and window sills to see that these are clean and carry a slant towards the outer edge. This will avoid the accumulation of water at the corners and prevent seepage to the inside of the walls. The best way to seal the window sill joints is to use a silicon sealant gun which you can handle yourself easily.Gully trap and coverProvide gully traps in the courtyards at the discharge point of rainwater pipes. A gully trap is a sort of small basin of 9 inch x 9 inch size provided below the discharge point of rainwater pipe to receive the rainwater and then to discharge it through another connected drainage pipe to the drainage network of pipes. Its cover can be easily removed to check that the bottom shoe or elbow of rainwater pipe is not clogged with dust or leaves. Make sure these elbows are cleaned well before the rains begin. Gully trap cover is usually made in cast iron and provided, along with an angle frame in which it rests securely.Harvest RainwaterThere were times when rainwater pipes used to discharge water in the open courtyards at lower levels over a special concrete platform called ‘khurra’ and the water used to flow to the surface drainage open drains. Nowadays, it is mandatory for house owners to make provision for rainwater harvesting system and make sure that it discharges rainwater effectively to recharge ground water. A defective RW harvesting system may create problems due to ineffective drainage of rainwater.— The writer is former HoD and engineer-in-chief, Civil Engineering Department in a Punjab PSU||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/rain-ready-your-house-108815
