05-04-2020||Nonika Singh ||‘Too serious is too boring’||Amid the coronavirus scare, versatile actor Pankaj Tripathi is busy rustling up a meal for his daughter. His hectic shooting schedules hardly allow the gifted actor the luxury of spending time with his family. Making the most of this much deserved break due to the lockdown, he’s using the time cooking — his favourite dish being aloo vadi, coupled with flaxseed chutney — and walking his dog.  For a lesser actor,  stardom and love of burgeoning tribe of fans  may have spawned insecurity, but Tripathi views the growing fandom as an added responsibility. He’s aware of how viewers greet his sheer presence onscreen with claps and whistles, a rare for a character actor.But how does this scene stealer manage to create an impact even in a brief role as in Angrezi Medium? All he says of his short but impactful role of travel agent Tony in the Irrfan Khan starrer is, “I am humbled and honoured to be in the same frame as Irrfan Khan who has been an inspiration not just for me but many at the NSD. He has changed the whole approach to acting.” Today as many credit Tripathi, too, with setting new parameters, in a self-effacing tone, he says, “I have just started.” But deep down he knows he has come a long way. “Often I wonder how I have come in this industry, working here without a godfather... Boond boond jod kar, I have created my space.” This year alone would see him in a clutch of significant roles in films like Gunjan Saxena; The Kargil Girl, ’83, Mimi, Roohi Afzana and second outing of web-series Mirzapur too. Yet his favourite film till date remains Gurgaon. When asked whether he would prefer a movie or a web-drama, he answers, “Ideally, I would love to have my cake and eat it too. At times, due to date issues, if I have to say no to a good story, I deeply regret it.” As he has just wrapped up the shooting of ‘83 wherein he plays a sports coach for the second time (earlier it was in Harjeeta), he says, “Though often I am told that with minor inflections, I can breathe a new life into a character here the key difference between two characters lies in writing.” Writing, he insists, is the motherboard of all creative mediums, especially web-series, where characters can be fleshed out better.His approach to the character, however, does not change whether he is playing a devious character or a jocular one as in say Luka Chuppi. Though he tries to make sense of all his characters, he believes, “A bit of nonsense too is essential, too serious is too boring.” Nevertheless, he is dead serious about his craft. Comedy too for him is serious business. The all important lesson that he learnt in his alma mater, the National School of Drama, was, “If you look at a thing/ role or even life, don’t just follow the first approach that comes to your mind. Explore all possibilities.” But advises against over-analysing cinema. He says one should not always look at life or art through the lens of censure.  He responds to criticism positively but also says, “Perfect is only a word.” Yet another life’s lesson comes from Baba Nagarjun’s poem, “Jo na ho sake pooran kaam, mein unko karta hoon parnam.” No wonder he would not dwell on the ifs and buts, what could have been had someone noticed him when he was 25 and cast him as romantic lead. He says, “Possible. But I guess then I would have lost direction.” With a schedule that’s keeping him occupied till early 2021, Tripathi has little reason to complain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/too-serious-is-too-boring-65957
05-04-2020||Krishnaraj Iyengar||Notes to calm you down||Ragas are endowed with their own unique colours and moods. They bring positivity and fight anxiety, especially in stressful times. There are ragas for different times of the day and one can enjoy a day-long repertoire of performances by legends like Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan, Ustad Bismillah Khan’s shehnai, Pandit Ravi Shankar’s sitar and living masters like vocalists Pandit Venkatesh Kumar and Arshad Ali Khan, to name a few.Internationally acclaimed sitar and tabla maestro Pandit Nayan Ghosh explains, “Ragas have the power to elevate the state of mind and uplift the mood, especially aarohi ragas which have an ascending, upstream movement. Nocturnal ragas like Rageshri, Adana and Kedar, Bhairavi and Ramkali for the morning, the afternoon Vrindavani Sarang and evening ragas like Nand and Yaman are some fine examples.” Adana and Khamaj are among his fortes. Here are some mood-enhancing ragas and their cinematic expressions:BhairaviThe versatile morning raga is among the most popular romantic ragas. Along with famous Bhairavi thumris by great past and present masters, Tu Ganga ki mauj main (Baiju Bawra, 1952) and Dil ka khilona hai toot gaya (Goonj Uthi Shehnai, 1956) bring out Bhairavi’s essence along with recent hits like Nimbuda from Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam ( 1999) and Hai mera dil from the 2000 film Josh.BhoopaliCalmness, devotion, tranquility, purity and relief are the feeling this pentatonic evening raga creates with just five notes — Sa Re Ga Pa Dha. Albela Sajan from Bajirao Mastani is a brilliant exploration of Bhoopali on the big screen with the peppy rendition enhanced by masterful choreography.Nat BihagA bright raga that resounds with childlike exhilaration, innocence and joy, Nat Bihag’s notes create the feeling of colourful, fragrant flowers, endless meadows, bright sunshine and spring. Jhan jhan jhan jhan payala baaje from Buzdil (1951) is not only an SD Burman-Lata Mangeshkar masterpiece but also the favorite bandish of classical vocalists.NandAn evening raga, Nand envelopes you with warmth, affection, togetherness and joy especially with the Ga Ma Dha Pa Re Sa phrase and accent on Ma in the ascent. The calming and healing raga is exemplified by Madan Mohan in Lata’s signature Tu jahan jahan chalega (Mera Saya, 1966).KedarThe night raga creates the perfect feeling of gaiety, glee, celebration, cheer and love that the commencing glide from Sa to Ma itself announces. Kedar has glorified performances of many maestros like sarod legend Pandit Buddhadev Dasgupta, vocalists Ustad Amir Khan, Bhimsen Joshi and, of course, Pandit Ravi Shankar to name a few. A great Kedar rendered in cinema is the Rafi-OP Nayyar masterpiece Aap yunhi agar humse milte rahe from Ek Musafir Ek Hasina (1962).BaharAs the name suggests, this raga depicts springtime verdant fields, clear blue skies and blossoming roses. Bahar creates the perfectly joyous and energetic vibe. Lata Mangeshkar’s classical tour de force in Chhaya (1961) is a masterfully rendered Salil Choudhuri gem. Chham chham naachat aayi bahar has hints of Basant, a raga that eternally compliments Bahar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/notes-to-calm-you-down-65953
05-04-2020||Purnima Sharma||Tech beats lockdown blues||Handling a pair of twins and the husband who, courtesy the lockdown, are now home 24x7, is no mean task, but I have found a way out,” smiles Shweta Hari. The Gurugram-based homemaker is excited about the new ‘vocation’ in her life — online classes on creative writing. “The monotony of household chores and the house full of people all the time was getting to me,” says Hari. Fortunately, while browsing the net, she came across an ‘announcement’ that was something right up her street. “I think the universe conspired to make it happen,” laughs Hari, who now locks herself up in a room for an hour everyday to “think and do the writing exercises” as directed by her online teacher.If Anne Frank could do it in her little hideout with her family to escape the Nazi atrocities, we should not be complaining — that’s what creative gurus offering free online classes maintain. “If she could do it, so must we,” says filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri, who has been offering movie-making sessions online. “At a time when social distancing is the mantra to stay safe and healthy, I decided to share my knowledge in the field of my expertise,” he says. The idea, says Agnihotri, is to help people learn a new craft. And those joining in are a diverse lot — doctors, chartered accountants, young students and housewives. “They’re here not just for a lark; they are serious about storytelling and script writing,” says Agnihotri. A painter too, he has been utilising the “confinement time” to make artworks to raise money for daily wage workers. “There are a lot of people in the industry whose livelihood has been affected. I will sell these paintings for them,” he adds.Negate negativityPeople need to get rid of negativity to hold up better in such trying times. “And the best way to do it is by “channelising the creative energy into something positive,” says Mumbai-based author Megha Bajaj. A full-time writer for the past two decades, the author of several books has been conducting online classes for quite some time now. “But from the time the lockdown commenced, these have really taken off,” she says. “That’s perhaps because there are many creative people who had hitherto not found time to try their hand at writing.”With the fear of the virus dominating our mind and lives, Bajaj feels “it’s easy to spiral down towards depressive thoughts”. That’s why she tries to ensure her classes and ‘homework exercises’ leave people “positive and cheerful”. Citing an example, she talks about a CEO of a financial firm who has set his sights on floating his own blog after attending a few sessions.It’s not just fear and anxiety but also ennui that’s compelling people to look at options “other than movies, serials and telefilms” to keep themselves occupied, says Kaushalya Reddy, a kuchipudi dancer. Together with Raja and Radha Reddy, she had been running classes at their Natya Taringini Performing Arts Centre until coronavirus struck. Her daughter Bhawna, also a kuchipudi dancer, came up with a solution: she suggested they go digital and conduct classes online. “Besides regular classes with our senior students, we are now offering online sessions to introduce the fundamentals of kuchipudi to those interested,” she says. “It sure helps to have tech-savvy youngsters in the family.” Bhawna gives live demonstrations on adavus from Natya Shashtra and Bharatarnavam.“It’s not just a new and amazing experience for us but also very challenging,” says the danseuse who pitches in from her home in the US. “Among many others who have joined in is a woman from Brazil who had once attended a workshop conducted by my parents in her school. She is now brushing up on her kuchipudi,” smiles Bhawna. “We show students like her the correct mudras, leg movements and arm gestures that they can practise later. Thankfully, technology is allowing us to stay connected not only with our students but also reach out to the outside world,” says Kaushalya.Agrees chef Nishant Choubey, famous for introducing the vast repertoire of traditional Bihari dishes to the discerning Delhi foodies. Post the home-confinement directive, he has shifted his focus to offer online classes on healthy food. “I am now showcasing stuff that is easy to prepare with ingredients available on the kitchen shelf. What I am also keeping in mind is that it must be light and healthy,” says the Michelin-plated chef who has been teaching his students preparations like haldi ki kanji and thecha chutney that enhance immunity. “My aim is to help people discover the joys of traditional stuff like sil-batta and imam-dasta for different preparations.Some food for thought that!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/tech-beats-lockdown-blues-65952
05-04-2020||Saibal Chatterjee||Sona Mohapatra, a singer & rebel||The provocative and the profound flow ceaselessly in and out of each other in Shut Up Sona, a lively documentary that explores the creative credo of songstress Sona Mohapatra. There is nary a dull moment in the film. The combative singer speaks her mind as only she can, holding forth on the industry’s ingrained gender skew, on the misogyny rampant on social media, on religious bigotry, and on the music she makes. Directed by cinematographer-filmmaker Deepti Gupta — “she has been a friend for a decade and a half,” says Mohapatra — the 86-minute film premiered at the MAMI Mumbai Film Festival last year before travelling to festivals in Rotterdam and Goteburg in early 2020. It was also due to participate in Hot Docs Toronto and the Sheffield Doc/Fest, but has been stopped in its tracks by the Covid-19 pandemic. Shut Up Sona is a pulsating musical documentary on which Mohapatra’s feisty personality imprints itself. Gupta follows the fiercely feminist entertainer as she travels across the country, frequently for concerts where she presents her music and her worldview with equal gusto. Shut Up Sona also tracks the many battles that Mohapatra fights as a woman, a performer, and a gender parity activist. “All of it is rolled into one,” she says. “I have always been inspired by artistes from around the world and across the ages who have gone beyond the scope of just entertainment. Having a voice and a personality has helped me stand out.” Plain talk comes easy to Mohapatra. In the film, we see her calling out IIT Mumbai’s Mood Indigo Festival for giving no space to female performers. In an angry missive sent to the organisers, she calls the event “a training ground for the worst kind of boys’ club”. She also takes on an obscure Sufi outfit that accuses her injecting “obscenity” into an Amir Khusro rendition. Neither does Mohapatra shy away from pointing to the prejudices that female crooners face in the industry even from self-styled paragons of fairness and equality. Mohapatra is herself the producer of Shut Up Sona. She initiated the film because she felt she “was at a point in her career and her life where she needed to do more than just be a singer”. She says: “I have multiple interests. I love to travel, I love history, I love connecting with my audience in different ways.”Dynamically structured, crisply edited and gloriously unapologetic, Shut Up Sona captures Mohapatra as a person and an artiste, embellishing the vivid portrait with her concert performances and her ruminations on music. “I have always believed that it is important for artistes to convey something more through their music than just nature poetry. It has to reflect what you believe in,” she says.   The initial idea, the singer reveals, was for the film to be a journey undertaken by her and the director. It was music composer Ram Sampath, her life partner and professional collaborator, who suggested an alternative approach. Says Mohapatra: “Deepti and I talked about our abiding interest in roots music, in Mirabai, Kabir and Amir Khusro, as we travelled. Ram told me that I should consider bringing my life into the film. Your life, he said, has so much conflict, you are an artiste who constantly engages with issues and fights and yet enjoys herself.”Mohapatra rues the fact that India does not even have a music industry. “It is only a subset of the film industry. We should be worried that music does not have an existence of its own, it only helps promote films.” But none of the music in Shut Up Sona, she points out, is film music.“I carry more than 3,000 songs within me,” says Mohapatra. It is a culture so rich. There isn’t just folk;there’s also classical music, qawwalis, ghazals, nazms. Every state of India has at least five dialects, each with music of its own. This country is so crazily diverse that you can’t have only flavour that feeds us.” Some of that depth and range of India’s varied musical heritage is reflected in Shut Up Sona, where it not only serves the purpose of defining who Mohapatra is, but also transports the audience into a zone where its timeless resonance becomes palpable. Unusually for a small independent documentary, as many as 17 cities feature in the film. The shoot yielded 300 hours of film. Veteran film editor and filmmaker Arjun Gourisaria gave Shut Up Sona its momentum.“He,” says Mohapatra, “would say, how do I edit a woman who talks without taking a breath for three hours.” All the toil that has gone into the film and the money that’s been spent on — financially, it drained the hell out of me, says Mohapatra — has paid off and yielded an exceptionally engaging documentary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/sona-mohapatra-a-singer-rebel-65960
05-04-2020||Eve Watling||Finding beauty in 1970s’ America||Stephen Shore had a swift and glittering introduction to photography. Born in 1947, the New York native was developing his first pictures as a six-year-old and sold his first works to the Museum of Modern Art at 14. By 1965, the 16-year-old was photographing the stars at Andy Warhol’s hotspot The Factory. At 23, he was the first living photographer to have a solo show at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. But despite coming up amid the glamour of New York City, he is best known for his work depicting sleepy, banal life in the American suburbs.Over the course of the 1970s, Shore travelled across America’s vast heartlands, through the Deep South to the Midwest. With a large-format camera, he captured the fast food chains, parking lots and motels he found along the way. His 1982 book, Uncommon Places, compiled 61 of these images, and broke new ground as to what was considered fine art photography.At the time, the book was almost unique in its use of colour photography for an artistic purpose; previously it had been seen as the domain of advertising and picture postcards, a gaudy younger sibling of sophisticated monochrome. Combined with the decidedly lowbrow subject of neon-lit hotels and dusty, forgotten street corners, Shore found a new delicate beauty in both format and subject, creating a uniquely American visual vernacular.Although the large format of the Uncommon Places collection gives a sense of clear-eyed objectivity, his images hum with an ambiguity and tenderness. They refute the immediacy and action of the Cartier-Bresson-inspired street photography which had gone before, and instead sought out a sense of unselfconscious repose. “His work is Nabokovian for me: exposing so much, and yet leaving so much room for your imagination to roam and do what it will,” the playwright Tennessee Williams once said of Shore.Along with his large format camera, Shore also travelled with a 35mm Leica, shooting on kodachrome film. A new book from MACK reveals this archive of his Uncommon Places era, an alternative narrative of his most creatively groundbreaking decade. Transparencies: Small Camera Works 1971-1979 shows a more nimble reflection of his journeys; free from his television-sized camera, Shore was free to focus on detail. Transparencies captures the phone booths and cowboy boots, the jazzy ties and afternoon lunches: details of a cultural landscape which has since faded away. — The Independent||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/finding-beauty-in-1970s-america-65956
05-04-2020||Pushpa Girimaji||What is the perfect sanitiser for you?||We are all told that we need to use hand sanitisers as a protection against the spread of Coronavirus. However, there are so many sanitisers in the market that I am totally confused. Which santiser should I choose or what do I look for in a sanitiser?The active ingredient in a hand sanitiser is alcohol, which is a known broad-spectrum antimicrobial. There are also some non-alcohol based sanitisers, but for coronavirus, experts recommend only alcohol-based sanitisers. The alcohol used could be either ethyl (ethanol) or isopropyl (Isopropanol) or n. propanol or a combination of two of these alcohols.So first and foremost, one should look at the content of the hand sanitizer, and then buy the one which has alcohol as its main active ingredient. Such sanitisers will also have minute quantities of emollients and maybe some fragrance too.Which is effective in killing coronavirus: an ethanol-based sanitiser or propanal-based?Some studies had earlier suggested that ethanols could be more effective or have a stronger and broader virucidal activity compared to proponals. However, in a more recent study comparing the virucidal activity of the formulations based on ethanol and isopropanol, the World Health Organisation found the latter to have a higher virucidal activity against enveloped viruses. The two formulations were tested against Zika virus, Ebola virus, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV), and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV).“In conclusion, WHO-recommended alcohol-based formulations were validated with different enveloped viruses. A strong virucidal effect against emerging pathogens, including ZIKV, EBOV, SARS-CoV, and MERS-CoV, could be demonstrated, implicating the usability of these WHO formulations in healthcare and outbreak-associated viral infections,” the study concluded. Thus, one can buy sanitisers with either of the alcohols, or the one having a combination of both.What should be the percentage of alcohol in sanitisers?The WHO formulation for use in health care suggests 80 per cent ethyl alcohol or 75 per cent iosopropyl alcohol. According to the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, USA, studies have shown that sanitisers with an alcohol concentration of 60-95 per cent are more effective than those with lower alcohol concentration or non-alcohol based sanitisers. It, therefore, recommends a minimum of 60 per cent alcohol in the sanitiser for it to be useful. A review of various studies on the efficacy of ethanol against viruses in hand disinfection (The Journal of Hospital Infection, Kampf G, 2017) said 95 per cent ethanol covers the majority of clinically relevant viruses. However, “the selection of a suitable virucidal hand rub should be based on the viruses most prevalent in a unit and on the user acceptability of the product under frequent-use conditions”, the review concluded.Another study on “Virucidal activity of 70 per cent ethanol vs Enveloped and non-enveloped viruses” (NR Clyde, Institute for Antiviral Research, Utah state university) found that enveloped viruses were extremely vulnerable to 70 per cent of ethanol. Coronavirus is an ‘enveloped’ virus. In fact most virologists and pathologists recommend sanitisers with 70 per cent alcohol for killing Coronavirus.Viruses, which come in many shapes and sizes, are enclosed in a protein coat called capsid. In some viruses, capsid is surrounded by an envelope composed of a lipid bylayer — the latter are called enveloped viruses. Alcohol destroys them by denaturing their proteins and dissolving the lipids.Consumers must remember that the effectiveness of a sanitiser also depends on its correct usage. One must use adequate quantity, 2-3 ml, depending on the hand size. Pour it on the palm and rub it with both hands, just the way you do with soap, till the hands are dry. The entire process should take about 20-30 seconds, according to WHO. It is also important to check whether the bottle of a sanitiser is properly closed. I have often seen bottles with poor closures that allow leakage of the product within. In fact, the containers and the lids should be so designed as to prevent leakage and also evaporation.Having said that, it is best to wash hands with soap and water. The sanitiser should be used only when water is not available and for sanitising things like cell phones, handbags, etc. Sanitisers work well when hands are not heavily soiled or greasy.What should one do if chemists do not sell sanitisers at the government-mandated price?Complain to the local legal metrology department, consumer affairs department as well as the drug control department. If you have no other option but to buy it, take a receipt and send a complaint along with a copy of the receipt, seeking a refund of the excess amount charged and suitable action against the chemist/retailer. Sanitisers are now essential commodities under the Essential Commodities Act and the government has put a cap on the price of sanitisers at 50 paise for an ml of the liquid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/what-is-the-perfect-sanitiser-for-you-65955
05-04-2020||Kavita Das||The strains of the master's strings||The shimmering strum of the sitar’s strings, which just decades ago was heard only on the Indian subcontinent, is now recognised and appreciated all over the world. There is one musician who is most responsible for taking Indian music beyond India: sitar maestro Pandit Ravi Shankar. Over the course of his 92 years, Shankar became the most prolific and iconic Indian musician of his generation and his influence not only spanned the globe, it touched several genres of music.On April 7, 1920, Shankar was born into a family immersed in the arts, from his father, a lawyer by training who loved to create dramatic productions of Indian stories for English audiences, to his brother Uday, who started out a painter and became an early innovator in Indian modern dance. Young Shankar started his artistic career dancing in his brother’s dance productions but soon fell under the spell of the sitar. After studying intensively under the guidance of sarod maestro Ustad Allauddin Khan, Shankar established himself on the Indian stage as a prodigious and masterful sitarist.Even early on Shankar wasn’t satisfied with following the traditional artistic career of a solo artiste. He became a musical composer for the Indian People’s Theatre Association (IPTA), then adapted Nehru’s book The Discovery of India for the stage with former members of his brother’s dance troupe and fellow musicians. Later, he would go on to create his own musical productions, like Melody and Rhythm and serve as a Musical Director for All India Radio. He would also lend his musical talents as the composer of scores for films like Satyajit Ray’s award-winning Apu Trilogy.In the 1960s, the world began to be curious and hungry for Indian music after hearing samples through rock ’n’ roll tunes experimenting with Indian instrumentation and sounds by the likes of The Beatles and the Rolling Stones. Beatles guitarist, George Harrison, who played the sitar on their hit song, “Norwegian Wood”, searched out Shankar in order to study sitar and the principles of Indian music under him. Thus, began perhaps the most legendary intercultural musical friendship of the twentieth century. Of Shankar, as a teacher and collaborator, Harrison said, “The feelings I got were of his patience, compassion, and humility. The fact that he could do one of his five-hour concerts, but at the same time he could sit down and teach somebody from scratch the very basics …”Whether it's his intrepid role as a cultural ambassador bringing Indian music into the hearts and minds of listeners the world over, or his role as a sitar maestro, Ravi Shankar's musical legacy is expansive in its reach and profound in its significance. There's no doubt that his music will continue to be celebratedHarrison and Shankar would go on to collaborate on multiple albums and tours, including their 1971 charity Concert for Bangladesh, which raised significant funds and won a Grammy award and the 1974 50-stadium tour for Harrison’s first solo album and the Shankar Family and Friends album, produced by Harrison. This breakthrough tour featured some of the most talented Hindustani and Carnatic musicians, including his sister-in-law Hindustani singer Lakshmi Shankar, santoorist Shivkumar Sharma, flautist Hari Prasad Chaurasia, tabla player Alla Rakha, mridangam player Palghat Raghu, Carnatic violinist L. Subramaniam, and others.George Harrison of the Beatles on Pt Ravi ShankarThe feelings I got were of his patience, compassion, and humility. The fact that he could do one of his five-hour concerts, but at the same time he could sit down and teach somebody from scratch the very basics.For his part, although Shankar was intrepid in his efforts to introduce Indian music to the West and the rest of the world, becoming a cultural icon at home in India and abroad, he was dubious about Indian music being co-opted by the hippie movement and associated with drug culture. He performed at the famed Woodstock music festival in 1969 and was disillusioned by the experience of performing at such a chaotic venue, where drug use was pervasive. In his autobiography, Raga Mala, Shankar reflected on his experience.“I felt offended and shocked to see India being regarded so superficially and its great culture being exploited.”Shankar built cultural bridges influencing musicians across genres including rock, Western classical, jazz, and even helped inspire a new category of music — world music. In fact, Harrison dubbed Shankar the “Father of World Music.” Innovative jazz saxophonist John Coltrane extolled Shankar’s influence on his understanding of the emotive elements of music, even naming his son Ravi after Shankar. Meanwhile, classical violinist Yehudi Menuhin recorded the Grammy Award-winning West Meets East collaborative album with Shankar and classical minimalist Philip Glass acknowledged Shankar’s influence on his pioneering approach to modern classical music.Pt Ravi ShankarMy goal has always been to take the audience along with me deep inside, as in meditation, to feel the sweet pain of trying to reach out for the supreme, to bring tears to the eyes, and to feel totally peaceful and cleansed.Shankar was drawn to creatively bringing Indian music into new forums and forms. He composed Concertos for Sitar and Orchestra, premiering them with the New York Philharmonic under the baton of his friend and collaborator conductor Zubin Mehta. His 1974 collaboration with Harrison yielded the Hindustani pop song, “I Am Missing You”, written by Shankar, produced by Harrison, and sung by Lakshmi Shankar. Near the end of his life, he also composed an opera, Sukanya, in tribute to his second wife, Sukanya Shankar. However, Shankar had strong feelings about Indian music being used or subsumed within other genres of music, relegated to being just an exotic motif.As a musician, Shankar’s greatest love and talent was reserved for Hindustani music. He was a consummate artist, riveting lay audiences and connoisseurs alike with his improvisatory live performances and enthralling them with the sublime musical dexterity of his recordings. Of his aspirations as a musician, Shankar explained, “My goal has always been to take the audience along with me deep inside, as in meditation, to feel the sweet pain of trying to reach out for the supreme, to bring tears to the eyes, and to feel totally peaceful and cleansed.”Beyond his role as a performer of Hindustani music was his role as a composer. Shankar not only composed Hindustani songs, he is also believed to have created the ragas, Tilak Shyam, Nat Bhairav and Bairagi.His tireless role as a performer and cultural ambassador for Indian music earned Ravi Shankar a host of awards. At home in India, he was bestowed a Padma Bhushan, a Padma Vibhushan and SangeetNatakAkademi Award and Fellowship, and in 1999, he was recognised with India’s highest civilian honour, the Bharat Ratna. In his adopted home of the United States, Shankar earned five Grammy awards, including one for Lifetime Achievement. Meanwhile, abroad, Shankar was named a Commander of the Legion of Honour of France and an Honorary Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire.On the personal front, Ravi Shankar’s life was filled with incredible highs and lows. He married Annapurna Devi, the daughter of his guruji, Ustad Allaudin Khan, who was herself a talented surbahar player. However, their marriage frayed and Annapurna Devi stopped performing, blaming Shankar’s artistic jealousy. Shankar, by his own admission, was a ladies man but he eventually settled down with Sukanya Shankar, his second wife, whom he married in 1989. He was devastated when is son, Shubhendra, an emerging musician, died suddenly after an acute illness in 1992. Shankar himself suffered from heart issues during the last decades of his life. However, he kept touring and recording, giving his last concert just a few weeks before his death on December 11, 2012 at the age of 92.Shankar was also blessed with two daughters, who are award-winning musicians in their own rights — nine-time Grammy-winning folk and blues singer Norah Jones and six-time Grammy-nominated sitarist Anoushka Shankar, who trained intensively under her father but is charting her own path as both a Hindustani and world music musician, the very genre her father helped pioneer.Whether it’s his intrepid role as a cultural ambassador bringing Indian music into the hearts and minds of listeners the world over, or his role as a sitar maestro — the most iconic Indian musician of the twentieth century, or his collaborations which spanned multiple genres, or his gifted progeny who have inherited his musical passion and talent, Ravi Shankar’s musical legacy is expansive in its reach and profound in its significance. There’s no doubt that his music and contributions will continue to be celebrated for another hundred years and beyond.The writer is the author of Poignant Song: The Life and Music of Lakshmi Shankar (Harper Collins India, 2019)". @kavitamix||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-strains-of-the-masters-strings-65589
