05-10-2020||Parveen Arora||It all boils down to MSP||AMID protests by farm organisations, arhtiyas and Opposition parties across the country, three contentious Bills became laws recently.The Union government describes these laws as historic reforms in the agriculture sector for helping farmers get a better price for their produce by allowing barrier-free trading of farm goods and contract farming. However, farmers, arhtiyas and political parties are apprehensive that the laws will abolish or minimise the role of the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) mandis by allowing private players to purchase the farmers’ produce.Officials of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) say the APMCs would continue to work as before. “Haryana has 113 principal market yards, 168 sub-yards and 198 purchase centres. Our 81 grain markets have the facility of e-trading. The APMC mandis have played a pivotal role in assisting farmers after they bring their crop to the mandis by providing the facility of drying, selling through auctioning either to government agencies or to private purchasers. The system of APMC mandis would not be affected as the MSP crops would be purchased through mandis only,” says Sumedha Kataria, Chief Administrator, HSAMB.“Huge investment has been made by the state as well as by the arhtiyas in these mandis to facilitate farmers. Apprehension among farmers that their produce would not fetch the MSP is ill-conceived. Farmers would be paid at the MSP. Non-MSP items till now brought to mandis are likely to be diverted to an outside market yard or to a private trade area if the government does not lessen the market fees on non-MSP crops, but Haryana has curtailed the market fee from 2 per cent to 0.5 per cent for non-MSP paddy, basmati and cotton so as to convince farmers to bring their yield to the mandis,” she adds.Moreover, the marketing board maintains a road infrastructure network of 1,2500 km and development works of around Rs 850 crore in the state, the Chief Administrator says.Agri experts say the APMC mandis should continue for the benefit of farmers. Gurbachan Singh, former chairperson of the Agricultural Scientists’ Recruitment Board and former Union Agriculture Commissioner, says online trading should be implemented gradually, not abruptly. “Our farmers are not tech-savvy or so literate to sell their produce online easily,” he claims.“The well-knit system of the APMC mandis has delivered quite well in Punjab and Haryana. In the absence of this kind of assured marketing, around 86 per cent small and marginal farmers may suffer,” he adds.Vijay Kapoor, a progressive farmer of Karnal district, is apprehensive that the new Acts would end the mandi system by allowing private players to purchase their produce. “The mandi system is a safeguard for the farmers as they get the MSP for their produce, but the private player would not ensure them procurement at this price,” he adds.Rattan Mann, state president, BKU (Mann), says the APMC system ensures the procurement of the farmers’ produce at the MSP. “We have no issues about selling our produce to private firms if the government guarantees procurement at the MSP. There should be a provision of penalty on those who procure the produce at less than the MSP,” he adds. However, some farmers complain that the functioning of the mandis is inefficient and often controlled by the cartel.Arhtiyas say the government wants to oust them from the procurement system. “The new Acts will hamper the APMC mandi system. The government is allowing big traders to exploit farmers,” rues Surinder Kumar, a commission agent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/it-all-boils-down-to-msp-151323
05-10-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Tried-&-tested system in peril||NEK Singh, a small farmer of Khokh village near Nabha, has been staging a dharna at the Shambhu barrier in Rajpura along with hundreds of other farmers. He says the prospect of economic slavery through the proposed abolition of Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs), once the private market yards are established under the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, has forced him and many others to protest. “If a mass movement against the move to abolish the existing mandi system has started during this time, when paddy is being harvested, you can understand how serious the issue must be for farmers,” he says.Being an agrarian economy, the smooth running of agricultural operations is crucial for the economic growth of Punjab. The move to abolish APMCs, if successful, threatens to tear the socio-economic fabric of the state, simply because of the huge unemployment it could create. The private market yards, if established, would need neither commission agents nor arhtiyas and labourers in mandis, and farmers would eventually get much less for their produce.The repercussions for Punjab are huge in case these mandis were to be abolished. “The state has spent thousands of crores of rupees on creating infrastructure in 151 principal market yards, 284 sub-yards and 1,430 purchase centres, and buying 13,300 acres of land where these yards are situated now. If these APMCs were to be abolished, the 33,000 commission agents, their 50,000-strong support staff and three lakh labourers will be rendered unemployed. Last year, the agents got Rs 1,611 crore as commission for buying the produce and labourers got Rs 1,100 crore as labour charges. Once private mandis become operational, these people will become redundant and lose income. The new laws appear to be a conspiracy against Punjab, meant to destabilise the state, just as the SYL canal project had ruined the state decades ago,” says former minister Lal Singh, now the chairman of the Punjab Mandi Board.Little wonder then that for the past two weeks, Punjab has been on the boil because of the purported move to abolish the APMCs. These APMCs were established in the early 1960s to protect farmers from price misinformation. With the establishment of mandis, farmers were assured of knowing the exact price for their produce and a fair transaction. Traders could operate in these APMCs only after getting a licence, which ensured government control on them and thus assured price to farmers for their produce. Farmers say that the present system under APMCs has worked for wheat and paddy in Punjab. “But look at what happens to other crops like maize and cotton, which in spite of being under MSP, do not fetch an assured price because there is no guarantee of the government buying these crops. Farmer will sow a crop after he knows the MSP. People in Punjab took to maize, thinking they would get MSP of Rs 1,850 per quintal. But it is now selling at Rs 800-1,000 per quintal. If the government purchase was to stop for wheat and paddy — as seems to be the intent behind the corporatisation of agriculture — wheat and paddy farmers would meet the same fate as that of maize growers,” says Baljinder Singh, who is staging a protest at Dagru village in Moga.“Certain levies (about 8.5 percent) are imposed on buyers (in Punjab’s case, Food Corporation of India), which were meant for creating infrastructure within mandis and for infrastructure development in villages, mainly a strong network of roads. The Centre does not want to give this money to Punjab, so it is trying to withdraw from government purchase, and bring corporates into foodgrain procurement,” says Harbans Singh Rosha, president, Arhtiya Association, Khanna.Last year, Rs 4,000 crore was collected as market fee and rural development fund. This was used for strengthening the infrastructure in mandis and for the upkeep and maintenance of 71,000 km of the rural road network.A sum of Rs 65,000 crore per annum goes into the pockets of farmers from the sale of wheat and paddy in the APMC. “Initially, the private mandis will lure farmers by giving them Rs 80-100 per quintal higher than the MSP. But it is clear that the MSP regime will be abolished soon, and farmers will be left at the mercy of corporates,” says Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/tried-tested-system-in-peril-151322
