06-04-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Long road ahead on the farm front||THE main pillars of Punjab’s rural economy are the farmer, the landless labourer, the small-time traders and those involved in dairying and poultry. All these pillars have been hit hard by the prolonged curfew imposed amid the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.Every household involved in farming in Punjab has an average outstanding debt of Rs 1.19 lakh, way above the national average of Rs 47,000.Punjab accounts for a high rural indebtedness. On an average, each household involved in farming in the state has an outstanding debt of Rs 1,19,500 — which is two-and-a-half times the all-India average of Rs 47,000. While 72 per cent of the debt is from institutional sources, the remaining is owed to money-lenders, often the arhtiyas, relatives or local traders. The state stares at a much higher debt burden on its rural households as the economic cost of the lockdown goes up.Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, general secretary of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), says all pillars of the rural economy have been shaken by the lockdown. “The farmer is under stress as he fears that the procurement may not be smooth. Those who grow horticultural crops, mainly the vegetable growers, have been forced to sell their produce at throwaway prices. The stress of ensuring that the wheat is sold to get income is too much to bear. The landless labourers, already reeling under a high debt burden (Rs 50,000-80,000) will be forced to take more loans. The traders, too, are suffering as nobody is buying anything other than essentials,” he rues.Dairy farmers, after facing initial hiccups after the curfew was imposed, have heaved a sigh of relief as dairy operations have become almost smooth. It is the poultry farmers who are at the receiving end. Col JS Sohi, a poultry farmer in Batala, says the industry was first hit by rumours suggesting that poultry products caused Covid-19. Now, the poultry feed industry has shut operations because of the lockdown. “We have requested the government to cull the birds scientifically. Otherwise, these may die of starvation, leading to another kind of health hazard. The losses suffered by the poultry sector in Punjab are to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore,” he adds.Noted agro economist RS Ghuman says the government would have to strategise and plan things carefully as the next two months are crucial for the revival of the rural economy, when the fresh harvest reaches the mandis. “The first priority should be to ensure a smooth flow of farm machinery and labour to the farms and mandis,” he says.According to Secretary, Agriculture, Punjab, Kahan Singh Pannu, “It is important to kickstart the rural economy by ensuring smooth harvesting and procurement of wheat this month. The rural economy will benefit when Rs 27,000 crore go back into it through the purchase of wheat by government agencies. That is why the focus of the government, other than fighting the pandemic, is on this matter,” he says. The Punjab Government has already ensured that rakes of Bt cotton seeds have reached Bathinda from Tamil Nadu and the movement of fertilisers for the next crop has started, with five rakes expected to reach soon.But all this is not enough, opines Parmod Kumar, Director of the Institute for Development and Communication, Chandigarh. One major lesson that Covid-19 had taught us is that technology is not a panacea in itself, but humans and human labour is essential, especially now when we need specialised labour for running combine harvesters and for post-harvest management of wheat after it reaches mandis. “If the supply of food is an essential service, so is the production of food. Those who are involved in agriculture operations like farmers and landless labourers must be given preventive, curative and protective cover. Farmers and farm workers must be given sanitation kits, including soap, masks and sanitisers. Farm workers must be given safe housing, food and survival bonus as declared by the Central Government so that they come here. Health and life insurance for farmers and farm workers and a risk bonus for them in case of hospitalisation may also be given,” says Kumar.Send your feedback to infocus@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/long-road-ahead-on-the-farm-front-66390
06-04-2020||Deepender Deswal||Repaying loans a major challenge for farmers||THE months of March, April and May are the busiest for the farmers as they harvest the rabi crops, mainly wheat and mustard, and start sowing kharif crops such as paddy and cotton. With a good rabi season due to an extended winter, the farmers of Haryana were expecting that a bumper yield would help them get over past losses.However, the lockdown imposed by the government in view of the coronavirus outbreak has come as a bolt from the blue for the farmers. The farmers are facing shortage of machinery and manpower for harvesting. The upcoming procurement will also be a tough job this time due to the labour shortage. Already in a tight spot, the farmers are being slapped with penalty for defaulting on the repayment of Kisan Credit Card (KCC) loans.Agriculture experts say grain procurement will not be smooth this season. As the authorities are engaged in handling the pandemic and migrant labourers have gone back home due to the lockdown, the farmers will face problems in selling their produce.Farmers complain that combines and other machinery are not available for harvesting mustard and wheat crops. Raman, a farmer from Kirtan village in Hisar district, says the combines usually arrive from Punjab during this season, but that is not the case this time due to the lockdown. “Though our family members are engaged in harvesting in the absence of the machines, it will delay the process as the work is being done manually,” he adds.The economic slowdown will also have a cascading effect on the farming community. The adverse impact is already visible as the poultry industry and vegetable growers are facing financial losses. Dr Ramkumar, an agriculture economist, says the poultry industry has suffered a massive setback due to Covid-19 as consumers have shunned the products to a great extent and the supply of feed to the farms has been disrupted.Some poultry farm owners even dumped chickens in the open at a secluded place in a village in Hisar. Vegetable growers say they have to resort to distress sale of their produce in the market. Subhash, a vegetable grower in adjoining Shikarpur village, says the wholesalers/arhtiyas in the vegetable market have slashed the wholesale prices being offered to the farmers. For example, the farmers are being offered Rs 5-7 per kg for cabbage and the prices of peas have fallen to Rs 12-15 per kg from Rs 30 (before the lockdown).To make matters worse, the farmers who have taken loans under the KCC scheme have got no relief and the banks are imposing penalty for non-repayment of the short-term agricultural loan. A farmer from Surpura village in Bhiwani district, Sheo Narayan, who has taken a loan of Rs 5 lakh with the repayment deadline of March 31, says he received a message from the bank about imposing a penalty of Rs 5,716 for not repaying the loan. “In view of the lockdown, it’s not possible to visit the bank branch at Bahal town to repay the loan. Moreover, I don’t have money as I am unable to sell my mustard crop,” he adds.Dr Ramkumar says the procurement will be hit as the migrant labourers who are hired for tasks such as loading, unloading and lifting of grain in the mandis have returned to their home states. “The procurement is expected to be an uphill task this time in the absence of the labour in the mandis,” he says, adding that the procurement of mustard is likely to start on April 15 while wheat purchase will begin on April 20.District food and supplies controller Subhash Sihag says the department is preparing for the procurement season and waiting for directions from the state government. “We will ensure smooth procurement despite the labour shortage,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/repaying-loans-a-major-challenge-for-farmers-66389
