06-09-2020||Our journey together was horrifically and abruptly cut short. On Wednesday||Pash, my father: Daughter Winkle Sandhu remembers the revolutionary Punjabi poet||Born on September 9, 1950 at village Talwandi Salem in Jalandhar, Avtar Singh Sandhu wrote under the pen name of Pash. Inspired by the Naxalite movement, he was known for his poetry of resistance. The four volumes of his poetry — ‘Loh Katha’, ‘Udadiyan Bazan Magar’, ‘Saddey Sameyaan Vich’ and ‘Khilre Hoye Warke’ — have been translated into several languages. He was gunned down by militants on March 23, 1988. He was 38.Thirty-two years hence, my father lives on and inspires people’s hearts, ignites discussions, makes it to university syllabuses and is often the theme of research scholars’ PhDs. Even today, his poetry changes lives of the youth and inspires young men and women to follow in his footsteps. It goes without saying, I am proud to be the daughter of this revolutionary, powerful, influential, progressive and daring poet.Also read: Pash's love-hate relationship with his contemporariesI was born in a small village of Talwandi Salem (Jalandhar) in January 1981. Those were times when people would shed tears at a daughter’s birth. But here was my father — celebrating my coming into this world, distributing sweets to everyone in our village and playing loud music on the speaker! Many were perplexed at his happiness, but only he understood the beauty, sincerity and value of a daughter’s birth and what she brings to a family.I was seven when tragedy struck. A first-grader, I didn’t realise what a loss it was for Punjab. I just knew I would never be able to run into my father’s arms again, or hear his voice, share milestones together, or be able to be loved by him. Slowly, the memories faded.As I grew up, my family helped me understand him, who he was, as a father, more so as a writer. My aunts Pammy and Rajinder, uncles Ajit and Sucha, my mom, my grandmother and some of my father’s closest friends — Surinder Dhanjal, Chaman Lal, Sukwinder Kamboj and Amarjit Chandan, to name a few — told me what he was like and I today feel that even though he isn’t here, I know him. I am forever indebted to my grandfather, Maj Sohan Singh Sandhu, who was my best resource person on my father. After Papa’s death, he was the father figure in my life.In the past three decades, people have come to me from all over the world to express how much love and admiration they have for my father. To say the least, it makes me feel immensely proud, speechless with gratitude and taken aback by all their words. Every time I go back to Talwandi Salem, it brings me great pleasure to live in our home, to see and feel the ‘khet’, the fields he loved so much, and to live the simple ‘pind’ life he wrote about. I can’t wait to share these moments with his grandchildren.Every poetry festival I have ever attended across the world has a dedicated segment to recognise Pash, and there’s always a follower, believer or passionate human being who wants to connect with his poetry and follow in his footsteps. Organisations such as International Pash Memorial Trust and radio and TV channels across the world help keep Pash’s poetry alive.As the years go by, I have taken the place of my Dadaji by teaching my own children, Armaan and Anayat, about their grandfather and make sure they know who he truly was, his importance, and what powerful poetry he has left behind for the world to read and experience.If he were alive today, I feel my family would have been living a very different life, but I try my best to live by his words and ideology.Some of my father’s poems have guided me in some of my most difficult life decisions and I will be forever grateful to him. He has also shaped me into the woman I am today. He has given me and my mother the strength to live on through his words.His portrait hangs in my living room with the poem ‘Sab Ton Khatarnak’ right beside it. I feel he looks at us every day, making sure we don’t let anyone destroy our dreams. When recently faced with a seemingly insurmountable challenge, this poem carried me through, serving as the wind beneath my wings.Pash’s poetry provides succour and strength, sustenance and hope to carry forth and guide the next generation to carve its own path. Such powerful and progressive poetry is and should be recognised, celebrated and lived by.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/pash-my-father-daughter-winkle-sandhu-remembers-the-revolutionary-punjabi-poet-137226
06-09-2020||---||Pash's love-hate relationship with his contemporaries||Sarika SharmaIn a letter from jail in 1975, Pash cautioned Surjit Patar against sycophants. “Don’t be too enamoured by their praise,” he warned. “Popularity is a noose around your neck. Don’t let it sway you.”Pash had a love-hate relationship with his contemporaries. In a beautiful poem, he told Amrita Pritam to move beyond ‘Ajj Akkhan Waris Shah Nu’ and asked her to respond to the age of revolt. From Shiv Kumar to Amrita Pritam, from Harbhajan Singh to Patar, he engaged with all. When Harbhajan Singh said Pash’s poetry did not hold value more than that of a red rag, he responded with a poem titled ‘Inkaar’. He refused to change his metaphors to please someone else. Drawing a line between their poetry, he said he would not write about flowers, women, fine music. He would rather write about the village cobbler’s blindness, the ironsmith’s blistered skin, or the woman whose hands have cracked with washing utensils. When Pakistani poet Ahmed Salim was sentenced to jail for his writings, Pash wrote him a poem, ‘Ahmed Salim De Naam’, saying Salim’s poetry had finally bore fruit.Fame never eluded Pash even when he was alive, but acceptance from fellow poets certainly did. In his death, however, the paradigm shift he brought to Punjabi poetry was well accepted and documented in the poems and essays his contemporaries wrote remembering him.More than 150 poems were penned on Pash by 95 poets and authors after his death; his father, Maj Sohan Singh Sandhu, had compiled these as his last project before his death in 2013. The writers came from a colourful spectrum and included famous names such as Patar, Amarjit Chandan, Santokh Singh Dhir and Harbhajan Singh, underground leader Harbhajan Sohi and Pakistani poet Mazhar Tirmazi. Critic Raghbir Singh admitted to the bias Pash faced and acknowledged that his contemporaries had righted him in his death. “With time, his work became a toast of poetic circles,” he wrote in the preface to a book on Pash.Over the years, Pash’s symbolism, that arose from everyday life, his unpoetic idioms have become a cult. Perhaps the first Punjabi poet to have been killed for his writings, he is a favourite with Left-leaning scholars and is recited at protests.His friend of 20 years, London-based Chandan, says he still cannot believe it is Pash’s 70th birthday. “His young handsome face is etched in my memory.” A student of Chandan’s uncle, Pash had coloured his hair blonde when they first met. He still remembers his eyes, his beautiful naturally kohled eyes that Pash himself mentioned in several of his poems. As the image, his poetry too doesn’t fade.“His untimely death at the hands of the enemies of Punjab made this image and every word written by him permanent. It is rather ironic that both Sikh and Hindu fundamentalists are united in hating the truthful poems he wrote close to his death. He will always be remembered for these poems,” Chandan says. When he went to meet Pash in California (where he had moved following Khalistani threats in 1986) in January 1988, the latter was in India. Chandan had then penned a poem (see box) imagining him there and wondered how Pash would react. Alas, Pash was assassinated during that trip. Chandan’s last meeting with Pash remained unrealised, his poem never reached him.The shadow of death had been on Pash’s mind for long. He had confided in poet Ajmer Rode. “Those were the days when Punjab was gripped by terrorism and death haunted Pash. He said it wasn’t really death that scared him, but the constant uncertainty, the ever-present shadow of death that followed him. ‘It is deadly and doesn’t let you do anything creative,’ he had told me,” says Rode, who recently wrote a book, ‘Pash Da Sath’. As a spontaneous response to Pash’s death, he had written ‘A Movie Scene’.A tubewell,with no concern for virtue or sin,pumps fresh water for the fieldsA poet’s bodywith bullet holes in its bare backspews warm blood on the earthA manuscriptof mutilated unwritten poemsflutters in the deepening pool of bloodThis grotesque scenewas shot for a horror movieto spread scare and silencePash who played the poet in itdidn’t shut up, whenthey wanted him to shut up.The producers blew him to pieces. For real.Whether they were of opposing ideologies or his friends, frankness marked Pash’s relationship with his contemporaries. In his letter to Patar, he had said: “Good ideology can give birth to bad poetry; bad ideology can birth good poetry.”McFarland California— By Amarjit ChandanPash lives here in the orchardsplums, apples, grapesoranges, apricotsin the fields of wheat and cottonWind, sun, pigeonsdrowsy tractorsask Pash:tell us: what was it like as a child,and as a young man?When cotton balls bloom likeclusters of stars in your dreamsdon’t you feel restless?When you remember the sunsliding on sand dunes in your village,on the prison walls, in the dreams of thesleeping prisoners, don’t you feel sad?Pash stays quiet.On a nearby linechildren’s clothes swayin the afternoon sun.—Translated by John Welch and Ajmer Rode||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/pashs-love-hate-relationship-with-his-contemporaries-137227
06-09-2020||Sangeet Toor||Overcoming fear and understanding the science of the Covid-19||I had fever one day. Then breathing became difficult. I told my children about my sickness and that I would isolate myself in my room. Two days later, my Covid-19 test came positive. The medical officer who attended to me said my blood oxygen levels were not too bad, and there were no other serious conditions involved; it would be manageable from home. Her assurance put my mind at ease. The real test, however, was yet to begin.Even before the lockdown in India, children grasped information on the potentially deadly disease. Thousands of deaths per day in Italy freaked out every household. The number of fatalities was discussed within the family and on phone calls. Adults all over the world consumed macabre stories of bodies piling up on the sidewalks with morning tea. Italy, followed by Spain, and then United States of America, the early information that our fear fed into our children was that the only escape from Covid-19 was death. Little did I know that as soon as I brought my positive diagnosis home, my children would be overwhelmed by the same apprehension.My elder son, nine years old, could not sleep. His muffled voice reached my room late at night. He feared for his mother. Would she survive? Suddenly, he found himself in a dangerous, inescapable reality that society’s collective fear has built up over the months.Nothing would happen to me, I told him. Why his mother would be an exception when the rest of the patients had died, he asked. To make the situation worse, my younger son tested positive two days later. Sleep became more elusive to all three of us. It was time for us to talk about Covid-19 from the perspective of survival rate rooted in reason.According to Johns Hopkins University, the observed case-fatality rate for India is 1.8 per cent, which means 1.8 people die per 100 confirmed positive cases. That is, if the numbers reported are right. I looked it up after testing positive. People who are old and have co-morbidities are at a greater risk of ending up in the aforementioned percentage. Cardiovascular diseases, respiratory conditions and diabetes raise the chances of death by Covid-19. Since I do not have any of these, I was going to be among the 98.2 per 100 confirmed cases that survive. The comparison 98 to 2, for the sake of simplicity, was encouraging.When chaos rules, control becomes necessary to bullet through difficult time. The younger one, who came out positive, is merely six years old. He said he did not want to die. His fear had foundation, and it was necessary to dismantle it. The foundation was the lack of control over the situation. Control comes through what one believes in. Our belief, in this case, came from the scientific knowledge available at the moment.We talked about his health in general, and that he did not have symptoms. According to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 45 per cent of paediatric cases are asymptomatic. Those who require intensive care have underlying health conditions. He did not have any.Actions set-up in a routine also drive control. Checking the vitals, taking the medication, eating balanced diet, drinking plenty of fluids, taking steam multiple times a day, washing hands, wearing a mask and maintaining physical distance from the rest of the family are some of the tasks that a Covid-19 positive child will have to do on a daily basis. When these tasks are discussed with underlying reason to perform each one, children do take on the responsibility of their own wellbeing pretty diligently. These concrete actions were in his control, and the daily routine based in these actions prevented him from brooding over the popular narrative around Covid-19.Survival is an empty word without future. Children want to know what they are looking forward to. What will they do after they test negative? Every evening, we talked about the future — travelling, visiting favourite people, and meeting classmates. Life after beating the disease is full of prospects.It can be tricky to manage the fears of children who have underlying conditions. But again, fear can’t drive the narrative. My older son, who tested negative but has asthma, started taking his condition seriously. He set up his bronco-inhaler, stopped eating cold and icy things, and cleaned his room for allergens. For Covid-19, he mirrored what we were doing.Reason must prevail over fear. Children need assurance and confirmation that they and their loved ones will sail through the disease. To effectively be the driver of a positive narrative, a parent will have to start from herself first — from scientific knowledge to reason to control. It’s the least we, as parents, can do to channel the chaos around the known and the unknown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/overcoming-fear-and-understanding-the-science-of-the-covid-19-137228
06-09-2020||Pushpa Girimaji||Your sanitiser could be fire safety hazard||Covid-19 has forced us to use the sanitiser extensively to disinfect our hands and protect ourselves from the deadly disease. But most of us are unaware of the precautions that we need to take while using it. Can you give us some information on this?One of the first things that every consumer should be aware of is the highly inflammable nature of alcohol-based sanitisers. The alcohol in the hand rub evaporates readily at room temperature and it is these vapours that mix with air and ignite in the presence of a fire source. In fact, one should know that the vapour can spread or travel and if this vapour trail comes in contact with an ignition source, it not only catches fire, but the fire produced can flash back or travel back to the liquid.That’s how a 44-year-old resident of Rewari, Haryana, suffered 35 per cent burn injuries while cleaning his cell phone and keys with an alcohol-based sanitiser in the kitchen in March this year. According to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi, where he was admitted for treatment, he spilled some of the liquid on to his clothes during the process and the fumes from the alcohol reached the fire — his wife was cooking on a gas stove nearby — and before he could even realise what was happening, his clothes were on fire. So remember not to use the hand rub near any source of fire.I must also mention the possible danger of a spark from static electricity igniting the alcohol fumes. Some people are more prone to such static shocks than others. In April this year, an employee of Gassco, Norway, sanitised his hands with an alcohol-based hand rub and touched a metal surface when the hands were still wet. Due to static electricity, the vapour from the hand sanitiser ignited with an almost invisible flame on both his hands. The employee rushed to a sink and immediately extinguished the flames, but suffered first and second degree burns on both the hands.Such cases are rare, but can happen. In fact, a severe burn injury caused to an 11-year-old girl in a children’s hospital in Oregon, USA, in 2013, was traced to fumes from the sanitiser spill on the girl’s dress igniting on account of static electricity. Olive oil was used on her head to remove the glue used for an EEG test earlier and had dripped on to her dress. That fed the flames further, the report on the cause of the fire said. There are similar reports of burn injuries caused by static electricity and sanitisers in two hospitals in the United States — in 2006 and 2002.So whenever you use a sanitiser, allow it to dry completely and the vapours to disperse before you touch any surface. Never touch anything with hands still wet from a sanitiser. I would suggest similar precautions while lighting a matchstick or operating an electric switch or any electric gadget that could give out a spark.Are there any other precautions that one needs to take?Yes, you need to ensure that these sanitisers are kept out of reach of children. If at all they need to use them, it has to be only under adult supervision. These days because of the Covid pandemic, wherever you go, you find large hand rub bottles in spray dispensers. There is every possibility of a child accessing them and trying to use them. So, watch out!I must also mention that a friend recently told me about a persistent eye problem that was eventually traced to continued exposure to the sanitiser spray. In fact, in ‘Sanitiser aerosol driven ocular surface disease — a Covid-19 repercussion’, a paper published in the Indian Journal of Ophthalmology, doctors from the Narayana Nethralaya Eye Institute, Bengaluru, refer to a number of cases of eye irritation, redness and dryness that they came across and traced to increasing and constant use of sanitisers. The doctors advised consumers to close their eyes while pressing the dispenser and also keep it below eye level during usage. And use the sanitiser prudently, they said.The bottom line is: use soap and water to disinfect your hands and use sanitisers only when the first option is not available.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/your-sanitiser-could-be-fire-safety-hazard-137229
06-09-2020|| Pushpesh Pant||To mince matters||We have always had a weakness for mince — be it in the form of kebab, kofta or in a pie or patty. The good old keema kaleji curry makes us drool and, of course, the role that mince plays in rara gosht is nothing short of stellar. We have enjoyed keema samosa and keema pulao but have found mince delicacies missing from restaurant menus in the recent times. The reason, it seems, is that customers are apprehensive about the quality of meat that goes into the mince. The thumb rule should be: procure from a butcher trusted over time and try to get it minced in front of you, preferably not in a machine but done manually with a heavy cleaver from boneless chunks. And in there we digress again!Now, what do you cook after you have laid your hands on the mince? Kebab and kofta are too complicated for a person as lazy as the writer of these lines. In winters, we like to pair it with methi or a little bit of saag. And when the rains come calling, we treat ourself to hari mirch ka keema. When we had it for the first time, it had been done to perfection at the royal spread laid out for his guests by Tika Aishwarya Singh of Kangra in Himachal Pradesh. The recipe was given to him by his father-in-law, scion of the erstwhile royal house of Sailana in Madhya Pradesh. We dare not experiment with that sublime classic. Hence, what we offer our readers is a simpler home-style recipe from a friend’s family repertoire.Hari mirch ka keemaIngredientsMethod||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/to-mince-matters-137230
06-09-2020||Bindu Gopal Rao||Restaurants are turning their backyards into kitchen gardens||Hyperlocal cuisine is exactly what the name implies — extremely local cuisine. And it is local to the extent that the produce is cultivated or grown on the premises of the restaurant offering the cuisine.Eating local and hyperlocal food is one way to get the healthiest of dishes while making a small contribution to the environment. “There are 22 varieties of greens, including kale and lettuce, that Pullman & Novotel, Delhi, grows in its in-house farm of 5,000 sq ft,” says chef Neeraj Tyagi, culinary director. The upscale property offers ‘Rooted in Nature’ buffets over lunch and dinner that focus on micro greens, sustainable farming and endless varieties of greens.Andaz, Delhi, too sources organic vegetables, asparagus, lemony curried dressing and 780 edible flowers from Tijara Farm, its artisan partner. “The use of edible flowers in dishes sparks creativity, making a dish visually appealing to the eye. Some of our dishes, like the Nutrition Bomb, also involve the use of microgreens which are grown in-house under controlled conditions,” says executive chef Vikram Ganpule.As ‘buy fresh, buy local’ becomes a global slogan, chefs are scurrying to be in the race. Chef and entrepreneur Tarun Sibal says, “The interest in sustainable development, where food is produced with an equal importance to responsibility towards the environment as well as economic growth and viability, has created a demand for locally sourced and hyperlocal food. Parmesan in India can’t be hyperlocal, but a soft burrata coming from the dairy farm next-door is hyperlocal. Though a lot of things can be hyperlocal, it is primarily kitchen gardens, backyards, window sills, rooftop and terrace gardens that are now used for growing herbs and plants which do not need too much space or maintenance. In Goa we use lot of avocado, passion fruit and papaya in our dishes as they are grown there. In Delhi/NCR, we use lot of black carrot, saag and bathua in winters.”The onus lies with the chefs and how much and how quickly they can innovate. Rachel Goenka, founder of The Chocolate Spoon Company, says chefs have a better understanding of where their produce is coming from can translate this message through their food to customers as well. “Hydroponic farming has also made it easier for restaurants to grow their own produce. There is also the social responsibility of supporting local farmers and organic farming.”The rationale behind the concept of hyperlocal food is freshness and high nutrient value. Hyperlocal food eliminates the process of artificial storage of food as the gap from farm to plate gets minimised. Chef Abhijeet Khot, sous chef at The Den, Bengaluru, says, “Hyperlocal ingredients are grown depending on the climatic condition of the place and space available. They need lots of care and attention too.” However, it also means tweaking the menu as per the seasonal produce. And a green plate is worth the trouble.Nutrition bomb saladIngredientsMethod:Courtesy: Andaz, Delhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/restaurants-are-turning-their-backyards-into-kitchen-gardens-137231
06-09-2020||Vinayak Padmadeo||India’s joint win in the Chess Olympiad and the next level||Reigning World Rapid champion Koneru Humpy was finally forced out of her social media hibernation to accept the new world. She prefers to concentrate on her game or her young family, but to celebrate the Indian team’s ‘historic’ gold at the FIDE Online Olympiad, the queen of the chessboard broke her social media exile.The customary ‘thank you’ replies to influential stars and politicians were followed by a message to her fans about the existence of a fake account. “Following account is not mine: twitter.com/HumpyKoneru. I request Twitter India to take appropriate action,” Humpy, world’s No. 2 ranked woman player, wrote on her verified Twitter page.This was unlike anything the 32-year-old star with a FIDE rating of 2586 had done, but with the surge in interest in chess, she realised she had to get real online. “I was never interested in social media. I always knew there was a fake account but I never really bothered. But after this victory, many wanted me to respond to fans so I thought OK, I should better clarify now,” said Humpy, who played a stellar role in the Indian team’s passage to the final by clinching the tie-breaker against Poland.If the discussion on her new dalliance with social media brought a big chuckle over the phone, Humpy broke out into laughter when describing how fans, mediapersons and everyone got involved to solve the power outage issue that caused defeat from a seemingly winning position for both her and captain Vidit Gujrathi against Mongolia. The duo lost on time after the power breakdown.The minor setback got both Gujrathi and his deputy Srinath Narayanan to use their connections to ensure that the team suffered no such misfortune in the knockouts. As a result, an engineer and a line worker were positioned near Humpy’s house in Hyderabad for every game and Viswanathan Anand’s apartment complex in Chennai saw no power outage.— Viswanathan Anand“This, perhaps, was the first instance where everyone joined hands... Many from the media used their contacts with the local internet guys (to ensure connectivity) and even the fans helped out,” Humpy explained.“We never got such attention before. But this Olympiad is historic as everyone will remember this for a very long time,” she added.Historic momentIt was indeed historic — the tournament began in 1927, and India debuted in it at Moscow in 1956 and promptly finished at the bottom of the pile. But an Indian had figured in the tournament previously — Sultan Khan, of Sargodha in the undivided Punjab, played at three Olympiads for England.India won a medal for the first time in 2014, when the team of Parimarjan Negi, P Sethuraman, K Sasikiran, B Adhiban and Lalith Babu finished third behind China and Hungary.India’s greatest player, Viswanathan Anand, had not prioritised this event; he played in the biennial tournament five times in a row from 1984 to 1992, and then in 2004 and 2006, before making a return in 2018. His best is a individual silver in 2004, the year he took India to their then best of sixth position. But Anand was not India’s first medallist at the Olympiad — that honour goes to Rafiq Khan, a carpenter from Bhopal, who won a bronze on the 3rd Board — ie, among designated third-best players in all teams — in 1980.Anand was wise to focus on his individual career as he was challenging for the world title, which he won several times; also, he probably did not have the motivation to compete in a tournament in which most of his teammates would be floundering.However, as the GMs inspired by him became stronger, India’s standing in the world of chess improved. India were ranked No. 7 for the Online Olympiad — a sign of the depth of talent in the country. And this time, India had an ace up their sleeves — the top-class teenagers.Format, juniors clickedFor the first time, junior boards were included this year — each team had to have one male and female player aged 20 or below. This proved advantageous for India as several talented youngsters such as Nihal Sarin (age 16, with ELO rating of 2620), R Praggnanandhaa (16, ELO 2608) and Raunak Sadhwani (14, ELO 2545) have emerged in the past few years. India has added an impressive 21 GMs in the last three years — and eight of them were in the 10-19 age-group when they got their final GM norm.When called into action at the Online Olympiad, the teens held their own. Nihal beat Igor Janik in the semifinals against Poland when many of the accomplished names in the team, including Anand and Gujrathi, lost.The other thing that clicked was the team spirit. “It was easy. Both Anand and Humpy are legends and made my life very easy, practically left all the decisions to me,” captain Gujrathi explained.Tough act to followObservers are quick to point out that while getting on the podium as joint winners with Russia (seven-time winners, plus 18 times as part of USSR) is big, a full-fledged Olympiad, where the top-five ranked players of a country participate, would be another ball game altogether.International Master V Saravanan is delighted but also cautious. “US did not make it to the final because Hikaru Nakamura and Fabiano Caruana were not in the team. When teams like Russia, USA and China compete with their full bench strength, then India is out of contention,” Saravanan said. “But there is no denying that it is a significant achievement as they finished joint first amongst 163 countries.”Online boomThe Covid pandemic has given a big fillip to India’s booming chess fraternity. More than 69,000 Indians were logged online to watch the final. Websites like ChessBase India and lichess.org and talk shows by Suryashekhar Ganguly had fans riveted to their screens.“There is a feel-good factor. There is a lot of online activity because of the pandemic. You have more than 150 GMs playing Title Tuesday, which is featured on chess.com. It is here Arjun Kalyan beat Alireza Firouzja, who is touted as Magnus Carlsen’s next biggest contender,” Saravanan said.Gujrathi is hopeful of a golden future. “We cannot sit on this thinking we have talented young players,” he said. “We have to have a proper system so that the talent doesn’t go to waste. Olympians train for four years to have one shot at glory. We need a similar professional approach.”At present, it is all down to individual effort. And the fact that Anand, in his 51st year, is still easily India’s best, despite obvious decline, speaks volumes. Since he became India No. 1 in 1986, only Pentala Harikrishna was able to overtake Anand, albeit for only one day in 2016! The juniors need to work hard to catch him before trying to catch the world.“People like Vidit, Praggnanandhaa and Nihal are on par with Anand’s talent when he broke out. But talent almost doesn’t matter after reaching the 2700 rating mark. A person’s approach, how happy and settled he is in life… Things like these will decide careers,” Saravanan said.India have four GMs in the world top-100 — the number is 24 for Russia, 10 for USA and nine for China. Ex-USSR countries such as Armenia and Azerbaijan have five each. It’s clear that while possessing 66 GMs is impressive, to become a real chess power, India must get more of them in the top-100. The pre-teens and teens have their task cut out.— With Rohit Mahajan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/indias-joint-win-in-the-chess-olympiad-and-the-next-level-137232
06-09-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||Sultan Khan, the unsung king of chess||More than nine decades back, a man from Mitha Tiwana village of Punjab (now in Pakistan) travelled to England by sea. Two days upon his arrival, he beat the reigning world champion Jose Capablanca in a simultaneous chess exhibition match.That win was no fluke as Capablanca was playing against 40 players, known as a simultaneous chess match. This man was Sultan Khan, who had only recently learnt the international format of chess after his first appearance in the Indian national championship.Khan stayed in London for about four years. He beat the world champion again in a one-to-one match and won the British Chess Championship thrice. He also beat Czech Grandmaster Solomom Flohr and had a draw with Grandmaster Alekhine.Despite beating the English, Sultan Khan passed into obscurity with neither the Indian nor the Pakistan government remembering his feat. FIDE, the world chess governing body, also did not commemorate his mastery. He died of tuberculosis in 1966 in his village, with not even an obituary for him in mainstream media.He was part of the chess folklore in Punjab, though, as some old-timers often narrated his remarkable feat to youngsters.According to chessmetrics.com, which calculates historical chess ratings, Khan was for at least a couple of years among the world’s top 10 players, and ranked No. 6 in the world at his best. Sultan’s feat is being remembered with the discovery of some rare games he had played, including the one against Capablanca in the simultaneous chess match, much before his game against the same player in 1930 in the British Chess Championship, which saw him in the headlines. A well-known chess player and commentator, Daniel King, has discovered these games and reproduced with modern analysis in his book, Sultan Khan — The Indian servant who became chess champion of the British Empire.RN Coles’ book on him, Mir Sultan Khan-Biography and games from the first Grandmaster of chess from India, was published in 1965 but it did not have details about his personal life. In his book, King mentions that one Sir Umar Hayat Khan, a Muslim landlord and politician, saw his servant’s brilliance in chess and sponsored him. He claimed Umar Hayat “used his servant’s successes to promote his political interests in the turbulent years before India gained Independence.”In an online petition, Indian players through chessbaseindia.com are seeking the Grandmaster title for him. Meanwhile, players in Kolkata have kept his memory alive by naming a indoor sports hall as Sultan Khan Memorial Hall in the Salt Lake Football stadium.From The Tribune archivesKing’s book says Khan passed into obscurity after he arrived in India. However, The Tribune newspaper archives reveal that Khan was active till 1940. News reports said he played simultaneous matches with 40 players just after he landed in Mumbai after making it big in the UK. Another report said he played simul tournaments against 20 players, and won all games. That tournament was held at Dera Ismail Khan in February 1940. Khan won the Governor’s Trophy for his feat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/sultan-khan-the-unsung-king-of-chess-137233
06-09-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||Chess players from the region are making the right moves||When Saanvi Aggarwal from Chandigarh won the second position in the Under-5 category of National Chess in 2018, she underlined the potential of chess players in North India.Though presently Himanshu Sharma of Haryana is the only Grandmaster from North India to figure among the 66 GMs of the country, the game and level of chess players have improved manifold.International Master (IM) Himal Gosain may soon be the first Grandmaster from Chandigarh. At 27, he already has two of the three mandatory norms required to win the title.Tarini Goyal, who already has one international norm in her kitty, is all set to become a Woman International Master. Jalandhar’s Dushyant Sharma, barely 17, got an IM norm last year.Arvinder Preet from Ludhiana, working with the Railways, won the FIDE World Amateur Chess championship in the Under-2300 rating category in 2018.Shaurya Kumaria of Chandigarh won the prestigious Delhi Open tournament (Category C) in which more than 1,300 players took part.Before that, Baij Nath and Abhinandan Vohra, both trained Himal Gosain, and Naveen Bansal, who coached Tarini Goyal in the initial years of her career, had made a mark on the chess scene.The brother-sister duo of Punjab women’s chess champion Shweta Rathore and Nitin Rathore run Chess Mantra coaching club in Mohali and Chandigarh. The duo came into limelight after the two appeared on TV show Kaun Banega Crorepati, hosted by Amitabh Bachchan. Nitin has coached Saanvi Aggarwal. “There are at least 1,000 active players in the region,” said Nitin.Indicating the growth of the game, former Uttar Pradesh champion Ram Parkash has opened a coaching club in Chandigarh. Mohammad Ibrahim, a prominent player from South India, has also set up base here.Though Himal Gosain and some other players got jobs on the basis performance in chess in the Railways and banks, lack of support from the governments in this region is seen as a dampener.Gaurav Bansal, who runs the Chandigarh Shatraj Parents Association, rues that Chandigarh does not recognise chess as a graded game. “Players have to often travel to New Delhi and beyond if they want their child to reach a achieve a good level. This requires time and money,” he says.Juhi Goyal, mother of Tarini, did exactly that. “Juhi was working as a vice-principal with a prominent school in Chandigarh. She quit her job when she saw potential in our two daughters, Arunima and Tarini,” says Ashish Goyal, her husband. He later became president of the Chandigarh Chess Association.According to coach and international arbiter Naveen Bansal, to make a chess champion, the right kind of combination is a must. The foremost is the child’s passion for the game, then comes the dedication of the parents, besides finding the right trainer with a good experience. It is important that he should have an in-depth understanding of the game.“Making the parents understand the game and performance is more challenging than training the children,” Bansal insists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/chess-players-from-the-region-are-making-the-right-moves-137234
