06-12-2020||Renu Sud Sinha & Chandni S Chandel||Calming the Covid mind||The lockdown, the restrictions, the confinement, the paranoia — Covid-19 spawned situations that had no precedence. The virus not only tested immunity, but also the elasticity of human ties. As a vaccine shot becomes a reality, lifting the pandemic’s occupation of the mindscape is the big challenge.In the initial weeks, an unsuspecting populace treated it more like a holiday — not going to work, no school, spending time with family. The pause provided the much-needed break everyone had yearned for at some point of time. However, reality soon set in that the pandemic and the ‘pause’ is here to stay and no one knows for how long.A palpable fatigue set in because of the restrictions. Families were now living and colliding in each other’s personal space 24/7 within the four walls called home.istockInfecting the mindThe rising number of cases brought in a corresponding increase in anxiety and fear. The virus with unknown long-term effects not only claimed lives, it played havoc with minds too. There was a huge rise in the number of mental health patients. The condition of those already affected worsened in absence of therapy or treatment.From toddlers to the elderly, everyone has been affected, some more than others.All of three, Chandigarh-based Shubham, otherwise a bright and active child, has had difficulty in learning new words. The lack of interaction with other kids and adults has led to a decline in communicative and expressing skills, says his paediatrician, Dr Mahesh Hiranandani.On the other side of the spectrum is Anand (40), a Ludhiana-based teacher at a coaching centre. Already under psychiatric care, his anxiety and phobia intensified. As his institution closed, he shut himself inside his room in April. When he eventually stopped eating altogether, his family had to forcibly admit him to a local mental health clinic.“There has been a 40-50 per cent rise in mental health issues as compared to the pre-Covid days,” says Delhi-based Dr Deepali Batra, a clinical psychologist.The most worrying aspect has been the reported rise in the number of suicide cases. “At least two to three have been reported per day in Himachal Pradesh since May. For one death by suicide, there were 20 attempted suicide cases, including by teenagers, women and those in the middle-age groups,” says Dr Sanjay Pathak, CEO, Himachal Pradesh State Mental Health Authority.Burdened beyond yearsThe pandemic has been especially trying for children and adolescents, particularly those in the age group of 13-19 years. “An under-pressure family unit is unknowingly transferring anxiety to children,” says Dr Batra. As a result, many kids, particularly those under 10, have become clingy, adding to the pressures of an already stressed homemaker.Teenagers, on the other hand, fear the proximity of parents more than the virus itself. On the threshold of adulthood, the loss of independence and privacy, and the lack of interaction with friends have turned many a home into a conflict zone, says Dr Rajeev Gupta, a Ludhiana-based psychiatrist.For the energetic group of students appearing for Class XII boards and gruelling competitive exams, looking forward to the outside world, the year has been one of ‘parental surveillance’ instead.The common refrain among teens has been of parents preaching and judging more and listening less. “During a counselling session with a teenager, she asked me to tell her parents to cut down on the speaking part,” shares Dr Batra.An overdose of negative attention has created an atmosphere of constant suffocation and resultant rebellion. That has resulted in an increasing number of cases of domestic violence and child abuse, adds Dr Gupta.A prolonged admission process and uncertainty over admissions abroad have only added to the stress of this vulnerable group, already facing anxiety, says Dr Hiranandani.Of those already affectedDelhi-based Shanaya (18) suffers from obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Her condition worsened in the face of a virus that could exist on any surface for an unknown period and needed increased hygiene practises. She locked herself in her room and was constantly sanitising herself and everything around. Crying continuously, she was barely sleeping and eventually stopped eating. Uncertainty and lack of information only fuelled her fears, that included the world ending due to pandemic. Even counselling, that had gone digital now, was not of much help initially, says her therapist, Ashita Mahendru, a clinical psychologist.The condition of one of her other patients, Kritika (19), already under therapy for anxiety, had worsened in this constant state of uncertainty. It didn’t help when both her parents acquired the dreaded infection. Her worst nightmare had come true. With parents under isolation and grandparents at home, the teenager had no time for self-care. However, a support group of friends, video calls with her ‘cool and composed’ mom and calming exercises from earlier therapy sessions kept her grounded.Even those teens who had never suffered an anxious moment besides the usual exam stress could not cope. For a sports lover being cooped inside without any physical activity can be extremely frustrating. A few weeks into the lockdown, Anshul (17) started exhibiting symptoms like extreme irritability, mood swings, argumentativeness, etc. The realisation that this situation may well extend into next year made things worse. His mother was able to persuade him to go for therapy.“Adolescents with adequate and constructive coping mechanism have been able to keep a modicum of composure but those with vulnerability, or having other traits like a tendency to be low and apprehensive, are finding it difficult,” says Dr Adarsh Kohli, Professor, Clinical Psychology, PGIMER, Chandigarh.Too close for comfortForced proximity made many parents aware of the problems being faced by kids, signs of being dysfunctional and unsettling discoveries like the use of drugs or addiction to pornography or social media.Conflicts increased as a result, but in the end, these harmful revelations also led them to face some bitter home truths about themselves and their kids and eventually seek help.Life, as we knew in pre-Covid times, has changed forever. However, survival strategies, coping mechanisms, rules for parenting or for that matter any relationship have remained the same. Only their re-learning is needed. “More than adolescents, we had to counsel the parents,” says Mahendru. “The problem lies majorly with parents. Most are critical, often compare their kids with siblings or peers, are judgmental, do not listen but order or preach. Even when they bring their kids to us, they seek validation for their own point of view,” she rues.Rules for new normalKritika’s mom, a homemaker, has a simple solution, validated by experts. “Listen to them. They are not kids anymore but young adults and they can be right at times. Don’t impose your thinking; let them make their own mistakes and learn from them.”Dr Priyanka Kalra, a Ludhiana-based psychiatrist, has been holding training sessions for parents to help them deal with Covid-induced behavioural problems such as restlessness, aggression and even deception among kids as young as six. She cites the case of a 10-year-old boy, who along with his five-year-old sister, would log in for his class, and then watch cartoons on the other phone that he would ostensibly ask for to use the hotspot.She advocates unintrusive and patient monitoring, more family activities and reinforcement of positive behaviour by parents as some key solutions.For adolescents, Dr Sandeep Grover, HoD, Psychiatry, PGI, Chandigarh, suggests parents involving them in decision making, daily activities, helping around the house, teaching them basic life skills, and taking up some common activities or hobbies together to strengthen familial bonds.In short, continue doing what we all did during the initial phase of lockdown, but with a better understanding and a positive perspective.It was never meant to be easy, but why make it more difficult.(Some names have been changed to protect identity)Symptoms to watch out forStrategies to help copeHelpline services||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/calming-the-covid-mind-180652
06-12-2020||BN Goswamy||Getty Bronze vs Italy: A statue divides||Lysippus modelled Alexander’s daring and his whole form.How great is the power of this bronze! The brazen kingseems to be gazing at Zeus and about to say:“I set Earth under my feet; thyself, Zeus, possess Olympus.”— An epigramby AsclepiadesAs I sit down to write, I realise that this piece can go in different directions: three at least. One, it can be about one of the greatest sculptors of ancient Greece who is celebrated in the same breath as Skopas and Polykleitos of ca. 4th century BC. Two, about the romance attached to great sunken treasures fished out from the ocean bed, purely by chance, by fishermen working in the eastern Mediterranean in particular. Three, about controversies that keep raging in the international art and legal circles about the return of antiquities by museums and private collectors to the countries of their origin.At the centre of my thoughts in any case is a sculpture — one of the most engaging and justly admired works to have come from the ancient world — by Lysippos, contemporary and favourite of Alexander, which is at present in the celebrated Getty Museum in the Pacific Palisades of Los Angeles. Known and published now under different names — ‘the Fano Athlete’, the ‘Victorious Youth’, the ‘Getty Bronze’. It was lost to the world till 1964, even though dating back about 2,200 years, when a group of Italian fishermen, plying their vessel close to Fano in the Adriatic Sea, pulled it out from the sea bed, completely covered by barnacles and other marine life from its centuries underwater. There was excitement among the fishermen even though they could only guess that this barnacle-covered and slimy green object was a heavy metal statue; the ‘find’ was taken ashore; the piece was secretly offered to a dealer who involved a priest, and paid the equivalent of $3,500 to the fishermen. Everything was done under cover to keep it all away from the eyes of police: rough scrapers and sharp instruments were used to ‘clean it up a bit’. A great deal of activity followed: the piece was smuggled in vans and hidden in garages, under a priest’s stairs, buried in a cabbage patch, for avoiding detection. It kept changing hands, but it was not till it landed in Munich with the German art dealer, Herzer, and was with great care restored, that its final glimmering shape emerged: a young man, ‘naked but not nude’ as has been said, at the threshold of youth, lips lightly parted, a hovering nascent smile, standing contrapposto, right hand raised lightly pointing towards the laurel wreath of leaves he now wears — almost lost in his curly hair — having emerged victorious in some contest. All at once, charm and innocence and the first flush of youth lurk and shine in the work. A bronze like none other, one might say. The Getty is extremely rich in ancient bronzes, but this work is meant when anyone speaks of the ‘Getty Bronze’.Within a short span of time, the world was beginning to wake up to this bronze: dealers, collectors, authorities. Questions were being asked, of course, and speculation was rife. Who did the work belong to? Could it be attributed to Lysippos with confidence? Why was it being transported from Greece to Italy? Was the fishing boat in Italy’s territorial waters? Were the Italian authorities entitled to seize it? And so on. But the reputation of the work, and interest in it — Roman copies of Greek copies were one thing, but this was one of the very few life-size bronze statues to have survived from Greece — was growing. One of the most avid of collectors, the oil magnate of Croesus-like riches, J Paul Getty, got interested and even entertained at one time the thought of acquiring the work in partnership with the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York: after due diligence and clean paper-work, of course. There were counter-moves on in Italy at the same time where cases had been filed: charges of wrongdoing, including theft and smuggling, filling the air. One of the Italian courts dismissed the charges after imposing fines on the fishermen who had sold it to dealers against patrimony laws of the land. The air was clearing for acquisition, however: at least in the eyes of the Getty Trust. J Paul Getty himself died in 1976, but the deal had been more or less struck by that time: 3.58 million US dollars. In 1977, the Victorious Youth of Greece had turned into the Getty Bronze.But it was not over yet: nothing is. Italian courts were still in the picture, for cases continued to be filed. For 10 long years, bitter arguments went on in Italy’s highest court: the Court of Cassation. In 2018, that court pronounced its judgment: the bronze was found in Italian waters and improperly smuggled out of the country. Therefore, it belongs to Italy and must be returned. “It is the last word from Italian justice,” the prosecutor stated. The Getty is in no mood to agree. Their argument, first, is that the bronze is Greek, not Italian: “it is not and has never been part of Italy’s cultural heritage.” The museum also says that the Romans probably took the statue from its original location in Greece in 100 BC-100 AD, and when it was being transported to Italy, a shipwreck caused the statue to sink and got preserved in the sea. “Accidental discovery by Italian citizens does not make the statue an Italian object,” the museum says. “Found outside the territory of any modern state, and immersed in the sea for two millennia, the Bronze has only a fleeting and incidental connection with Italy.”All arguments in place, the Museum plans to fight it out: “defend our legal right to the statue”. Incidentally, the Museum has also agreed to return to Italy close to 40 other objects, but not the Getty Bronze. It is up to international fora of justice now.Meanwhile, there is time to take in the sight of some other great works that Lysippos produced in his lifetime: some 1,500 bronzes according to an estimate by Pliny, Roman author of the early Christian Era. A stunning ‘portrait’ of Alexander, his patron, for instance; another of Socrates, the great philosopher; a rendering of the fatigued Herakles after he had overcome the Nemean Lion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/getty-bronze-vs-italy-a-statue-divides-180654
06-12-2020||Vandana Aggarwal||The forgotten saga of Indian dairy farmers||Little India sits in the heart of Singapore. Dotted with conserved shophouses and saree and goldsmith shops, Indian restaurants and garland sellers, people from the Indian subcontinent congregate here to buy grocery, visit places of worship or just chat with friends.In the middle of this organised chaos runs Serangoon Road, one of the oldest arterial roads in the country. It is here that the statue of a man wearing an Indian style headgear and driving a bullock cart was unveiled last month, drawing appreciation from locals and history buffs. Made of fibreglass-reinforced poly-marble with faux brass coating, it sits in a high traffic area and immediately draws attention to an often-forgotten time when cattle trade dominated this district.Ode to the pastTill the 1860s, the area around Serangoon Road was dotted with lime pits and brick kilns that provided jobs to many Indian immigrants. The road was an important thoroughfare connecting the farmlands and plantations in the interior of the island to the seaport. As the country developed, buffaloes, often referred to as the “workhorses” of Singapore, were used to roll the roads that were being built.When the lime pits and brick kilns were closed, the space vacated by them turned into a swampy and grassy area that was perfect for the cattle. Grass provided fodder and water a natural bathing area, so essential for buffaloes. Cattle owners, most of them Indian, gravitated here as did the workers, who saw an employment avenue in cattle trade.The abundance of water also meant that the land was fertile and lent itself to agricultural activities. With the cattle providing manure and a means of transporting the produce, business boomed. Ancillary enterprises like wheat grinding and pineapple preservation thrived, their waste providing food to the animals while the bullock carts ferried products from farms to factories.Pioneer cattle traders included IR Belilios, a Jew from Calcutta, owner of several cattle sheds and pens in the area and an importer of cattle fodder. Belilios Road in the neighbourhood is named after him, as is Desker Road, which is named after the owner of the largest butchery and slaughterhouse in the area. The title of “Cattle King”, however, was given to Moona Kader Sultan, an Indian Muslim cattle trader and importer, whose Straits Cattle Trading Company dominated the trade for several decades, making him one of the wealthiest men in Singapore then.While the name of Buffalo Road is self-explanatory, Kerbau Road (buffalo road in Malay) is a reminder that the Kampong Kerbau or buffalo village once existed in the vicinity. Another reference to the importance of these animals is reflected in the name of Singapore’s largest woman and child hospital — Kandang Kerbau Hospital. Kandang Kerbau means “buffalo enclosure” in Malay.All that was tradedWhile the Hindus focused on raising cattle and trading in livestock, the Indian Muslims also owned abattoirs and tanneries.Old-timers fondly recall how cow herds would bring the cow to the customers’ doorstep and milk it there. Sikh businessman Jiva Singh was a prominent cattle dealer who, along with his brother and son, started a dairy farm in the Serangoon area in 1921. The women traded in freshly made milk products such as sweets and curd.As Serangoon Road became busier, settlements came up haphazardly. With the increase in population and arrival of other means of transport, there was a need to reorganise the roads and construct more buildings. In the 1930s, the swamps, that were key to thriving of cattle in the area, were drained. Gradually, the cattle trade died down, causing huge losses to Belilios and Kader Sultan.The cattle industry of Little India would have been a forgotten memory, but for the names of the roads that linked to the past. A whimsical mural on Kerbau Road showcases colourful cattle reminding Singaporeans to be mindful of their diverse roots. One of the buffaloes is depicted riding a bicycle, a reminder of the time when milkmen distributed fresh milk on this vehicle.Amid rapid urbanisation, the arts and road names have kept alive the memory of cattle trade in a time gone by.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-forgotten-saga-of-indian-dairy-farmers-180655
06-12-2020||Bindu Gopal Rao||Rug-ged warmth||As a décor accessory that can instantly transform a space from drab to fab, rugs win hands down. Add a wool rug to your room this winter and enjoy the softness and durability that will last for generations. Wool rugs are available in several styles and patterns. Geometric patterns, florals, abstract, traditional designs, you name it and the style is available in wool rugs, the most popular being Oriental designs.“There is never a wrong time or place to add a rug to your living space. Adding such accessories to your space is not just functional but also aesthetically pleasing. Whether it is getting out of the bed and putting your feet onto a cold floor, a rug lessens this feeling, whether your flooring is marble, wooden or parquet,” says Hussain Somjee, managing director of MIMI Homes.Trending talesRugs traditional designs in warmer, deep saturated, subtle tones can add warmth to your place. Placing an intricately patterned rug on the solid flat weave or hand-knotted rug is a good idea. “Using high-end rugs in smaller sizes as wall hanging can also add to the winter interiors. Placing a runner on your bedside or smaller rugs beneath your resting chair or placing a warm shag rug in the balcony with some floor cushion to enjoy the sun on a winter afternoon can impart a nice vibe to your house,” says Angelique Dhama at Obeetee.Décor mantraNo other carpet is as luxurious, timeless and classic as a wool rug. “Wool rugs also make great wall art. Given the nature of hand-knotted rugs, people are using these to transform their walls and the overall feel of a room. A colourful piece on the wall is good for the aesthetics of the room. The new rule with rugs is ‘more the merrier’. Using different types of rugs in layers is an easy way to add colours and patterns to a room or to experiment with trends. A mix and match of different rugs can add character and versatility to your house, both indoors and outdoors. You can experiment with rugs of different colours, textures and/or fibre like wool, silk, high/low or a flat weave with colour and pattern for a combination to stand out,” says Yogesh Chaudhary of Jaipur Rugs. People are spending more time at home than ever before. Hence, they have taken to decorating their homes according to their needs.“If you are looking to add some attention to your interiors, consider ‘layering’ rugs by creating a patchwork of motives and patterns. For instance, instead of selecting one solid rug, you can consider putting a smaller one on top of a bigger rug at an angle or off centre and add to the aesthetics,” says Erik Jan Middlehoven of IKEA India.So, while you enjoy your rugs, remember that vacuuming is the best way to clean your rug from time to time. Proper sanitisation in spray form should be done on a regular basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/rug-ged-warmth-180657
06-12-2020||Pooja Khanna Tyagi||Winterproof your house||Since it can become very cold and uncomfortable in winter, it is essential to make your house feel warmer and cosier. Here are some simple ways to weatherproof your house this winter and make it inviting:to create extra insulation. IstockBring in the sunOne of the best ways to make the house feel warm is by bringing in the sunlight. As the days get shorter and the nights longer, sunlight is available for a limited amount of time. Therefore, open the curtains in the morning and noon to bring in maximum sunlight. Draw the curtains as soon as the sun sets so that the indoor heat does not escape. If your house is surrounded by huge trees or shrubs that are creating shade or blocking the sunlight, trim these.Seal the cracksCheck for gaps and cracks between the walls and door-cum-window frames. Seal these properly with silicon rubber sealant, weather-stripping or adhesive tapes. Also check the walls for any hairline cracks, openings or holes. Close these properly. Use a weather strip to seal the gap between the base of the door and the floor so that cold air from outside does not enter the house.Install double curtainsGo for a combination of double curtains where the first layer comprises sheer curtains and the second has dark and heavy curtains. Dark fabric in materials like velvet, cotton and wool absorbs heat and adds an extra layer of insulation in the house. During the day, pull back the heavy curtains so that the thin sheer curtains ensure privacy while allowing the daylight to illuminate the interiors. Draw heavy curtains as soon as the sun sets.Roll out the carpetFlooring material like marble, granite and tiles tends to become very cold in winter. Hence roll out the carpet on the floor so that the flooring surface becomes warmer to walk on. Consider woollen carpets as these create an extra layer of insulation on the floor and feel cosy on the feet.Spread a warm beddingWarm bedding material like fleece, flannel, or wool can be used instead of the conventional bedsheet material like cotton, polyester or linen to make your bedroom feel warmer. A combination of different fabrics on the bed, curtains and carpets creates a layered effect, making the house feel cosier and warmer.Switch on the lampsIncandescent lights emit heat and make the space feel warmer as compared to the trending CFL or LED lights. Therefore, switch on the table lamps or pendant lights with incandescent lights to make the room cosy.Invest in an electric blanketElectric blankets comprise an integrated internal wiring system that heats up the blanket uniformly. These blankets are available in many colours, designs and thickness. Use electric blankets to warm up the bed before you get into it. Switch it off before you go off to sleep. For safety, avoid using electric blankets in children’s bedroom. Another way to keep your bed warm is by keeping a heating pad or hot water bottle under the blanket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/winterproof-your-house-180658
06-12-2020||---||Time to reshape greens||Amarjeet batthDuring winter, plants go dormant but gardeners use this period to give shape to the garden by replacing dead plants and reallocating others. In this period, the stress and sap loss is minimum in the plant. Also the low temperatures reduce fungal and insect infection during this period. Pruning in late winter has another advantage. By then, most leaves are already off and it gives a better idea of the network of branches to be pruned.IstockCreate a balanceRemoving the dead, diseased and broken branches is a round-the-year operation but during dormancy, hard pruning is done. While pruning a tree, the focus is on checking apical growth and forming lateral branches so as to create a balance between shoot and root growth. It starts in a young tree with selective pruning and developing a single leader with strong and evenly spaced branches. In the subsequent years, retain only strong branches and remove the feeble ones, besides the ones that are too close. Pruning in a grown stage is done to improve the plant’s health by thinning off the crown. This aids in better circulation of air and sunlight. Pruning adds to the safety, too, since the broken and damaged branches are removed. The process improves the quality of flowers. In fruit trees, it increases the yield. Removing low-growing limbs enhances the appearance of the tree.How much to pruneToo much pruning makes the tree vulnerable to disease and insects. Don’t prune more than 25 per cent of the crown. Living branches should compose at least 2/3 of the height of the tree. A two-third ratio of crown to tree should be maintained. Prune young branches. Use proper tools to make clean cuts and treat these with antiseptic.Plant new treesMid-January is the time to plant fruit trees like plum, pear and peach that require sunny, well-drained, rich, sandy loamy to medium soil. Being sterile, the Satluj Purple plum variety needs the company of Kala Amritsari variety, else it will yield only flowers and bear no fruit. Maintain their 4:1 ratio, respectively. The hard and semi-soft pears are successfully grown in this region but the very soft ones are confined to higher attitude areas. The hard pear fruit matures by end July and has long keeping quality.Make your own compostLeaf mould can be made using dry foliage, garden sweepings and wood material. These are decomposed with layers of soil mixed with little urea. Make a pit in a well-drained area, under partial shade. Dig a pit 3-4 feet in diameter and equal depth. Add layers of organic waste with a layer of cover up soil. Never throw inorganic waste like polythene in the pit. Add light mixture of urea to accelerate decomposition. Top it with a layer of soil. Make a concave top to retain water. Periodically turn the pile. It takes four to six months to turn organic waste into compost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/time-to-reshape-greens-180660
