07-09-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Sowing seeds of learning||AGRICULTURE experts and farmers in Punjab have given a thumbs up to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent statement underlining the need for imparting lessons in farming to schoolchildren. The PM was referring to the reforms under the National Education Policy (NEP-2020) for introducing agriculture as a subject at the middle school level.Vice Chancellor of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, Prof Baldev Singh Dhillon, says, “Integrating agriculture with school education is very important. Agriculture is directly associated with the lives of more than 70 per cent of our country’s population. Schoolchildren need to be educated about agriculture and associated fields like agri-entrepreneurship and agro-processing, which are new areas of study.”Dhillon says education in agriculture at the school level is important for connecting with the Indian Agricultural Research Institutes (IARIs) that are coming up across the country. Simply put, there has to be greater sensitisation towards educating farmers to look for diversifying crops instead of the routine summer and winter crop plantation.Pavail Gill, an organic farmer based in Fatehgarh Sahib district, says, “Besides producing better-educated farmers, connecting agriculture with education will allow more thinking minds to argue in favour of a better deal for farmers.”Gill says, “A curriculum containing agriculture and ‘science of growing food’ can help children in their personal and professional lives. Times are very challenging today. Climate change has affected the global food cycle of the world. Schools need to kindle interest among students to educate themselves in a subject that dealt with the survival of the human race.”A senior professor at the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Dr Sucha Singh Gill, feels bringing modern technology to agriculture is not the task of schools but that of agriculture extension services provided by state agriculture departments and agriculture universities in the country. He says the ground reality of school education in the country is worrying. “Rural schools lack adequate staff and have poor infrastructure. They need adequate funding and improvement in quality of education, an issue not touched upon by the PM,” he adds.Bharti Kisan Union (BKU) president Balbir Singh Rajewal says receiving education about agriculture is very important for children. “We had special chapters in our school books about farm activities. I don’t know when these vanished from the books. This means our education policy-makers sadly chose not to let children get educated about agriculture,” he rues.“Leave aside deep understanding, mere information about farming, harvesting, packaging and selling is vital for society. This had the inbuilt scope of educating people about the potential of agro-entrepreneurship in the country,” says Rajewal.Ajay Chaudhary, sarpanch of Taloor village in Gurdaspur district, says, “Starting to work on our own land when I was very young, I learnt that the farming exercise sub-consciously equipped me with leadership and communication skills. I was able to learn the importance of working with the community.”A public school-educated Chaudhary says while most of his classmates went in for jobs after graduation, he opted to stay back in his village for farming. “Having spent nearly 28 years on growing crops or maintaining a dairy, I feel this is a very satisfying career. I am sure several more could have done the same if they were better educated.”“Teaching children agriculture in classes is not a bad idea. The government only needs to ensure that the teaching involves practical lessons in the fields rather than rote learning,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/sowing-seeds-of-learning-137609
07-09-2020||Deepender Deswal||Catch them young||ASHOK Kundu (30), son of a farmer who earned a living by cultivating three acres at Khairi village in Uklana block, has migrated to Hisar with his family. He is keen to start his own business venture rather than following in his father’s footsteps. Kundu says, “Agriculture is no more a profitable occupation. It’s difficult for a farmer to give priority to the education of his children.” Kundu has leased out the family’s land to another farmer in the village.Amid such a dismal scenario in the agriculture sector, the idea to introduce farm education at the middle level in schools has come as a whiff of fresh air for the peasantry. Farmers and agriculture say this is one of the many steps needed to be taken to keep farming in the family and catch the attention of new-age entrepreneurs and businessmen to the field of agri-business.Agriculture scientists say getting a job is a priority for the youngsters. Though the latter try to explore options in agri-business and other entrepreneurship arenas, lack of awareness and expertise is a stumbling block for them, claim experts, adding that introduction to farm education at an early stage can turn the tide.Declining shareAs per a report of the Indian Chamber of Food and Agriculture (ICFA), the share of the agriculture sector in Haryana’s economy has been declining over the years. The share of agriculture and allied sectors in the GSDP has fallen from 60.7% in 1969-70 to 21.3% in 2006-07 and 15.3% in 2013-14.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has pitched for introducing agriculture-related education at the middle school level. The PM has stated that knowledge of agriculture and its practical application at the school level will help in developing agriculture-related understanding in students and enable them to disseminate information about modern farming techniques and marketing to their family members.Sajjan Kumar, a young villager from Bhiwani district, says it’s a good decision to introduce agriculture as a subject at the school level. “As of now, students are acquainted with basic facts about agriculture during schooling. Agriculture needs to be introduced as a separate subject for comprehensive understanding of the field which is the mainstay of the economy of many states and the country as a whole,” he observes.Kumar says the farming sector should be made attractive for the younger lot. “Besides basic agriculture, there are related fields such as agro-entrepreneurship, marketing and processing which have the potential to employ huge human resources,” he adds.Dr Kuldeep Dhindsa, an eminent agriculture scientist, says Haryana is a leading contributor of foodgrains and milk. “Agriculture is the principal occupation of the people in the state. But falling returns have led to lack of interest in the next generation of farmers in rural Haryana. Now, they prefer to be employed for a meagre Rs 10,000 per month in the private sector where they have to work for 8-10 hours a day,” he says, adding that the overall situation can be improved if along with introducing agriculture in schools, the government also take a serious view of the Swaminathan Commission recommendations.Dr Dhindsa says Hisar-based Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (HAU) introduced BSc Agriculture course as an integrated five-year programme after Class X to draw matriculates. “The PM’s initiative will bear fruit if the colleges and universities, too, start courses after matriculation,” he adds.Dr Ram Kumar, an agriculturist, says exposure to agriculture as a subject in schools is not enough to attract the new generation to agriculture-related occupations. “A meagre number of agricultural university passouts or retired professors get engaged in farming,” he says. Dr Kumar says agriculture and allied sectors need to be viable to attract the youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/catch-them-young-137627
