07-06-2020||Nonika Singh||Reel to real, discovering a hero||Politicians are busy heaping praise on him, film industry stands mighty proud and memes, for once, are laudatory and not scathing. The world struck by Covid-19 might be waking up to a new humanitarian Sonu Sood, but our Moga boy reveals that his philanthropic instinct is nothing new. ‘Help others’ has been his motto for long and a lesson he got from his parents early in life. Of course, today as the migrants consider him a messiah — one worships his photograph, another has named her son after him — he says he does not take the adulation too seriously, nor is he burdened by expectations.Migrants walking thousands of miles, being killed on roads, homeless and hungry... the soul-stirring images haunted the actor from films like Dabangg and Simmba, as much as others. Already involved in serving food to the migrant labour along with his friend Neeti Goel from Punjab, he felt compelled to take tangible steps. Thus began mission Ghar Bhejo, and he started arranging transport (buses, trains, even flights) for migrant workers stuck in faraway parts of the country, as distant as Kerala.The fact that the first batch of migrants was from Karnataka was sheer coincidence for the actor whose film journey began in South. He says he can’t thank enough those who have pitched in his efforts. “There was an incredibly supportive family and friends like Farah Khan, who call him on a daily basis to check with modalities and chip in whichever ways they can,” says Sonu.Determined not to rest till every single migrant reaches home, the task at hand seems Herculean, something even governments could not crack. However, for Sonu charity begins at the doorstep of the insurmountable. Moreover, the actor does not just view himself as a migrant but all of us who move to different lands in pursuit of our dreams and for the sake of our loved ones. It’s this realisation that makes him empathise more than anyone else.Interestingly, he can’t sense any dichotomy in many migrants wanting to return to their karmbhoomi either. He says, “There is nothing self-defeatist about that. Of course, they will have to come back. Only they feel reassured after they meet their families.”As his phone is constantly buzzing with incessant requests, some amusing ones included he is tickled pink and has a hearty laugh about it all. However, what is more heartening is that he has managed to unite so many people. For every migrant reaching home, he reminds, “there is a multiplier effect — smiles from so many members of their families.” Indeed, when a star sets on mission impossible, things move easily. Permissions and other regulatory procedures are not so hard to get. Sure, there is greater media attention which could be a two-way sword. Sceptics might dismiss it as a publicity gimmick, but Sonu couldn’t care less.With his heart in the right place, he knows his intentions are sincere. And with equal sincerity he has a piece of advice for his Punjabi brethren. “Just cook an extra meal and give it to a stranger — your watchman or your vegetable vendor. If each house were to do that, no one would go hungry.”With fan following grows by the minute, we wonder if it would shake up the film industry too and translate into better parts (read more positive ones) in movies. He chuckles, “I hope so.” Anyway, we will be seeing him in Prithviraj and work on his home production, a biopic on ace shuttler PV Sindhu, too will begin soon. Raring to go onscreen and off-screen, he may or may not see himself as a hero, however, as Novalis said, “A hero is one who knows how to hang one minute longer.” Only Sonu is hanging out way beyond minutes, packing 22 hours in a working day. All for a cause close to his heart.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/reel-to-real-discovering-a-hero-95783
07-06-2020||Mona||Allure of the dark||An actor not afraid to take challenges is Chandan Roy Sanyal. When a role to play a gangster tethered to his wheelchair came his way, he was all excited. Unlike the traditional wheelchair-bound characters, mostly portrayed as ‘helpless’ in Hindi cinema, here was an antithesis, a powerful man whose named evoked terror. It was only at the shoot he realised what he had entered: he had to act largely on the basis of expression, with little body movement. But Kaali was a success and its season two is now out.“I hope season two is appreciated as much as the first one,” says Chandan, who plays an underworld don in the series. We ask him what is the fascination with crime dramas and he says it has always been a popular genre. “It offers a world in stark contrast to our ordinary lives and that is what makes it rather appealing,” says Chandan, who feels this is going to continue for the times to come. However, when it comes to watching content, he says he is a huge fan of stories set in 17th and 18th centuries. “That’s my way of experiencing a life that I cannot be part of.”Chandan says web streaming as a new medium has broadened the horizons for actors as well as viewers. “Kaali is only my second series after Bhram but I have enjoyed the format.” However, Kaali 2 being shot bilingually did not come easy. “Hindi and Bengali are two different languages with very different meters. To abuse and scream in Bengali is rather strange; couple it with repeating the scene. It was rather tough.”Talking about the last two months spent home, he considers himself fortunate that he’s getting food and is focussing on his craft. “As they say, it’s about attention to detail. The time that has seemingly stopped has made my focus better. I am a better observer and am surely better prepared for work once all is back to regular!”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/allure-of-the-dark-95782
07-06-2020||Roopinder Singh||The book you heard||All paper-book-in-hand purists found it quite challenging to get hold of new books during the lockdown. While there was always the option of borrowing from friends, something we’ve all traditionally done, what do you do when you are forbidden from stepping out of your home?Many took refuge in the world of screens. They thus tried out e-books. However, a significant issue was that between smartphones, Kindles, iPads and television sets, there was too much of time being spent in front of various screens — no wonder eyes became watery, and headaches ensued. Thus, began the search for other options.Find them hereWhat if you could use your ears instead of your eyes? Talking books or audiobooks have a history that dates to the 1930s. For a long while, they were teaching aids, especially for blind and dyslexic students. Renderings of poetry and plays became popular later. Indeed, the Living Shakespeare series of long-playing records (LPs) with Richard Burton’s baritone indelibly and mellifluously etched the words of the Bard in the young minds of Senior Cambridge students like us. Many knew major parts of Henry V by heart!It was in the 1980s that the medium expanded. The convenient cassette tapes and interest in business, self-help books, as also medium format books, fuelled the demand and many publishing houses started producing such books.Recently, with digital devices allowing for seamless downloading, audiobooks have shown a remarkable resurgence. Audio performer professionals have a good voice and diction, and the books are contemporary. You listen to these books while attending to various other chores, driving or exercising, etc., thus utilising your hands-free ability to its full extent.While I have dallied with this medium for a while, it was during the lockdown that I was able to explore the audiobooks repertoire. Kindle had got difficult to read because of screen fatigue, and now the alternative, to hear books that I wanted to read, became much more attractive.Becoming, Michael Obama’s inspirational biography, topped the chart of the Audible list that came up after I signed for the app, but I had already read and reviewed the book. Still, I downloaded sample audio and was impressed by how much more one got with the author reading it. She has a great voice and delivery, and the content is worth revisiting.Listening to various books, I wondered why Shashi Tharoor allowed someone else to narrate An Era of Darkness. The heft of William Dalrymple’s The Anarchy became more manageable; however, the mispronunciations of Indian names and places by the narrator were irksome and one wondered, once again, why the author, whose is a great performer, was not the narrator.On the other hand, Bill Bryson’s A Short History of Almost Everything is delightfully narrated and Yuval Noah Hari’s books are adequately done. Lest it seems that only serious stuff was sought out, a David Baldacci, which featured two narrators for male and female roles, was engaging enough.Can audiobooks find the same resonance among the readers as traditional books? The jury is still out on this. Indeed, the mind does wander as one listens to a book, and unlike reading a text, there is no visual clue to help you navigate your way back from the detour that your mind takes.The ease with which the mind absorbs the spoken word, the nuances that are added through the performance, the way things are pronounced, the cadence and the diction that comes with an audiobook, all make for a far richer experience.There is some evidence that audiobooks are not retained as much as the written word is. Indeed there are studies that show that when reading a text, the reader often goes back and forth on the text subconsciously, and reinforces what one reads, whereas when one is hearing, it becomes more of a linear experience with little possibility of going back and forth.But then, we are not always reading everything like a textbook, like something that needs to be memorised. When you are reading for pleasure, you just want to go with the flow or where the words take you — into a world that you build up in your mind and for that experience, the audiobooks provide with more tools than just text can.Indian publishers have been quick to put content on audiobooks, although some find the cost of production daunting. However, there is now a respectable list of authors and their works to be found.Thousands of audiobooks are available for free downloads from various online resources. Of course, there are also paid services, including those of multiple publishers. It is a world that opens a new dimension for the bibliophile, and even the traditional paper-book-in-hand purists can be allured away, even if for a little while.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-book-you-heard-95781
07-06-2020||Dr Maninder Singh||Watch your Vitamin D||More than two months of physical inactivity, thanks to the lockdown, has affected the overall health and fitness of people. Staying indoors would have particularly depleted the Vitamin D levels, which could worsen our bone health in the long run. The prolonged inactivity may have resulted in the de-conditioning of bones and muscles, thereby enhancing the effects of Vitamin D deficiency. Also, according to some recent studies, lower vitamin D increases the chances of respiratory infections and other diseases as well.Exposure to the sun, which was restricted during the lockdown, allows our body to synthesise more Vitamin D, which helps us absorb nutrients such as calcium and phosphorus. These nutrients are key to healthy bones and muscles. The Vitamin D deficiency can lead to the loss of bone density, which can cause osteoporosis and fractures in adults and rickets among children. Compared to men, women are more susceptible to osteoporosis and other bone diseases, especially those above 50 face a greater risk. Inadequate diet could also lead to osteoporosis. Vitamin D helps the body absorb calcium from dietary and supplementary sources.Coronavirus may cause pneumonia-like symptoms in some of the infected persons, and their poor lung condition may aggravate it. Treating Vitamin D deficiency may help reduce the chances of lung infection and incidence of exacerbation in COPD and asthma patients. Vitamin D is also known to increase neuromuscular and immune function, and reduce inflammation; hence, COPD, a form of lung inflammation, could possibly be treated with the improved Vitamin D levels. Vitamin D supplementation, however, must be taken only on the advice of a doctor, as overdose can lead to serious side effects.Who are at risk?It is important to ensure regular exposure to the sun, taking all necessary precautions of social distancing and hand hygiene. It is not necessary to be exposed to the sunlight directly, just being outdoors is good enough, especially during the summer. If you are among the risk groups, get tested for Vitamin D levels. If deficient, replenish your levels as per the advice of your doctor.— The writer is a senior orthopaedic, Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, New Delhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/watch-your-vitamin-d-95780
07-06-2020||Dr Anuja Vaidya-Lathi||Stay masked,  stay safe||Masks are not going to come off anytime soon. Wearing the mask, coupled with other preventative measures such as frequent hand washing, sanitisation, and social distancing, is our bet against this highly contagious virus. So, it will help to know how to wear your mask, and how to wash and disinfect it...Choosing the right maskMasks are of different types. The type of mask to be used is related to the risk profile of the person and his/her work. Depending upon the work environment, the following masks could be chosen:The way to put it onHow to remove it?Colourful and fancy masksNon-medical face masks, including home-made facial coverings or cloth masks, vary greatly in composition and design. They are not required to meet the same safety standards as used in health care facilities. It is okay to use colourful and fancy masks, but some individuals might get allergic reactions because of the dyes used to colour the mask or the lace. If so, start using simple ones. If you are using a cloth mask, ensure there’s no detergent or soap left on it after washing — the residue can irritate the skin.How to disinfectUse soap and water to wash the mask. Washing, however, reduces the effectiveness of the mask. Ideally, a fresh mask should be used every time as the longevity of a mask is around six hours. Besides, always remember masks are effective only when used in combination with frequent hand washing and maintaining social distancing.— The writer is a Pune-based dermatologist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/stay-masked-stay-safe-95779
07-06-2020||Dr Mahesh Hiranandani &Dr Inderjeet Kaur Hiranandani||A tough walk back to school||Schools have been shut all over the world following the outbreak of coronavirus, keeping a staggering 1.2 billion learners away from their classrooms. With the world ‘learning’ to live with the pandemic and restrictions easing up gradually, there’s a talk of reopening the schools next month onwards. But there’s a catch — Is it safe enough yet to start sending children to crowded schools?A survey conducted among 12,000 parents in cities across the country by a parenting platform revealed that most parents are not only unsure of sending their kids to schools, but also birthday parties, malls or even to a friend’s place. Health experts believe they are right, given how infectious the disease is.In our dense population, dismal hygiene practices and an overstretched health system, it’s going to be immensely difficult to send children to schools in near future. A lot of planning and effort will need to go into keeping them safe. To begin with, school managements, with the help of health experts, will have to prepare the schools for the return of students, keeping in mind that a second wave of infection among elderly population can be triggered by asymptomatic spread within children. The process of “re-booting” will be based on devising strategies for the following situations:Are we prepared to handle the crowds?The following checks need to be in order.Precautions neededHow can we prevent infection?Survival skillsThe pandemic is far from over and children are leaving the sanitised environs of home after a long interval. They will have to be trained in skills to survive the pandemic. This will include personal hygiene, sanitisation, hand washing, wearing protective gear, maintaining physical distance, etc. After over two months of forced hibernation, children are longing to be back in their classes with their friends and teachers. Of course online learning showed several benefits such as targeted teaching, improved performance, etc. Most parents welcomed it as an opportunity to engage with the new era knowledge and technology. However, children find it unreal as it keeps them away from fun learning with their friends and teachers, as well as the extracurricular activities and peer interaction, an integral part of schooling.— The writers are HoD and visiting consultant, respectively, at Department of Paediatrics, Cloudnine Group of Hospitals, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/a-tough-walk-back-to-school-95778
07-06-2020||Krishnaraj Iyengar||Masters of music self-quarantined for creativity||“Mita do apni hasti ko, agar martabaah chaahte ho. Dana khaak mein milta hai, tab gul-e-gulzaar hota hai” (Forego your sense of self if you want to achieve greatness. It’s only when a seed is thrown in the soil, does it blossom into a flower of a lush garden). This was the famous Ghalib couplet, late Sitar maestro Ustad Abdul Halim Jaffer Khan often quoted, to sum-up the intensely grueling process of becoming a successful Hindustani musician.Apart from several years of taleem from the guru, riyaaz or practice is an indispensible part of the life-long saadhna of an Indian classical musician. As the world hones its creativity during self-quarantine with activities like music and art, Hindustani music’s great masters pioneered the art of perfecting their creativity through isolation.Incredible isolation“Self-retreat is what these maestros exactly did, like spiritual seekers do, for intense meditation and contemplation,” explains internationally renowned tabla and sitar maestro Pandit Nayan Ghosh. “My grand guru Ustad Ahmedjaan Thirakwa, the Mt. Everest of Tabla, spent 16 hours a day on riyaaz continuously for nine years locking himself in a room, totally cut off from the world outside. His brother would pass on his daily meals through a small hole in the wall!” he adds. The towering ustad continued 16 hours of daily riyaaz even at 90.As a bachelor, his father, tabla legend Pandit Nikhil Ghosh would spend several hours locking himself in his one-room tenement, doing riyaaz until his sweat trickled down the sink in a little stream. “Once he didn’t have money for his meals, but continued practising, saying to himself: ‘If there’s a God, I’ll eat today’. A kind neighbourhood lady, hearing the young boy practicing relentlessly since the morning, took pity on him, knocked on his door, and offered him a hearty meal,” Pandit Ghosh recounts.What is the secret of endurance? Dopamine, believes senior physician Dr Deepak Solanki. “Music increases dopamine by nearly 40 per cent and is often an alternative to exercise, with a heightened sense of reward and achievement. It is the secret to longevity, especially with artistes who practice their passion continually,” he shares.Dr Solanki explains that like during running, music generates endorphins which are the body’s own pain-relief mechanism.Revelations“I don’t fear a man who has practised a 1,000 kicks, but he who has practised one kick a 1,000 times,” Bruce Lee once said. The focused and continuous practice of one particular subject, like a tabla bol, a sitar jhala, a vocal taan for instance, is considered true riyaaz.Musicians generally lock themselves in a simple room and face the wall during riyaaz, for perfect focus. With little or no interaction with the outside world, these periods of extreme isolation are spent solely in eating, daily chores and riyaaz. A 40 day period of rigorous self-quarantine and practice is called chilla.Although in areas like Mumbai’s Grant Road, the historic hub of Hindustani musicians, space is an issue, impoverished maestros even practised under building stairways while many huddled up in one room, practised their own bit, the other’s causing no distractions, a feat of supreme focus.“I adapt the riyaaz model of these great classical maestros to my filmmaking,” remarks Sanjay Leela Bhansali. Kabir’s famed words “ek saadhe, sau saadhe” (having one focus means you’ve achieved everything) has been a mantra for Indian musicians.While for legendary vocalist Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan, riyaaz was like breath, Ustad Vilayat Khan’s unmatched sapaat taans came from inhuman riyaaz. As Pandit Nikhil Ghosh, Khan saheb’s practice partner’s palm would bleed while practicing ‘dhere dhere’ 10,000 times on the tabla, the former would continue practising despite blood dripping down his fingers!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/masters-of-music-self-quarantined-for-creativity-95776
07-06-2020||Sarika Sharma||Bengali singer Sharmistha Chatterjee's affair with Sufi and Punjabi poetry||Singer Sharmistha Chatterjee still remembers the day she fell in love with Punjabi poetry... “I heard Salamat Ali Khan saheb’s rendition of “Saanwal Mor Muharaan” on YouTube and realised I had never heard anything like that before. That style of singing and Khan saheb’s skill and roohdaari blew me away.” Research followed, and the singer from Bengal found herself exploring Punjab and its musical traditions.“I figured that his style of singing belonged to Shyam Chaurasi gharana centred in a village that goes by the same name in Hoshiarpur district. The artistes had moved to Pakistan after Partition, but were still shining through their art, making their place of origin proud all this while,” she says.That style of classical gayaki is something that Sharmistha was not trained in but found herself immediately drawn into. “Later, I discovered Salamat Ali Khan saheb singing kaafis of Ghulam Fareed in that same gayaki. This, musically, was a huge inspiration and drew me to learn and sing Punjabi Sufi kalaams,” she says.Sharmistha says her first brush with Punjabi music was, like most Indians, through Bollywood and she gives it all the credit for popularising it well. However, to actually discover its beauty and hidden gems, she got out of her comfort zone, travelled to Lahore to join a Sufi Punjabi rock band, Mekaal Hasan, as its lead vocalist and discovered and understood the kalaams written by Sufi saints. “I was the first Indian wiman to front a Pakistani rock band. As a woman and as an Indian I feel very proud of the fact that I could represent myself on a global platform through this band,” says Sharmistha.Over the last few years, she has sung poetry of Guru Nanak, Baba Bulle Shah, Shah Hussain, Ghulam Fareed and Amrita Pritam. “I was introduced to Baba Bulle Shah and Shah Hussain’s kalaams when I started singing for Mekaal Hasan. The kalaams were initially chosen by the band. I sang Amrita Pritam’s Waris Shah, which is again the band’s composition. Thereafter, I delved deep into Sufi and Punjabi poetry. I also sang Baba Nanak’s baani as part of a project initiated by Madan Gopal Singh of Chaar Yaar fame.” Madan Gopal, in fact, helped her with Punjabi diction and pronunciation when she took it upon herself to render Gurbani. Also, band member Mohd Ehsan Papu has been a constant support.Sharmistha’s journey with the band has been a great learning curve and an equally great experience. Papu and Mekaal Hasan came to Mumbai and recorded eight songs with her for their third album, Andolan. A Bulle Shah kalaam, “Ghunghat”, from the album became the top song of Pakistan in 2014. A year later, she was invited to Coke Studio Pakistan where she sang two songs, “Sayon” and “Kinaray”. “I was the first Indian to sing for Coke Studio Pakistan. That is also a huge achievement for me. The same year we toured North America extensively and performed as an Indo-Pak band forgetting, borders, boundaries and only connecting through music, spreading the love that music has in it,” she says.Sharmistha says she has garnered immense love in all these years. “My fans send me recordings of Reshma and other Punjabi music they want to hear in my voice. I feel extreme gratitude to have gotten so much love from Punjabi audience, inspite of being a Bengali. Somewhere, I think, there is a connection, and the love motivates me to delve even deeper. I have only started off and there is much more to discover, much more to learn and much more to sing,” she says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/bengali-singer-sharmistha-chatterjees-affair-with-sufi-and-punjabi-poetry-95775
07-06-2020||B N Goswamy||The fascinating works of William Blake||Tyger, Tyger, burning bright,In the forests of the night;What immortal hand or eye,Could frame thy fearful symmetry?— William BlakeI will not cease from Mental Fight,Nor shall my Sword sleep in my handTill we have built JerusalemIn England’s green & pleasant Land.— William BlakeEven if one looks hard for them, there are not too many examples that one can find of literary or artistic reputations lost and then, after a gap of time, not only re-established, but raised to great heights. Certainly nothing compared to the case of William Blake (1757-1827). Here was a man who was once dubbed “an unfortunate lunatic” by a critic who wrote these words after seeing an exhibition of his work, and someone who is now seen as “one of the most complex writers known”, “a seminal figure”, “a major poet, … one of the most fascinating British artists, an original thinker, and a conundrum of endless fascination”. A full 50 years after he passed away did the process of restitution begin, and praise of his work, his vision, began to turn into a chorus over time, some of the greatest names in the field joining in: Dante Gabriel Rossetti, William Butler Yeats, T.S. Eliot, George Bernard Shaw, D.H. Lawrence, Dylan Thomas, Pablo Neruda. The enigma that William Blake was had begun to unfold. Today there would hardly be a student of English literature who would not be able to recite from memory at least the first four lines — ‘Tiger, tiger, burning bright …’ — of a long poem of his, or, at least in England, a stanza cited above from his lyric, commonly called ‘Jerusalem’, that has become ‘a kind of alternative national anthem in Britain’. At the same time, there would be few who are not familiar with his almost Upanishadic words: “To see a World in a Grain of Sand/And a Heaven in a Wild Flower/Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand/And Eternity in an hour.”By Thomas Phillips. 1807A part of the reason of the lack of notice, the virtual overlooking, of Blake during his lifetime must have been that he was in many ways a hard man to know. Perhaps even to deal with. He was not friendless even if strident in his irreverence, but there were aspects of his personality — one speaks here not of his great talent — which made him appear ‘strange’ to other people. That he ‘heard a different drummer’ is certain, and he made no secret of it. As a child he hardly attended school, most of his education coming from his mother at home, a prominent part of it being a study of the Bible. This was to remain a ‘lifetime source of inspiration’, both in his poetry and his painting. He was soaked in it, everything about him carrying this colour, a strain of intense spirituality. His contemporaries have written that as a child, at the tender age of four, he ‘saw’ God’s head appear in a window. Visions began to come to him: now the prophet Ezekiel, now ‘a tree filled with angels’. When his beloved brother, Robert, died at a young age of tuberculosis — a trauma that William was never able to get over for the rest of his own life — he told everyone that he saw with his own eyes his brother’s spirit ascend through the ceiling.Painting came to him much earlier than poetry. Enrolment at a drawing school, apprenticeship with an engraver, cultivation of the habit of copying great masters like Durer and Michelangelo, and collecting prints of their works, all followed. Along with this grew his great fondness for writers of old, especially the Elizabethans — Shakespeare, Jonson, Spenser — and, before he was 25, he was ready with his first publication: Poetical Sketches. Soon afterwards, however, he ran into trouble with the law, being falsely accused of sedition. And then came the truly big blow: an exhibition of his works accompanied by his own poetry which was greeted mostly with silence but was savaged by one critic as “a farrago of nonsense and egregious vanity”. Blake was devastated, and began withdrawing more and more from society, even though working all the time, turning out remarkable work both in painting and in poetry. He wrote and published; engraved and illustrated; painted and provoked. This mystic was creating a world of angels and satan; of Milton and Dante and the Songs of Innocence; of Adam naming the Beasts, Albion Dancing, Angels hovering over the body of Christ, and Hecate, the Greek goddess of black magic. It is as if he were an inhabitant of different spheres.But these were years in which he also steadily kept sinking into “poverty, obscurity and paranoia”. Quite undeservedly so, of course. There was tumult in the times: the news coming from America where the colonies were revolting was disturbing; there was the great revolution in France which was hurtling the whole of Europe, and Europe’s age-old traditions, into chaos; and there were the urgings in the heart which cried out for a different order. In the midst of all this, Blake had things to say. He kept speaking out: now questioning established values, now railing against injustice and materialism; always commending the power of love that heals. As the Spanish writer Madariaga said evaluating the poet-painter’s work: ‘In his pure and innocent individualism, in his courageous and lofty amorality, in his disinterestedness and utter lack of meanness, in that virility of his idea of love, so free and so chaste, and lastly in his almost mystic feeling of reality”, William Blake was all “truth”.There is a painting of his called The Ancient of Days in which we see a naked, bearded old man, ‘leaning out from the sun to define the universe with golden compasses’. One is used to seeing it as an image of God or some other heavenly figure; it could as easily be an image of Blake himself beginning to fashion a world which was different from that in which he lived: “inevitably chaotic and contradictory’ as it was.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-fascinating-works-of-william-blake-95774
07-06-2020||   ||Punjab, Punjabi, Punjabis||Bollywood just cannot get enough of the vibrant north Indian state, its language, culture and people     Anna M.M. Vetticad     Producer Rhea Kapoor’s voice bubbles up with mirth as she lists the influences behind her penchant for scripts with Punjabi leads: exposure to her strict, disciplined Sindhi mother’s “insanely warm, insanely emotional” Punjabi friends, Renu Aunty and Pammi Aunty; and her Punjabi father, Bollywood actor Anil Kapoor’s relatives. Punjabis “are a dildaar people,” she says. “They’ll spread themselves more than they have, they like to eat well, drink well, live life to the fullest each day. Their life is basically a roadmap for escapism and that’s the kind of film I make — films you can escape into, that are larger than life.”  Rhea has so far produced Aisha (2010), Khoobsurat (2014) and Veere di Wedding (2018). Like these three films, her next too is heroine-centric and “rooted in Punjabi culture”. She adds, laughing: “I’m diversifying a little. The film after that is set in UP.” Rhea’s works are out-and-out entertainers defying the convention of Hindi films on women being grim and/or weepy, but in one respect they exemplify Bollywood’s oldest surviving trend: the prevalence of Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabis — Punjabi characters, Punjabi actors, the state as a setting for stories, its language and music — in Hindi cinema.  The seeds of this trend were planted nearly a century back, possibly at that moment in 1928 when Prithviraj Kapoor entered Mumbai, where the Hindi film industry a.k.a. Bollywood is based. As recorded in journalist Madhu Jain’s book, The Kapoors, the strapping youngster born in Lyallpur district (now Faisalabad in Pakistan’s Punjab province) came to the city to become an actor, and was an extra for some days in a silent film before the heroine spotted him and had him cast as her next film’s hero.  Prithviraj’s glorious career laid the foundation for a film clan that has dominated Hindi cinema till the present day. His son Shashi made his acting debut as an adult in 1961 with Dharmputra, directed by Yash Chopra and produced by Yash’s elder brother B.R. Chopra — the Chopra parivaar remains a major Punjabi force in Bollywood till date. Thirty-four years after Dharmputra, Yash’s producer-director son Aditya Chopra brought the mustard fields of Punjab to a whole new generation of Hindi film-goers in his 1995 blockbuster Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge. Today’s leading flag-bearer of Punjabi-ness in Hindi cinema is Yash’s nephew, producer-director Karan Johar.     Universal appeal  These influential families may have triggered the omnipresence of Punjab/i/s in Hindi cinema by making and starring in films about the community they know best, but the positivity in the Punjabi psyche that Rhea described, coupled with the culture’s lively aspects — bhangra, giddha, vibrant costumes, up-tempo music — have also charmed viewers, which is why they sell. These factors have been complemented by Hindi and Punjabi’s proximity to each other, as trade analyst Komal Nahta says. Unlike Marathi, the language of Maharashtra where the industry is based, Nahta points out that the most basic words of everyday use in Punjabi sound similar to Hindi, “and Punjabis have an animated style of speaking, so their actions help non-Punjabis understand the language”. It helps too that Punjabis themselves form a significant overseas market for Bollywood.  The success of Hindi films featuring Punjab/i/s resulting from these factors has led to more such films, which has meant further public familiarity with the culture, prompting producers to back more scripts revolving around it, and so the self-perpetuating cycle continues. This is like global familiarity with English due to Britain’s colonial history being a reason why audiences worldwide, including non-English speakers, voraciously consume Hollywood films about white Americans because — here comes the cycle — Hollywood has familiarised the world with white American culture.        The other side of the story {(This one can be a box, with Vicky Donor pic )}  The upside of the Bollywood trend is goodwill for Punjabis among viewers, even outside the Hindi belt. The downside includes stereotyping of Punjabis in films and formulaic usage. For one, since the Punjabi pop wave of the 1990s, even quality filmmakers bowing to commercial demands have been slipping Punjabi songs into scripts about non-Punjabis in the guise of a nightclub visit, a concert and so on, but unimaginative directors often ram Punjabi numbers into films without bothering with narrative smoothness.  The most unfortunate fallout of the Punjab/i/s phenomenon though is the marginalisation of the community’s tragedies and uncomfortable socio-political realities in Hindi films. Partition, the Khalistan movement, Operation Blue Star, the 1984 riots, post-Taliban refugees from Afghanistan, patriarchy, casteism and the state’s drug menace have been largely ignored. Gulzar’s Maachis (1996), Abhishek Chaubey’s Udta Punjab (2016) and Nandita Das’ Manto (2018) are among exceptions. The norm is to emphasise celebratory aspects of Punjabi culture, too often through the sort of rumbustiousness that pervaded 2019’s Good Newzz, in which a loud Punjabi couple (Diljit Dosanjh and Kiara Advani) clashed with another Punjabi couple (Kareena Kapoor Khan and Akshay Kumar).   When Lucknow-born writer Juhi Chaturvedi set her first Hindi feature, Vicky Donor (2014), in a Punjabi-dominated locality in Delhi, she wanted to rise above traditional superficiality. Chaturvedi had spent several years as an ad professional in Delhi where she lived surrounded by Punjabis in Lajpat Nagar. Apart from dipping into those memories for Vicky Donor, she researched the origins of the people there, which led her to the lingering after-effects of the Partition on Delhi’s colonies of refugees.  “We say Punjabis are flashy and show offy, but it comes from a deep-rooted sadness,” she says. “When you lose everything but the clothes you’re wearing and start all over again, then when you start doing well you say, “Look, we’re fine, let’s sing a song, let’s tell everyone we have enough now.’ It may have started as a statement about their well-being.” Chaturvedi’s empathy accounts for Vicky Donor’s delightfully atypical treatment of Bollywood’s Punjabi stereotypes.     ‘It just feels right’  Writer-director Shakun Batra has for some years been reflecting on why he has written mostly Punjabi characters so far. As a Punjabi himself, his most obvious explanation is: “When creating a character, my first go-to person is me and the environment I grew up in.” What he says next — “I end up keeping it as Kapoors or whatever because it’s more generic” — explains why many non-Punjabis too gravitate towards writing Punjabis even in scripts where there are no overt nods to the characters’ ethnic background. “If you’ve grown up watching movies with Punjabi characters, it becomes one of those clichés nobody breaks, it just feels right,” he adds, which explains why this specific culture might seem “generic” to Hindi film writers.  Batra has been introspecting since he was asked why Kapoor & Sons (2016) had no south Indian characters although it was set in Coonoor. “It’s like for the longest time Hollywood had white actors, till they consciously decided to diversify,” he says. “It happens with awareness.” For the record, both Batra’s films are lovely and did not stereotype Punjabis as Bollywood usually does. In fact, the hero of 2012’s Ek Main Aur Ekk Tu, Rahul Kapoor (Imran Khan), was the anti-thesis of the clichéd screen Punjabi: not boisterous, doing bhangra and yelling “balle balle” at the drop of a hat, but a sedate foil to his feisty Goan heroine, Riana Braganza (Kareena). However, Batra’s questions to himself do point towards Bollywood’s general insularity.   Beloved though this industry is, the truth is that for its filmmakers, the generic person, the ‘normal’ person is a Hindu, upper-caste, north Indian, mostly Hindi/Punjabi-speaking heterosexual male. Even portrayals of Sikhs, who form nearly 58 per cent of Punjab’s population, are largely confined to two categories: comical or patriotic — a regular Sikh character who is not amusing or not uprooting handpumps to fend off the Pakistan Army is hard to come by. Whether stereotyping is positive or negative, it is still a form of othering that should give us pause. And of course, Hindi filmmakers have avoided the large populations of non-Punjabi, non-north-Indian migrants to the Hindi belt and Maharashtra (where the industry is headquartered).      The hit formula  If Punjab/i/s continue to get space in Hindi cinema, it is because the state, the people, the language and culture are viewed as saleable formulae in this play-it-safe, formulaic industry. Though this phenomenon has given decades of joy to Hindi film viewers, it is incumbent on Bollywood audiences and analysts to compel the industry to expand its worldview, not just to give us an accurate picture of Indian multiculturalism but to also more comprehensively convey the heterogeneity of the Punjabi community.  As a new generation of directors and writers re-examine conventions, perhaps all this and more will happen. Chaturvedi for her part is returning to her roots. Her new film, Gulabo Sitabo, is set in her hometown Lucknow. It stars Amitabh Bachchan and Ayushmann Khurrana, is directed by her long-time collaborator Shoojit Sircar, and is releasing on Amazon Prime Video on June 12. While she dreams of making films about different peoples, fans of Bollywood’s fascination for Punjab/i/s need not worry — this long-running trend is not going away anytime soon. After all, as Chaturvedi explains, “Somewhere the core philosophy of Punjabis, the tendency to work hard, do well, make merry, has found a good match with Hindi films.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/punjab-punjabi-punjabis-95750
07-06-2020||Strap||The fascinating William Blake||BNG’s column   No. 625 (May 24, 2020)              Tyger, Tyger, burning bright,  In the forests of the night;  What immortal hand or eye,  Could frame thy fearful symmetry?                                                 — William Blake     I will not cease from Mental Fight, Nor shall my Sword sleep in my hand Till we have built Jerusalem In England’s green & pleasant Land.                                            — William Blake     Even if one looks hard for them, there are not too many examples that one can find of literary or artistic reputations lost and then, after a gap of time, not only re-established, but raised to great heights. Certainly nothing compared to the case of William Blake (1757-1827). Here was a man who was once dubbed “an unfortunate lunatic” by a critic who wrote these words after seeing an exhibition of his work, and someone who is now seen as “one of the most complex writers known”, “a seminal figure”, “a major poet, … one of the most fascinating British artists, an original thinker, and a conundrum of endless fascination”. A full 50 years after he passed away did the process of restitution begin, and praise of his work, his vision, began to turn into a chorus over time, some of the greatest names in the field joining in: Dante Gabriel Rossetti, William Butler Yeats, T.S. Eliot, George Bernard Shaw, D.H. Lawrence, Dylan Thomas, Pablo Neruda. The enigma that William Blake was had begun to unfold. Today there would hardly be a student of English literature who would not be able to recite from memory at least the first four lines — ‘Tiger, tiger, burning bright …’ — of a long poem of his, or, at least in England, a stanza cited above from his lyric, commonly called ‘Jerusalem’, that has become ‘a kind of alternative national anthem in Britain’. At the same time, there would be few who are not familiar with his almost Upanishadic words: “To see a World in a Grain of Sand/And a Heaven in a Wild Flower/Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand/And Eternity in an hour”.  A part of the reason of the lack of notice, the virtual overlooking, of Blake during his lifetime must have been that he was in many ways a hard man to know. Perhaps even to deal with. He was not friendless even if strident in his irreverence, but there were aspects of his personality — one speaks here not of his great talent — which made him appear ‘strange’ to other people. That he ‘heard a different drummer’ is certain, and he made no secret of it. As a child he hardly attended school, most of his education coming from his mother at home, a prominent part of it being a study of the Bible. This was to remain a ‘lifetime source of inspiration’, both in his poetry and his painting. He was soaked in it, everything about him carrying this colour, a strain of intense spirituality. His contemporaries have written that as a child, at the tender age of four, he ‘saw’ God’s head appear in a window. Visions began to come to him: now the prophet Ezekiel, now ‘a tree filled with angels’. When his beloved brother, Robert, died at a young age of tuberculosis — a trauma that William was never able to get over for the rest of his own life — he told everyone that he saw with his own eyes his brother’s spirit ascend through the ceiling.  Painting came to him much earlier than poetry. Enrolment at a drawing school, apprenticeship with an engraver, cultivation of the habit of copying great masters like Durer and Michelangelo, and collecting prints of their works, all followed. Along with this grew his great fondness for writers of old, especially the Elizabethans — Shakespeare, Jonson, Spenser — and, before he was 25, he was ready with his first publication: Poetical Sketches. Soon afterwards, however, he ran into trouble with the law, being falsely accused of sedition. And then came the truly big blow: an exhibition of his works accompanied by his own poetry which was greeted mostly with silence but was savaged by one critic as “a farrago of nonsense and egregious vanity”. Blake was devastated, and began withdrawing more and more from society, even though working all the time, turning out remarkable work both in painting and in poetry. He wrote and published; engraved and illustrated; painted and provoked. This mystic was creating a world of angels and satan; of Milton and Dante and the Songs of Innocence; of Adam naming the Beasts, Albion Dancing, Angels hovering over the body of Christ, and Hecate, the Greek goddess of black magic. It is as if he were an inhabitant of different spheres.  But these were years in which he also steadily kept sinking into “poverty, obscurity and paranoia”. Quite undeservedly so, of course. There was tumult in the times: the news coming from America where the colonies were revolting was disturbing; there was the great revolution in France which was hurtling the whole of Europe, and Europe’s age-old traditions, into chaos; and there were the urgings in the heart which cried out for a different order. In the midst of all this, Blake had things to say. He kept speaking out: now questioning established values, now railing against injustice and materialism; always commending the power of love that heals. As the Spanish writer Madariaga said evaluating the poet-painter’s work: ‘In his pure and innocent individualism, in his courageous and lofty amorality, in his disinterestedness and utter lack of meanness, in that virility of his idea of love, so free and so chaste, and lastly in his almost mystic feeling of reality”, William Blake was all “truth”.  There is a painting of his called The Ancient of Days in which we see a naked, bearded old man, ‘leaning out from the sun to define the universe with golden compasses’. One is used to seeing it as an image of God or some other heavenly figure; it could as easily be an image of Blake himself beginning to fashion a world which was different from that in which he lived: “inevitably chaotic and contradictory’ as it was.     *****     Captions for Visuals  [All works, except his own portrait, are by William Blake]  1.     (no. 6883)  Portrait of William Blake (dressed as a ‘gentleman’)  By Thomas Phillips. 1807  2.     (no. 6898)  ‘The Ancient of Days’, 1794  3.     (no. 6900)    ‘Hecate, Greek goddess of black magic’  4.     (no. 6904)  ‘Newton’: work presenting him as embodying scientific materialism. 1795  5.     (no 6910)  A negro hung alive; illustration to Stedman’s book on the Revolt of Negroes in Dutch Suriname||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-fascinating-william-blake-95758
