07-12-2020||Three rounds of talks between farmers’ unions and the Centre proved inconclusive last week. While the Union government is keen to amend the farm laws to incorporate some of the suggestions||Bridge communication gap||The government claims that the laws are aimed at opening up more markets for farmers without touching the APMC markets — which are under the jurisdiction of state governments — and without disbanding procurement at the MSP, besides promoting healthy development of contract farming by provisioning legal backing for a fair deal to farmers.There is a need to build consensus about the laws among the farming community and state governments so as to encourage their wider participation in the implementation.The Centre is banking on state and local governments to implement the laws in terms of forming the Conciliation Board to be set up by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) to resolve disputes, besides supervision, monitoring and proper implementation.As a first step, educating various stakeholders — farmers, elected representatives at the village level, local agricultural and marketing officers — to put them on the same page is crucial. The campaign strategy should include the dissemination of detailed information about the lacunae in the APMC Act. How will the new markets function? Can FPOs (farmers’ producer organisations) establish new markets? What is the procedure for the sale and buying operations in the new markets outside APMC markets? What is the mechanism to protect farmers? The campaign should also include information about post-sale activities like weighing, generating sale bills, time limits for payments, the procedure for dispute settlements, modalities for contract farming, new stockholding limits and other information is crucial for farmers to clear the doubts about new farm bills.Traditionally, state agriculture departments have been providing agriculture-related information to farmers through block-level agricultural extension officers. However, over the years, they have been burdened with the distribution of subsidies and inputs, with actual farm extension reduced to a peripheral activity.As a result, there is little information dissemination about the government’s policies through the state agricultural department. Many a time, this gap is filled by the private sector or NGOs. The farmers’ agitation against the laws is a result of the long neglect of public sector farm extension.When there is a weakened public farm extension system, information provided by vested interests are dominant in shaping public opinion. In many earlier instances, the misinformation campaign by vocal NGOs blocked useful technologies like biotech-based mustard and soyabean seed varieties which have the potential to make India self-sufficient in edible oils for several years.The national objective of doubling farmers’ income by 2022 cannot be achieved amid the confusion over the new laws. The doubts of farmers need to be cleared through a proper communication strategy.Both state and Central governments needs to use the latest technology, keeping in view the wider penetration of smartphones and broadband connectivity. However, while deploying ICT-based farm extension, there is a danger of exclusion of uneducated or poor farmers. To include these farmers, the government has to use traditional ways of farm extension like employing progressive farmers as kisan mitra (friend of the farmer) to bridge the gap. These kisan mitras can be recruited from local areas so that they are able to educate farmers about the utility of new policies.Strengthening the public extension system needs an adequate budget. At least 1 per cent of the agricultural GDP should be allocated for agricultural extension to effectively offset any misinformation campaign by vested interests.The author is an agricultural economist at ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad. Views are personalSend your feedback to letters@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/bridge-communication-gap-181073
07-12-2020||Even as the farmers’ agitation against the three Central farm laws is continuing||Long haul in Haryana||“Contract farming of barley in parts of Bhiwani, Sirsa and Hisar has been going on for the past several years. However, the same is not the case for major crops like wheat, paddy and cotton, which are being procured at the MSP in Haryana,” says Dr Gyan Parkash Bhargava, retired Principal Scientist from Central Soil Salinity Research Institute (CSSRI). He says a majority of the farmers are still inclined towards wheat and paddy cultivation.“Efforts should be made to educate farmers about contract farming, which could be more beneficial for them as well as for the soil as it would promote crop diversification, but the government must ensure a transparent system that will empower farmers so that no player exploits them,” he adds.Data obtained from the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) reveals that seven companies have got themselves registered for contract farming in the state so far, but now only two are working on barley. Contract farming of basmati paddy, potato and wheat was also started, but it fizzled out due to lack of interest among farmers.“Contract farming is being done by farmers of the state. With the new laws, the practice will flourish,” says Sumedha Kataria, Chief Administrator, HSAMB.She says Haryana is already procuring most of the crops at the MSP and the payment is being transferred directly into the farmers’ accounts. She claims that the e-market system (e-NAM) is providing a platform to the farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. “The new laws will help in providing additional opportunities to the farmers to sell their produce anywhere at good prices. The mandi system will remain intact as we already have huge infrastructure in the state,” she says.Rajinder Arya, president, Bhartiya Kisan Mazdoor Naujawan Union, says farmers were earlier also free to sell their produce anywhere as there was no law mandating that they should sell it at a particular place. “The e-NAM system is functional, but farmers are not tech-savvy, due to which it has not received a good response,” he says. He fears private players or private mandis would exploit farmers and signal the end of the mandi system. “The government is trying to distance itself from the procurement process and promoting private players,” he adds.Vinod Kumar, a farmer of Sultanpur, says private players were earlier procuring mustard at throwaway prices before the government started procurement at the MSP.A retired agriculture scientist advocates the mandi system. “A majority of the farmers are dependent on the arhtiyas. The private players would have to establish trust among farmers. Haryana has one of the best mandi systems in the country and farmers prefer to sell their produce here even after the e-NAM system was launched by the Centre,” he adds.Farmers should opt for high-value crops which will be beneficial to them, says a senior official of the agriculture department, ruing that huge stocks of wheat and rice are lying in godowns.Send your feedback to letters@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/long-haul-in-haryana-181072
