08-11-2020||---||Back-to-office wardrobe||Manpriya SinghAs the home became a virtual office and corporates turned to Zoom meetings, heads mattered, heels didn’t. However, as we get back to normalcy and work, the post-pandemic era is confusing for everyone, including the fashion world. By now, the majority is habituated to shorts or pyjamas, but longing to doll up.and disinfect.As the fall transitions into winter and work from home (WFH) transcends into sporadic office visits, many creative heads in the industry predict that work wear in the post-pandemic era would more be on the lines of business leisure.Fashion elements necessitated by pandemicDesigner duo Abraham and Thakore though agree that it won’t be easy to get rid of the tees and track pants, how we actually return to work could go either way. “After months at home in sweat pants and tee shirts, comfort is going to be an important factor in how people choose to dress when they return to office. But that also means that one’s desire to dress up could be intense after months of being dressed casually.”Global impressionsAutumn/Winter collections this year were conceived in a pre-pandemic era. These were showcased in February just before lockdown restrictions in Europe. Everything has since changed. However, there are some takeaway trends that should remain relevant in post-pandemic world, including formal silhouettes and comfort fabrics, PU leather coats, fuzzy cardigans, teddy coats and knitwear. WFH looks, as recommended by Victoria Beckham, include elasticated waistbands, two-piece knitted sets which, as she said, “are warm, comfortable and versatile”. Ralph Lauren’s 2020 Fall collection focuses on classic pieces that can be repeated and have longevity. Think tweeds, wools and plaids.Biz-leisure meets loungewearDesigner Ridhi Mehra expects business leisure to stick around for the initial few months of going back to office. “Loungewear has been a favourite with the working masses across the globe for their WFH routine. However, as things pick up pace, formal business wear is going to make a comeback and with more elegance and sophistication, plus the inevitable masks.”WFH and lack of office parties has directly affected the formal wear sector. “Given the current scenario and the stark market changes post-pandemic, an overall shrink in demand has become the reality,” shares the designer whose collection was recently showcased at Lakme Fashion Week 2020 Digital First Season Fluid Edition.Several other designers showcasing their collections at LFW 2020 agree with this new reality. “Dress code at work has drastically changed during the past few months. The rules of dressing will not change, but it might take some time for everyone to get back to their pre-pandemic office dressing code,” says designer Punit Balana, who has turned the pandemic into an inspiration. “Covid-19 has inspired my recently launched collection Muneer.” He feels, “Initially the vibe would incline towards business leisure as people are yet to get re-acquainted with their old lifestyle.”What’s in vogue, what’s notIt is the return of practical clothing like never before, shares a stockist of a global athleisure chain. “Fleece jackets have almost made it to business casuals, courtesy their being somewhat waterproof. Multi-pocket garments have also been in huge demand. Ahead of the winter season, we are stocking them with vengeance,” he says.Customers, too, are in search of garments that can stock up preventive items like masks and sanitisers. Sonika Dhamija, a Ludhiana-based mompreneur agrees. “I am looking at practicality and lots of pockets in clothes I would buy now. Pockets keep masks and sanitisers handy, which is the need of the hour,” she says.According to Ishaan Sachdeva, director, Alberto Torresi, “Heading back to work is going to be a huge change and challenge — new precautions, new rules, new hygiene measures, new norms. Masks are mandatory in the new dress code for office post-Covid. Most consumers would prefer clothing and footwear which is fuss-free (easy to wash), germ-free (anti-bacterial fabrics) and durable.” He adds, “More and more consumers are preferring espadrilles and loafers more than formal shoes.”Chahatt Khanna from Ammarzo, a ‘made in India’ lifestyle brand retailing from most e-commerce platforms, nails it when she says, “Prolonged experience of working from home has taught us that there are myriad ways to dress professionally. There was a time when casuals were acceptable only as part of Friday dressing. The pandemic has, at least temporarily, thwarted fashion’s gradual shift back towards a new formality. The concept of business leisure or b-leisure is native to the travel industry, but one we can be inspired from,” she feels. She also emphasises on the return of the basics and a decrease in demand for heels and formal shoes.Long sleeves for better cover-upDesigner Gaurang feels there’s a concrete shift in dress code. “A face mask is a bona fide accessory now. Another big change is long sleeves, as protection from winter as well as from contracting the virus from surfaces, desks in work spaces and dining tables around canteen, will be paramount. Though there are those looking forward to flaunting new clothing and have the urge to binge shop as soon as they can.”“We have also discovered new ways to reach out to customers through our e-stores. This gave us an opportunity to tap into new markets and clients hitherto difficult to reach out to,” adds Gaurang.For the duo Abraham and Thakore, creativity responds to every situation differently and it usually thrives on challenge. For a post-Covid world, “We are working on clothing that is easier to wear and crosses the divide easily between formal and casual, loungewear and dress up.”Covid influence on rampWhile internationally the business-wear segments of major fashion houses stuck to safe monochromes to reflect the sombre mood, at the recently concluded Lakme Fashion Week 2020 Digital First Season Fluid Edition, designers had myriad interpretations of Covid and as many ways of battling it. Young designer Anmol Sharma’s collection matched the current global scene through hoodies with attached masks, while the embroidered backs of the boiler suit and jacket declared ‘Never Give Up’ in thread work. Urvashi Kaur’s Tahul collection showcased relaxed androgynous apparel.Fashion influencer Shraddha Gurung aka Lil Miss Gurung, who has 112K followers on Instagram, accurately predicts the mood of the WFH brigade. “We may have fallen in love with our pyjamas but are looking forward to every chance to dress up. I believe the cuts and fits will be more relaxed while the overall look will be more dressed up.” Practicality in outfits will be a major factor, “especially the practicality of fabrics and materials. Faux leather seems to be quite a low-maintenance material that would make sense when it comes to cleaning and disinfecting our clothes. It comes in various cuts that would work seamlessly into office wear.” For those for whom style still remains the mantra, she sums up the sentiment, “I’ve always been a dress-up-to-feel-better kind of person. However, now the choice of outfit has taken a 360 degree turn. I’d still want to be fashionable though.”After months at home in sweat pants and tee shirts, comfort is going to be an important factor in how people choose to dress when they return to office. But that also means that one’s desire to dress up could be intense after months of being dressed casually.—  Abraham and Thakore | Designers“Masks are mandatory in the new dress code for office in Covid times. Most consumers would prefer clothing and footwear which is fuss-free (easy to wash), germ-free (anti-bacterial fabrics) and durable.”— Ishaan Sachdeva | Director, Alberto Torresi“We may have fallen in love with our pyjamas but are looking forward to every chance to dress up. I believe that the cuts and fits will now be more relaxed, while the overall look will be more dressed up.”— Shraddha Gurung | fashion influencer“A face mask is a bona fide accessory now. Another big change is long sleeves, as protection from winter as well as from contracting the virus from surfaces, desks in work spaces and dining tables around canteen, will be paramount.” — Gaurang | Designer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/back-to-office-wardrobe-167817
08-11-2020||Sarika Sharma||How courtesan Nati Binodini saved theatre||It was the turn of the century, and here was Binodini Dasi, trying to find her place in a society that abhorred her ilk. Born into a family of sex workers, she turned to theatre at the age of 12 and went on to make a name for herself. Her career was to be shortlived, a mere 11 years. At 23, she had sacrificed her art, and retired, becoming a mistress of the man who saved her theatre company. But not before she had set a glowing example for women in theatre and introduced modern makeup techniques for artistes.“Flower of native stage”, “Queen of Indian stage”... As Binodini’s popularity soared, the British bestowed several adjectives on her. Her own people, only prejudice. Time may not have been able to heal her wounds, but it did try to correct the wrongs. Many eulogies have hence followed. Binodini’s life (1863–1941) has been brought alive on stage, in jatras and urban theatres, films too. Filmmaker Pradeep Sarkar (of Parineeta fame) is the latest to announce a project on her with actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan in the lead.What is it about Binodini’s life that continues to inspire filmmakers and theatre directors, we ask Delhi-based Padma Shri awardee Bapi Bose, whose play — that cast Seema Biswas as Binodini — was the first to bring her life story to North Indian audiences. A graduate from National School of Drama, this was to mark his Hindi debut.“I wanted to tell people about the woman who had sacrificed her life to save theatre at the cost of her body, her chastity,” says Bose. Nati Binodini, as she came to be known, was born in the red light area. She tried to work her way out, but the bhadralok, the enlightened Bengalis of the 19th century, weren’t welcoming. They just couldn’t bear an ‘impure’ woman playing goddess on stage. The men promised to marry her, but turned their back always. This was a time when women in public spaces, especially theatre, were looked down upon. This patriarchal politics ended her dream to have a theatre of her own and eventually her career. “A theatre was being built with her money and it was to be called B Theatre after her name, but a conspiracy was hatched to stop that from happening. People would not want to come to a theatre that is named after a prostitute, she was told, and it was called Star Theatre,” says Bose.It is rare for a thespian to have a play on his/her life. The honour Binodini has is rare. One of the most talked about theatre productions on her life is by Amal Allana, former NSD chairperson. Often hailed as her best work, the play was staged in 2006.Allana was researching Bengali and Indian theatre in the 1980s when she came across Nati Binodini’s autobiography, Amaar Katha (My Story). She knew she would bring Nati’s story to stage someday. It was to happen 15 years later. Allana told the story through five Binodinis from different stages of life. She wrote the script, devising the play with her actors, all stellar names — Salima Raza, Swaroopa Ghosh, Kusum Haidar, Sonam Kalra and Amita Ailawadi.“My story pans out in front of her mentor, theatre stalwart Girish Ghosh, who brought her to theatre, and Ghosh’s character often participates in the play, with the Binodinis watching each other. A whole range of emotions are on display. There is one Binodini looking anxiously, another is amused looking at herself in another time, another setting,” she tells.Allana says Binodini’s popularity can be gauged from that fact that her shows went full house, the roles spanning mythology and history. Her audience often included the great 19th-century saint Ramakrishna Paramahamsa, who blessed “the untouchable”, much to the irking of the bhadralok. What sets her apart, Bose says, is that she sacrificed her life at the cost of her body, her chastity, not for survival, but for theatre.Mohali-based Anita Shabdeesh brought Binodini’s story to her Punjabi audience in 2013. “It was such a powerful character, I didn’t want to direct it, I just wanted to play Binodini. I spoke to many directors, asking them to helm the play. But somehow, nothing materialised and I ended up not just writing the script with Shabdeesh, my husband, but also directing it and acting in it.” Enacted in Punjabi, the setting was Bengali and so were the costumes. A few years later, when Anita happened to go to Kolkata, she made it a point to visit Star Theatre, the place that Binodini had built with her own sweat and blood. It is now named after Binodini.Abandoned by her lover, the character in Anita’s story says, “Raja babu taan gaye, mera theatre taan bach jaye. Raja babu is gone, I just hope to save my theatre.” And that she did.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/how-courtesan-nati-binodini-saved-theatre-167820
08-11-2020||Shailaja Khanna||Swara Samrat Music Festival goes online||Come December, and people of Kolkata eagerly await the Swara Samrat Festival, an annual feature for the past eight years. This year, fans across the world are connecting with it online. The festival will feature 36 concerts, recorded in five cities every weekend from November till March 2021, making this the biggest and longest online festival of classical music and dance till now.Named after ‘Swara Samrat’ Ustad Ali Akbar Khan, the festival is the brainchild of his disciple, Tejendra Narayan Mazumdar, and his sarodist son, Indrayudh. The stellar line-up includes doyens Dr N Rajam (violin), Ulhas Kashalkar (vocal), Ashwini Bhide (vocal), Kushal Das (sitar), Shubhendra Rao (sitar), Bickram Ghosh (percussion ensemble); Rajendra Gangani (kathak), young vocalists Kaushiki Chakraborty, Aditya Khandwe, Dhananjay Hegde and Brajeshwar Mukherji, Bharatanatyam dancer Rukmini Vijaykumar and sarodist Ranajit Sengupta.Some never-before jugalbandis include Debopriya Chatterji on flute with Nandini Shankar on violin, Mumbai-based guitarists Deepak Kshirsagar and Abhay Nayampalli representing the Carnatic and North Indian tradition, Kolkata artistes Ayan Sengupta on sitar and Pratik Shrivastav on sarod, the Shankar Brothers from Varanasi on shehnai and Mysore’s icons, Mysore Nagaraj and Mysore Manjunath on violin.However, it is not the diversity of the artistes that makes this festival distinct from the literally dozens of online festivals available. What is unique is that all the concerts are being produced with the same setup in terms of sound, light, video shooting, and ambience across all the five cities of Kolkata, Bengaluru, Delhi, Pune and Mumbai.Each concert, around an hour long, is recorded and then sent to the editing centre in Kolkata for the final output. Usually, classical music and dance performances are around 2 hours (Carnatic music concerts are longer at approximately 3 hours each). The costs involved are enormous. Apart from artiste fee, there is additional cost of lighting and recording facilities in each city, editing and promoting the event all over the world through digital and print media. Also, instead of hiring one auditorium for the festival duration, the organisers have had to hire five.The recordings are being done in auditoriums (as opposed to small recording studios) so that the ambience is that of an actual concert; in some cases even a select audience has been made available to inspire the artistes.The finest classical music performances require eye contact and the interchange of energy between the artistes and the audience. Online concerts cannot replicate this magic. As Pune-based Ulhas Kashalkar puts it: “Online concerts are a compromise, and this is the first one I shall be recording.” But veteran violinist Dr N Rajam says audience or no audience makes no difference to her. “I play for myself first,” she says.There is careful curation of content. Artistes are being advised on ragas to avoid duplication. Artiste pairings are innovatively conceived. The tabla accompanists too are varied and top performers such as Akram Khan, Yogesh Samsi, Subhankar Bannerji, Tanmoy Bose, Satyajit Talwalkar, Ojas Adhiya and Ishan Ghosh have been roped in.Tejendra Mazumdar thanks his sponsors, Arun Bharat Ram of Shriram Foundation and VP Gupta, owner of Bazm e khas, a popular online music portal, for making his grandiose dream come true.The two concerts streamed on November 1 saw tremendous response worldwide. Mazumdar says the online audience is being carefully nurtured for the future by offering the 36 concerts for viewership for a year, unlike most other online concerts that allow you to view recordings for 48 hours. Additional new musical content will be uploaded too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/swara-samrat-music-festival-goes-online-167822
08-11-2020||Monica Arora||Martand Khosla’s idea of nothingness||Donning the dual hats of being an architect and an artist, Martand Khosla dwelled into the realms of the mind to curate ‘The Thought of Architecture’ as a series of 10 virtual experiences created with the works of 10 artists over the span of a year. These are a part of New Delhi-based Nature Morte gallery’s virtual viewing room experiences.The pandemic has compelled artists and galleries to introspect the online space as a means of creating an interface between people and processes and the backlit screens have become one’s prime and most critical tool of communication. When Martand was internalising as to how a virtual site is actually a “siteless site”, wherein the usual trappings of materiality, light, structure and dimension become redundant, he decided to break free from the conventions of architectural norms to keep his viewing space fluid and free-flowing.“I started researching histories of architecture, cinema and virtual gaming to form the reference point for my series, when I realised that it is only ideas, stories and emotions that are the genesis of any creative project, architectural or otherwise. What begins as a thought is then translated into sketches followed by actual drawings, and once the idea is firmed and confirmed, three-dimensional models are deployed to give it tangibility,” he says.Since none of this was needed here, he opines, “An object starts the idea of space while an event starts the idea of time. If we remove the object and time from any idea, then it can be articulated in abstraction, without limits and boundaries. I decided to deliberately break away from the idea of a viewing room with walls and displays under perfect focus lights. Instead, I created rectilinear grids within Euclidean geometric constructions and decided to juxtapose the artist’s creations against it. This formed the basis of this iterative 10-series project.”The series kickstarts with Jitish Kallat’s ‘Circadian Series’ comprising a series of drawings created by the artist in March, when he was in isolation in his studio following an overseas journey. Here, he started watering the plants on his terrace and embarked on tracing shadows from fallen twigs. How the sunlight played with the water and created reflections in deeper or lighter shades as dawn turned to dusk was a study in deep observation — a meditative process, which is a part of Jitish’s practice of marking passage of time as part of a narrative. What is interesting to observe is that Martand uses nothingness as the genesis of his virtual viewing series and there lies a huge similarity and synchronisation with the philosophy of the world being born out of nothingness, not even time. As German polymath and logician Gottfried Leibniz describes: “Space exists only as a relation between objects, and has no existence apart from the existence of those objects. The space, defined as a series of coexistence is not an empirical but a rational truth: it is a virtual entity.”Going forward, Martand leaves his grid more and more unstructured and blurry, trying to undo and un-structure from any sense of confinement. This is deliberate as it sets ground zero for the second artist, thereby starting from a clean slate every time…||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/martand-khoslas-idea-of-nothingness-167824
08-11-2020||Shristi Nangalia||Get Diwali-ready with budget décor||With Deepawali right round the corner, you must have started wondering how to create a festive vibe at home. Looking for quick, yet effective, ways to dress up your spaces? Read on for many creative ideas for a warm and welcoming setup that can be achieved with very little effort and cost.Build an accent wallTurn any plain wall into a statement by introducing a mural depicting any traditional scenery or tribal pattern made of beautiful colours and details to draw the eye. Otherwise, a painting or traditional framed art can attain a strong focal point as well. Another simpler way to achieve an accent wall is to take up a DIY job of printing little motifs with a stencil in a repetitive pattern to give a wallpaper-like look.Dazzle with lightsTable lamps, wall sconces and pendant lights can up the décor game of any space in an instant. Turkish wall lights, Moroccan hanging lights, table lamps with metal work, wall lights with wood carvings, light fixtures with mosaic details, etc. can help bring in oodles of festive vibe to your space. A quick, economical and efficient alternative to pendant lights and wall lights are fairy lights. Also called rice lights, these delightful decor pieces are now available in a plethora of designs and colours options.Allure with mirrorAlthough utterly basic, mirrors are underrated décor elements. Decorative mirrors can not only boost the sense of volume in a room, you can place it strategically to reflect light around to create an intriguing effect also. Mirrors can be paired with a console table or side board to tailor an accent wall which stays with you even after the festive season.Water element with an UrliAn urli — topped with colourful flowers, tea lights or oil diyas — is a timeless crowd-pleaser. These are made in a variety of materials, from bell metal to brass, from cement to terracotta. You can pick the one that appeals to you and place it by the entrance door or living area on the floor, over a highstand or centre table too.patterns in fabricNothing beats the personality and character that Indian handloom, patterns and fabrics can foster. While silk, zardosi, velvet, patchwork, zari and sequin fabric can offer a rich and ornamented appeal, ikat, kalamkari, sambalpuri and bandhni fabrics can offer subtle, printed motifs in pleasing colours. You can invite these fabrics to your interiors in a hassle-free manner by buying ready-made cushion covers, table runners, sofa throws and area rugs.Tapestry & torans add to the charMReinforce the traditional, festive atmosphere by dressing the walls and doors with tapestry and torans. Tapestries are typically made of weaved fabric which can be used as a wall hanging or soft furnishing. Torans, or bandalwals, are decorative door hangings that are made in multiple material and design options. Pick the ones that go best with your interior style.Touch-up withtable décorYou do not need to invest a large amount of money and time to give bland tables a quirky spin. Scented candles, potpourri, tea light stands, decorative lanterns, table lamps, figurines and sculptures are budget friendly decorations that can be mix-matched and arranged in distinct fashions over the centre table, console table and dining table.Embellish with rangoli and oil lampsCan Diwali be complete without rangoli and diyas? Go the organic way by using biodegradable material like rice grains or rice powder, turmeric powder and mehndi powder to make your rangoli designs. Alternatively, you can make the rangoli entirely of flower petals and leaves. Daisies, roses and marigolds can give bright orange, red, pink and maroon colours while mango leaves can be used to add a striking green colour to the rangoli design. Add clay diyas and voila! Your eco-friendly rangoli is ready.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/get-diwali-ready-with-budget-d%C3%A9cor-167826
08-11-2020||Pooja Khanna Tyagi||Smart ways to declutter & organise||According to Hindu beliefs, it is important to clean your home during Diwali because Goddess Lakshmi prefers to enter those homes which are clean and well lit. Therefore, keeping the tradition alive, here are clever ways to clean and organise your house so that it not only looks clean during Diwali but all year round.discard the unnecessaryDiwali is the best time to declutter your home and get rid of things you do not need. Draw a sharp line between things we need and items which have sentimental value. We have the tendency to hoard things. It is advisable to dispose of things which one has not used for more than two years.Categorise similar itemsThe best part of a well-organised home is that it always looks presentable and is easy to maintain.Get down to dustingStart with cleaning the living room, dining and entrance as these are the most visible areas. Then work on the kitchen, balcony followed by the bedrooms.Now it is time to decorate the home and give it a quick makeover by changing the cushions, drapes and bedcovers. Infuse a traditional look and festive feel with earthen diyas, rangoli, torans, fairy lights and a large bowl with fresh flowers and floating diyas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/smart-ways-to-declutter-organise-167827
08-11-2020||Rashmi Gopal Rao||Light up your house||Come November, and it is time to herald one of India’s most celebrated festivals, Diwali. A festival that celebrates the victory of light over darkness and good over evil, lighting lamps and diyas is intrinsic to the spirit of the festival. Given the times we live in, the importance of celebrating the festival in a manner that is environment-friendly and sustainable can hardly be overemphasised. The news of the production of 33 crore eco-friendly earthen lamps (diyas) made from cowdung for this Diwali made headlines recently when it was announced by Vallabhbhai Kathiria, chairman of the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog as part of the Kamdhenu Deepawali campaign. Well, here is a look at how you can go green with all your Diwali lights too.Statement piecesEco-friendly lighting is all about choosing the right bulbs, the right kind of fixture materials and, of course, exercising restraint and rigour in switching them off when not needed. While LED lights are the norm today, light fixtures made from recycled metal, glass, and even paper are sustainable choices. “From lokta, banana fibre paper to upcycled cork and quarry waste, one can create several unique lighting options,” says Radeesh Shetty, whose Oorjaa collection includes the use of natural elements like banana fibre, water hyacinth and faux concrete in aesthetic pendant, table and floor lamps. So, if you are looking to add some distinctive pieces to your living room, this is sure to light up your home in more ways than one.Decorative optionsFrom paper lamps to sky lanterns to earthen diyas, there are plenty of options to add an eco-friendly touch to your Diwali decorations. “Diyas made from cork with zero binders, along with soy candles, are a great eco-friendly option. Soy wax also burns slower and is cleaner than paraffin wax. So you will get a candle that lasts longer, and with less soot,” says Roshan Ray of Seed Paper India.Diwali is all about cheer and colour, and given the fact that this year has been exceptionally dark due to the pandemic, spread happiness with some brightly hued akash kandils or lanterns made from handmade or recycled paper. Easily available online, these come with colourful tassels and other attractive embellishments, which add in those celebratory vibes in both indoor as well as outdoor spaces. Then there are the ones made from handloom fabrics, which add a traditional touch to your décor.Hanging lanterns made from bamboo are an apt choice if you want to go green; most of them are foldable too, so you can keep these away after the festival and reuse these as many times you want. Another option is the multi-colour round lanterns made from rice paper, which are perfect if you want a more contemporary look. Pair these up with dainty fairy lights, and you have an Instagrammable vignette ready!DIY cuesThe joy of crafting something yourself compares to none other and whether it is Instagram, Pinterest or YouTube, you can find plenty of inspiration online. From making candle holders with concrete and cement to creating your own natural candle with a perfectly cut orange, there is plenty you can do yourself. “Organic ghee made from cow’s milk is a good substitute to light diyas with. You can light them in old t-light holders with home-made ghee cotton wicks” says Vandana Sarawgi, designer at SR Artefacts. Apart from umpteen paper lantern tutorials, you can also find how to make the quintessentially charming yarn lights with either wool, jute or cotton yarn using a balloon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/light-up-your-house-167828
