10-05-2020||Ratna Raman||Online libraries, webinars, midnight poetry sessions: Tech brings books back in our lives||Log on tohttp://www.gutenberg.org/https://archive.org//https://openlibrary.org/https://www.goodreads.com/http://lil-fingers.com/http://en.childrenslibrary.org/https://www.oxfordowl.co.uk/https://www.storylineonline.net/In lockdown time, whenever the computer is accessed, a vibrant shot of an exciting or unknown location appears. Sometimes the picture is so stunning that the cursor almost instinctively shifts to identify the location. Passwords are typed in only after and the business of writing or reading or surfing then commences. This little online ritual charmingly reinforces our belief that our planet is a wonderful place, filled with picturesque, bewitching spots. For all those of us who juggle lives of privilege, Covid-19 has turned virtual reality into a place of infotainment.In dark times, and in troubled times, there will be singing, said the poet. There is, were we to take the poet literally, not just online singing, but online dancing, yoga, baking, countless webinars, some important and essential, others esoteric and whimsical. A wide array of topics and discussions can be logged on to and we can log on to Facebook or Zoom or Skype our way for all manner of event, familial and public. Literary festivals come calling online, presenting recordings of one speaker after another at the festival at the desktop. This is an incredible time, providing an embarrassment of riches, because now musicals such as Hamilton, tickets for which could cost an arm and a leg in real time, are being streamed free on YouTube. Concerts, stand up comedies, talk shows, endless seasons of soap operas, dance performances, recently released films — all of these are only a click away online. It is now possible to enroll for free in libraries online, join networks on art, gardening, flora and fauna, or visit museums that one has only dreamt about.Universities worldwide, state run and private, are conducting classes online; university teachers are conducting webinars on a range of subjects, and there is avid student participation, in the absence of any viable options whatsoever. Both teaching and examination have become online activities and online study and teaching aids have mushroomed alongside different disciplines.For all those with access to online facilities, and wishing to browse, read and research, the internet has opened up in innumerable directions. Reading material is available on several links. There are books that can be downloaded from specialised websites and archived reading material that can be accessed from JStor or Hathi.com for instance. These have for some time now allowed us to read all manner of writing, fictional, historical, biographical and non-fictional.No mention of internet sites can be possible without acknowledging the role played by Project Gutenburg that provided e-pub and Kindle options wherein books could be downloaded or read online. Started in 1971, Project Gutenberg was the first online site for public domain books.Books in the public domain are usually books that have ceased to be intellectual property, following a requisite time period after the death of the author. Well-known classics by literary giants can be downloaded for free and Project Gutenberg allows unlimited access to a large collection of literary classics, poetry and fiction. Today, one does not need Kindle to download from Project Gutenberg and other free sites. A computer with an internet connection and a browser make for an adequate starting point. Other archives that can be accessed are Internet Archive (1996), Open Library and GoogleBooks, all of which provide sustainable online reading opportunities for a committed bibliophile.For children with access to the internet, tumblebooks.com is a popular website that requires a subscription, but has plenty of free downloads from time to time. There are sites where children can actively interact, such as lil-fingers.com. Another site, eBooks, allows access to material that would be useful and stimulating for young minds. Time spent on online activities must be carefully monitored however.For internet shoppers in locked down times, many dazzling options continue to be created. JLF or the Jaipur literary Festival has begun to introduce interested viewers to an online interaction with international authors who were part of the festival held in Jaipur at the beginning of every year. The Keshav Suri Foundation (KSF) drew attention to Ruth Vanita’s new book, Memory of Light, through an online event called Queering Quarantine. The Ten P.M. Book Reading Club is another exciting option where, every week, there is a new reader reading out from a book. Bloomsbury Publications is offering attractive discounts on all of its e-books. Niyogi Books has been setting up weekly midnight poetry readings, where a reading of a famous poem in English is followed up by its translation into a regional language or vice versa, enabling and enriching listeners by drawing their attention to a range of subjects and different language registers.Technology continues to engage with us in innumerable ways. An online reading exercise is invariably far more strenuous than reading a real book, and hugely dependent on connectivity, which is the key to any kind of interface in the virtual world. Online reading cannot replace the tactility of holding a real book and turning its pages and mulling over it, recollecting thoughts in tranquility. It does stimulate and introduce us to new ideas and subjects, providing directions for more serious reading and thinking offline. Fortunately, big publishing houses such as Penguin and distributors such as Amazon still offer books at exciting discounts, and once the logjam of social distancing is pushed back, one can perhaps look forward to couriers delivering our favourite books to us in real time or fall back on real libraries.This leads us to an overwhelming question: In troubled times, infotainment and virtual interactions inform, engage and distract us, recommending inner journeys, nourishment and growth. Yet, is such engagement by a small adult minority the only way we can mitigate the havoc that Covid-19 continues to unleash? Are we perhaps absorbed in these new cyber carnivals, fiddling, fiddling, and only fiddling, while the world churns and real humans burn?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/online-libraries-webinars-midnight-poetry-sessions-tech-brings-books-back-in-our-lives-82935
10-05-2020||Subhash Rajta||These traditional health drinks will boost immunity||Nothing will scare you and those around you as much as sore throat, cold and cough these days. Unless it’s extremely discomforting, both physically and mentally, there’s a tried and tested remedy available in every home — the humble kaadha, a concoction of various herbs and spices that has been in use since time immemorial. “It is something we have all the time whenever we have sore throat,” says Barnali Sinha, from Bengal. “All you need is ginger, black peppercorns, cinnamon, tulsi leaves and cloves. Boil these in a sauce pan, throw in some jaggery/sugar/misri, and turn off the gas when the water level reduces to half.”Used widely across the country, with some minor variations, kaadha offers remarkable health benefits — so much so that the AYUSH Ministry has recommended it as an immunity booster amid the current health crisis.  Nutritionists, too, give a thumbs-up to the traditional health drinks/soups made from the ingredients available in our kitchen. “Traditional drinks made with tulsi leaves, cloves, garlic and ginger are good for our lungs. They help in breaking down the mucous, reducing cough and fever and boosting our immunity,” says Neha Patahania, a nutritionist with Paras Hospital, Gurugram.Miraculous giloy: For many, giloy is the best when it comes to enhancing immunity and general health. One needs to cut the stem of the plant into small piece, crush it in hamam dusta/ mixer and grinder, and then boil it. “If you want, you can add ginger, black pepper and honey to it. It’s extremely beneficial,” says Shiv Singh from Chandigarh.Summer coolant: The Sattu drink is a wonderful coolant in summers and it offers multiple health benefits. Apart from aiding digestion, it is considered good for people fighting diabetes and high blood pressure. “Black gram is boiled, dried, roasted, its outer layer removed, and then crushed into powder,” says Sandhya from Benares. “One could add spices like black pepper and jeera to it. Depending on your taste, it could be sweet or salty but we prefer the salty version.” For anyone stepping out of the house in summer, she says, the drink is a must-have. Aam panna, aam pora sherbat, green mango chutney and mint either with water or lassi are also beneficial in summers.Wild mushroom soup: In Kinnaur, wild mushroom soup is the first line of defence against cough and cold. “It’s the first thing we use whenever we fall sick, and we find it very useful,” says Naveen Negi from Kinnaur. “These mushrooms grow naturally in the wild. These are gathered, dried and stored, and are readily available in every household round the year.”Pepper rasam: Down South, pepper rasam is the first thing people turn to in case of cold and cough, says Kalpana Sunder from Chennai. Spicy and tangy, thanks to tamarind, black peppercorns, mustard seeds, asafoetida, etc. it could be had as a soup or with rice.  Go for these super snacksMuch before biscuits, chocolates and other processed food items became widely available, people would snack on homemade delicacies that were both nutritious and tasty. In upper Himachal, for instance, people prepared a mixture, called muri, of whole wheat, cannabis seeds and jaggery. “Wheat and cannabis seeds are roasted, and then jaggery is added to the mix.  Absolutely delicious and healthy, it can be preserved for long,” says Bhagat Singh from Theog. For many, gond ke laddoo and methi ke laddoo are the best snack they have ever had.  Gond ke laddoo are made from edible gum, whole wheat flour, ghee and dry fruits. It is considered rich in calcium and magnesium. Roasted makhanas, too, are among the most nutritious snacks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/these-traditional-health-drinks-will-boost-immunity-82931
10-05-2020||Simmi Waraich||Minding the mind||As I arrived at the hospital, the line of patients was long and serpentine. All the patients and attendants were being screened for  symptoms of fever and flu. Many older doctors were not visiting the OPD but doing video consults; so were many young doctors. As I went around, Dr Sonia Gandhi, a dietician, told me how people were stressed out just from getting vegetables in and washing them and the fear of getting infected by vegetable vendors. She would advise them to do the washing and cleaning without stressing about it. Mostly, Indian cooking anyway destroys the virus, she told them. While taking precautions is wise, one should not worry incessantly. Rather accepting that the situation would stay this way for the next few months would help obviating unnecessary stress.Old and new anxietiesOne could see how people around us are wary and full of anxiety. Many have asked their maids to not come in for the next two months, at least till the picture clears up. They have old parents, in some cases with illnesses, and the risk of them getting infected is far too unnerving for them. So, Anil, while he steps out to go to his electrical goods store on alternate days, is careful about his mask and keeps a safe distance from others and ensures his employees do the same. On returning, he first washes his hands and changes. His wife has a history of asthma and he does not wish to unnecessarily put her at risk. His sister came home briefly for the first time since the lockdown and she avoided hugging her mother, for no one knew where the virus lurks.Across offices, people are careful, some more than others. As a young man asked me, “Is it safe for me to return to work? What if I give the illness to my parents?” With the lockdown easing off, these are the new fears. Gudiya works as a maid. Her husband found his alcohol all through the lockdown and continues to do so. Her daughter and she were the bread-earners, but are now at home. They live in a rented accommodation. Her neighbour, Reeta, has had a rough last week. Her husband ran out of alcohol and began screaming at night, seeing snakes all around him. He had to be taken to hospital, where he calmed down after medication.Hearing about the increasing number of patients and spread of the virus has been anxiety evoking for many prone to anxiety. Others question how long will this last? Will there be enough ventilators and beds at the time of peak infection? Has the government improved health facilities or just given false reassurance amounting to zilch?Anxieties people will face when they return to work:Many in quarantine have been reporting anxiety, low mood, and the feeling of insecurity which may persist for months. The fear of testing positive and complete isolation can be daunting. Families of healthcare workers working go through this fear daily. So, how can they and others cope with it?Coping with stressYet, the fear remains… It is something many live with but do not reveal. Those who deal with it successfully can see the difference the lack of anxiety brings. It brings quietude and the ability to focus on what is important. It allows one to appreciate little things in life and be thankful for them. So let us work on a plan for anxiety and learn to deal with it. It will allow us to live a much fuller and meaningful life. People work on their looks, their weight, on their high cholesterol, etc. We can work on our mental health too!Lessons from the pastThe bubonic plague came to India in 1897. In 1901, it devastated many Punjab towns. People were moved to camps and their houses were fumigated by the British. They were not allowed to return for two months to their homes. Smallpox wreaked similar havoc, with one in ten dying. Having lived through these epidemics, wars and the Partition has, perhaps, made Indians resilient, which is why post-traumatic stress disorder is less common here.Quick tips  — The writer is a noted psychiatrist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/minding-the-mind-82930
10-05-2020||Sarika Sharma||World over, museums are coming home...||From virtual tours and digital resources to podcasts and audio tours, museums have taken up the Covid-19 challenge and are bringing curators, historians and audiences closer even as we are all tethered home. The world over, institutes have risen up to the challenge and revamped their websites, making them far more interactive than they have ever been.So, staring you in the face are Dorothea Lange’s portraits of people from across America. Exhibited as part of Virtual Views initiative by New York’s Museum of Modern Art (MoMA), Dorothea Lange: Words & Pictures presents her work across many contexts and lets us consider the importance her legacy today. And it is here that you draw the parallel between her iconic Migrant Mother and pictures of thousands of migrants forced to walk home in India in these times, despair in their stride and belongings, whatever little, on their backs. One photograph had a little girl carrying her school bag.Lange’s exhibition was preceded by a celebration of Parisian art dealer and critic Felix Feneon who championed the careers of avant-garde artists such as Paul Signac and Henri Matisse, among others. It has now moved on to let people discover outdoor spaces such as the Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Sculpture Garden, and would be followed by Vincent van Gogh’s works. Q&A sessions are a regular feature between curators and artists here.The British Museum too has made nearly 4.5 million objects available, with 1.9 million images. It includes 2,80,000 photographs and 85,000 records published for the very first time, many of them recent acquisitions by the museum, including 73 portraits by Damian Hirst, a previously lost watercolour by Rossetti, and a stunning 3,000-year-old Bronze age pendant. Of special interest to visitors from the region would be the Museum’s huge collection of Pahari paintings.Aficionados can check out a museum specifically dedicated to Anglo-Sikh history at www.anglosikhmuseum.com. Here, 3D technology brings to life objects related to Anglo-Sikh history, for instance, weaponry, coins, flags and Maharani Jindan’s jewellery.Closer home, the National Gallery of Modern Art is paying a virtual tribute to Raja Ravi Varma in his 172nd anniversary year. Besides, works of Jamini Roy and Amrita Sher-Gil have gone online too.Netizens are responding more than favourably. Chandigarh-based Panjab Digital Library saw online activity dramatically increase around March 26; overwhelmed by the response, their website crashed twice. Requests for access to offline data increased from one a day to over 50 a day. In the past few days, some titles have been downloaded over 1000 times, says Davinder Pal Singh, executive director, PDL.Artists are also showcasing their works online, discussing the times and dealing with it all in their own way. Last month, Serendipity Arts Festival launched a digital initiative that brought a range of multi-disciplinary experiences from across a cross-section of the arts. Among other events, percussionist Ranjit Barot engaged in a dialogue with Hariharan on Instagram Live and Anuradha Kapur and Maya Krishna Rao discussed theatre on Zoom.Kochi-Muziris Biennale too has gone online big time and is sharing artists’ reflection on the pandemic and life in quarantine. Like Kajal Deth uses birds as a metaphor for freedom. For her, ‘these times come almost like a reminder from nature that the Earth belongs to all forms of life’. Unnikrishna M Damodaran’s work is a reflection of how everyday conversations have transformed dramatically within this short period of time. As a typography and lettering enthusiast, he has been exploring ways to visually express the new pandemic vocabulary in Malayalam.Artists will always find ways to express themselves, new languages and new inspirations, no matter if it is a pandemic plaguing the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/world-over-museums-are-coming-home-82923
10-05-2020||BN Goswamy||Armenian alphabet, and the man who designed it||What do we — I mean what does the average Indian — know about Armenia? Virtually nothing, would be my guess. Most of us might even have problems locating it on the map of the world, even of the Near East. When studying history at the University, I recall, we did read a paragraph about the ‘Armenian Massacres’ as a part of the general chapters on what used to be called ‘The Eastern Question’ — the struggle between great European powers following the collapse of the once great Ottoman empire of Turkey — but the whole thing was for us just an abstraction, as it were.And yet, this small country, ‘land of rugged mountains and extinct volcanoes’ — greatly reduced from what it used to be once, when it was ‘one of the most powerful in all of Asia in the ancient world’; and now ‘a fraction of the size of ancient Armenia’ — has a history and a culture that is singularly fascinating. And tragic, at the same time. Stretching from the Caspian to the Mediterranean Seas once, it became subject to waves of invasions by a succession of neighbouring empires. It was conquered by Greeks, Romans, Persians, Byzantines, Mongols, Arabs, Ottoman Turks, Russians. It was the Ottoman Turks, however, who, from the 16th century onwards, grasped it from the neck as it were and bludgeoned it into submission. In the 19th century, their grip started loosening in general, as one reads, but Armenia continued to suffer under Turkish domination. One can judge this from what I have referred to above: the great Armenian Massacre — designated later as the first genocide of the 20th century — which dates back to 1915, when the Turks ordered the deportation of Armenians to the deserts of Syria and Mesopotamia. Stories of untold misery have come down. Estimates vary but it is generally believed that between 6,00,000 and 1.5 million Armenians were murdered, raped, or died of starvation. There is a stunning statistic at hand: 10 million Armenians live outside of Armenia today, which is three times the total population of Armenia.Against this tragic backdrop, consider some facts about the country. Armenia — the ancient name is Hayk — finds mention several times in the Bible, especially with reference to Mount Ararat, which tradition identifies as the mountain that Noah’s ark rested on after the flood. It was not Rome under Constantine the Great but Armenia which was the first country in the world to officially embrace Christianity as its religion.This was in ca. 300 CE; Armenia has stayed almost wholly Christian since then. There have been some remarkable figures that Armenia has produced in the past: bankers, collectors of art, entrepreneurs. But even if one simply puts together a list of Armenians who, in our own day and age, have achieved not only prominence, even stardom, but impacted their fields, the list is truly impressive. Consider, for instance: Andre Agassi, tennis icon; Arshile Gorky, abstract expressionist painter; Gary Kasparov, chess player; Cher, singer and entertainer; Kevorkian, distinguished art collector; Gulbenkian, legendaryphilanthropist; Khachaturian, renowned music composer. And all this, without counting that habitual eyeballs-grabber, Kim Kardashian, reality TV star and socialite.There is this desire among Armenians to stand out and be, somehow, different. It is as if under the constant threat of being submergedand swept aside, or pushed into obscurity,‘Armenians became both cosmopolitan as well as fierce protectors of their culture and tradition’, as an official website puts it. Identity was a matter of concern. An early but significant manifestation of this is the manner in which they celebrate the uniqueness of their script, for instance: essentially what I write to draw attention to here. This script was invented in the 5th century — the year often cited is 405 CE — and everyone mentions the name of its inventor with great respect: Mesrop Mashtots. Mesrop, a priest, engaged in preaching the Gospel, sensed a problem while dealing with his flock, for the scripts, if they knew any — Greek, Persian or Syriac — could not adequately express the language they spoke. The Word of God could not be suitably communicated, in other words. He therefore set about inventing a national alphabet. Supported by royalty he spent a great deal of time doing this, leaning naturally upon the scripts that he knew — Pehlavi, Aramaic, Avestan or Greek — but going beyond them. In the end he came up with a script, the letters of the alphabet of which were unique. He laid out the structure of the alphabet around the religion of the people. He made the first letter ‘A’, which was the first letter in the word Astvats, or God, and the last letter ‘K’, with which the name of K’ristos — Christ in other words — begins. There were 36 letters in his alphabet to which, many centuries later, two more were added, and now it has 31 consonants and 7 vowels. But, in its essence, the Armenian alphabet is recognised as the work of Mesrop Mashtot. His is a name celebrated throughout the Armenian world: every child ‘knows’ him; the Armenian Apostolic Church uses his alphabet; the literature of Armenia constantly mentions him; statues representing him have been raised at place after place. He is an icon. His alphabet has served as a means of stabilising and formalising Armenian speech; it is always spoken of as having ‘facilitated the unity of the Armenian nation and church’.Not too many footnotes survive. But a spectacular footnote to the invention of the Armenian alphabet, raised just fifteen years ago, might defy the ravages of time. In 2005, after sixteen hundred years had elapsed, an Armenian architect, J. Torosyan, took each letter of the alphabet, carved them on a giant scale, and erected them in an open rocky space not far from the capital city of Yerevan. It is the final resting place of Mesrop Mashtot. The stone out of which the letters were carved is the Armenian tuff: soft rock that emerged from volcanic ash billions of years ago.The great Mount Aragats looms in the background.Not many — Armenians or others — who come visiting the country turn back without visiting this majestic monument. Not many at the same time know that Armenian letters have been inscribed by Unesco in the Representative List of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.Do we know of anything comparable, anywhere else?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/armenian-alphabet-and-the-man-who-designed-it-82920
10-05-2020||Shardul Bhardwaj||Performing artistes go live as they embark on a new stage||As the new error in the global genome continues to put people behind locked doors and the vulnerable out of jobs, the arts practice is hankering for a new tomorrow. Vir Das is performing his stand up in association with Black Dog online while Prateek Kuhad can be accessed online, along with many other live artistes, through BookMyShow’s online properties such as ‘Live from HQ’ and ‘#Live in Your Living Room.’ Bolshoi Theatre (Moscow) and National Theatre (London) have opened their virtual doors to pre-recorded live performances on YouTube; Metropolitan Opera is streaming every night, Neil Young is streaming his Fireside sessions from his home. On May 3, happened the ‘I for India’ fundraiser concert, which included the likes of A.R. Rahman, Will Smith, Jack Black and others online. A brave new worldAre we witnessing what radio plays witnessed before it was permissible for Samuel Beckett to turn down a TV adaptation of his radio play saying: “All That Fall is a specifically radio play, or rather radio text, for voices, not bodies?” One way to chart history of radio plays is by accounting for how it moved towards liberation from mere recording of staged versions and acquired its own minimalist specificity.Next was the television play, a misnomer, because by the time it was shot with cuts and adequate lensing, it could not have been a live uninterrupted performance. Are we witnessing a similar shift en route to social media as the usual roads are barricaded or is it old wine in a new bottle?Live performers like stand-up comedians, singers and dancers had already gone online to make use of social media to reach a larger audience except now it seems to have become the only medium for live performers. While some are looking for ways to enrich their performances with the new found aesthetics of social media,  others seem to be using it as TV with a larger reach. An immersive experimentThe Washington Post reports that “The Oregon Symphony has laid off the entire orchestra and half of its administrative staff. The San Francisco Ballet has cancelled more than half of its season. The Houston Grand Opera has pulled the plug on its spring season, which could lead to losses nearing $2 million. Business Insider reports that “As per Event and Entertainment Management Association, the Indian entertainment sector is expected to take a hit of Rs1 trillion”.In such times, a Delhi theatre group called Third Space Collective is preparing for its untitled virtual immersive performance based on Matei Visniec’s short story called The Man in the Circle. The perturbing story talks of a town and a time where people have become prisoners of their own isolation brought upon by the false dream of peace and quiet away from the troubles and mess of their own society. Jayant Chand, creative director of the performance and a member of Third Space Collective, says, “We want our audience to have a kind of involvement which can be as close to the actual feeling of going to the theatre.” The audience will register a day before for the performance and they will be sent instructions. These instructions will include details of how to set up the space (audience’s own house) and the other necessities required for the performance. Chand says that the requirements would be pretty basic and would be easily available for the audience members to find in their houses. The performance, which the group calls experience, will have a voiceover narration and a soundscape designed by Lawrence Lau (Hong Kong-based sound designer). Chand is specific in keeping this an aural experience as he feels we are inundated by visuals today. The short story was initially meant to be performed around protest sites during the anti-CAA agitation in Delhi but was stalled due to the enforcement of social distancing norms.Jazz harmonica player Frederic Yonnet does a “social distancing” sound check, separated by plastic tarp from band members before live streaming the concert on Instagram and FacebookEntering the audience’s space The immersive performance is quite left-field in the sense that unlike usual theatre performances or performative installations, the performer shall enter the audience’s space rather than the other way round. The customary way is that the audience buys a ticket to watch a performance and hence enters a space designed by the audience where he/she willingly believes the fiction of what the performer creates. There is a personalisation of the viewing experience where the audience becomes the performer in its own personal space.  This idea of making the personal into the performative space is not merely a formal gimmick. The story and the performance anticipate a world where people, formerly in illusion of a protected existence at the cost of community, are today prisoners in their own houses. Many performances and artistes have tried to break the usual moulds of performance and performer in the past but each experience, performance or immersion would happen in spaces not owned (materially and emotionally) by the audiences. The performance shall be held for single audience members — a direct result of the social distancing norms in place.The changing aestheticsAbbas Kiarostami, the late Iranian filmmaker, once credited the limitations of censorship in Iran for his unique cinematic language. The aesthetics of social media performance are being discovered, as opposed to mere extensions of the live form this time could be taken to reflect and develop the aesthetics that social media platforms like Instagram Live and Facebook Live provide.The limitations put over the usual conduction of live performance rituals could now enliven the performances and change the audiences who have been surreptitiously turned into consumers of content, in most cases through the aid of these social media platforms.Until then, it’s a hard road ahead for live performers and freelancers who will have to diversify and relook at their arts practice in order to stay afloat and relevant. Attend film festivals in the comfort of your houseMajor film festivals like Cannes, Berlin, Toronto, Mumbai and Venice, among others, have come together under ‘We Are One: A Global Film Festival,’ where in a 10-day window films will be showcased on YouTube from May 29 to June 7. This festival comes under the current Covid crisis, which has shut down cinema halls across the world with many countries under lockdown. The film bonanza, which has been curated by more than 20 film festivals all over the world, is being organised by Tribeca Enterprises of the Tribeca Film Festival and YouTube. The films according to the organisers will be shown free of cost with an appeal to donate to the Covid-19 Solidarity Response Fund of the World Health Organisation (WHO). The world of independent cinema in India and abroad has suffered due to the cancellation of big exhibition opportunities at festivals like Cannes and Tribeca. These festivals not only offer exposure to varied audiences but are also sometimes instrumental in independent films recovering their money through the presence of a diversified audience base at the festivals which includes producers, agents, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/performing-artistes-go-live-as-they-embark-on-a-new-stage-82916
