10-08-2020||Deepender Deswal||No unanimity on utility||KRISHI Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) were established with a view to bridge the gap between the farmers and the technological advancements in the agriculture sector. These kendras are provided with infrastructure and manpower to reach out to the farmers in their fields. The basic purpose has been the transfer of technology from the laboratory to the farmer’s field under the lab-to-land programme.‘On the right track’HAU Vice Chancellor Prof Samar Singh says Haryana has 19 KVKs working under the supervision of the university’s Directorate of Extension Education. “Extension activities are being carried out by the directorate through its KVKs to cater to the needs of the farmers and bridge the gap between technology transfer and its adoption,” he says.However, agriculture experts opine that KVKs remain underutilised and have not been able to fulfil their potential optimally. A section of the farmers says they need the help of experts in making agriculture sustainable, adding that the functioning of the KVKs should be reviewed to make them efficient and approachable to the farmers.Some farmers say they have rarely interacted with scientists of KVKs. They claim that KVK officials hardly ever visit their villages to give them guidance or expert advice. Raman Deep, a young farmer of Kirtan village in Hisar district, says he has heard about the KVKs but doesn’t know how to gain access to them. “I have been trying to innovate to boost my income as sowing of wheat and cotton is no longer profitable. Farmers visit Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (HAU) at Hisar for seed, soil testing etc. It’s high time the KVKs become proactive and get closer to the farmers,” says Raman Deep, who owns five acres.Some KVKs are trying to help farmers who seek advice and assistance from the scientists. Narender, who owns four acres in Fatehabad’s Dharnia village, credits the KVK for his success in seed development.Dr Sardul Singh Mann, coordinator at the KVK in Fatehabad, claims they have been able to encourage farmers to switch to mustard cultivation in a big way. “Mustard cultivation has almost doubled — from 10,000 hectares to 19,000 hectares — in Fatehabad in a decade. Besides, there are many farmers like Narender who have become successful with the technology transfer via KVK. During the sowing season, around 200 farmers visit the kendra in a month,” he says.Dr Ramkumar, an agriculture expert, says KVKs have turned into white elephants across Haryana. “Despite deploying experts drawing hefty salaries, the KVKs are a failure. KVKs amount to wastage of government funds,” he adds.Dr Ramkumar says these institutes have failed to bridge the gap between farmers and farm scientists. “The government and the agricultural university must review the functioning and performance of KVKs,” he says. According to him, agriculture development officers (ADOs) can do far a better job in the interests of farmers. “But the state government has failed to fill the vacancies of the ADOs for a long time. I have taken up the issue with successive agriculture ministers of Haryana.”Ramandeep Singh Mann, an engineer-turned-progressive farmer, mentioned in a recent tweet that the sanctioned strength of ADOs in Haryana is 1070, of which 655 posts are lying vacant for years. “These posts should be filled soon as the ADOs are there to help/assist farmers,” he says.The HAU Vice Chancellor, Prof Samar Singh, says KVKs are part of the National Agricultural Research and Extension System, whose strength lies in its multi-disciplinary composition, multi-stakeholder ownership and multifarious activities.“KVKs are working in close coordination with the stakeholders, the state Department of Agriculture and allied agencies to provide long-term solutions through our farm advisory, farm testing, training and farm information services,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/no-unanimity-on-utility-124618
10-08-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Reaching out to farmers||RAMANDEEP Singh, a farmer of Mard Kheda village near Sunam in Sangrur district, was foreseeing a tough time in April when the Covid-induced lockdown was in force. He was doubtful whether he would be able to harvest his crop or plant the next one in his fields. Troubled, he called officials of the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) at Kheri village, who helped him and other farmers of the area in not only harvesting and selling their produce, but also in implementing direct seeding of rice (DSR) in the wake of labour shortage and to save depleting groundwater in his village.“The extension services rendered by the KVK in these times are laudable. Had it not been for its officials’ assistance, I would have spent lakhs of rupees on farm labour for transplanting paddy, but instead I spent just three days on direct seeding, using a happy seeder that the KVK helped me modify," Ramandeep says.Dr Mandeep Singh, deputy director of the KVK at Kheri, says the biggest achievement for this centre has been the successful promotion and implementation of the DSR in Sangrur. From using the right drills to agronomic practices, nutrient and irrigation management, increasing the cropping intensity and dealing with pest/insect attacks — we are handholding farmers all the way.” Recently, when a whitefly attack on cotton was noticed in the adjoining district of Mansa and in some villages of Sangrur, the KVK promoted PAU-recommended neem extract to combat jassid and whitefly.Balkar Singh of Booh village in Tarn Taran district says he and other farmers have been approaching the KVKs for every need related to agriculture and dairying, especially during the lockdown. “When veterinary doctors failed to respond during the lockdown, the KVK officials used video-calling to guide me on how to tackle an infection in my herd of buffaloes,” he says, adding that he and many other farmers even borrowed machinery for direct seeding from the KVK, located in his village itself.When Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar asked KVKs of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh recently to form area-specific models of agriculture development, he was perhaps asking these states to emulate the model of Punjab, where KVKs are doing a good job of on-farm testing of new innovations, technology transfer to fields, developing area-specific agriculture models, giving frontline demonstrations, training farmers, agriculture scientists and officers.Dr Maninder Singh, deputy director of the KVK at Bahowal in Hoshiarpur, says they have been promoting the cultivation of maize, peas and potato (Doaba is Punjab’s potato belt). “Since many parts of Hoshiarpur have forestland, we also promote commercial cultivation of several herbs. Family members of cane growers are being trained in making jaggery. These days, keeping in view the social distancing norms, we are doing field visits rather than large-scale training sessions,” he adds.In Tarn Taran, Dr Balwinder Kumar, who heads a KVK, says since many farmers rear animals, the kendra organises regular training camps focusing on the Nili Ravi buffalo.There are 22 KVKs in Punjab, 18 of which are managed by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), three by Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, and one by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. Dr Jatinder Singh Mahal, Director, Agriculture Extension, PAU, who oversees the functioning of these KVKs, says such centres across Punjab have been conducting area-specific agriculture development programmes successfully.“KVKs are not just giving agriculture extension services, but are also involved in training, giving demonstrations and technology transfer in areas like fisheries, poultry, mushroom and maize cultivation, horticulture etc. Their role was widely appreciated by farmers, especially when the KVKs moved online through an app called Farm Inputs, to help farmers during the lockdown/ curfew. When the supply of seeds for paddy was posing a serious challenge, PAU used the KVKs for selling 20,000 quintals of seed,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/reaching-out-to-farmers-124617
