11-10-2020||Arushi Chaudhary||Halt couture in pandemic||No drapes and lighting, no exclusive guest list, no front-row view, no celebrity showstoppers, no cameras or dizzying clicks — fashion runways have fallen silent. In a first, haute couture shows for Autumn/Winter 2020 collection have been compelled to make an egalitarian shift to the digital world. Reason? The unabating tide of Covid-19 that has forced people to embrace an isolated, socially distanced existence.The ‘new normal’ has brought in its wake job losses, financial instability, remote work arrangements and shrinking social gatherings. Just like much else, the fashion industry has also felt the ripples of a shrinking economy. At a time when even the most affluent aren’t immune to financial instability, can high-end fashion stay relevant?Be it designers, models, organisers and show directors, there is a consensus from every fold of the fashion industry that while a virtual experience is no match to displaying haute couture on a ramp, it is the necessity of the times we live in. Some of the pioneers in the Indian fashion world have been embracing the change and thinking out-of-the-box to reinvent themselves as per the demands of this pandemic-ravaged world.Designer JJ Valaya managed to launch his couture 2020-21 collection ‘Bursa’. Inspired by the Ottoman history and heritage, the collection, reflective of his take on the impact of Covid-19, was showcased virtually at the FDCI India Couture Week in September last. The blend of Swarovski crystals, silk threads, beads, pearls and zardozi sewed into the folds of silks and velvets made one forget the grim reality of the pandemic’s spread, albeit momentarily.And what about Covid-19’s long-term impact on the fashion world? “All things, good or bad, are transient and in that phase of time, they leave their temporary imprints. Of course, the pandemic will affect the fashion and wedding industry, just like it has everything, but it shall pass. I am confident that we shall emerge in a more appreciative and grateful world. One must always look at the positives hidden within the adversities. A passing phase can slow down activity, not change the ethos of a brand,” says Vallaya.“I am glad that the world has realised that it needs to slow down. A similar decision I took for myself when I went on a two-year sabbatical some time back. We don’t have to try so hard. All we have to do is focus on our core skill, take it to the nth level. Having said that, there is no room for laziness and resting on one’s laurels. The creative process, in the end, is also a business and must be respected and treated as one,” he adds.Master couturier TarunTahiliani has also launched his Autumn/Winter 2020 collection, ‘Pieces of You’. The Swarovski crystals, pearls, resham, zardozi techniques, chikankari and mukeish embroidery, all bring to life light resplendent lehengas, shararas, peplum blouses, saris, structured drapes, anarkalis and fusion-style jumpsuits. The menswear collection is rooted in the designer’s quintessential sartorial finesse. To pull it off despite what Tahiliani described as “the worst production capacity we have ever seen, much worse than 9/11 and the 2008 crisis,” was a feat unto itself.A tough askAbout the challenges along the way, Tahiliani says, “After the migrant crisis and the unreasonable length of the lockdown, a lot of people have fled the cities because they feared getting sick and not being able to sustain their rented accommodations. Demand had virtually plummeted to very little because all our stores were locked down. Most brides want a tactile touch and feel experience before they buy. In India, people are not used to buying expensive things online unless there is proper customer interface with a couture team or certain store managers.”Designer Ritu Kumar also agrees that the sudden vacuum created by the absence of kaarigars was the toughest challenge to scale, especially during the initial phase of the lockdown. “We were able to come up with the A/W 2020 line even though the kaarigars, who come from remote areas and villages, had no means to reach their place of work. The metros and public transport system were on a standstill.”Providing the kaarigars with masks and sensitising them about the need for social distancing was one of the first steps taken by Label Ritu Kumar to get operations up and running again. The idea of making masks out of cloth cuts really hit home. They distributed 5,000 masks to the needy in the first month of the lockdown, and subsequently, 10,000 more.“Showcasing the collection presented another challenge. For the first time, we had to make a shift towards the virtual realm, arranging photoshoots while adhering to the norms of social distancing and such, so that buyers can get a sense of what the collection is all about and make up their mind. Even so, a complete virtual shopping experience is hard to deliver in the world of haute couture. Fittings and trials have to be done in person. While the pandemic has bolstered our web presence, I don’t think it can ever take away from the immersive experience of watching fine fashion up close.”Tahiliani agrees, “We did see some traffic in online sales. Some of the customers are happy to interact with our sales teams via WhatsApp or virtual consultations. Our teams have quickly adapted to the need of the hour. That said, no screen, big or small, can replace the feeling of attending a fashion show, physically. A show is immersive. There is buzz created by the audience, the scale of multiple models, styling, lighting and the theatrics, all contribute to a spectacle that can never be duplicated digitally. However, for the time being, life must go on, business must go on. That is how we thought about the digital fashion show.”From ramp to cameraBut how has the shift from the ramp to the camera been for the models? Supermodel Lakshmi Rana, who was part of Tarun Tahiliani’s first virtual fashion show, says, “The format has changed considerably. Today, only five to six models are working on one campaign. Besides the scope to reshoot and redo until you achieve ‘perfection’ means longer working hours. Since this is new to everyone, one is clueless about the right fee to charge, the stipulated hours and other logistics.”Lakshmi, currently in Mumbai shooting for the upcoming Lakme Fashion Week, is glad that the fashion industry is up and running after a lull. “A lot of people have been affected adversely by the pandemic. Many models, backstage teams, makeup artists are out of work. Many design labels won’t be able to sustain operations.”Jaspreet Chandok, head of lifestyle businesses at IMG Reliance that organises the LFW, agrees, “Unfortunately, some designer businesses may not survive an extended period of low consumer demand. The ones that do emerge will be more agile, think out-of-the-box and adopt new-age communication formats.” “As a fashion week platform, we are developing a technology interface that will aid business with a buyer-designer interface through virtual showroom as well as spur demand directly through tech-focused digital showcases with ‘See Now, Buy Now’ built into them,” adds Chandok.Be it designers, models, organisers and show directors, there is a consensus in people from every fold of the fashion industry that while a virtual experience is no match to displaying haute couture on a ramp, it is a dire necessity of the times we live in. Fashion stylist and designer consultant Nishankh Sainani feels the need to optimise virtual shoots and shows as well as consider a way to safely open fashion week, exhibitions, etc. in a staggered manner. “This way, atleast, people will be able to earn their bread and survive in the industry. A lot of models are broke today while others are surviving on their savings or loans.”Says fashion model and model coach Jatin Khirbat, “Designers, models, backstage style and makeup artists have all suffered setbacks. Many have gone back to their hometowns. But on the bright side, India’s online market is growing and we can see more opportunities digitally.”Show director and fashion choreographer Lokesh Sharma says that while the fashion industry is no exception to the impact of the pandemic, the problem gets compounded by a lack of government support.“The current measures such as virtual fashion shows, online photoshoots and shifting the physical store to e-commerce and online store are taking away the essence of the display culture, and assessing the products by look, touch and feel method. But it is also important for us to change our concepts, creativity to adapt to this new normal,” he adds.As they say, the show must go on.Of course, the pandemic will affect the fashion and wedding industry, just like it has everything, but it shall pass. I am confident that we shall emerge in a more appreciative and grateful world.... In a way, I am glad that the world has realised that it needs to slow down.  — JJ ValayaFor the first time, we had to make a shift to the virtual realm, arranging photoshoots while adhering to the norms of social distancing and such, so that buyers can get a sense of what the collection is all about and make up their mind. Even so, a complete virtual shopping experience is hard to deliver in the world of haute couture. — Ritu KumarMost brides want a tactile touch and feel experience before they buy.In India, people are not used to buying expensive things online, unless there is proper customer interface with a couture team or certain store managers. — Tarun Tahiliani||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/halt-couture-in-pandemic-154085
11-10-2020||Nonika Singh||Ali Fazal on Mirzapur 2 and more||Be it as the irascible Guddu bhaiya of Mirzapur or the sincere Abdul of Victoria and Abdul, Ali Fazal is much more than a sum of his parts. Earnest and endearing: two words define his persona, whatever may be the role. His screen journey began with small cameos, but he has since gone on to play many a plum role. With remarkable ease, The Fast and Furious actor has bridged the gap between Bollywood and Hollywood. Apart from being seen in Death on the Nile, he has signed up a lead role in a major Hollywood film Code Name: Johnny Walker. Excerpts from an interview:How would you rate Mirzapur in your career graph?Very significant. The series has given me a great push and an excellent playing field as an actor.Getting into this part of Guddu, who is all brawn and yet so innocent, is there any aspect of his personality you relate to?All parts I play have a bit of me, and I relate to them at some level. Else I would be lying (read not convincing.) But when, script demands a certain type of character, I do a bit of research. For instance, I grew up in Lucknow, which for someone living in Mumbai might be the same as Mirzapur. But the fact is in India, dialect changes after every 100 yards, and I had to factor in the right diction, nuances. Simultaneously, I had to unlearn the Angrezi side to me, the one which has grown up on watching English films and reading English literature. Here I am playing a person who utters expletives as if he is using words of endearment. But then, acting is about breaking the mould. An actor has to reinvent himself/herself with each role.Did you have to shed some of the acquired traits of Guddu too?Oh yes, I had major anger issues after playing this character, who hits at the slightest provocation. I had to unlearn that.You really put on many kilos for the role of Guddu bhaiya. How important is physical transformation to get into the skin of the character?It’s important, but not the crux of it. Actors unnecessarily obsess over the physicality. Real character is always in your mind. Our minds are the real fingerprints not our bodies. Body is only a little part of it. If I rely only on the body, it will be a soulless performance.How tough is it to play the same part, that too after a gap of two years? Do you watch the season again for recall?Every role is tough, but this was tougher for the stakes were quite high. Besides, there were endless ways to play him. Yes, season one is on record. It’s a virtual memory for my character. So that helps.What is your take on OTT platforms?Right now, these are the biggest platform. Moreover, it’s not just actor driven, but takes everybody, from directors, writers to technicians, along. The quality, too, has taken a leap forward. From another part of the world, we have access to amazing shows like Fleabag and Narcos. So we are only a button away from rejection or success.From small parts in cinema to being courted by Hollywood, how do you look at this transition?I feel lucky and I am flattered. Not complaining, honestly, I feel I have been part of a democratic process on both sides of the world, which is how things should be. I took baby steps and I learnt on the job for I never went to an acting school.You have rubbed shoulders with a Pankaj Tripathi, an Aamir Khan, even a Judi Dench and now a Gal Gadot. Any takeaways from your co-actors?Oh yes, I have learnt from the best. Pankaj and I go back to Fukrey days, we have shared so much. And then, the much-lauded actor Judi, who has won every possible award there is. She told me never to forget my roots and stay close to Shakespeare, for stage is very important.How was the experience of working with Kenneth Branagh, director of Death on the Nile?The famed director is also an actor. He makes sure that his actors are comfortable. To tap the emotions right, he would keep us entertained and treat us like children, all the while keeping an eye on detail. He would discuss my look for hours at a stretch before the shoot.You have landed a lead role in Hollywood film Code Name: Johnny Walker where you are set to play an Iraqi. Do you think Indian actors have come a long way when they had to compromise hugely while signing up for Hollywood?Certainly! It’s all one world now. We are not compromising on our culture, our roots. I carry India with me wherever I go. But I am also ready to jump into any character that comes my way.You say that actors are very vulnerable people. How do you deal with naysayers who are chanting Boycott Mirzapur?I guess that’s how people are. There are all kinds. It depends on me what I choose to take and affect my mind. Frankly, with so much happening on both personal and professional fronts, there is no place for hate anymore. Otherwise, we would all drown in it.Indeed, basking in love (he is all set to tie the nuptial knot with Richa Chadha) and adulation (fans super excited about Mirzapur), acrimony is the last thing on his mind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/ali-fazal-on-mirzapur-2-and-more-154091
11-10-2020||Saibal Chatterjee||Dharamshala International Film Festival goes online||The Dharamshala International Film Festival (DIFF) is unique as much for its eclectic programming as for the beauty of its scenic setting. The quality of the selection, going by the initial slate of films that DIFF unveiled recently, is intact. The location has, however, been rendered out of bounds by the pandemic. DIFF’s ninth edition (October 29 to November 4) will be entirely online. The ineffable joy of dissecting cinema under the mellow sun over piping hot coffee, walnut cakes and chicken dumplings will have to wait until next year. But the festival’s 2020 line-up will be accessible across South Asia via the online delivery platform Shift72.Going online has allowed DIFF to add three days. This year, it will run for a full week. “We used to show around 26 features, narratives and documentaries,” says Ritu Sarin, who helms the festival with life partner fillmmaker Tenzing Sonam. “This year we will be showing more than 40. This has been made possible because the digital format is more flexible.” The decision to go online wasn’t easy. Says Sarin: “We’re from a generation that grew up watching films in cinemas. ... Also, DIFF is so much about the place and its intimate ambience. It took us a while to get our heads around the idea.”“There are definitely a few advantages,” she admits. “The main one is that an online festival allows DIFF access to a much wider audience. With the exception of a few that have to be geo-blocked to India, all our films will be available to viewers in South Asia. And a large part of our shorts programme will also be available to international audiences. The other advantage is that audiences can technically watch more films during the weeklong window.”“It’s a completely new medium, and everyone involved is still learning and innovating.… We had to understand the technicalities of organising a digital film festival,” says Sarin. “But yes, we are working with the foremost online delivery platform in the world, Shift72, so that has made the transition a lot easier.”One aspect of DIFF that we can blindly bank upon is the quality of the curation. A foretaste has already been provided by the festival’s first bunch of films — six acclaimed documentaries and four narrative features. Watch out especially for the Chinese documentary 76 Days, about frontline hospital workers in Wuhan, a city of 11 million where Covid-19 first struck, who staked their all to treat patients dangling between life and death. The film — the title refers to the number of days Wuhan was under lockdown — goes beyond pandemic statistics to capture the human dimension of the terrifying health crisis.Two documentaries travel to the heart of India and tell incredible stories of adversity and resilience. Pushpendra Singh’s Pearl of the Desert follows a 12-year-old Manganiyar boy from a remote Rajasthan village, who must balance his musical tradition with the demands of a changing world. The other Indian documentary in the DIFF 2020’s initial selection, A Rifle and a Bag, is the first feature-length film from the No Cut Film Collective launched by Arya Rother, Cristina Hanes and Isabella Rinaldi, three graduates of DocNomads, the European Union’s documentary direction programme.A Rifle and a Bag transports the audience into the world of an ex-Naxalite couple preparing for the birth of their second child even as they have to find a school for their son. But as former Communist rebels who fought for the rights of tribals, they are up against an unsympathetic, even openly hostile, bureaucracy. They surrendered to ensure for themselves a workable future. But is there one for their ilk in contemporary India? Also in the documentary selection are Lauren Greenfield’s The Kingmaker, which documents Imelda Marcos’ push to win her son Bongbong the Filipino vice-presidency; David France’s Welcome to Chechnya, about the homophobic regime of Chechnyan leader Ramzan Kadyrov; and Sam Soko’s Softie, a portrait of Kenyan political activist Boniface Mwangi.The four narrative features in DIFF’s initial selection include Polish director Jan Komasa’s Corpus Christi, the story of a young man who leaves a correctional centre after serving time for unspecified crimes and fakes the persona of a priest, and Fernanda Valadez’s Mexican film Identifying Features, in which a desperate mother travels across the country in search of a missing son, who left his central Mexican home to look for work in the US.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/dharamshala-international-film-festival-goes-online-154093
11-10-2020||Gurjant Pannu||Jat, gun, and song’s done||The Punjabi music scene has long been influenced by a culture of guns and invoking caste pride, and one name that has captured the imagination of the youth in recent times has been Sidhu Moosewala. He carefully nurtures the persona of being daring, unsparing — the ‘Jat who walks’. Like he did as he took the stage, along with several other artistes, during the ongoing farmers’ agitation.Jat hegemony may have emerged as a successful theme in the Punjabi music and film industry, but caste and identity assertion through songs is not the sole preserve of the ‘dominant’ community.So, if Moosewala comes up with “Jat da muqabla dass mainu kithe? (Where is the match for Jat?)”, Ranjit Bawa’s song is titled “Je mai marhe ghar jammeya te mera ki kasoor aa (What’s my fault if I was born in a ‘low’ household?)”. The latter, in fact, had to remove a song from his platforms after BJP youth leaders filed cases against him for being “anti-Hindu”.Veet Baljit, who has written songs for Diljit Dosanjh and Gippy Grewal, says songs are a reflection of society. “We are often accused of glorifying gangsters or promoting the gun culture, but these are the market demands. If I release a religious song, it hardly gets 2-3 lakh views on YouTube, whereas songs related to guns get 25 lakh views. To survive in the industry, one has to write songs which would be liked by the public.”He also dismisses concerns about glorifying Jats. “It is the dominant caste in Punjab, so it’s obvious we sing paeans.” What Moosewala has achieved, he says, is through hard work and the trend of gangster songs is not his creation.Mofusion, a music director who has worked with Diljit and Singga, agrees that songs glorifying gangsters are in vogue because of audience demand, but “even if they talk of violence, the songs do not tell them to pick up guns for crime. I think the message they give is to stand up for what is right”.Punjabi University Assistant Professor Dr Dharamjeet Singh says the fascination with singers and gangsters is because of the want of better role models.“There is an intellectual vacuum in the state as there are no contemporary youth leaders, writers or poets who have a connect with the youth. So singers like Moosewala become symbols instead of role models of the past like Gursharan Singh, a stalwart of theatre, or Pash, one of the major poets of the Naxalite movement in Punjab in the 1970s, or Shiv Kumar Batalvi,” he says.He feels it is important to understand that there are singers like Satinder Sartaj, who sings about Punjabi culture and has a dedicated following, “but their influence isn’t as wide, and their voice gets lost in the commotion of loud lyrics”.Lyricist Manish Singh Dhanjal says youngsters see gangsters as influential and “you can’t make high tempo and beat songs without such lyrics, so this trend will continue”.National award-winning Punjabi film director Rajeev Kumar has an interesting contrary take. “Punjabi singers have created a caste hegemony by only talking about Jats. Their coming out in support of farmers is also part of that ecosystem,” he says, “as they want to keep their Jat audience, that is the farmers, intact and their support is a mere eyewash.”People like Master Ram Kumar, who has a singing mandli in Bhadour village, Barnala, or Swarn Singh, a Kavishar from Rasulpur village, Jagraon, “have been raising farmer issues through their songs. Such people should be the real role models,” feels Rajiv.But trust Moosewala — who is first and foremost an artiste with creative impulses — to see a song here too. As he came up with one after being booked for firing an AK-47: “O gabru te case jehra Sanjay Dutt te, Jat utte case jehra Sanjay Dutt te (They came up with a case against the strapping young me, the Jat, like they did against Sanjay Dutt).”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/jat-gun-and-songs-done-154094
