12-07-2020||Mona||Making sense of uncertainties||As the audience catches up with his new series Mafia on ZEE5, books and music are keeping Namit Das busy. He says a little love and a dash of patience are the only things needed to survive the turbulent times we are living in. The actor known for his performances in Wake Up Sid, Hamari Adhuri Kahani and Sui Dhaaga, Namit talks about the new show and more.Character call“Work on Mafia started last year, roughly around this time. It was fantastic shooting with senior director Birsa Dasgupta who is bound to earn a name in Mumbai with this show. The shoot happened in northern Bengal. It was my first time in that region and was an amazing experience. My character is very shifty, mysterious one. The show’s creative, Rohan Ghosh, shared a certain idea, I had some inputs, and we kind of met mid way. Rohan mentioned about one of his roommates from Bihar and I took pointers on my character’s mannerisms from there. However, to deliver the accent was sure a different journey.”Books over shows“Web series are a very strong medium, especially in the times we are living in. Since we cannot go to theatre or cinemas, a lot of stuff is streaming online. However, it’s not shows but books that I am banking on. Classical music is my area of interest and I have been reading a lot on it. I also got ample time to do riyaaz and play the piano. I have a good collection of LPs and have been making the most of the turntable.”Face the change“There is no other option but to embrace the change. As one gets back to life outside, one needs to take all the necessary precautions. When going out, do not discount the fact that these are unusual circumstances. Be patient with yourself and those around you. The world will eventually return to normalcy, but till then we must take utmost care of ourselves and those around us.”Music makerNamit hails from a musical family. His father, Chandan Dass, is a reputed ghazal singer. He too is a musician in his own right and has composed three songs for Mira Nair’s adaptation of the Vikram Seth’s novel, A Suitable Boy, wherein he acts too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/making-sense-of-uncertainties-111844
12-07-2020||Nonika Singh||German series 'Dark': Time doesn’t stand still||“We are attracted to dark just as moth is to light.” Perhaps nothing more can sum up the mesmerising power of the web-series Dark as one of its cryptic one-liners. Netflix’s first German series whose finale was as awaited as watched eagerly may have come to an arresting climax, but the questions it leaves behind will not find easy answers.One of the most complex series to have hit the OTT platforms, it began as a thriller where children vanished mysteriously, with the pattern repeating 33 years later. However, it soon ensnared viewers with multi-dimensional realities and dilemmas. The question isn’t ‘what time, but which world...’ If the second season ended on this note, the finale picked up the same thread and we were face-to-face with an alternate world where key characters from four different families — Jonas, Martha, Ulrich, Claudia and Hannah — are the same, but related differently.Just as mind boggling as the previous seasons, tracing family trees cutting across timelines and worlds has not been more arduous. No wonder then that a meme suggested keeping a bowl of almonds and not a bag of popcorns to go along with this mystery. Frankly speaking, few can arrive at a definite conclusion or unravel the knot, as the key characters keep reminding us. Indian viewers can certainly draw comparisons with their world view, their philosophy of fate and destiny.Dark is not a borrowed concept. It is not like Stranger Things either with which it was earlier being compared. Rather as original as it gets, it’s an amalgamation of science, spirituality, philosophy and human emotions. Set in a fictional town called Winden, this tale not only superimposes timelines but also varying lines of thought. As you continue to go back and forth in time, you may grumble/ grudge. You may marvel at the insanity of it all, the characters flitting in and out of decades. Jonas looking at his multiple selves, Martha talking to her older versions and Claudia in conversation with her varying beings is confounding at the very least.With 72 characters on board, even the makers, husband-wife team of Baranbo Odar and Jantje Friese have admitted it wasn’t easy to structure it all. Yet, the series had viewers transfixed and perplexed in equal measure. Time travel, God particle and a nuclear facility... the recipe for impending disaster literally had you on tenterhooks.The year in which it happens is eerily 2020, and the date of premiere of the final season is the same as the predicted D-day: June 27, 2020. However, what sucks you into this narrative is not the doomsday prophecy but the maze inside your head and inside its principal characters — the sorrowful Jonas (played by Louis Hofmann), the pensive and puzzled Martha (Lisa Vicari), the scheming Claudia (Julika Jenkins). Add to it slick editing, technical brilliance and the writing, all of which remain superlative. Lines, even in the English version, are etched in your mindscape.“What you know is a drop, what you don’t is an ocean.” The dialogue repeats itself and you dive into a cesspool of quantum physics, of concepts like Schrödinger’s cat.The end is a beginning and the beginning, end... If you think the finale with its talk of a world without wants and needs points in one direction or another or ties up all loose ends, you were clearly not paying attention. This is a show that both commands and demands attention. Dark may have packed a lesson or two on letting go, but it is certainly not a show you can let go of easily. In the labyrinth of time travel shows, it will always be a benchmark, almost gold standard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/german-series-dark-time-doesnt-stand-still-111845
12-07-2020||Somen Sengupta||Ashoka Edicts — Jaugada: Confessions of a conqueror||In south Odisha’s Ganjam district flows the Rishikulya river slowly towards the Bay of Bengal. On the bank of the river stands Purushottampur village, which makes no significant impression except for a mass of rock that towers over the little hamlet. It is only after reaching the village one sees an Odisha tourism signboard that reads “Ashoka Edicts — Jaugada.” There inside an iron cage, a massive flank of elephantine boulder can be found on which edicts of Ashoka, the king of Magadha, who once conquered this land of Kalinga had his declaration of Dharma written more than 2,000 years ago in a unique way.The edict, with an inscription covering 270 sq ft, remained unknown until James Prinsep of the Asiatic Society came to know of it in 1837 but due to his ill-health the discovery wasn’t pursued further. In 1854, Walter Elliot, another official of the East India Company, visited the place with an IAS officer. He tried to copy the alphabets of the edict by pouring hot tamarind juice over the incription and beat the same with hammer. A large portion of the rock broke, deleting many an important information. He never mentioned the discovery.In 1872, the edict was officially reported by W F Grahame, a district official. Considering its size and content, the newly found Jaugada was counted as one of the major Ashokan rock edicts found in the subcontinent.The edict of Jaugada was in no way similar to other rock edicts, except for the one found in Dhauli. Dhauli (ancient name Toshali) and Jaugada (earlier known as Samapa) in Odisha, fell in ancient Kalinga, a kingdom attacked and plundered by Ashoka’s soldiers. These new Kalinga rock edicts were different from other edicts of Ashoka.Out of the 14 edicts found on the rock of Jaugada edict, 1 to 10 are similar to other edicts found elsewhere. However with some very well calculated political gambit, creators of this public declaration mode replaced edicts no 11 to 13 which mention Ashoka’s brutal and gory conquest of Kalinga and his subsequent remorse at the suffering of people. This was exactly done in other rock edict found in Dhauli of north Kalinga. It is clear that with specific political agenda, Ashoka’s administration did its best to make people forget the unimaginable brutality caused by the emperor’s army in the Kalinga war. According to historian Charles Allen, “In Kalinga itself, those remarks had been deliberately omitted”.In place of the three missing edicts, two new edicts were inserted to spread Ashoka’s famous doctrine of Dharma. These two newly inserted edicts are known as separate rock edicts. In one of these, an appeal is circulated to Mahamartyas (special religious officers of Toshali and Samapa) to involve themselves in spiritual welfare and impartiality to subjects so that they can live in peace. In other new edict, reforms instituted by Ashoka are expressed by assuring people to live without fear and practice the Dharma of forgiveness. It also says that the king is like a father to subjects and subjects are his own children.Interestingly, Jaugada geographically comes in the south of Kalinga, a territory Ashoka did not conquer in war. This was the new style of diplomatic expansion introduced by an intelligent chamber of politicians. All other rock edicts are typical of Ashokan’s doctrine of spreading Buddhism through peace and tolerance. Today Jaugada is, perhaps, the most forgotten rock edict of Ashoka, though it is exceptional in its content and huge in its size. Though ASI has done a good job by installing an iron cage before it but still marks of vandalism are palpable on its surface. The place is badly guided. Signboards describing the history, importance of the place and explanation of every edict are faded beyond legibility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/ashoka-edicts-%E2%80%94-jaugada-confessions-of-a-conqueror-111841
12-07-2020||Lt-Gen Baljit Singh (retd)||Tryst with Pangong Tso, in the 1970s||“If we were doomed to live forever, we would scarcely be aware of the beauty around us.” — Peter MathiessenI had a promise to keep since long many years and when at last opportunity gestured, we promptly boarded an Indian Airlines flight to Leh, choosing seats which looked out on the right-hand side. Visibility was excellent, and flying past the Zoji La, we were rewarded for several minutes with the stunning visual of the twin Nun and Kun summits against blue skies, awash in mellow morning sun! About a decade back, we had walked past them after descending the Pensi La en route Kargil but in the instant case, looking down from up above this composite setting of the peaks, a cascading glacier, greenery of the verdant Suru valley and the briefest glimpse of Padam village far out in distant Zanskar, all offered an experience to cherish.Back in the 1970s, tourist presence in Ladakh was almost non-existent and acclimatisation walks in the countryside around Leh had the elements of both privacy and friendly tete-a-tete with passersby, always smiling and courteously calling out “Jhulay” in a welcome greeting.By the third morning, we were fit to set out for Darbuk and onward to the western shore of the Pangong Tso. We pitched our tents in the close vicinity of Lakung village which offered us an enchanting view of the lake’s blue waters in sharp contrast to the pale brown and grey ridges beyond. An hour past midnight, our guide, courtesy the Ladakh Scouts, opened the flaps of our tent, handed mugs of piping hot tea and a marching order, “Shaab, ek ghantey baad ridge top ko chalaan gey”! The idea was to gain the highest spot about 2000 feet above on the Lakung ridge. This would give a panoramic view from the south to the north of the lake as well as Fort Kunarak, Konka La, Aksai Chin, and even the Karakoram Pass.We breathed a sigh of relief standing upon the vantage spot with barely time for a cup of hot coffee (lukewarm by then) before the first rays of dawn lit up the farthest horizon. We stayed anchored on site till mid-day to witness the kaleidoscopic changes of colour tints caused by the continuous shifting angle of the sun’s rays upon both the waters of Pangong and the vast labyrinth of mountains and valleys. But the magic of dusk we would savour the following evening striding at leisurely pace southward, to Chushul village.May be a paragraph borrowed from Frank Smythe’s writings best capture the mystery and magic of our tryst with Pangong Tso, thus;“And so from the hills we return refreshed in body, in mind and in spirit to grapple anew with life’s problems... for a while we have lived simply, wisely and happily; we have adventured well. The hills have taught us to be content in our faith and in the love of God who created them”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/tryst-with-pangong-tso-in-the-1970s-111842
12-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||The grand old havelis of Rohtak||Characterised by earthiness and famous for its rewari, the historical town of Rohtak in Haryana has relics of ancient and medieval settlements, besides some magnificent structures of architectural significance. Giving a peep into the rich cultural heritage of the town are the grand old havelis of the town, which is often referred to as the political capital of the state.The ornate facades with images carved in stone, massive wooden door sets, cusped arches, vaulted roofs, sandstone pillars, hanging balconies, besides beautiful embellishments of these havelis stand as proof of a magnificent past.Though many such havelis have been reduced to ruins owing to the lack of maintenance over the past few decades, some of these stand tall as glorious specimen of the old world charm.“The havelis of Rohtak date back to the Mughal era. Some well-to-do residents of the area probably got impressed with the construction of the Red Fort and Jama Masjid in Delhi and constructed their own havelis,” observes art-historian and writer-photographer Rajkishan Nain.He notes that garhis, sprawling old settlements established by prominent residents, were succeeded by havelis with the advent of time and reduction in land-holdings.The historian laments that successive governments have, however, failed to conserve the glorious heritage of the state.Pradeep Bhagat, former Principal of the Chandigarh College of Architecture, who has studied the havelis of Rohtak district, points out that the havelis present an efficient combination of aesthetics and utility.“The havelis have a well-defined orientation which facilitates proper ventilation in terms of air and sunlight. These are beautifully designed and have adequate space to entertain guests and visitors at the entrance while ensuring privacy of the women of the family. There are ample storage spaces and provision of water,” he states.The master architect remarks that today’s architects can learn a lot from the artisans and masons who built the havelis. These structures, which have withstood earthquakes and other natural calamities, stay warm in winters and cool in summers without any artificial heating or air-conditioning system.“Unlike the dull and drab modern-day buildings, the walls of havelis were adorned with paintings, frescos and other art works,” he says.Noted historian Ranbir S Phaugat, who has been documenting the cultural heritage of Haryana for nearly three decades, rues that the region’s heritage structures are decaying due to lack of conservation and maintenance. “It is shameful that the state has no resources for scientific conservation of havelis which are withering away with time. These heritage buildings should be listed properly, conserved and maintained,” he asserts.The historian opines that a majority of havelis in Rohtak were built by local residents belonging to Muslim, Jain and Agarwal communities between 1870 and 1945. Most of these havelis are located on the Railway Road, Naya Padao, Civil Road and Babra Mohalla in the old Rohtak town.Apart from Rohtak town, several towns and villages, which were part of the old Rohtak district, also have splendid havelis.“These include Beri, Dujana, Dighal, Birdhana, Jhajjar, Machhrauli, Salhawas, Maatan, Majra (Dubaldhan), Kahnaur, Nigana, Kalanaur, Rohad, Farmana, Meham, Sonepat, Sisana, Rohat, Bhatana, Zafrabad, Kakroi, Sanghi, Khidwali, Behalba, Bhaini Chanderpal, Madina and Dabauda,” says Phaugat.Dr Rajendra Sharma, Professor of Political Science at Maharshi Dayanand University in Rohtak, who has a keen interest in history and antiques, feels that disintegration of the joint-family culture and lack of interest towards cultural heritage among the occupants of havelis has led to the demolition and commercialisation of these heritage buildings. Endorsing his views Vipin Goyal, an antique-collector, observes that the owners of several such havelis are ready to sell these and shift to modern houses.Architectural marvelsClimate control: Apart from being breathtakingly beautiful, the havelis had inherent climate-control mechanism characterised by two-feet-thick walls made of lakhauri bricks plastered in lime mortar, high ceilings and appropriate and effective ventilation.Water-harvesting mechanism: The havelis had adequate provisions for water like water-tanks and wells, and some even had water-harvesting systems to collect rainwater from the roof and conserve it in the well or tank on the ground for future use.Quake-resistant buildings: These age-old havelis have witnessed numerous earthquakes and natural calamities but have stood the test of time owing to their substantial foundations, wisely chosen construction material and efficient designing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-grand-old-havelis-of-rohtak-111843
12-07-2020||Pushpa Girimaji||Unfair ads & skin whitening creams||I am a victim of deep-rooted colour prejudices in our society, reinforced by all those fairness creams. My parents’ efforts to get me married through several marriage bureaus failed because of my dark skin. I read somewhere that the government is bringing a law to stop advertisements of ‘skin whitening creams’. Is this true?In February this year, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare put out for public comments, comprehensive amendments to the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act. If the proposed amendments are passed by Parliament, then they can certainly put a stop to advertisements of all fairness creams that have for long equated beauty with fair skin and brainwashed consumers. With celebrities endorsing their products, they instilled in people that in order to be successful, you need to be beautiful and you are only beautiful if you are fair!The proposed law basically plugs three main lacunae in the original Act. (1) It changes the definition of advertisement to include all media—old and new. So unlike the original law, it covers advertisements in electronic media, internet and websites, so that no media escapes the purview of the law. This is very important because today you can see advertisements of these fairness creams on various electronic media. (2) Equally important, the definition of advertisement in the proposed law also covers endorsement. So, celebrity endorses who have, for long, unabashedly peddled these fairness creams, unmindful of the effect of such advertisements on the psyche of the people, will become liable for such endorsements.(3) It enhances the punishment for contravention—in case of first conviction, the penalty may extend to a fine of Rs10 lakh and imprisonment of two years and in case of a subsequent conviction, fine up to Rs50 lakh and imprisonment up to five years.(4) This law prohibits misleading advertisements pertaining to drugs, but more importantly, it prohibits advertisement of drugs meant for the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of any disease, disorder or condition specified in the Schedule of the law or specified in the rules. While at present, the Schedule mentions 54 different diseases, the proposed amendment enhances the number to 78. And if you see number 19 in the list, it refers to “Fairness of the skin”. So advertisement or promotion of any product that is meant for fairness of the skin will be prohibited with the amendment to the law.Because of Covid-19, we do not know when Parliament will meet again, so it would be a good idea if the government were to bring in the amendment bill as an ordinance. The amendment would go a long way in putting an end to the colour prejudices perpetrated by fairness creams. Side by side, the government should also launch campaigns to change the mindset of the people vis-à-vis skin colour.My second question is, can I file a complaint against all those companies that have been depicting white skin as beautiful, holding them responsible for my not getting a suitable match? I have letters from prospective bridegrooms’ families saying that they liked me, but would prefer someone with a fair/wheatish complexion.I would encourage you to do it — whether you win or not, the case will certainly bring into the limelight the adverse effects of film stars endorsing these fairness creams and perpetuating colour prejudices in the community. It could also start a much-needed movement against all those actors who are endorsing these fairness products, unmindful of its effect on the community. Consumers should demand that they make amends by putting whatever money they earned from such endorsements into advertisement campaigns that would undo the damage caused by fairness cream ads.Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission, which used to look at unfair trade practices, including false and misleading advertisements, often looked at whether an advertisement or a trade practice was prejudicial to the interests of consumers or public at large. The advertisements of these fairness creams certainly come under that category.In order to show a co-relation between these advertisements and your terrible experiences, you need to look at studies, if any, showing how these advertisements have influenced communities into thinking that fair is beautiful. A number of women’s organisations have taken up cudgels against these products and their advertisements and you should seek their help in pursuing your case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/unfair-ads-skin-whitening-creams-111838
12-07-2020||Pushpesh Pant||The journey of a samosa||According to food lore verified by historians, the good old samosa has travelled a very long distance to reach India. The savoury snack that doubles as desi fast food has been with us so long that not many of us are aware that it is an import from Central Asia. Samosa finds a mention in Ibn Batuta’s travelogues as an essential item on the menu served to Emperor Muhammad bin Tuglaq. As per references in Ain-e-Akbari and Akbarnama, Akbar relished it. Sambusak and sambosa are among its various names.There are interesting regional variations that the original triangular pastry from Persia has spawned. The filling has changed from chicken mince and pine nuts to spicy boiled potato mash at times sprinkled with green peas. In Bengal, the samosa goes by the name of singhara and thinly sliced stir fried potatoes are more popular. It sometimes comes packed with cauliflower mince.From tiny cocktail samosa to jumbo mutton mince filled options for a working lunch, the samosa comes in all sizes and shapes. There is the dainty potli samosa that resembles a small pouch and the lentil paste filled specialty from Hari’s at Lokenath in Allahabad that has a shelf life of many weeks. There are many other fillings to delight the jaded palate — from eggs, paneer, mushrooms to sea food. Chaat outlets serve it with a dollop of pindi chana and fine dining Indian eateries present it in bite-sized Hyderabadi lukhmi-like starters. And, if you have a sweet tooth, you can tickle it with mawa and dried fruit meetha samosa.The urge to bite into a samosa was so strong during the lockdown one day that we went DIY. We were pleasantly surprised by the results and are emboldened to share the recipe with our readers. As we await the monsoon to pour and keep us indoors for a different reason, why not rediscover the joys of homemade sambusak! If potatoes still scare, try mushrooms and sprouts. Keep the envelop thin and drain all excess fat by placing them on kitchen towels. And stop at two!SamosaIngredientsFilling:Method:Sift the flour with salt in a tray and prepare semi-hard dough, like we make for puri. Roll out in discs of about 5-inches diameter. Cut into halves like a crescent with a sharp knife and keep aside. Prepare the filling by mixing all ingredients and blending well. Now carefully shape the crescents into cones and pack with the savoury filling. Seal the edges with moist fingers, pressing firmly. Repeat till all material is used up. Heat oil in a karahi till it reaches smoking point. Reduce heat to medium and deep fry the samosas in batches till they turn light golden brown. Turn once or twice with a slotted spoon to ensure that these are evenly cooked. Enjoy!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-journey-of-a-samosa-111839
12-07-2020||Sarika Sharma||Majha versus Malwa: Punjabi word war||Divided by Beas and Sutlej, Majha and Malwa regions of Punjab have largely been united in culture. The nitty-gritty, the finer points, however, have always been a bone of contention, sometimes in a lighter vein, but, not always! As lockdown tethered them to their homes, NRIs Raji and Veenu, who go by their first names in their virtual lives, engaged in a light banter to bring out these nuances in their video series, Majha Vs Malwa, which went viral on the now-banned TikTok and was shared on WhatsApp around here so many times. The videos are now part of their YouTube channel, Sadi Life.In the three-part vlog, the sisters-in-law engage in a war of words. Raji, who hails from Malwa, starts off with a random word in Malwai and Veenu gives a Majhi word for the same. And while it begins with basic words such as roka and thaka for engagement, shalgam and gonglu for turnip, khaaj and khurk for itch, it gets complex. There are words you haven’t heard; tones underlining the difference. It is as much fun as it is enlightening. If the street is called bihi in Malwa, it is gali in Majha; anger is aakad in Malwa and duss in Majha; if Malwa-wallahs call a corner khunja, in Majha it is nukkar; a sua (a smaller canal) turns nkhasu as you look towards Amritsar; haday (pleas) are tarlay in Majha; if the ubiquitous broom is radka in Malwa, it is bokar in Majha!YouTube channel, Sadi Life, was launched in 2019 by three brothers — Kulvinder Singh, Preet Gill, Navjit Singh, and their brother-in-law Sarab Singh. They wanted to share glimpses into their North American Punjabi lifestyle. It was during the lockdown that Raji and Veenu, who have been in the US for 20 years, got involved.Born and bred in Patiala, Raji hails from Malwa whereas Veenu is from Amritsar, Majha region. They say the idea of Majha vs Malwa was derived from their own confusions and understanding, rather misunderstanding, of each other’s dialects. Sometimes Veenu would ask Raji for something, but Raji would have no idea what to do since she didn’t understand Majhi and vice versa. “We decided to make a TikTok and YouTube video for entertainment purposes, comparing and contrasting our two different dialects. Much to our surprise, the video went viral and was shared on all major social media platforms,” says Raji. The family was flooded with phone calls from relatives and friends settled worldwide.The videos evoked mixed feelings in people — it was fun for some and overwhelming for others. “People were thrilled that we brought back words they hadn’t heard since childhood and were perhaps in danger of extinction from the vocabulary of next generation of Punjabis,” says Veenu.After the first video went viral, people wanted more and some even suggested as to which words to include in the next vlog. Some wanted a Majha vs Doaba, which they followed up with shortly. The duo says it feels proud to have represented its language in such a way and to have started a dialogue about its preservation. “We enjoy making videos exploring various idiosyncrasies of Punjabi culture. We also like to discuss topics such as mental health, that might be considered taboo.”Raji and Veenu say they take pride in celebrating Punjabiyat every day even as they live away from their homeland. “It’s wonderful to share our rich language, culture, and heritage with the world. It doesn’t matter where Punjabis reside on this planet; we are all connected at the heart!”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/majha-versus-malwa-punjabi-word-war-111837
12-07-2020||Sangeet Toor||Filthy pond turns into lake: Two young men change the face of their village||At his village Shreenh Wala Brar, Ferozepur, Gurpreet stood by the filthy banks of the pond and envisaged a small lake with serene waters, lined with trees, recreation and sports area at the far end, and a clean reflection of his village in the water. The sheer expanse of the pond, the garbage mounds along the edge, the amount of sewage drained into the water, and the miasma did not deter his determination to find a way for his dream to come true. He drew a map of the serene pond, and set out to convince and organise his peers, the village elders and the panchayat. The year was 2011.Passion is contagious. Soon enough, it affected others. Baljinder Brar was one of them. In 2013, the old village library, Guru Nanak Dev Pustak Ghar, was resurrected by them with the help of other reading aficionados from the village. Punjabi writer Ninder Ghugianwi was invited as chief guest; he brought the place under the ambit of Punjabi Sahit Sabha, New Delhi. The books poured in; the youth poured in. They started convening in the library on a weekly basis and brought to life the campaigns to clean the village, clean the crematorium, curb drugs, and ultimately clean the pond.The beautiful villages in Punjab often have dreamers who live abroad or who are distinguished citizens. The ideas of such individuals are well received by the villagers. Gurpreet and Baljinder were unassuming teenagers when they started out. They built the platform for their recognition purely on their own. They engaged with progressive people near and far; they organised sports events to expand their base in the nearby Guru Harsahai.Social media played a crucial role in the imaginings of an alternate reality of Gurpreet and Baljinder. They came across young men and women in other villages who were on a similar quest. They took advice from the ones who had accomplished their goals to achieve the look, feel, and workings of an ideal village. Gurpreet created a group called the Ideal Villager, and started a Facebook page to reach out to a bigger number of advisers and audience.Cleaning the pond was no easy task. It wasn’t until 2017 when the extent of the effort was measured up. Gurpreet initiated and then remained in close contact with Sant Seechewal to treat the pond water. The idea was to fill up two third portions of the pond and keep the rest since the maintenance would be easy. Baljinder collaborated with the local youth to fill up the pond as planned. It took 5,000 trolleys of sand. Yes, that’s right!The pond was deep. Nobody could have imagined that the filth and slime had such depth, not until they dug up an extended area of good earth. Gurpreet envisioned a large-scale change to how life was lived in the village. Life is dependent on water. Potable water had remained a commodity that was fetched by the villagers from the nearby canal after travelling for a few kilometers. Everyday, day after day. Now that the people became a collective, they found and implemented a solution that catered to everyone. The potable water arrived right inside the village. Similarly, more than four dozen solar lights were installed in the streets.A great part of the collective responsibility and action is hinged on the fair use of shared resources. Gurpreet, who is greatly inspired by the writings of Shaheed Bhagat Singh and Mahatma Gandhi, aspired to catalyse the ultimate change. By peaceful means. This subsequent step — to free the shared village land called Shamlaat of illegal ownership — was accomplished recently. And accomplished rather peacefully. Such a feat wouldn’t have been possible without Baljinder giving up what hadn’t belonged to him. Additionally, the barren Shamlaat land was reclaimed and made cultivable.The pond breathes quietly on the outskirts of the village. The serene waters reflect the mounds of soil lined according to the plan. The plan, which is a map of the recreational area around the pond, is printed on a life-size board and fixed near the pond. The things are working smoothly with tractors, trolleys, excavators working in unison. The project is closely monitored by village sarpanch S. Surjit Singh Dhawan.However, reality is a continuum of a bigger dream. The journey continues for these young men who, after achieving the goal, recognition and power, and having given up the prime of their career-forming youth, have set out to cities to find a job, earn a living. They talk like wise people and sound far ahead of their time. While Baljinder is a fellow at Punjab Youth Leadership Programme 2020-2022, Gurpreet realises that the challenges he accepted and changes he envisioned are just a beginning. His goal is to establish himself as an entrepreneur and create jobs. Nothing is unachievable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/filthy-pond-turns-into-lake-two-young-men-change-the-face-of-their-village-111836
12-07-2020||Aradhika Sharma||Relationships in lockdown: So close, yet so far||THE lockdown shrank our world. Offices and schools were shut, malls closed, travel ceased, shops shuttered and employees in formal and informal sectors sent home. Financial stress and an environment of uncertainty loomed large. The effects of the lockdown have been abiding. In some situations, it demanded that people lived together with their families, while in other cases, they were required to stay apart, and for longer periods from their friends and colleagues. But for a few states, the lockdown has finally been lifted to what is termed the ‘new normal’. This ‘new normal,’ however, has left its mark on interpersonal relationships — cementing some while leaving many cracked and broken.Too close for comfortIt’s a no-brainer that the fallout of the pandemic has upended lives around the world. Ranvijay, who is on a work visa to Canada, was laid off from his job in a restaurant in Vancouver. Says Ranvijay, who belongs to Chandigarh, “All was bearable as I accepted the new way of life, knowing it was a matter of time before some semblance of normalcy was regained. The trying issue was that my flatmate, Barbara, with whom I used to get along just fine before the lockdown, became morose, snappy and impatient. She started suffering withdrawal symptoms due to lack of routine after following a ludicrously busy life. Staying cooped in the house without access to the outside world, cancelled travel plans and a long and monotonous distance from friends and colleagues was not easy to handle.”Eventually, Ranvijay and Barbara sat together to discuss the problem and worked out a truce which they maintained through the rest of the lockdown. “We realised that although we shared the same flat, we had never really spent time together. Usually, one of us would be in, and the other would be at work or out with friends. For the first time, we really talked — and listened — to each other, watched some shows together, and even cooked sometimes. When the lockdown was lifted, I moved to a flat closer to my workplace. Barbara and I hang out occasionally now. I guess distance does make the heart grow fonder?” he smiles.Feeling the pinchThe pandemic has brought about an enduring economic crisis resulting in the loss of jobs and livelihood. Besides financially, this has impacted many at the psychological level as well.“Who, in our generation, ever imagined living through a pandemic? We were supposed to be the golden generation. The economy was booming, we were earning good salaries and our lifestyle comprised the frenetic schedule of working all hours, travelling, eating out, adventure sports, shopping and stuff like that. And then one fine day, it was all over. Though we are into the unlockdown phase, things are no longer the same,” says Aruna Raje, a Mumbai-based graphic designer. “The anxiety after my husband Vikram lost his job strained things between us. Suddenly, the roles changed and I became the sole breadwinner of the family.“I resented this change. Even though, Vikram took on the responsibility of household work and supervised the home schooling of our daughter Shaina, besides made sure that I worked undisturbed, I still didn’t feel grateful or love towards him. The sad bit is that even he sensed this, and felt guilty.”“Post-lockdown, Vikram still hasn’t found a job. I’m working from home. The pandemic has scarred our relationship, and it’s going to take me a long time to get comfortable with the situation,” Aruna says, sadly.Strings that strainWhen we shut the doors of our living spaces, hoping to block out the dreaded virus, we also, unwillingly, locked out our friends, colleagues and neighbours. While some couples had to invent innovative ways to deal with too much of each other, many had too little of their significant other.“Priya and I have been working in the same company for two years. We started going out a few months back. When the lockdown was announced, she went to stay at her parents’ house and has been working from home. Initially, we would face time, text or talk a lot but gradually communication become much less, and now, it just doesn’t seem important any longer. I guess, if we had been together, some long-term commitment may have happened, but as of now, I’m in a good place,” says Deepak Dixit, a manager, procurement, in a corporate firm.Unfortunately, some marriages may not survive the lockdown. Just like the case of Cheryl and her husband, Murthy, who are exploring getting divorced since the lockdown opened. “He started to irk me with his demanding and messy ways,” complains Cheryl. “Catering to him, tending to household chores without the maid, besides dealing with increased work pressure from office drained me physically as well as mentally. Things became so bad between us that we started following social distancing norms even in our bedrooms. Post-lockdown, I’ve contacted a lawyer to explore the option of divorce.”The new normalThe new corona-induced realities of the loss of independence and fear of the disease and death has cruelly stripped us of the confidence we had in the ‘usual’. The definition of ‘normal’ has changed with dizzying frequency.For some, the fallout of this has been a changed attitude towards people. Post-lockdown, caution has widely varying meanings for people. Whereas some are comfortable meeting friends and colleagues, going out for shopping, compromising on adequate sanitisation and not wearing masks, others are bordering on paranoia in their public and private dealings, preferring to lock themselves away voluntarily.For instance, 58-year-old Amanat Singh, who has always been quite outgoing, now “doesn’t feel like stepping out of the house.” He says. “I’ve discovered the joys of using technology, rediscovered hobbies and am more attuned to nature. I go out for a run in the morning, meet a few, select friends but would I go back to being a social person again? Doubtful! Firstly, because I’m experiencing a decreased desire for social interaction, and secondly, because I’m just too scared.”According to Chandigarh-based psychiatrist Dr Ashwin Mohan, lockdown-related behaviours will, in many cases, continue post-lockdown. “Social and work relationships, besides friendships would be impacted, firstly because of the Covid-induced fear, and secondly, because there is no mandate to pursue such relationships.”Paw perfectA heart-warming effect of the lockdown has been the relationships that many have developed with street dogs. Almost every dog in every neighbourhood street seems to have a collar around his neck, a name (sometimes more than one), is given food and petted. Suman, a student, has developed a special bond with a street dog whom she named Brownie. Mousy-coloured, skinny with the scraggliest tail a dog could have, Brownie adores Suman, and often accompanies her to the milk booth. She rewards giving him biscuits, besides his evening meal. She also makes sure that there’s always fresh water for him to drink.Like Brownie, there are many such dogs like Maggie, Cheeni, Blackie, Hunter, Salman, who’ve discovered that humans can be kind. Homeowners have found neighbourhood friends, who love them unconditionally, Covid or no Covid!When the going gets tough...As beautiful and fun staying together under lockdown may seem in the beginning, the excitement wears off with time. Here are some tips to strengthen relationships in such times:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/relationships-in-lockdown-so-close-yet-so-far-111835
