12-04-2020||Priyamvada Mangal||Stressed? Manage it||Thanks to the pandemic, the collective panic, anxiety, fear and stress are at an all-time high. Locked down in our homes, we all are busy tracking the spread of coronavirus, and the havoc it is causing across the globe. Non-stop news, incessant WhatsApp forwards and endless discussions about the disease make us feel helpless, besides adding to our anxiety levels.Saloni Sawnani, a clinical psychologist from Arpan NGO, Mumbai, explains why coronavirus is causing so much panic. “Fear of the unknown has always been one of the biggest fears. The way COVID-19 is spreading and affecting the whole world is unnerving for most people,” says Sawnani.“The unknown variables are increasing anxiety among the masses. As contagious as it is, the mortality rate among healthy individuals is very low. A lot of people are recovering after testing positive to the disease. So, we must not lose sight of this silver lining and spend this time rebuilding our lives and relationships with positivity and togetherness.”Make a mindful routineTo keep anxiety and fear at bay, we must direct our focus on things we can work on and let go of things we cannot do anything about. We cannot control what’s going on outside, but we can correct our thoughts and focus on doing the inner work. There is a lot of power in the collective consciousness.Dr Kushal Jain, a psychiatrist from Centre for Behavioural Sciences, Delhi, suggests that having a routine will help in these difficult times. “The rise in anxiety is because of the cluelessness about what would happen, so it is best to keep your routine intact. You can start doing things that you have been procrastinating like reading, meditating or exercising.” Now is the time to make a more mindful routine, timetable and set of tasks to keep a check on stress and anxiety.Best time to reconnectDr Jain advises one can use this time to work out differences within family. “We finally have the time to reconnect with our family members and have uninterrupted conversations. Give that extra care and attention to your parents, play boardgames with children, video call friends, get back that human touch. If you are a couple, find ways to rekindle the romance in your relationship. Who says you cannot have candlelight dates at home?” Instead of suppressing your emotions, channelise these creatively. Journaling your thoughts will put things into perspective.Learn new skillsThere are various Ivy league courses available at affordable rates online. You can enrol and attend the course at a fixed time every day. For learning a new skill, you can browse through channels on YouTube and read books written by experts available on the Internet.Make changes in your lifestyleDo not grab your phone first thing in the morning: We need to be aware of what’s happening around us to make well-informed decisions but that does not mean bombarding ourselves with statistics as soon as our eyes open. Let your eyes wake up to natural light, do some stretches before getting out of the bed, look out of the window, clean your stomach, have your morning beverage and decide what you want to do in the day.For a good start to the day, ensure you get ample rest. For sound sleep, refrain from eating or drinking stimulating beverages two hours prior to sleeping. Avoid sleeping at odd hours during the day as it confuses the body clock.Turn to authentic information sources: Currently, we are using more social media than we ever did. Unfortunately, there is a lot of fake news doing the rounds on social media. Refrain from reading unverified news because it can cause unwanted anxiety and panic. Follow reputed news channels, official Twitter handles, government announcements to avoid cluttering your mind.Eat less fats, processed sugars: Apart from having a bad reputation for fattening, these also cause hormonal imbalance in the body. Cook light and easily digestible food. It is not only good for the body but for the mind as well.Bring your mind and awareness to the present: Fear and anxieties are caused by predicting the worst outcome. By misusing our imaginative power, we overwork negative thinking and create an imaginary situation that may never happen. Bring your breath to the present moment, and you will feel a sudden calm because it automatically slows down the rate of thoughts per minute.Let us commit to being at our best in these challenging times as mother earth prepares to renew itself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/stressed-manage-it-70154
12-04-2020||Roopinder Singh||Celebrating Baisakhi of 2020||A different mode of celebration will be adopted by the Sikhs this Baisakhi. Instead of congregating at gurdwaras, they will heed to the advice of Giani Harpreet Singh, Akal Takht Jathedar, and pray from home on Monday, just as people of other faiths have done in recent days for their holy events, including Ram Navami, Easter and Shab-e-Barat.We have become accustomed to seeing the gathering of lakhs of devotees at gurdwaras, including Harmandar Sahib, Amritsar; Takht Sri Damdama Sahib, Talwandi Sabo; and Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib at Anandpur Sahib on this occasion. We will not see those this year, as devotees will be kept away on the advice of spiritual and temporal leaders, as well as the requirements of social distancing necessitated by the policy to check the spread of coronavirus.Instead of the spectacle that the Baisakhi gatherings had become, this year the focus will be on the spiritual. Prayers are sought, not presence. All too appropriate at the time. Indeed, it could well be argued that over the years, the grandeur of the event often eclipsed the devotional ethos of the laity.“Sarbat da bhala,” reflects the ethos of the ardas, and indeed, it is the well-being of all that is more necessary at the time, as the epidemic threatens to upend the world as we know it.The recent lockdown has given us time to think about our lives, and in many cases, I am sure, question some of the decisions we have taken. The crisis has exposed the ill-effects of rampant materialism, and the perils of straying from the core ethical values that form the nucleus of every faith, of all moral systems.Apprehension about the future is palpable. At worst, we can revert to what the British philosopher Thomas Hobbs called the ‘state of nature’, where every man is against every man and life is “solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short.” However, by controlling the impulses generated by this fear and channelling our energy in a productive direction, we can rise above the menacing immediate.Our duty towards fellow human beings is clear, and that clarity informs our choices. We have to rise above the insidious sectarian virus that is piggybacking on the medical one. Fear can unleash the monster in us.Many Sikhs have responded to the humanitarian crisis caused by the lockdown by providing langar to the needy. It is, however, necessary to reflect on the need to expand the scope of langar from food to care of the needy. Help can be given in many forms, and each situation demands something different from those who seek to help their fellow beings.On the one hand, there is the attitude of the brave who risk exposure to the virus even as they help others. On the other, there are those, thankfully few, who shied away from even their basic duty towards their dead relatives by not participating in their cremation. Fear enveloped their minds to an extent where it doused the flame of humanity in them, as it did, in another instance, among those who left members of a minority community homeless…. Let’s pray for them too.The festival of harvest this time is a difficult one. Farmers need help in handling the crops. Many of those who were there to help are caught between their work, homes, and family abodes. The migrants are literally trapped in the middle, with not enough being done for them.The crisis has demonstrated how interdependent we are. It shows the vacuousness of material gains, the need for health, and the strength of holistic living. As we transcend the pain and privation caused by the epidemic, it is time to look at ourselves, and see how we have become entrapped by the extraneous. Life is more than amassing the material goods, the pause has reconnected us to our families and friends, and we will need their help to rebuild our lives.The post-Covid 19 world will be one tempered by the crisis of fighting the epidemic. The winners will be those who emerge as better people, more considerate, more compassionate, more committed to the fundamentals of humanity.The Baisakhi of 2021 will celebrate them. Would it be too much to hope that the pendulum would have, by then, shifted from spectacle to the spiritual? That the celebrations would be more involved and evolved. When faced with an existential crisis, people have shown a great ability to adapt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/celebrating-baisakhi-of-2020-70153
12-04-2020||Jyoti Sharma Bharadwaj||The high low||Thanks to COVID-19, our centre is bombarded with queries. Since hostels and PGs have closed down, students are back home. Parents panic when they see their girls going through withdrawals and call. They start of by addressing their ward as a male but later on come out clear,” shares Manni, a rehabilitation counsellor at Una, Himachal Pradesh. “Does your facility cater to women?” I ask. “There is not even a single rehab in Himachal that admits women. We suggest them to go to Delhi or Punjab,” he adds.There is a growing trend among women in Himachal to use substance. Women often resort to using substance not just for pleasure but to deal with stress, overcome body image issues, break stereotypes or self-medicate physical and psychological pain. The commonly used substances by women in northwest India are sedatives, pain relievers, tobacco products, inhalants, opioids, cannabis and alcohol.Invariably, women dependent on substance are trapped in unhealthy relationships and use drugs as an escape from an unbearable living situation. Some exhibit a strong desire to find freedom in recovery but carry on the toxic relationship and get harmed, even sexually assaulted. The key factors responsible for women normalising sexual violence are their socioeconomic vulnerability and intimate relationship with the perpetrator of violence.Weeping woundsSubstance dependence has given a whole new dimension to teenage love. Many young women initiated substance use at the bidding of their boyfriend(s) with a promise to keep using it if they wished to continue the bond. These women shy away from seeking help for the fear of losing friendship. “I had led a very controlled life till I reached college. The whiff of freedom and extra moolah in pocket knocked me off my feet. I tried to fill the love vacuum from my childhood with substitutes, including chitta. Fighting the battle of recovery was tough but inspired me to help women waging lonely wars against substance dependence,” recollects Kirandeep, who runs a de-addiction and rehabilitation centre for girls at Noida, Delhi.“My friends got me chitta and I simply loved the euphoria followed by the state of relaxation,” confided Shreya, who is in recovery for the last one year. “I continued chasing the dragon at my hometown but once I returned to my PG, I experienced serious withdrawal. Excruciating abdominal pain made me scream and kick frantically. To my relief, my roommate got me acquainted with a local peddler. I had progressed from impulsivity to compulsivity.”“Our friends got us started on chitta (heroin mixed with other substances),” Nancy (name changed) from Baddi, Solan, said over the phone. “Friends?” I quizzed. “Ya, common friends.” “Where do you buy it from?” I dug deeper. “My boyfriend gets it for me,” she answered matter-to-factly. “Friend or friends,” I went on unabashedly. “Boyfriends, OK,” she disconnected in a huff.“I face continuous threats from peddlers and fear for the safety of my siblings. I have tried quitting many times but chitta doesn’t leave me,” confessed Sheela (name changed) from Shimla, looking away from me. She has been serving as a female drug mule for nearly two years.“Neelima (name changed) is an alcohol dependent. Her parents have completely given up on her. A boy living in her neighbourhood buys booze for her on a daily basis. If she has the money, she pays; otherwise, she sleeps with him. As simple as that!” narrates Veena (name changed), a counsellor at Police Drug De-addiction and Rehabilitation Centre run by J&K Police.Women often shy away from disclosing their poly-substance dependence. Sharing partial information with family and counsellor slows the progression of treatment and increases chances of relapse. “During the first few family counselling sessions, raging hurt seeps out through the eyes of the patient’s family. They retell the stories of abuse and physical pain, lies and deception, loss and heartbreak,” Vikas, a counsellor working at a drug de-addiction and rehabilitation centre near Una, revealed.There is a surge in the number of cases of newly weds filling for divorce on finding out substance dependence in their spouse. “In our society, women carry a bigger burden of the lack of physical intimacy in a relationship. It not only hurts their self-esteem but also is a cause of harassment by the in-laws, leading to marital discord,” said Manzoor Azhar, a counselling psychologist working at a drug de-addiction and rehabilitation centre run by J&K Police.Multiple stigmasIn our society, women are often mocked at for not doing drugs, stigmatised if they use and face discrimination during recovery. Moreover, a mother suffering from substance use disorder may be seen as a failure and face more societal backlash than a man would. In most cases, women are the primary caregivers in the family, so they feel guilty going to rehabilitation centre for self-care. The chronic nature of substance use disorder means that for some people relapse can be part of the process. Women are more likely to experience intense cravings and relapse than men. Any traumatic experience like domestic violence, divorce, job loss, death in the family can trigger substance use in women. Since society has less understanding about substance use disorder, women in recovery are judged harshly and tend to face more negative social consequences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-high-low-70144
12-04-2020||Dr Rishi Bhardwaj||Keep an eye on  your screen time||With parks, theatres and malls closed due to the nationwide lockdown, people are glued to their TV, computer and mobile screens. The increased time in front multiple screens has augmented the exposure to harmful high-energy blue light waves. It’s well known that overexposure to blue light suppresses melatonin release by the brain, which disrupts normal sleep patterns. And poor sleep in all age groups, along with various other factors, could cause diabetes, heart disease as well psychological conditions such as depression and attention deficit disorder.Two hours per dayAccording to various studies done by  US universities, the safe screen time for adults (above 16 years) is two hours per day. But, these days we hardly follow it. The more we stare at a screen, our eyes get dry and the blinking rate gets lowered. That results in stress and strain in the eyes. More screen time means less physical activity and less exposure to green (natural green colour) — the exposure to natural green colour soothes the eyes.  Besides, the lack of physical activity is a leading cause of many lifestyle diseases including obesity, hypertension, diabetes and thyroid. All these diseases are related to our eyes as well as they affect the retina.Sleep disorderMore than recommended screen time causes low vision and, at times, temporary blindness, too, which ranges from a couple of minutes to hours. And because of  longer exposure to screens, we take more time to fall asleep. Since we don’t fall asleep as fast as we used to, we don’t get sound sleep and get up multiple times in between to check our phones. The more the screen time, the more disturbed your sleep pattern would be.Tips to reduce eye strainTake care of your mental healthBesides affecting our physical health, more screen time makes a negative impact on our mental health. It has been observed the more we are watch news or read reports on corona, the more we become prone to anxiety and depression.  Too much exposure to screen is not only affecting our eyes, sleep patterns but mental health as well. — The writer is head of ophthalmology department, Paras Hospital, Gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/keep-an-eye-on-your-screen-time-70142
12-04-2020||Sudhanva Deshpande||The luminous life of Safdar Hashmi||Sometimes death becomes more important than life. Think of Bhagat Singh. Or Che Guevara. Or Gauri Lankesh. We may or may not know in any real detail what they did in their lives, but we know how they died — or simply, that they died for upholding causes that they believed in. In their deaths, they acquire a stature that outgrows the achievements of their lives.Book Title: Halla Bol: The Death and Life of Safdar HashmiAuthor: Sudhanva Deshpande.Reviewed by: Shelley WaliaSomething a little bit like this happened to Safdar Hashmi. It is over 30 years since Safdar Hashmi was killed while performing a street play in support of workers’ demands on the outskirts of Delhi. That attack took place on January 1, 1989. Safdar, severely wounded in the attack, died in hospital the following day. On the morning of January 3, about 15,000 artistes, intellectuals, political activists, workers and others took part in his funeral procession. Such a funeral procession for a theatre artiste has probably never taken place in Delhi. On January 4, less than 48 hours after his death, his co-actor, comrade, and wife, Moloyashree, led Jana Natya Manch to the site of the attack to complete the interrupted play.It was a stirring performance, and captured the imagination of thousands of people all over the country. Safdar’s death became a catalyst for a massive movement in defence of the freedom of art and expression. Safdar’s birthday, April 12, was celebrated spontaneously as National Street Theatre Day by people all over the country. On that day in 1989, approximately 30,000 performances took place all over the country. Virtually every active street theatre group performed on that day; many groups which were dormant came to life; hundreds of new groups were formed. Safdar’s death had truly galvanised street theatre.Who, then, was Safdar Hashmi, and what is his contribution to street theatre? Was he merely a romantic young man who became a hero because he was done to death at the young age of 34? Or was he merely a political activist who dabbled in street theatre?In fact, Safdar was neither. He was romantic only to the extent that any revolutionary is romantic — recall Che’s famous statement, “The true revolutionary is guided by a great feeling of love. It is impossible to think of a genuine revolutionary lacking this quality.” And he was a political activist, a communist, because he genuinely believed that artistes have a social responsibility, and the logic of that responsibility led him to Marxism.Jana Natya Manch (Janam), the theatre group that Safdar was a part of, was founded in 1973, after efforts to revive IPTA in Delhi proved abortive. Initially, Janam did large, open-air proscenium plays — these were plays by writers such as Utpal Dutt and Sarveshwar Dayal Saksena, and were mounted on makeshift platforms in front of thousands of people in urban working class areas and villages. Then the Emergency was declared in 1975, and Janam became inactive. Safdar was to regret this later on, and would often say that if such a situation arose again, Janam would find ways of fighting authoritarianism by performing — openly, if possible, clandestinely, if required.When the Emergency was revoked in 1977, Janam regrouped, and started doing plays again. However, now the group found that the organisations which had hosted these plays in the past — trade unions, kisan sabha, etc. — were financially too weak to be able to afford these performances. Just the cost of putting up a stage in the open was too much. These organisations needed Janam’s theatre, but could not afford it. One way out of this could have been for Janam to perform in the established auditoria of the city, and somehow try and get their audiences to come to watch these plays.Safdar, however, was clear: if the trade unions could not afford big plays, let us take small plays to them. Out of this impulse was born Janam’s street theatre. Today, when there is so much street theatre happening across the country, it is hard to imagine that none of the young men and women in Janam then had any idea what they were getting into. There simply were no established models of street theatre to look at and learn from. Whatever had to be done, had to be built from scratch. In fact, when they started reading existing short plays to consider for performance, they found none that suited their purpose. So they decided to write their own plays.Safdar had not written a play before that. Nor had anyone else in the group. However, when workers at a factory called Herig India, demanding absolutely basic amenities, were fired upon, leading to six deaths, Safdar was certain that they had found their subject. He and another member of the group, Rakesh Saxena, collaboratively wrote a short play called Machine. Other members of the group contributed their ideas as well. The play became a huge hit with the audiences, who had seen nothing like this before. As Safdar recalled later:“After we sang the final song, the trade union delegates . . . lifted us on their shoulders. We became heroes . . . The next day we performed at the Boat Club for about 1,60,000 workers. So you see, our street theatre began very gloriously… A lot of people tape-recorded the play... A month after the rally we started getting reports from all around the country that people were performing Machine… They had … reconstructed it in their own languages.”One thousand shows later, Safdar still could not explain the success of Machine: “The workers absolutely love this play. I still do not understand (why), for it’s so simple … It is schematic, except that the dialogues are interesting. Everywhere they loved it, though … Perhaps it is something … abstract that appeals to them.” But Safdar has explained, here, the success of Machine: first, because of its stylised, lyrical, near-poetic prose; second, because it captures in its abstraction a very real, living truth and trusts its audiences to make the connection between the abstraction and reality; third, because abstraction and brevity lend it a certain simplicity, without rendering it simplistic.What Machine did, then, was to encapsulate the basic framework of Janam’s street theatre has traversed to date: in the moment of its birth, street theatre allied itself with the people, the revolutionary classes in particular; it signalled the involvement of its audiences in the creative process itself (the idea for Machine came from a trade unionist); it placed poetry in the foreground; it laid stress on theatrical innovation; and it inspired several others to take up street theatre.It is often assumed that street theatre and proscenium theatre are forms that stand in opposition to one another, that the former is “revolutionary”, while the latter is “bourgeois”. Nothing could be farther from the truth. Safdar himself was always clear that if Janam did nothing but street theatre between 1978 and 1988, it was only because the group did not have the resources to mount bigger plays. As he put it, “Theatre cannot be dependent on the frills and trappings which surround it. Drama is born with force and beauty in any empty space — whether square, rectangular, or circular. The play comes alive whether the spectators are on one or all sides, in darkness or in light.”When he deemed that the time was right, he collaborated in writing a proscenium play with Habib Tanvir in 1988. This play was Moteram ka Satyagraha, based on a story by Munshi Premchand, and was directed by Tanvir. Prior to this, he had adapted Gorky’s Enemies in Hindustani, and he had ambitions of Janam producing the play at some stage. That was not to be. His script remained unperformed in his lifetime, and was produced by Habib Tanvir for the National School of Drama Repertory Company in the summer of 1989.Safdar, then, was far from being sectarian in matters of art. He was forever willing to soak up influences from wherever he could, and was more than willing to try his hand at new forms and technologies. The entire area of video and television was just about opening up in the mid-1980s, and Safdar was quick to grasp its potential. He not only wrote and directed documentaries, he also scripted a full-length television serial on adult literacy and the empowerment of women, Khilti Kaliyan. He also wrote songs, poems and plays for children; he designed posters for a number of mass organisations; he took photographs; and he conducted theatre workshops. He worked for a while at the West Bengal Information Centre in Delhi, and was instrumental in organising the first Ritwik Ghatak retrospective in the Capital. He also organised screenings of Cuban films, in particular those of Tomas Alea. He was a major force in rallying artistes and intellectuals around issues of larger concern: at the time of the anti-Sikh riots in 1984 and subsequently in defence of secularism; in reviving the legacy of Premchand; in rallying artistes and intellectuals in support of the seven-day strike in 1988.Habib Tanvir later recalled: “Safdar was an extremely broad-minded man, in a political sense. He wanted to open a broad cultural front. He could write poetry and plays, paint, act and sing. His idea of a cultural front was not confined to theatre. He visualised painters, musicians, singers, dancers, writers and critics — all to be drawn into a movement out of common interest . . . (He was) a creative genius, endorsed with the zeal, energy and determination of a far-sighted organiser and theatre visionary.”Safdar became a communist because he was fired by revolutionary ideas. Three decades after it was brutally snuffed out, that luminous, red-hot life continues to inspire. Today, on campuses across the country, as well as at protest sites such as Shaheen Bagh, you can see Safdar Hashmi’s portraits, or lines from his songs and poems. Safdar is alive. In people’s struggles.— The writer is author of Halla Bol: The Death and Life of Safdar Hashmi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-luminous-life-of-safdar-hashmi-70137
12-04-2020||Urmi Chanda||The vastness of Mehlli Gobhai’s canvas||Early in March, when the coronavirus crisis (or its realisation) hadn’t hit India yet, a wonderful new exhibition was opened to Mumbai’s art enthusiasts at the National Gallery of Modern Art. Don’t Ask Me About Colour, a retrospective of Mehlli Gobhai which. Curated by renowned cultural theorists Ranjit Hoskote and Nancy Adajania, it brought together nearly 70 years of the master’s works.To the uninitiated, Mehlli Gobhai is synonymous with abstract art in India and is considered among its greatest practitioners in the 20th century. The artist passed away in September 2018 at the age of 87, but has left behind a legacy of art and many admirers. Having lived in Mumbai, London and New York, Gobhai’s body of work had an unmistakably Western flavour.But Gobhai was also uniquely, stubbornly himself, and to define him in any definitive terms would be to do him disservice. Where Hoskote describes him as ‘eccentric’, Adajania describes his quaint ambivalence towards colour. “He both pushed it away, and was pulled towards it,” she says. In fact, they were inspired to name this exhibition Don’t Ask Me About Colour or Mujhse Rang Ki Baat Naa Karo by this quirk. Though the show is closed for now, the two are now working with Chemould Prescott Road art gallery to set up a virtual walkthrough at National Gallery of Modern Art, Mumbai.Adajania says what brought her and Hoskote together on this project was the fact that Gobhai was a close friend of long standing. “Ranjit and I were teenagers when we first met him, and our friendship continued over 30 years, until his passing in 2018. The conversations, collaborations, journeys, and winter vacations that we shared with him are an important part of our lives. And each of us had a different approach to Gobhai’s work,” says Adajania.In Don’t Ask Me About Colour, the two have merged their different approaches to Gobhai’s art. She says that while Ranjit’s concern was to contextualise him in terms of global abstraction, her concern was to situate his practice in terms of all that remained invisible to viewers of his paintings — his expansive sense of culture at large, his deep interest in sculpture, textiles and folk art.Hoskote describes Gobhai as eccentric and insists that he regards eccentricity as a positive attribute. “...a virtue, a necessity for the creative imagination. Eccentricity connotes the courage to stand apart from the established centre of gravity in a society or culture. Unlike many Indian abstractionists, who hide behind a quasi-mystical rhetoric of silence and non-representation, he engaged in a full-bodied manner with ideas, language, and materiality.”He says Gobhai had a passionate concern for civil rights and cultural freedoms, and would depart from abstraction to design posters for NGOs and civil society platforms. “As a person, he mapped his own journey, releasing himself towards the vulnerable, the disenfranchised, other species. He once nursed a wounded crow to health in his home, hosting the bird for over a year. If Gobhai was eccentric, it was in the way St Francis of Assisi was eccentric,” he adds.Hoskote says this exhibition is a homage to an abstractionist who did not turn his back on the figure. “It is a retrospective survey as well as a research exhibition. We would like our viewers — both first-time viewers of Gobhai and those who know Gobhai from his later, more brooding and darker work — to be amazed by his paintings from the 1970s.”The works demonstrate his brilliance as a master of colour, the very element in the painterly repertoire that he later came to regard with scepticism and restraint. They show him confidently engaging with the palette of Rajput and Pahari painting, with the abstraction of Willem De Kooning and Philip Guston, and making his own way in a robust, remarkably vibrant manner, he says.Gobhai has, sometimes, been called ‘the last great abstractionist of India’. We wonder if there are any contemporary Indian artists to look out for... For Adajania, Gobhai was inimitable. “There was no school of Gobhai. His practice was at a tangent to the dominant languages of abstraction prevalent in the Indian context, namely lyrical, landscape and symbolic abstraction.”She says that if one were to look for affinities with fellow abstractionists, she would think of Zarina Hashmi and Rajendra Dhawan, whose deft ability to conjure a melancholic atmospherics held Gobhai’s attention. “It’s apocalyptic to speak of ‘the last great abstractionist’. The language of abstraction has been constantly renewed by artists across generations, and continues to be extended: Hashmi, Shobha Broota, Manisha Parekh, Sheetal Gattani, Hemali Bhuta and Tanya Goel, among others,” she says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-vastness-of-mehlli-gobhais-canvas-70139
12-04-2020||BN Goswamy||Paths of devotion||Having thoroughly searched the Shastras of former teachers, very hard to be crossed, the fortunate Sayana-Madhava has expounded them for the delight of the good. Let the virtuous listen with a mind from which all envy has been far banished; who does not find delight in a garland strung of various flowers?— From the Prologue to the Sarva Darshan SangrahaThe fire is hot, the water cold, refreshing cool the breeze of morn; By whom came this variety? From their own nature was it born. — Cited by MadhavacharyaAt the gracious home of Nona and Jyoti Datta, with whom I spent some days during my recent visit to the United States, I saw hanging on a wall — neatly framed and peering down benignly at everything — a group of paintings which I was instantly drawn to. Single figures of persons who could be seen as ‘men of God’ — sadhus, devotees, and the like — they all seemed to be absorbed in devotion, and all the images appeared to be related, as if coming from a series. There were other, more ambitious and complex, works on the walls of the home, but I was especially intrigued by this relatively simple, disarmingly artless, group of four. Unable to identify them at sight, I wanted to see if they carried any inscriptions on the back, or texts, and my hosts, generous as ever, agreed to my request. The frames were taken down and opened, and, to my delight, I found fairly detailed texts, all written in Persian, on the back of each, with a one line caption in poorly written Devanagari added at the top. If there was any doubt about whether they came from a series, it vanished naturally with this discovery, and I sat down: studying. There was no information in the texts that an art historian would ordinarily be happy to build on: names, dates, region, etc. The whole thing was a bit of a puzzle. One was left to one’s own devices.  unrelated to the seriesBut let me describe, briefly, the paintings. Each showed a devotee seated, all by himself, on a marble terrace, a small piece of carpet or asana under him, facing left. At the back could be seen an unadorned balustrade beyond which, in all but one case, appeared some foliage, symmetrically distributed, some bushes at the left and some facing them, at right. One devotee, grey-bearded, sat cross-legged, bare of upper body, lower part clad in a saffron dhoti, a necklace of black beads hugging his neck, the head sporting a turban with a peaked middle. In the extended right hand he held a small sacred text with some illegible writing on the open pages. Another painting, more meticulously done, featured a devotee of high station, a lightly coloured nimbus surrounding his head, back resting against a bolster, legs tucked under him, seated on a small carpet with a scrolling design. It looked like a conventional rendering of the great teacher,Vallabhacharya, founder of the sect dedicated to Krishna, now centred at Nathdwara, near Udaipur. The upper part of the body, bare in itself, was covered with a thin veil, and the lower part in a white dhoti with a small border. A distinctive aspect of the ‘portrait’ was the hair-style, a lush bunch of hair hanging, like a loose bun, at the back, touching the neck which had a kanthi encircling it. In one hand he was seen holding a small prayer-mala; by his side were wooden paduka-sandals which he had obviously taken off before sitting down at his prayers; at a short distance from the carpet was a brass vessel, clearly hinting at containing sanctified water.A third ‘portrait’ was of an elegant-looking woman devotee, intent look on the face, gazing into the distance while playing on a stringed instrument that rested in her lap. Seated like a musician, her right leg crossed over the other knee; a thick mass of black hair trailed along her neck; pieces of jewellery adorned her form: a string of pearls that shone across the side of the head, connecting to finely detailed pendant earrings; a nose-ring featuring two pearls; a bank of bangles on both wrists. On the upper part of her body was draped a thin, transparent, veil of patterned muslin; the lower part of the body featured a dhoti; a thin wisp of curly hair seemed to kiss a cheek.  This is what I could see in the paintings. However, it was time to turn to the texts that were inscribed on the backs of the paintings. And when I started reading them, I found that I was completely wrong in interpreting at least two of the paintings. The figure that I thought was that of Vallabhacharya, was, according to the text, that of a ‘Gosain of Vrindavana’. But the far greater surprise for me was the text telling me that the woman devotee with the stringed instrument that I have described above was not a woman at all: it was the rendering of a man who belonged to the small sect of ‘Sakhibhavas’.The text gave details: devotees belonging to this sect saw themselves as the beloveds of Krishna, and ‘surrendered’ themselves to Him in that role: dressing up as women, conducting themselves in daily life and speaking as women, adopting ‘the ways and wiles’ of women when facing an image of his. The text left no doubt about this. That, in different faiths, devotees refer to themselves as the ‘brides’ of God sometimes, I knew about. But here was a whole sect of men assuming that role.  In respect of style, I see these paintings as dating back to ca. 1800, and having been painted in a general North Indian style, possibly based in Lucknow or the areas around Agra and Mathura. But I am unable to guess what work the texts at the back of the paintings come from. Clearly it must have been a work which spoke of systems, and of categories of devotees. One thinks of that great 14th century text, the Sarva Darshan Sangraha, by Madhav Vidyaranya, who expounded on the 16 philosophical systems current in India at that time; what comes to mind also is Mohsin Fani’s celebrated 17th century work, the Dabistan-e Mazaahib, which again speaks of a number of Hindu sects practising their beliefs. But these brief texts were nowhere close to those works.   What then? I am still searching.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/paths-of-devotion-70138
