12-10-2020||SS Chhina||Contractually bound||CONTRACT farming has immense potential in India, provided it inspires confidence among farmers of assured marketing of products on a par with the state procurement of wheat and paddy. Though the new farm laws are interlinked, scepticism is mainly regarding assured marketing. In India, most of the farmers have landholdings of less than one hectare. They are involved in subsistence farming to meet their daily needs through the sale of the produce. They can never venture to take any marketing risk.Developed countries such as Canada, Australia and the US had adopted contract farming for optimal use of their sources and to overcome price volatility in any season. This type of contract farming is needed more in India, where the sources are meagre and the country cannot afford wastage.There are two main reasons for the breakdown of contracts in the past. Most of the contracts were made by the agro processing units for the supply of raw material to their new installed units, but once the prevailing price in that market happened to be higher than the contracted price, the farmers used to sell to other traders rather than to the contractor. When the price happened to be low, the contractor purchased from farmers who were not contracted. In the second case, sometimes the contractors had declined to purchase on the plea that the quality of the product was not good enough for the market for which the contract was made. Apart from farmers and contractors, workers also suffered when contracts fell through. The consumers suffered because of the price hike due to suspension of the production. Such a situation must be addressed by the new legislation for contract farming.In the case of contract farming in developed countries, the company concerned monitors the production process right from sowing to harvesting. Company officials focus on quality control. If there is a deficiency in the product, it is not because of the farmer but due to the weather or a lapse on the company’s part.India was compelled to import food till the Green Revolution happened. The government made the provision of better seeds, fertilisers, irrigation, easy credit and minimum support price (MSP). But only wheat and paddy are procured by the government. Other crops are not procured despite the provision of MSP. The production of wheat and paddy has been staggering because of assured marketing.Recently, the Union government announced to encourage the cultivation of herbs to tap their export potential. There are other high-value crops that also have such potential, but only if it is assumed that a subsistence farmer can identify such products and get foreign orders. It is the job of the export house to do the needful. The subsistence farmer can enhance his income with such products, but only with the same assurance he was provided with the state procurement. APEDA (Agricultural Products Export and Development Agency) works at the Central level. It is playing a significant role in promoting the export of farm products. There are agro export corporations at the state level also, but hardly any of them has secured foreign orders in the past decade.Crop diversification is the most desirable imperative now, but area under new crops is not rising because of the lack of assured marketing. That gap can be filled by contract farming between agro-processing and export companies in collaboration with state agro export corporations. Ostensibly, contract farming is going to be launched for crops that have high potential but are not being grown because of unsure marketing. The challenge before the government is to make contract farming sustainable.The author is Senior Fellow, Institute of Social Sciences, Delhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/contractually-bound-154634
12-10-2020||---||MSP regime indispensable||PC BodhTHE ongoing debate over the farm laws is a huge opportunity for Indian polity to find out whether it is the complexity of farming problems or its own crookedness which is responsible for the sorry state of our small and marginal farmers and farm workers.Despite the stellar performance amid the pandemic, the Indian agricultural sector continues to be crisis-ridden. On an average, over 15,300 farmers and farm workers annually committed suicide from 1995 to 2015; and the trend is still going on unabated.As a director in the erstwhile Planning Commission, I witnessed a major move by the National Development Council under the leadership of the then PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee to reverse the suicidal downtrend in agriculture. Subsequently, with the arrival of the Manmohan Singh government, the tempo of agricultural development accelerated. The MS Swaminathan Commission was set up with the mandate of delving into the agrarian crisis and recommending policies to resolve it. Though it was the UPA government which unveiled the National Policy for Farmers (NPF)-2007, it didn’t agree to fixing the MSP at 1.5 times the cost of production. It is the NDA government which, after an initial hitch, agreed to implement this recommendation in its fifth year in 2018-19.The apprehension that allowing the sale of produce beyond the physical boundaries of the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) might lead to winding up of the MSP policy is unfounded. The MSP regime is going to stay owing to its success over the decades in serving the national macro-economic objectives of food security and welfare measures for access to food and nutrition. The system remains pivotal to food security and protection of farmers against the vagaries of weather and the market. What’s more, according to the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, the MSP policy can be deployed to correct the crop pattern in favour of wheat, pulses and oilseeds.Allowing the free sale of farm produce beyond the physical limits of APMCs is intended to protect farmers from their exploitative functioning by exposing them to private mandi competition, as found in the field evidence of agro-economic research studies.When the NDA government took over in 2014, the 12th Five-Year Plan had been under implementation with 11 formidable National Mission Schemes, addressing all key aspects of agricultural development to achieve 4% growth rate. Since then, there have been significant modifications and improvement to overhaul these schemes to achieve the growth rate, tackle the agrarian crisis, and double farmers’ income by 2022. Green Revolution — Krishonnati Yojana was approved coterminous with the period of the 14th Finance Commission from 2017-18 to 2019-20.What necessitated the farm laws ever more was the need for making agriculture fully realise its growth potential by liberating farming from hurdles posed by archaic laws and open up ways for enabling them to adopt innovative and dynamic farm management.According to agro-economic research studies, it is critical to free agricultural markets from corruption and handicaps of exploitative functioning of APMC markets for bringing in private mandis in a big way.The farm sector reforms have immense potential and relevance in giving Indian farming and farmers a push towards self-reliance. Taking out agricultural produce from the ambit of the Essential Commodities Act would make the free flow of agricultural produce possible across state and international borders, brightening the prospects of benefits across areas to enrich all players in the chain; and provide optimal conditions for farming compatible with global competition.No policy regime evolves or survives during any one political party’s term and the overall process either evolves further or degenerates. One needs to be guided by the moral responsibility of safeguarding the interests of farmers.The author is Senior EconomicAdviser to Union Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare. Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/msp-regime-indispensable-154635
