13-09-2020||The region of Awadh joined Agra in 1902 to form the United Provinces of Oudh and Agra. Agra had served as capital of the Mughal Empire and was considered so strategically important by the British that it established a cantonment there. It took nearly half a century after the First War of Independence in 1857 for the British to feel secure and they moved the centre of power from Agra to Allahabad. The high court and university were established in Allahabad and the capital and administrative offices of the United Provinces were moved from Agra to Lucknow. It was then that the heartland of Awadh regained its old glory.||Awadh Archives in Ayodhya||Awadh (mispronounced as Oudh by the British) derives from Ayodhya, seat of an ancient kingdom that dates back to the age of 16 Great Janapadas, four to five centuries before the birth of Christ. Lord Ram of Ayodhya is the divine hero of the epic Ramayana. And this, at times, distracts attention from the other sub-regions of Awadh.Faizabad was the capital from where the nawabs of Awadh governed their principality till it was shifted to Lucknow. Its location allowed it to act as a confluence of diverse cultural streams — culinary and artistic. It reached its zenith when Wajid Ali Shah held court here and generously patronised arts and crafts. The city has always taken pride in its refined language, manners and hospitality, its learned scholars and talented poets. It has been described as the Paris of the Orient. What is today referred to as the syncretic Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb — shared heritage of composite culture — is the priceless legacy of Awadh.The rich tapestry of Indo-Islamic culture in Awadh is woven with multi-hued strands. Kashmiri Pandits, Punjabi Khatris, Kayasthas and prabasi Bengalis, soldiers of fortune and members of nobility despatched from Delhi to govern — all have contributed to its mesmerising pattern.The fabulous culinary gems of Awadh, exotic and aromatic delicacies, have dazzled the world but few realise that the cuisine of this region is inseparable from the fairs and festivals celebrated according to the cycle of seasons. These unveil the rich crafts tradition of the tract, stretching from Rohilkhand — encompassing Rampur, Amroha, Sambhal, Budaun, Shahjahanpur — to Kannauj, famed for its ittr, and along the banks of Yamuna through Farrukhabad, Firozabad and Agra. The footprint of Awadh is really large. And the beloved Ganga river, after embracing the Yamuna at Allahabad, moves on to Varanasi via Chunar and Mirzapur.When one talks of the Awadh Archives, it envisions documenting, cataloguing and drawing from a rich repertoire of arts and crafts — chikankari and zardozi, pottery and perfumes, illustrated/illuminated manuscripts and calligraphy; from glassware in Firozabad to ittar ka karkhana (perfumeries) and handmade carpets in Mirzapur.Photos courtesy: Osama JalaliIn cities and towns of Awadh, there has been a long tradition of cultivating language and literature, practising and patronising calligraphy.Moving onIt is a matter of great satisfaction that the UP Sunni Waqf Board has decided to ‘move on’ and embark on the path of reconciliation. Only this mindset can ensure that sores are not allowed to fester dangerously. The land made available to it is around 5 acres, where a mosque will be built. The board has decided to set up an Indo-Islamic Cultural Centre on the premises that will house the Awadh Archives.Perhaps, there is a need to remove some cobwebs. A mosque is primarily a place to offer ritual worship where the community congregates. But it is also a place that, like a temple, performs other functions such as providing education and doing charity. Madrasa and kharati dawakhana are also proposed to be built, along with the mosque.One more thing. The archives and digital museum may be prefixed with Awadh but the domain of Indo-Islamic culture extends over all of India. Deccan had created its own Ganga-Jamuni heritage even before the establishment of the Mughal Empire. Hyderabad, under Quli Qutab Shah, illustrates this shared, cosmopolitan fusion of Persian, Turkic, Arab and Abyssinian influences. It was Dekhni-Hindavi that enriched Urdu with the passage of time.Food and architecture, crafts and literature, all flourished under the Nizams and Sultans of Bidar, Bijapur and Ahmednagar, who asserted their sovereignty after the dissolution of the Bahmani Empire. What can’t be forgotten is the Deccan’s Awadhi connection. The Nizam sent from Delhi was, before this, a Subedar in Awadh. He carried with him memories of Faizabad and more. But let us not digress.Discovering lost richesTime to return to Awadh, not just Lucknow and its legendary taluqas — Mehmudabad, Jehagirabad, Kotwara, Balrampur and many more. They take justifiable pride in nurturing and protecting the ‘sajha virasat’ but it’s time we turned our gaze to the countryside — that is where the master chefs and craftspersons came from, bringing with them the flavours and fragrances of their beloved villages. The element of folk and provencal in Awadh has never been less remarkable than the haute in the courts.What can be more satisfying than discovering the lost riches — objects of art such as brassware from Moradabad, made-to-measure sherwani and achhakan from Aligarh, blue pottery from Chinhat, juxtaposed with carafes, chandeliers from Firozabad — and share the agony and ecstasy of their making with visitors to the archives.True, the space will be limited, and there may be paucity of funds. This is where digital technology offers unprecedented creative opportunities. From calligraphy to abstract designs to 3D virtual tours of the majestic mosques in India — Sunheri and Atala Masjid in Jaunpur, Taj ul Masjid (Bhopal) and the ancient wooden mosque in Kerala will help the pilgrims and tourists to appreciate the evolution of mosque architecture in India. Its essential features — minaret and dome(s), open courtyard with a pulpit — will be interestingly explained. The arches and domes were incorporated in other religious and secular buildings with passage of time — in the gurdwaras in Punjab and palaces and cenotaphs in Rajasthan and Bundelkhand.Awadh Archives, in short, will strive to provide a portal to view the gallery of Indo-Islamic culture. The digital displays will facilitate the visitor to appreciate much better the processes of carpet weaving, glassware manufacture and gold embroidery. Handicrafts on the verge of extinction such as beating tiny sheets of silver and gold into wafer-thin foil/leaves and handmade pottery will also get a fresh lease of life.From the kitchen shelfMost people have naturally asked enough questions about the food that will be available in the community cafeteria. It is not conceived as langar in a Sufi dargah or in a gurdwara. The objective is to provide hygienic, nutritious, pocket-friendly light meals and snacks representing the variety of popular dishes — many forgotten — from different sub-regions of Awadh.The Waqf Board being a charitable non-profit organisation will hopefully try to keep the prices low, but it’s unreasonable to expect subsidised meals. For the project to be viable, the kitchen must recover food and other fixed costs. The province is renowned for master chefs and what is proposed is to conduct training classes in basic kitchen craft under their supervision to create livelihood and self-employment for young adults and school dropouts in Faizabad and adjacent areas. It may be possible to take advantages of synergies provided by Hunar Se Rozgar Tak or Kaushal schemes of the government and attract some support under the Corporate Social Responsibility programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/awadh-archives-in-ayodhya-140592
13-09-2020||B N Goswamy||How Japanese art movement influenced the world||“….living only for the moment, savouring the moon, the snow, the cherry blossoms, and the maple leaves, singing songs, drinking sake, and diverting oneself just in floating, unconcerned by the prospect of imminent poverty, buoyant and carefree, like a gourd carried along with the river current: this is what we call ukiyo.”— Asai Ryoi, c. 1661‘When I was 50 I had published a universe of designs, but all I have done before the age of 70 is not anything of great value. At 75, I’ll have learned something of the pattern of nature, of animals, of plants, of trees, birds, fish and insects. When I am 80, you will see real progress. At 90, I shall have cut my way deeply into the mystery of life itself. At 100 I shall be a marvellous artist. At 110, everything I create — a dot, a line — will jump to life as never before.’— Katsushika Hokusai (1760-1849)A little short of 300 years ago, there emerged in Japan an art movement that changed the world of art nearly all over the world. Ukiyo-e, meaning, literally, ‘Pictures of the Floating World’, is what this movement aimed at producing, moving away from the rigid classicism of earlier Japanese works and submerging itself in the ordinary, hedonistic world of the common man in which Kabuki actors and seductive courtesans, tea-houses and entertainment parlours, wrestling heroes and famous romantic vistas, all moved about raucously. The word ukiyo, which came to be associated with the movement, had originally expressed the Buddhist idea of the transitory nature of life. But suddenly this rather sober, even pessimistic, notion was overturned. From meaning ‘transitory’, which life of course is, the emphasis shifted to ‘floating’, expressing an attitude of joie de vivre. This new visual world, created by some remarkably gifted artists, was brought into being in the form of woodblock prints, which made it possible for anyone with a bit of extra cash to move into a world of dazzling images. The movement took off like a blazing fire, and names of artists — like Hokusai, Hiroshige, Utamaro, Sharaku, among them — started becoming household names, even as their inexpensive woodblocks hung about, grew into posters, turned greeting cards, or wrapping paper, peppering home after home and street corner after street corner.Mt. Fuji. Also by Hokusai, 1839.I have written about ukiyo-e before, in this very column. The subject is seductive and what it leads to — in terms of exploring its complexities and measuring its impact on the world of art alone — can keep one occupied for a long, long time. It is possible to take just one artist alone and his work — the great Hokusai for instance: 30,000 works; obsessive concerns with single themes like Thirty Six Views of Mt. Fuji, and another 100 that followed; Remarkable Views of Bridges in Various Provinces; a single extraordinary work 180 meters in length; constant self-examination — and find it hard to emerge from it. It is equally possible at the same time to go across to Europe from Japan and see how electrifying and profound the impact produced by ukiyo-e prints was on artists who were to become icons of modern art in their own right — Monet, Degas, Renoir, Toulouse-Lautrec, among others — admiring these new flat colours, shadow-less surfaces, and dramatic angles, that were coming in from Japan. Volumes have been written, and the theme is not exhausted yet.On another note, however. Against this background, I find myself asking whether in some strange, time-bending, way, we — all of us — are not part of a ‘Floating World’ too. Not floating, as Asai Ryoi described, merrily “like a gourd carried along with the river current”, nor like logs cut fresh from a forest and rushing downstream: now moving, now stuck briefly in some corner. But drifting; unaware of where we are headed. Or — even worse — aware but unable to do anything about it. Consider the world we are living in at any level: political, economic, social, cultural, above all, moral. It is sheer mayhem. There is no merriment in it, no celebratory noises do we hear except those bellowed out by mindless media or cash-rich corporations, in the name of entertainment. A virus rises and spreads from some unknown source, or lab perhaps, and begins to squeeze the world, holding it from its scrawny neck. A black man is choked to death by a white policeman in uniform, nation-wide protests and riots break out, and yet nothing, nothing truly, happens. Millions of migrant labourers/workers begin to trudge homewards, all possession, all jobs, all dignity, lost, and continue to hope for better days to come. In another corner of the world, men opposed to the establishment are administered slow doses of poison so as to neutralise them. A known terrorist organisation threatened to set the world on fire if its demands were not to be met and yet, despite all the efforts of the wide range of nations, it keeps expanding and ‘burning’. We are moved, but remain unable to move.Intriguingly, or as a diversion perhaps, I look at some of the ukiyo-e images — mostly Hokusai — from time to time, and see in them things that tell us something or the other about our world of today, or about our mindsets. In the Great Wave off Kanagawa by Hokusai, “arguably the single most famous image in all Asian Art”, are caught some hapless little boats. We do not even see them at first, for so overpowering is the ‘noise’ we hear made by the roaring wave, drowning all other sounds and sights, but slowly we begin to see them: not one, but three, all but about to be submerged and swept. In The Suspension Bridge on the Border of Hida, where two figures are seen, precariously positioned with everything shaking and heaving under them while they take their rickety steps, we can almost see ourselves. When mindless young men fly a kite from a sharply sloping slate roof — Kite Flying from Rooftop — we nearly tumble ourselves. In Torii Kiyomitsu’s Acrobats, just about everything points to nothing else than showmanship, performance.It is but rarely that we come upon a calming sight like A Boy Watching Mt. Fuji. The rest of it — if not in ukiyo-e, at least in our own lives and our ‘floating’ surroundings — is a world that is all leak and creek, pitch and roll, keel and tilt. Isn’t it?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/how-japanese-art-movement-influenced-the-world-140610
13-09-2020||To begin with||Photographer Parul Sharma’s ode to the pandemic-hit Delhi ‘Dialects of Silence’||From the deserted corridors of power to railway stations and mortuaries, from popular haunts to hospitals fighting an unseen virus, from the destitute to the gurdwaras that worked overtime to feed them, she has documented all in what is now a book, ‘Dialects of Silence’, by Roli.Captured in black and white, time seemed to have come to a halt for some, yet it slipped by from the hands of others like the young widow reading the Fatiah before her husband’s freshly dug grave and migrant families left to fend for themselves under flyovers and makeshift shelters. As Delhi faced the virus’ fury, doctors clocked in 18-hour shifts, seven days a week. Sharma captured them in animated discussions, the struggle for life in neonatal wards, the dead at mortuaries and crematoriums, but no one to mourn them...In the foreward to the book, art historian BN Goswamy says the photos have the power to embed themselves in our minds, to creep up on us. “There is, in Parul Sharma’s clear-eyed work, so much sharpness. And so much heart.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/photographer-parul-sharmas-ode-to-the-pandemic-hit-delhi-dialects-of-silence-140612
13-09-2020||Shristi Nangalia||Lend that designer touch to your interiors||Designers do not have a décor guide or rule book when it comes to decorating spaces. The design of each space is dealt with individually while honouring the context of the site and working in lines with the functional and aesthetical requirements. Having said that it is the designer touch which makes any dull and dated room turn into a welcoming and timeless interior volume. Herewith are some tips and tricks on how you can have your own Instagram-worthy living room, dining room, bedroom, kid’s room and more.Living room: Find the focal pointThe key to good design lies in a composed layout and proper layering of all elements of space. To get the décor of your living room right, look for potential areas where focal points can be achieved. A gallery of family photos or a huge artwork on the wall could take the décor of the room to a new level. Consider reupholstering the furniture and adding playful patterned cushions and a throw for a multi-layered, yet refined, appeal. Add an area rug, one that nods to the colour scheme of the upholstery and cushions. Top the space with table accessories or vases. Finally, introduce suitable indoor plants in pots and planters to enliven the setup. If you do not have a green thumb, dried flowers and potpourri could be the right fix.Dining area: Try multiple patternsThe palette of the living room can act as a fair starting point to decorate the dining room since both the spaces ideally lie together in the home. The dining room is the right place to experiment with patterns, accessories and lighting. You can try accenting the space with multiples patterns in a similar colour or tone, creating an interesting tablescape with décor pieces of the same make, or bringing in a statement pendant light to crown the dining area. If the space and interior theme permits, you can install a coffee station or a bar trolley to effectuate a high-end allure to the space.Bedroom: Create an intriguing backdropTo amp up the décor of the bedroom and pull off a chic and relaxing aura, use the walls to create an intriguing backdrop. Paintings, floating shelves, mirrors, wall sconces can aid in building beautiful vignettes, while maintaining the style quotient of the room. Apart from that, you can invest in a colourful tapestry, rug or curtains to add warmth and personality to the space.Kid’s bedroom: Punch in a dash of colourAn easy trick to design a lasting kids room is to pick up gender-neutral colours (like green, grey, beige, black and white) for the furnishing and built-in units. Blinds, bedcover, carpet, wall hangings, banners, etc. can be used to punch in a dash of colour to the room. Your child may also love unique additions like a teepee, a gallery wall full of his/her own drawings, a chalkboard wall, hanging fairy lights, etc.Staircase: Install an engaging runnerA surefire way to build up the decor of the staircase area or stairwell is to install an engaging runner or add enhancements (like acrylic sheets, stick-on wallpapers) to the risers. The under-stair area and landing zones are a great place to place planters and figurines. If there is enough space, employ a couple of chairs or ottomans to tailor an intimate reading corner. Station a dramatic lighting fixture on the stairwell ceiling or wall to bring vertical interest. Wall hangings and wall art, too, can be situated as an instant solution too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/lend-that-designer-touch-to-your-interiors-140617
13-09-2020||Rashmi Gopal Rao||Give add a festive zing to your tables||With the festive season ringing in, styling the furniture is one of the easiest ways to add sparkle and festive zing to your home. Here are some tips and tricks to do up your centre and dining table:Natural finishGo for natural and eco-friendly accessories. Experiment with a crochet or kantha table cloth or even one reimagined through an old sari, table mats of natural materials like bamboo, handloom or even plantain leaves. Locally sourced flowers like mogra, marigold and champa, accompanied by candles and table runners, are a great idea. Place different potted succulents in a galvanised tray for visual impact. “For a large table, place foraged flowers and branches in a vase for effect. Fresh evergreen boughs and pinecones are a classic decor. For outdoors, beautify the table with a sculptural piece of driftwood,” says Hemil Parikh of Elysium Abodes LLP.Style cuesIt is time to take out the silver. Polish it and let it speak for you at your centre table. “Place large pieces of silverware inwards and the medium-size ones in their periphery. Set the dining table with mats, quarter plates, dining plates and cutlery from left to right. Place napkins with rings on the plates. You may like to place a flower on each plate,” says Vandana Sarawgi of SR Artefacts.Opt for décor elements in contrasting colours. For instance, if your table is dark brown or black, go for décor items in gold or brass. For tables in white wood, choose elements in bold hues like red, yellow or blue. For a traditional dark wood dining table, choose a long maroon ikkat print table runner and adorn it with brass décor elements. For a contemporary dining table in light brown wood or white wood, opt for a short table runner in pastel colours.Do it yourselfGet creative. Place small aromatic candles in mason jars and embellish the jars with macramé covers for warm, cozy vibes. “Fill a transparent vase with sticks or branches dipped in peppy colours. Wrap these sticks with string lights to add radiance to the space. If you have extra ceramic mugs, paint these in bright colours and intriguing designs to create statement décor pieces. Bring out empty wine or champagne bottles and splash some vibrant colours on them with a toothbrush,” suggests Saloni Khosla of Pepperfry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/give-add-a-festive-zing-to-your-tables-140618
13-09-2020||Jagvir Goyal||Get those wire mesh shutters||Many apartments often don’t provide wire mesh shutters on doorways and windows. A look at why these are so important:Weatherwise: Unlike independent houses, doorways to balconies in apartments are mostly provided with uPVC or aluminium panels with part-fixed glazing and part-sliding glazed shutters to step into the balcony. No wire mesh shutters are, generally, provided in the openable part which is highly desirable during summers.Post-construction: Wire mesh shutters can be provided to the existing glazed windows without much fuss. Their provision demands addition of a new frame abutting the existing frame on the outer side of existing frame and inducting a prefabricated wire mesh shutter into it.Material: In case of uPVC (un-plasticised poly vinyl chloride) windows, the supplier will check the sizes and bring factory-made windows for their provision at site. The aluminium frame consists of heavy powder-coated aluminium section. The frame sections, cut to size, are brought to site, screwed together and fitted in position by driving 5 inch screws through them into the walls. The wire mesh shutter has a 2.5 to 3 inch wide frame with galvanised wire mesh of 22 x 12 mesh tightly fixed in it.Central support: It should be ensured that in wire mesh shutters, a horizontal central aluminium piece is provided to break the large-sized wire mesh panel for support. Else it’ll loosen after some time.Smooth sliding, no play: Smooth sliding of wire mesh shutters should be repeatedly checked. These should run effortlessly. For this, brush lining is provided inside the sliding groove at top and bottom of shutter. Ensure that wire mesh shutter doesn’t interfere with the glass shutter or fixed glazed portion.Locking arrangement: Wire mesh shutters should be provided with flush handles with locking arrangement like glazed-sliding shutters. Apartment dwellers can slide back the glass shutter with wire mesh shutters in locked position at night to allow fresh air inside, and yet feel secure.Cost factor: The carpenter will take measurements, discuss material specifications and quote his rate of fabrication and site provision to you on per square feet basis. Normally, for a 3 BHK or 4 BHK apartment, provision of such additional shutters to all windows should cost around Rs50,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/get-those-wire-mesh-shutters-140620
13-09-2020||---||Transform your basement||Pooja Khanna TyagiA Basement renovation provides a wonderful opportunity to create extra space and incorporate some fun areas like a bar, den, home theatre or a gaming room. With careful planning, good lighting, proper selection of material and trendy decor ideas, one can transform the basement into a stunning space. Here are six things to consider if you plan to go for a full-fledged basement renovation.Waterproof the basementThe first step is to check the basement for any leaks or dampness which can result in the growth of mould. If there are any sources of water penetration like cracks or leakages from the building pipelines, these should be rectified immediately.Ensure good ventilationSince there are fewer windows within the basement, one must ensure proper ventilation by incorporating exhaust fans. This is the best way to extract moist air from the basement and replace it with fresh air.Create an elegant staircaseDesign the staircase as an accent feature. Convert this area into a focal point by incorporating a floating staircase, use different material or colours to differentiate between the treads and the risers, install statement lights, go for built-in storage under the stair soffit and so on. Make sure that all window openings in the basement are big enough for one to climb out in case of a fire emergency if the staircase is inaccessible.Go for a stylish decorIf you plan to use the basement as a bar or a gaming space, go for an open plan design with minimum walls. This will give the basement an airy look. Incorporate backlighting, contrasting colours, statement pieces of furniture, wall art, modern carpets and plush fabrics. Keep in mind that you cannot incorporate a bathroom in the basement as it is not permitted as per building bylaws. Alternately, create an audio-visual room by installing a screen, set of speakers, amplifiers, acoustic panels on the walls and ceiling, mood lighting and comfortable recliner chairs that combine together to create a stunning decor. Create a clutter-free and well-organised space by wall mounting the television and speakers.Adequate lightingGood lighting is a great way to enhance the overall look of the decor. Since most basements have limited access to natural light, it is essential to incorporate sufficient lighting with artificial lights. This can be achieved by creating a layered lighting scheme with a combination of ambient, task and accent lighting that makes the place warm and inviting.Select sturdy materialSince most basements are prone to dampness, it is highly recommended to go for material that is maintenance free and won’t decay or disintegrate in the presence of moisture. Opt for sturdy materials like porcelain tiles, natural stone and moisture-resistant (MR) plywood. Avoid flooring material like laminated wood because it can swell and get damaged if there’s any moisture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/transform-your-basement-140621
