13-12-2020||Vinayak Padmadeo & Karam Prakash||Rebooting for Tokyo||our years down the drain, four years of blood, sweat, tears, pain and hard work may be wasted — that’s the horrible prospect that confronts Indian athletes preparing for the Olympics… Yet, they must retain hope as well as their peak physical and mental health, train hard in isolation, away from family and friends, confined to the safe spaces of their training centres, with contagion in the air.Anxiety, nervousness and excitement sum up the mental state of the Indian athletes as they seek to recapture the form that made some of them favourites for the podium for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, now postponed to 2021.When Covid-19 forced the country to shut down, training for the Tokyo-bound sportspersons came to a standstill and many athletes got stuck, some at home, some in centres. After the restrictions were lifted, they resumed training with strict protocols in place. Many found it hard to come to terms with the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). For a select few, like rifle shooter Divyansh Singh Panwar and wrestler Vinesh Phogat, reality hit home hard as the virus paid them a visit.Vinesh, the only Indian woman wrestler to qualify for the Tokyo Games and a hot favourite for a medal, contracted Covid in August-end, just two days prior to being conferred with the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award. The next two months were chaotic, at best.After coming out of quarantine, she resumed training but had to discontinue after suffering post-Covid complications. “I developed a dry cough and I would tire easily. On doctor’s advice, I had to completely stop training for almost a month,” Vinesh said.“I had maintained my fitness levels during the lockdown, but this setback affected it. After a few weeks, I started running on the treadmill and cycling to try to get my body acclimatised again. Over the last six weeks, my training is back to full scale,” added the 2019 World Championships bronze medallist.Having recovered, Vinesh has decided not to join the national camp in Lucknow. “I did not want to join the camp as I was worried about contracting the virus again,” she explained. “Also, the confined environment would have affected me mentally as we would not be allowed to move freely. It would have felt like jail.”She has also decided to skip the Individual World Cup in Belgrade that started on Saturday. “There was no point participating underprepared,” she said. “Besides, my coach (Woller Akos) told me that as many of the top teams have withdrawn, I, too, should stay back and build on my fitness.” She plans to hit the road running at the Rome Ranking Series in January 2021 — the same tournament where she last fought before the pandemic struck.Cooped upFor Panwar, things haven’t been this extreme, though he’s uneasy at having to end the year without having participated in any competition. During the lockdown, the 18-year-old was cooped up for two months in his rented flat in Faridabad’s Charmwood Apartments — where he was routinely spotted on his balcony, practising in full shooting gear.After the lockdown ended, Panwar, the current world No.1 in air rifle, moved to Jaipur to train at his home range. Later, in October, the national team assembled for the first time in over six months at the national camp held by the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) for the Olympic Core Group. Things were looking up for Panwar, but not for long. After the Diwali break, when the team underwent Covid testing, he was found positive, though asymptomatic. “The 14-day quarantine did not affect me at all. I watched movies and had plenty of stress-free time with my Labrador pup ‘Klaus’,” said Panwar, now back at training.However, his hope of participating in international competitions remains distant as the scheduled World Cup season is subject to easing of travel restrictions.Playing singlesWhen the lockdown was announced, the men’s and women’s hockey teams got stuck at the Sports Authority of India campus in Bengaluru. Training was discontinued and they were confined to their rooms. The loneliness took its toll and many wanted to return home. Their team captains, Manpreet Singh and Rani Rampal, did request for permission for their players to go home — but this was out of the question. It was only in June that they could start training in a phased manner and were also allowed to go home soon after. When they returned in August, the virus struck the men’s team hard — six players, including captain Manpreet, tested positive for Covid and had to be hospitalised.Post-recovery, they are back to training and trying to keep match-fit. However, the absence of real-time competitive play is worrying coach Graham Reid, as he has to figure out where the team stands in terms of strategy and fitness against other teams. “Only high-quality international competition can provide this. We have, however, tried to provide a high-quality internal competition as much as possible,” Reid said.The training has been going on as much as possible in the new normal. “This has brought its own mental challenges as the normal unloading and refreshing needs to be done inside the camp,” he said. Rampal, meanwhile, had something to cheer her up as she became the first woman hockey player to be conferred with the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna, India’s top sporting honour.Missing the rungs to topThe absence of competition has also got shot putter Tajinder Pal Singh Toor anxious, as he is yet to book a berth for the Tokyo Olympics. He’s worried about missing his dream competition due to lack of qualifying tournaments. When the schedule of international events is known, athletes train in such a way as to hit their peak at the biggest events — such as the Olympics, Asian Games or World Championships. “I don’t know when the competition is, so I don’t know when I have to peak,” Toor said. “If any tournament is randomly announced, say next month, I won’t be able to give it my best shot because the body takes time to get into the competition mode.”Toor also finds it tough to train alone as training for the throw events, which require explosive strength, needs competitive spirit. “You need a competitor of equal standard in training, otherwise there is no motivation to push harder,” Toor said. To overcome this, his coach Mohinder Singh Dhillon has been calling athletes of other disciplines at Toor’s training sessions so as to fire him up.Learning new mental skillsToor, who lost his father shortly after winning gold at the 2018 Asian Games, has learnt to cope though. “Being away from family was tough initially. My mom was alone in Moga, and I was concerned about her. But now things are better.”For discus thrower Navjeet Kaur Dhillon, who won bronze in the 2018 CWG, the restrictions were akin to imprisonment. “We couldn’t step out for months. It took a mental toll on me. I have always lived in an open and free environment. At times, I would lock myself in my room and cry,” Navjeet said. “If you are not stable mentally, you can’t train. You have to stay motivated. It is the most important factor when there is no competition,” said the athlete from Amritsar.For triple-jumper Arpinder Singh, winner of gold at the 2018 Asian Games, his dream of competing at the Tokyo Games kept him going through the year. “During the complete lockdown, I started weight training at home itself. I had to arrange for weights and create a makeshift training area at home in my small village, Harse Chhina in Amritsar, to maintain strength and fitness,” said Arpinder, who comes from a farming family. “But more than physical fitness, mental health is important as part of holistic fitness,” he added. “I had not given a thought to it earlier, but Covid made me realise that one must take care of one’s mental health. It felt like being in jail.”For boxers, the tours continueThe boxing stars are among the lucky few who are not only competing, but also training abroad. A 15-member team, including five who have already qualified for the Olympics, are training in Europe. The men have already participated in the Alexis Vastine International Tournament in France. Haryana’s Amit Panghal won gold at Nantes, where India had a haul of six medals.The touring boxers have now moved their training base from Italy to Germany where they will compete in the Chemistry Cup. This would be the first international competition for the women in the team. Ludhiana’s Simranjit Kaur cannot hide her excitement. “Honestly, I am a little nervous as this would be my first competition in a very long time. But at the same time, I am quite excited too,” she said over the phone from Germany.“We have been out of the country for a while now and the training and sparring sessions against French and Italian boxers have shown that we are progressing well,” adds the 25-year-old athlete. “Sitting at home was difficult though I got to spend time with family, something I have not been able to do in a number of years. But you tend to lose focus,” she addedHer excitement is contagious, but with only six months left for the opening of the Tokyo Games, time is running out for the elite athletes to reach their peak fitness. The good thing is that training has started, and more international events may soon happen for more athletes. As Simranjit says, “We are not the only ones affected by Covid — in the darkness of despair, one must find a ray of hope, and the athletes are doing their best to find it.” Touche.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/rebooting-for-tokyo-183634
13-12-2020||Sarika SharmaA confidential letter from Mesopotamia in March 1916 called urgently for 450 latrine sweepers from India. In temperatures unlike what they had ever faced in India||Whom the world chose to forget||The forgotten heroKuhoi Sema Naga lies buried at the Commonwealth War Graves Commission cemetery at Mazargues in Marseilles, France. Also known as Kuhoi Zhimomi, he was the son of Naga Chief Sukhai Zhimomi. What makes him special, says Peter Francis, spokesperson of the CWGC, is that the original temporary grave marker (above) for Kuhoi recorded that he took 24 heads and was present at the death of 130 enemies in battle.When England declared war against Germany on August 4, 1914, Indians pleaded for combatant role. A colour ban had long forbidden non-white subjects from fighting white races. But Indians wanted to fight for the Empire — to press for self-rule and fight the colour bias. The combatant role was eventually granted and Indians joined the British forces across the theatres of World War I. Hundred years later, to be recounted before the world were tales of valour of these Indian soldiers. Forgotten, however, were the non-combatants — 5,50,000 had braved the war too along with the coloured and white men. In her book, published by HarperCollins, Singha, who is professor of history at Jawaharlal Nehru University, brings the spotlight on Indian Labour Corps, who fought in the war along with Jail Labour Corps and Porter Corps — from the porters, stevedores and construction workers in the Coolie Corps to those who maintained supply lines and removed the wounded from the battlefield. Worst among them perhaps were the untouchables, the lowly. The caste divide hadn’t spared them here too. Not even in death.Raising the corpsThe author says that while Coolie Corps was raised for expeditionary forces sent overseas before WW-I too, these were not regarded as a regular part of the army. During the war, the label ‘Coolie Corps’ was replaced by the politically more acceptable label ‘Labour Corps’ and ‘Porter Corps’. They were raised for Mesopotamia in 1916 and France in 1917. Their disbandment began in 1921.Singha tells the story of a sweeper whose own fellow countrymen refused his body a dignified burial. The cold had been too much for him and he had died of pneumonia in a hospital in England. “Inspecting the Lady Hardinge Hospital at Brockenhurst, which treated Indians from the Expeditionary Force in France, Sir Walter Lawrence noted an act of local kindness. A burial plot had to be found:‘for a sweeper belonging to a peculiar sect which never cremates. We asked the Woking Muhammadan Burial ground to allow us to bury him there, but they flatly declined. We then had recourse to the Rev. Mr. Chambers, the Vicar of Brockenhurst. He came forward and kindly allowed us to bury him in his Churchyard.’”Sinhga believes (and so has now been reiterated by Shrabani Basu in her book ‘For King and Another Country’) Sukha Kalloo is the sweeper of Sir Lawrence’s report. The Hindus had refused to cremate him because he was an untouchable and the Muslims because he just wasn’t one of them. His grave now lies beside some New Zealand graves in the church at Brockenhurst.Inviting them to join WW-I, recruitment agents had made rosy promises about a post-war order, writes Singha. “Recruitment propaganda began to conceptualise the return home in ways which evoked both hope and anxiety about the nature of the postwar order. A Madras recruiting officer told ‘untouchable Paraiyans’ that ‘[w]hen (sic) you wear the King Emperor’s uniform, you will be able to walk through the Brahmin quarter and spit where you like.” The locals were, understandably, not taking kindly to all this. Sinhga recounts a poem published in the ‘Bijnor Punch’, ridiculing the airs of Chamar recruits: “They who used to get husks and bran at house now get ghi, rice and gram in their rations, why then should not their martial ardour be kept up!”When the Secretary of State of India, Edwin Montague, brought reforms to India, he received a bundle of petitions from spokesmen of ‘low-caste’, ‘untouchable’ and tribal communities, demanding the right to represent themselves in legislative bodies. Singha says Montague’s visit galvanised political and associational life. “Babasaheb Ambedkar writes about this moment in a very interesting essay titled ‘A strange event’. He notes that as Dalit communities began to demand the right to represent themselves, the Congress, which had hitherto separated issues of social reform from its political manifesto, began to forefront the ‘welfare and uplift of the depressed classes’ as one of its political goals.”Things were to change in Punjab too. Singha says: “In post-War Punjab, Ramdasias and Mazhabi Sikhs, including some of those who had served in the army, began to demand the right to use common wells and to enter gurdwaras. Some signed up for the jathas taken out by the Akalis in the 1920s to seize control of gurdwaras from Hindu mahants as another means of asserting equality with the Jat Sikhs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/whom-the-world-chose-to-forget-183635
13-12-2020||Pushpa Girimaji||Manufacturer to take blame for poor putty||First of all, take pictures of the falling putty and get the contractor who did the work and is claiming that the product is defective to certify so. Secondly, ask the manufacturer to send a technical expert to assess the damage and tell you how they plan to rectify the matter. Thirdly, call an independent expert to give his opinion on the quality of the putty and the cost involved in redoing the walls. If you have some unused putty left, you can also send it to a laboratory to have its quality checked. Check if there are similar complaints about this particular putty.Once you have all the evidence, you can seek damages to cover your expenses in re-doing the wall, besides compensation for the harassment caused.I must mention a recent judgment of the apex consumer court in a similar matter. The consumer here had bought for his house, 20 bags of putty and 45 bags of Plaster of Paris for Rs15,190, engaged seven labourers and got the work completed in six days, at a cost of Rs19,200. However, the putty started falling off. He called the dealer and showed him the problem. When neither the manufacturer nor the dealer offered a solution, he lodged a complaint with the consumer forum.The manufacturer said it was due to application error. It was also contended that the consumer had not produced any report from a lab certifying to the defect. Besides, no other consumer had complained about the product.What the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission said in response will go a long way in helping consumers fight such cases. Presiding member Anup K Thakur drew a clear distinction between the ‘onus of proof’ and the ‘burden of proof’ and said that the onus of proof did not lie with the consumer. The consumer had discharged the burden of proof by claiming a defect in the wall putty. If the manufacturer held a different view, he must prove it. The Commission also pointed out that even though a technical executive was deputed by the manufacturer to examine the problem and he submitted a report, neither was he produced before the District Forum nor his report.The Commission observed: “…arguably, wall putty and POP are works undertaken to get a proper finish and if this finish, in any manner, is not achieved, it does give cause for complaint.” Instead of making amends by undertaking to do up the affected portions, the opposite parties sought to contest the case, the Commission regretted. (JK White Cement Works Vs Rajendra Kumar and Another, RP No 1195 of 2018, date of order September 2, 2020)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/manufacturer-to-take-blame-for-poor-putty-183636
13-12-2020||Pushpesh Pant||The sweet warmth of winter||Makar Sankranti and Lohri mark the end of the winter chill. But, for some reason, it also marks the occasion to indulge in sweetmeats that are traditionally believed to fortify our body for the rigours of winter. Corns are popped over bonfire and rewari and gajjak are enjoyed as the embers glow and flames leap. Gajjak season, hence, continues till long after these festivals. Historians believe that the custom dates back to millennia before the birth of Christ and have found references to a concoction like this in the Vedic texts.Gija literally translates as basic food and gajjak indicates just a little extra.Each one of us has a favourite gajjak and the term has now come to cover a wide range of rustic rural sweets — gur patti, singdana chikki, and assorted rewari. My father, who went to a medical school in Lucknow, was partial to the rose-scented rewari and flaky gajjak made in that city. Though my mother too found the stuff fit enough for effete nabobs, she put her money on gajjaks from sleepy towns in the Hindi heartland.A time long ago, Meerut was famous for three things: Meerut College, Madan Kainchiwale and gajjak from Begum Pul. The college had an enviable reputation, but its aura affected only a small circle of scholars. It was the sharp scissors and the seasonal sweet that was cherished by all.With time, we realised that there were other producers of gajjak that challenged Meerut’s claim as the gajjak heaven. Bhind-Morena — the badlands of Uttar Pradesh criss-crossed by ravines and home to dacoits — is known for the most delicate yet unpretentious gajjak, crisp and crumbly. Agra, close by, boasts of shahi fare in Tajganj that traces its lineage to the days of the Mughal empire. However, generations of careless catering to tourists has led to a decline in the quality.In Bihar and Jharkhand, gajjak takes the form of tilkut. The shape is different, but the process is the same. Sesame seeds are beaten painstakingly in jaggery, pulled and folded back till the ingredients are homogenised.A well-made gajjak requires no frills, just a few cardamom seeds, if at all. However, these days you encounter gajjak smothered with raisins, slices of coconuts, slivers of pistachio and what not. Some are advertised as “mewewali gajjak, khalis deshi ghee mein bani”. Come to think of it, even the reference to ghee appears a bit ostentatious. It was the sesame seeds that were supposed to yield oil to flavour and enrich the gajjak.Now, try taking on the gajjak challenge at home only if you are a glutton for punishment though. Professionals take 15-16 hours of backbreaking labour to produce 7-8 kilos of the stuff. We suggest that you try your hand at Bombay mewa chikki inspired by the Sindhi Majoon that was once fed to this visiting bridegroom.IngredientsSugar 1 cupGhee 1/3 cupAssorted nuts 1/2 cup(almonds, pistachios slivered)Raisins 1 tbspA few rose petalsBlack peppercorns 1/4 tspGreen cardamom seeds 1/4 tspMethodLine a flat tray well with ghee. Heat a little ghee in a pan and add sugar on low heat, stirring constantly with a flat wooden spatula. As the sugar melts, add the nuts and the raisins along with rose petals and peppercorns. When it begins to caramelise, pour it at once onto the ghee-lined tray. You have to be very alert at this stage as the sugar turns solid and sets very fast. Level with a spatula and let it cool. Cut into thin, diamond-shaped chikkis later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-sweet-warmth-of-winter-183637
