14-09-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Chinks in the armour||FOR years, the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system for crops has benefited farmers in north India through guaranteed income for their produce. No wonder the system is held sacrosanct by farmers, politicians and policy-makers in this region. Even the slightest attempt or talk of tinkering with the MSP meets with stiff resistance from the farmers and the politicians who rely on them for electoral support.The nearly five-decade-old system of MSP has contributed to the country attaining food security — at least in the staple foodgrains — besides making agriculture economically sustainable for farmers. It has helped the country come a long way from the mid-1960s, when India did not have enough foodgrains to feed its then 49 crore population, and 10 million tonnes of foodgrains were imported from the US. “The MSP regime has proved to be very beneficial because it has spurred farmers to grow crops with a guaranteed price,” says BS Sidhu, Commissioner, Agriculture, Punjab.Over the years, however, the increase in MSP announced by the Centre before each crop marketing season has been rather low. This has contributed to high rural indebtedness as input costs in agriculture keep rising and the MSP announced by the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) is minimal, thus squeezing the income of farmers. Sidhu says the system of calculating the input costs while fixing the MSP requires a relook. “The farmer should be treated as a skilled worker and the capital cost of land should be included. This will make the MSP more remunerative,” he adds.Besides this inherent weakness in the MSP model of capping the income of farmers, it has also led to regional disparities as the regime is successful only in states having a well-developed agricultural marketing system. In most states, the crops are not being bought at the MSP as FCI intervention there is minimal and focused largely on Punjab and Haryana. Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), says the MSP regime is often targeted for helping farmers of only a few states and those that grow only wheat and paddy. “To ensure that it benefits all farmers, it should be made legally binding on all to buy crops at the announced MSP,” he adds.Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads another faction of the BKU, says not only should crops other than wheat and paddy be bought at the MSP, but government should also encourage the processing industry for these other crops. “Earlier, pulses like moong and urad were cultivated here and we had small dal polishing units in Jagraon. Farmers stopped growing these because against the MSP of Rs 6,000, they would get just Rs 2,500 per quintal. Farmers found these non-remunerative and stopped growing pulses, which also led to the closure of these polishing units,” he laments.Umendra Dutt, executive director of Kheti Virasat Manch, says the monoculture supported by the MSP regime has led to the destruction of agricultural biodiversity and massive consumption of pesticides. “If buying of other crops at the MSP is ensured, we would become self-sufficient in all crops,” he says.Noted agro-economist MS Sidhu says though the MSP regime is sacrosanct, there is a need to increase farmers’ income by making them move to non-farm activities along with farming. Also, he says, it is time for value addition in agriculture by promoting food processing.Monoculture a roadblockWith the MSP regime being primarily restricted to wheat and paddy, this has led to monoculture, where only crops having a buy-back guarantee are being cultivated by farmers. As a result, the country has ample stocks of wheat and rice, but has to frequently import pulses and oilseeds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/chinks-in-the-armour-141061
14-09-2020||A Amarender Reddy||Ensure fair deal for farmers||KHARIF harvesting operations are going to begin soon. Agricultural production is likely to surpass last year’s record production by 7-8%. The higher production inevitably puts downward pressure on market prices. The problem of low harvest prices has been compounded by the steep fall in the GDP growth rate in the first quarter of 2020-21; it will reduce overall demand for the agricultural produce. Hence, ensuring the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for farmers is a gigantic task.There are huge imbalances in the MSP operations. Various states have diverse levels of implementation capabilities. Punjab and Haryana are historically in a better position to procure at the MSP than states like Bihar and Odisha. Paddy farmers in Punjab are able to sell at the MSP, while farmers in Bihar have to settle for prices below the MSP. The focus is on paddy and wheat, with negligible procurement of pulses, oilseeds and other crops at the MSP.This discriminatory policy blocked crop diversification towards pulses and oilseeds and also led to the neglect of rain-fed areas, where pulses and oilseeds are grown. This resulted in a huge shortage of crops like oilseeds. India is importing 70% of domestic consumption of edible oils each year by spending about Rs 75,000 crore on foreign exchange. It is incurring huge losses in storing excessive stocks of paddy and wheat procured under the price support scheme.Procuring excessive stocks is a waste of resources. Procurement operations are flawed in many ways — lack of awareness among farmers; lack of working capital with procurement agencies; lack of gunny bags; delayed payments to farmers; inadequate logistical arrangements like godowns, processing mills in the procuring areas; disposal of procured stocks.NITI Aayog recently recommended to the Food Ministry to limit procurement of foodgrains to the level needed for distribution under social welfare schemes and maintenance of buffer. The FCI procured 115 million metric tonnes (MT) of foodgrains in crop year 2020, whereas the maximum buffer stock is fixed at 41.12 million MT.To overcome these problems in foodgrain operations, the Centre introduced PM-AASHA (Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay Sanrakshan Abhiyan) in 2018. This is in line with the broader objective of gradually replacing physical procurement with direct money transfer to farmers, wherever required. PM-AASHA has three sub-schemes: Price Support Scheme (PSS), Price Deficiency Payment Scheme (PDPS) and Private Procurement & Stockist Scheme (PPSS).The PSS involves procurement by the government agency at the MSP from the farmers during the harvest period; it has been in operation for paddy and wheat for the past four decades. Under PM-AASHA, PSS is now broad-based to cover pulses, oilseeds and copra in addition to paddy and wheat. Under this scheme, the Centre will compensate the states for any losses in procurement operations up to 25 per cent of production.Under the PDPS, farmers are paid the difference between the MSP and the modal price, without actual procurement. It is a more market-friendly and efficient method as it eliminates the logistic costs faced under PSS. It is more practical to implement in crops like pulses and oilseeds with scattered and thinly distributed production, where actual procurement is costly and not feasible.Under the PPSS, private players can procure oilseeds at the MSP during the notified period in select markets, for which they would be paid a service charge not exceeding 15 per cent of the MSP. However, private participation has been limited so far.States are free to choose between the sub-schemes, depending on local conditions. In the long run, PDPS has an edge over others. Price deficiency payment through direct money transfer can curb inefficiency and corruption in foodgrain operations and the benefits will reach farmers through the already built JAM (Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile) trinity.The author is an agricultural economist at ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad. Views are personalSend your feedback to infocus@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/ensure-fair-deal-for-farmers-141060
