14-06-2020||Bhim Raj Garg||Punjabi cinema during Partition: Cameras did not roll for two years||The deadly virus has wrapped its tentacles around Indian films and regional cinema. Closer home, Punjabi cinema is seeing tough times. Shooting schedules of several big-ticket films have gone haywire. Movies like Galwakdi, Television, Gol Gappe, Kabootar, Jagga 7/51, etc. remain unreleased. Though such total closure of Pollywood is unprecedented, Punjabi cinema has been through bad times earlier too. Partition of India was a big blow and then came wars and terrorism.Worst of timesOn August 15, 1947, India was subjected to a bloody division, resulting in the exodus of nearly 14 million people and killing of more than a million. Unrest had, however, begun a few years in the run-up. Sporadic incidences of ethnic violence were reported in parts of Punjab from time to time, forcing filmmakers to shy away from producing Punjabi films. Even big stars like Nurjehan, Manorama and Shamshad Begum changed the tracks from Punjabi to Hindi movies, shifting base to Mumbai.Such were the times that none of the biggies in Punjabi film arena liked to venture into Punjabi movies. Just one movie per year was produced between 1943 and 1946, most of them by first timers. Satish Batra had started making Gul Baloch in 1942. It came to the editing table as late as 1943 and, for reasons still a mystery, it slipped from his hands to Mushtaq Ahmed and Gul Zaman and released only in 1945. Kamli (1946) was the last Punjabi movie to be made in Lahore.The year of the great divide, 1947, saw no release. The first Punjabi movie of independent India was Chaman (1948) directed by Roop K. Shorey, whose Lahore studio was burnt down by rioters.Shutters downDuring the pre-independence days, four full-fledged studios catered to the needs of the Punjabi film industry in Lahore. During Partition, out of these four studios, one was burnt down during the riots, one was sealed as its owner had migrated to India and the other two, Pancholi No.1 and No. 2, remained under the custody of Dewan Sardari Lal. The Pancholi Studios were later named as Punjab Art Studio.During the riot, most cinemas and film production/distribution offices in Lahore were sealed. Ratan Cinema had just been built, but its Hindu owner had fled to India without seeing its formal launch. The sealed cinema houses were allotted to Muslim refugees in Lahore, Karachi and Dhaka. Dewan Sardari Lal produced Pakistan’s first film Teri Yaad (1948) with Nasir Khan and Asha Posley in the romantic lead. It proved to be a big flop in front of Indian films. The Shahnoor Studios, built on the vandalised remains of Shorey Studios, was taken over by Syed Shaukat Hussain Rizvi and Noor Jehan.The communal strife dealt a crushing blow to Punjabi cinema and Lahore became a ghost town. Most of the displaced Punjabi filmmakers, artistes and musicians — Roop K. Shorey, DM Pancholi, Pran Sukand, Om Prakash, Vinod and Kuldip Kaur — landed in Bombay empty handed, but rich in experience. Pancholi could not even bring the negatives of his films, leaving his two modern studios and many cinema halls in the care of his associate Dewan Sardari Lal. The relocated Punjabi film industry tried to recreate another Lahore in Bombay. Shot in Bombay, the first Punjabi film of post-Independence India, Chaman, bore the stamp of Lahori culture; it was released in 1948. Other notable films of the era were Lachhi, Chhai, Posti and Bhangra, etc.Second waveThe wounds of bloody Partition were still fresh in the minds of Punjabis when the second shock came in the form of a partial ban on Indian films by Pakistan in 1952. This led to no production of Punjabi films that year. The rest of the decade saw just 11 Punjabi films being produced. However, the mega success of Bhangra (1959) ushered in an era of hit Punjabi movies like Do Lachhian, Guddi, Jeejaji, Chaudhary Karnail Singh, Pind Di Kuri, Kiklee and Sutlej De Kande, etc. Although India faced the 1962 war with China and two wars with Pakistan in 1965 and 1971, these did not affect the production of Punjabi movies. Rather, these wars provided the filmmakers with new plots/storylines for films like Dharti Veeran Di (1965), Aeh Dharti Punjab Di (1966), Gabroo Desh Punjab De (1966), etc. The cinema halls, however, did not screen evening and night shows during the blackout period for a month or so.The next onslaught for Punjabi cinema came from terrorism in the early 1980s and lasted till the late 1990s. Punjabi cinema witnessed occasional stoppage of film shootings due to terror attacks on film units and screenings due to bombing of cinema halls. Punjabi film star Veerendra was assassinated while he was shooting for the film Jatt Tey Zameen near Ludhiana in 1987. This cold-blooded murder came as a bolt from the blue for Punjabi cinema and all film production activities came to a grinding halt.Counting the lossesWith the dawn of the new millennium, Punjabi cinema started making new strides with production of extravagant movies and establishing of production facilities in Chandigarh and Mohali. However, Covid-19 has dealt an unprecedented blow, stifling the growth of the film industry. The last few months of crisis are going to have a long-term impact.However, this is for the first time in the history of the country that the box offices are shut across India. Filmmakers have now begun exploring OTT platforms like Netflix, Amazon Prime, etc., but may yet not be able to make the kind of money multiplex releases brought them.The Punjabi movie industry that emerges after the pandemic will necessarily be altered. The public, even though starved of entertainment, will not start thronging theatres immediately. Their movie-watching habits will have to be recultivated. ‘Pent-up demand’ works well and whenever a big Punjabi film releases, people would surely lap it up. There is always a silver lining in the dark cloud. Covid-19 will usher in a new era of hope, opportunities and progress.— The writer is a film historian||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/punjabi-cinema-during-partition-cameras-did-not-roll-for-two-years-98867
14-06-2020||Ananya Bahl||National Civil Right Museum: An ode to the human spirit||In the city of Memphis in the southern US state of Tennessee, an unassuming motel’s balcony forms the starting point of this mecca of documentation of the American Civil Rights Movement. It is at this very balcony, of Room 306 at the Lorraine Motel, that Martin Luther King, Jr. — the most prominent leader of the movement — was assassinated on April 4, 1968. The motel isn’t in operation today but his room and balcony form an integral part of this museum’s exhibits.The National Civil Rights Museum was established in 1991 to document and showcase various facets of the American Civil Rights Movement. Despite it going against the basic tenets of Declaration of Independence, slave trade was extremely common in the country. Rice, sugar, rum, cotton, and tobacco were the lucrative crops grown on these plantations. The museum, to begin with, highlights how this happened, including a system of bondage that turned people into property and stripped them of basic human rights. There’s one jaw-dropping story of Abdul Rehman Ibrahima, a West African prince who was kidnapped and sold to a cotton plantation in the southern US state of Mississippi in 1788. Ibrahima wrote a letter in Arabic to the Moroccan sultan who then negotiated his release in 1826. Despite dire circumstances, many enslaved Africans never accepted their fate: some showed quiet acts of defiance, some held on to their traditions and faith, while others took to petitions and protests, and even “stole themselves” as they ran away. One such story is of Harriet Tubman who, after 30 years of labour, earned the moniker of “Moses” as she escaped and led 130 slaves, including her parents, to freedom.Racial segregationFurther exhibits showcase how, with the introduction of the 1896 Plessy v. Ferguson ruling, the “separate but equal” concept became prominent. Racial segregation (the “colour line”) was firmly established in business, travel, education, jobs, and housing. The African American populace never backed down. They formed benevolent societies, fraternal organisations, and sisterhoods. Free blacks formed their own churches. Bishop Charles Mason was the first to preach to integrated congregations (referring to mixed race churches). These churches gave rise to the sound and spread of gospel music.Mahalia Jackson, a famed gospel singer, was also a civil rights activist. She was known for her soul-stirring rendition of “Precious Lord”, which was Martin Luther King, Jr.’s favourite hymn. The tunes of blues music, too, originated in the songs of field workers and the music of rural black churches. BB King, a blues maestro, said that blues songs were “an expression of anger against shame and humiliation”. These exhibits also lead visitors to a poignant section on Mahatma Gandhi and India’s Civil Disobedience movement, which heavily inspired Martin Luther King Jr.’s initiatives and activism.The resistanceAs racial violence and segregation in public life grew, activists stood up and made history. An interesting and interactive exhibit displays a year-long bus boycott in the city of Montgomery in Alabama. Rosa Parks, a black woman, like others in her community, hated bus segregation. She was arrested for refusing to give up her seat for a white man. There’s a life-size bus in which people can sit next to Rosa Parks while the conductor tells them to “move to the back”. Other exhibits outline the rise of Malcolm X, racial integration in schools (and the first black children to be granted admission in schools with white children), the sit-ins organised by young adults to protest silently in a non-violent way by “sitting” at the white-owned restaurants where they were refused service, and the writing and scoring of the song “we shall overcome”. The final exhibit is right in the Martin Luther King, Jr.’s motel room with some of his belongings and a reflection of his last moments.The National Civil Rights Museum is counted in the top 5 per cent of institutions to be accredited by the American Alliance of Museums. It is also a founding member of the International Coalition of Sites of Conscience, which brings together museums and institutions from across the world that connect past struggles with present movements that advocate social justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/national-civil-right-museum-an-ode-to-the-human-spirit-98868
14-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Dujana caught in utter neglect||Dujana, a former princely state, lies in a state of utter neglect. Characterised by magnificent mosques, grand nawabi havelis, architectural marvels and heritage buildings like Khurshid Palace and Bagh Wali Kothi, majestic wells and ponds in its heyday, the place has changed beyond recognition.After the last nawab of Dujana migrated to Pakistan along with his family at the time of Partition, the erstwhile capital of Pathan Principality got reduced to a village along National Highway 352, between Rohtak and Jhajjar. Nevertheless, the relics of the nawabs’ havelis, some still-intact mosques, an old baoli and dilapidated remains of some grand old buildings remind one of the bygone era.Founded by Baba Durjan Shah, a fakir, Dujana was given away by the British, along with other territories, to Abdul Samad Khan (1764-1825), a soldier of fortune, in 1806, as a reward for the services he rendered. Thus, Khan became the first nawab of Dujana. He was succeeded by Nawab Muhammed Donde Khera Khan, who remained on the throne from 1825 to 1850. The tenure of Nawab Hasan Ali Khan, the third Nawab of Dujana, spanned from 1850 to 1867; Nawab Muhammed Saadat Ali Khan (1867 to 1879), Jalaluddin Nawab Muhammed Mumtaz Ali Khan Bahadur Mustaqil-i-Jan (1879 to 1908), and Jalaluddin Nawab Muhammed Khurshid Ali Khan Bahadur Mustaqil-i-Jan (1908 to 1925). The last nawab of Dujana , Jalaluddin Nawab Muhammed Iqtidar Ali Khan Bahadur Mustaqil-i-Jan, took over the reins in 1925. He migrated to Lahore along with his family at the time of Partition.Nobody’s babyAfter the departure of the last nawab and his family, the heritage property was handed over to the Education Department. But neither the Education Department, nor the Department of Archaeology and Museums paid any attention to Dujana, which could have been easily showcased as a heritage village of Haryana.Due to the lack of maintenance, the nawabi-era buildings and other structures are in ruins — the villagers use these heritage sites to rear cattle and prepare dung-cakes. Local residents maintain that if the authorities concerned had taken care of Khurshid Palace, Bagh Wali Kothi, mosques, wells, ponds and baoli of Dujana, these would have been still intact.“People continue to encroach upon these sites and take away wooden, marble, stone and glass fittings with impunity,” laments Naveen Ahlawat, a resident of Dujana.Apart from the government apathy and indifferent attitude of the villagers, the floods in 1995 also caused much damage to the heritage buildings and structures.Of the 30-odd mosques located in Dujana, only the Lal Masjid, where some scenes of the Aamir Khan-starrer Bollywood movie Mangal Pandey: The Rising were shot, has been maintained well by the Haryana Waqf Board.Gradual decay of heritage“Dujana has witnessed a gradual decay of heritage-value property over the past decades. Several buildings of the nawabs’ time are on the verge of collapse. The memorial tombs of the family members of the nawabs and a graveyard located adjacent to the kachehri are in a pitiable condition,” observes Haryana’s noted cultural historian Ranbir S Phaugat.He points out that the Dargu Walah well in Dujana, which is probably the largest well in the state, is also lying in a state of neglect. “Only the fine masonry buildings of a school and a hospital are noticeable now.”In what can be termed ‘better late than never’, the Haryana State Directorate of Archaeology and Museums has now pulled up its socks and started the exercise to take over some heritage buildings and structures of Dujana for restoration.“We have initiated the process to take over Lal Masjid, Bagh Wali Kothi and Dargu Walah well and the adjoining baoli for restoration,” reveals Dr Banani Bhattacharyya, Deputy Director at the state Directorate. The move of the Haryana Government comes as a ray of hope to revive the nawabi-era grandeur of the erstwhile princely state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/dujana-caught-in-utter-neglect-98869
14-06-2020||The coronavirus lockdowns have hit the world's museums very hard and more than 10 per cent may never reopen while others will have to put new projects on hold||Threat for museums: Unesco||A survey of almost 1,600 museums in 107 countries by the Paris-based International Council of Museums (ICOM), which is affiliated with Unesco, showed that almost all museums around the world were closed because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The private museum sector fears numerous bankruptcies in the coming months. In African, Asian and Arab countries, more than a quarter of museums fear they may have to close for good, the survey showed.“Even losing one museum, one cultural centre or one theatre will affect diversity,” said Ernesto Ottone Ramirez, Unesco Assistant Director-General. — Reuters||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/threat-for-museums-unesco-98871
14-06-2020||Chandni S Chandel||Homeschooling, one of the better byproducts of Covid-19||The difference between schooling and homeschooling could be explained thus: while the former teaches children how to light the fire, the latter teaches them how to make it. If the former is a result of cloning of education, the latter is a result of imagination guided by freedom. With students forced to study at home, the idea of ‘homeschooling’ has started taking shape in the minds of parents. They, however, are yet to understand what it really means.Homeschooling is not curriculum-based teaching. There are various aspects to it, such as experiential learning, informal reading, cooking, cleaning, organising, managing time... things which are closer to life skills.A mind shiftChennai-based Arundhati Swami, head of parent engagement programmes with parenting magazine ParentCircle, says, “The lockdown will give a thrust to unconventional forms of education. It has created a conducive environment, which could make homeschooling a viable option.”Sometimes crisis, like the present one, gives birth to evolution of sorts. “Otherwise we wouldn’t have come so close to homeschooling. We aren’t there yet, but have gotten closer,” says Pune-based Urmila Samson, one of the co-founders of Swashikshan, a non-profit initiative of homeschooling. Her colleague, co-founder Navin Pangti, feels our society still has a long way to go. “I doubt if anything will change. It is like if you don’t provide junk food to children for some time, it doesn't mean that they have become health-conscious.”But a recent nationwide survey conducted by ParentCircle, which covered 12,000 respondents in cities like Bangalore, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Delhi, says 15 per cent of the parents are considering homeschooling as one of the options. According to the survey, 92 per cent Indian parents are unwilling to send their children to school when they reopen; 56 per cent will monitor for a month before sending their wards to schools; 21 per cent want to avoid sending them to school for at least six months.Delhi-based Shweta Awasthi, mother of seven-year-old Samrudh, had quit her job at Infosys to be with her child. She says that the family had been thinking about homeschooling for about a-year-and-a half. “The lockdown precipitated our decision. Now, instead of me asking him to discuss concepts, he pushes me to talk about them,” she adds.“Post-lockdown, around 10-12 families in my group have approached me to inquire about homeschooling,” says Saket Anand, a freelance animator from Sagar, Madhya Pradesh, who has unschooled (to follow no curriculum) his five-year-old daughter. “After wasting four precious years at an engineering college, I realised that to remain unschooled was way better than formal education,” he says.In deep already“We were earlier the odd ones out. Our neighbours would question us about our children’s social interaction. Now we reverse joke about the same since their kids aren’t used to staying at home,” says Ravleen Kaur, who is homeschooling her three children, an eight-year-old daughter, and twin boys aged four, in Assam.Experts say the concept has been growing over the years with families living in smaller cities and towns like Rajkot, Udaipur, Dungarpur, Banswara, Dharamsala, Coimbatore and Auroville near Pondicherry too homeschooling their children. “We regularly hold events on homeschooling, unschooling, etc. in different cities and about 200-300 families participate every time,” says Vidhi Bhandari, learning activist, Shikshantar Andolan, Udaipur.Based in Palampur, Himachal Pradesh, Sandhya, co-founder of Aavishkar, Centre for Science, Arts and Technology, says each family designs homeschooling differently and sets the right environment for the child. “Parents, not schools, are the biggest stakeholders in educating the child,” says Sandhya whose 18-year-old home-schooled daughter learnt ‘how to learn’ on her own.Sceptics, however, feel incorporating homeschooling into one’s lifestyle is not easy. “A miniscule percentage of people in India are broad-minded and unconventional thinkers. Parents have to be very sensitive, knowledgable and aware, otherwise it can be disastrous, says a Chandigarh-based educator. However, Chennai-based Shyamala Sathiaseelan disagrees: “Home-schooling is the easiest thing as it is not parent-led but child-led.” Haven’t we heard of the adage, “Child is the father of man.” That’s what home-schooling is about.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/homeschooling-one-of-the-better-byproducts-of-covid-19-98872
14-06-2020||Pushpa Girimaji||Documents lost by bank? Their liability||I had taken an education loan for my daughter’s higher education and the last instalment of the loan was paid in the third week of March. In view of the nationwide lockdown announced by the government in March to contain the spread of Covid-19, I could not go to the bank immediately to collect the title deed of my property, which I had given as collateral. Now, after the recent relaxations in the lockdown, I went to collect the papers and, to my utter shock and dismay, the bank told me that my papers are lost. I do not know what to do now.This is truly unfortunate and the bank has to do everything possible to minimise the loss caused to you as a result of its negligence. This includes giving you an acknowledgement of its having lost the title deed entrusted to its care, filing an FIR with the police about the loss, issuing a notice about the loss in three (English and regional language) newspapers, getting you a certified copy of the title deed from the sub-registrar’s office and anything else that will help establish your ownership of the property. And it has to do all this at its cost.In addition, the bank will also have to compensate you for the financial loss that will be caused to you if you sell the property without the original papers. Of course, this is difficult to quantify as it depends on the value of the property at the time of sale and the quantum of reduction in its value on account of the absence of papers. Consumer courts have arrived at some rough estimates while awarding compensation in such cases. However, the bank must pay compensation. If they do not, you will have to seek the help of the consumer court in the matter.Can you quote a recent decision of the consumer court in a similar case?In State Bank of India Vs Amitesh Mazumdar (RP No 2732 of 2019), decided on Jan 3, 2020, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission upheld the orders of the lower consumer courts awarding the consumer Rs5 lakh as compensation and Rs30,000 as costs. It also upheld the directions of the lower consumer courts to the bank to file an FIR and also issue notice of the loss of the papers in three newspapers.In its revision petition before the apex consumer court, the bank said it was prepared to get a certified copy of the title deed, issue advertisements in newspapers and also give an acknowledgement to the consumer of the bank having lost the papers. However, it argued against payment of compensation.Dismissing such a plea of the bank and upholding the award of compensation and costs to the consumer, the apex consumer court pointed to the financial loss that the consumer would suffer if he tried to sell the property without the original title deed.The Commission observed: “No one in the market will agree to purchase an immovable property on payment of its prevailing market value, if he knows that the original Title Deed of the property will not be delivered to him by the seller. There will always be an apprehension of the misuse of the Title Deeds of the immovable property by an unscrupulous person, by depositing the same with a bonafide lender, since an Equitable Mortgage can be created by deposit of the Title Deeds. The erosion in the value of the property if it is to be sold without the Title Deeds would be substantial and in fact even the compensation awarded by the District Forum and maintained by the State Commission may not be sufficient to make up such erosion in the market value of the property.”The Commission also pointed to the other problems that the consumer would face in the absence of the title deed: “Moreover, if the complainant decides to take a loan by deposit of the Title Deeds of the property against the property, he will not be able to get a ready lender in the market unless the Title Deeds of the property are deposited. In fact, even a bank may be unwilling to give a loan against an immovable property unless the Title Deeds of the property are deposited with it. Therefore, the compensation awarded by the fora below was eminently justified…” the Commission observed.So do use this case to argue for a reasonable compensation, keeping in mind the value of the property and the loss you would suffer. You can get the original order of the Commission on its website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/documents-lost-by-bank-their-liability-98873
14-06-2020||Rashmi Gopal Rao||Jackfruit in the spotlight||This is the season of jackfruit and it has never been in as much spotlight as it now is. Touted as an alternative to meat, a vegan sensation and as the new tofu, jackfruit has become a consistent feature while discussing “plant-based” eating. A fruit that is integral to South Indian cuisine, jackfruit today has spread to other parts of India, Southeast Asian countries like the Philippines, Thailand and Malaysia and far-flung places like Florida and even Australia.Health meets tasteA rather unwieldy fruit that is not easy to pluck and cut, jackfruit belongs to the family of fig, mulberry and breadfruit. A treasure house of vitamins and minerals, jackfruit is rich in antioxidants and high on protein and fibre.A striking characteristic of jackfruit is its versatility. While the wood of the tree is used to make furniture, the fruit itself lends itself to various cooking methods. “Whether in curries, chips, fritters, dumplings, pancakes or desserts, jackfruit is a highly revered fruit in the South, especially Kerala and Tamil Nadu,” says Shilpa Holla, a homemaker from Mangalore. There are festivals dedicated to it in coastal towns of Udupi, Thiruvananthapuram and Mysuru.While the fruit in its raw form has a neutral taste, it is enhanced with the goodness of spices like red chillies, coriander and fresh coconut and is used to prepare curries and sambhar. Known as kathal in North India, raw jackfruit is often used in briyani. The seed is edible too and tastes best when roasted over fire and seasoned with salt. This is an all-time favourite evening snack in coastal towns during summer. The season is also a time to stock up on jackfruit chips, papads and appadams.While the ripe fruit is enjoyed just like that, it is also finely sliced and ground to make payasam and halwa. Another jackfruit speciality is mulka — sweet fritters made by grinding rice, jaggery, fresh coconut and sliced ripe jackfruit and then deep frying it. A variation of the recipe is also used to make jackfruit pancakes.Wonder leavesCooking in leaves has been an age-old culinary technique and when the leaves in question are sourced from jackfruit, the health benefits are substantial. A panacea for toothache, ulcers, diabetes and osteoporosis, jackfruit leaves are often used to steam dumplings in the South. “The leaves are rich in calcium and help in preventing premature ageing,” says Chef Sinu Vijayan from The Gateway Hotel, Mangalore.The leaves are also woven into baskets and are used as receptacles to prepare savoury dumplings. One portion raw rice and half a portion of urad dal are soaked, drained and ground. The mixture is allowed to ferment after which the batter is poured into the leaf baskets and steamed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/jackfruit-in-the-spotlight-98874
14-06-2020||Pushpesh Pant||The joys of home cooking||The old cautionary saying, ‘Too many cooks spoil the broth’, was tossed into the dustbin in the lockdown kitchen. It replaced the living room for family members of different generations who had time on their hands and palates yearning for treats that were suddenly out of reach. There was also growing awareness about the plight of less fortunate compatriots — migrant daily wage earners in large cities — who faced starvation and worse.Children and youngsters found their voice and began arguing in favour of no waste and slow cooking with whatever was at hand. While the grown-ups were busy with pitched partisan battles over social media, the youngsters were improvising recipes to blend nutrition with pleasure. My teenaged granddaughters, Sehar and Sara, volunteered to take charge of the desserts to tickle the sweet tooth that runs in the family. When reminded that even cupcakes are an avoidable indulgence, they committed themselves to use leftover ingredients or those heading towards expiry. Their father, no mean cook himself, shared with them anecdotes of receiving cooking tips from his grandmother, a great believer in making use of scrapes. This was four-generation collaboration in kitchen that saw us through the difficult period. From shahi tukda to homemade mango cheesecake, lauki ke lachche and shufta, the menu planning and mise en place kept everyone out of mischief and broke the monotony. Exchanging notes with friends we have come to realise that cooking together may well transform our eating habits in the days to come.Once we rediscover the joys of home cooking and reclaim long lost flavours of no-fuss traditional recipes, it is going to be difficult to be seduced by ‘delicacies’ unveiled by celebrity chefs or colourfully advertised by clever marketers. Doesn’t another old saying tell us: “The proof of the pudding (and all else) is in the eating!”Here’s a quick fix no-waste dahi-malai cupcake recipe that the kids perfected after a couple of hits and misses. What they kept insisting, however, was that this dairy-based, no-bake sweet was essentially ‘nutrition’ and not an extravagant indulgence.Dahi-malai cupcakeMethodPrepare a baking dish lining it with butter paper or spread a thin film of oil and dust the bottom with a little maida. Heat about two glasses of water in a wide mouth karahi and bring to boil. This will preheat the cooking vessel like an oven. Place a stand or a metal bowl, reduce flame to medium and cover. In another pan, boil milk sprinkled with cardamom seeds, stirring it constantly till it is reduced to half its volume.Prepare the batter by sifting the maida, sugar, baking powder, baking soda and salt into a large bowl. Slowly stir in the curd and milk and whisk it moving in one direction. Ensure that no lumps remain. The batter should be of thick pouring consistency. Add a few spoonfuls of milk to obtain the desired consistency. Allow the batter to stand for a while and then pour into baking dish or bowls, taking care not to fill till the top. Tap to level. Place in the steaming vessel to cook for 30 minutes. Uncover and check with a toothpick to check if done. Steam for another 7-8 minutes, if required. Allow to cool, prick carefully all over with a fork and pour thickened milk over the cakes. Garnish with chopped nuts and keep in the fridge for the flavours to soak in. Serve chilled, enjoy!Ingredients||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-joys-of-home-cooking-98895
14-06-2020||Nonika Singh||My cinema is not just entertainment: Shoojit Sircar||He loves Punjab and Punjabis. If director Shoojit Sircar had his way, his very first film would have been about Punjab. Bhagat Singh and Udham Singh are towering revolutionary figures who have always fascinated him. But back in time when he toyed with the idea, a host of films on Bhagat Singh were already being made. So he moved on to his next favourite, Kashmir, and thus came Yahaan.Today the director of superhit films like Vicky Donor and Piku is busy with the post-production of Sardar Udham Singh, the patriot who assassinated Michael O’ Dwyer, the former Lieutenant Governor of the pre-Independence Punjab. His knowledge of the revolutionary martyr is not limited to one-liners or merely confined to historical veracity. Rather his research on the patriot goes back to nearly one-and-a-half decade. Co-writer of Sardar Udham Singh, Ritesh Shah, shares how while writing the film, Shoojit deluged him with documents and articles accounting for minute details. But, the movie will not be a collation of facts, rather a ‘study of Udham’s heart and mind’.Master of detailShoojit, who prides himself on doing immense research on his subjects, rarely picks up a subject at a superficial level. Thus a seemingly light-hearted film like Gulabo Sitabo, currently streaming on Amazon Prime, too involved getting into its many layers. The key difference between a period film and one set in the present is how to recreate the feel of the past. He says, “If I were to shoot a film in today’s England, it would be quite simple, just go there and let the cameras roll. But to re-imagine the England of the 1930 requires meticulous planning.”Script is non-negotiableFor every film he makes, he works by a bound script, which is ‘a work in progress’, constantly evolving as well as a non-negotiable tenet. It is, thus, not surprising that even though his first choice to play Sardar Udham Singh was the late actor Irrfan Khan, when Vicky Kaushal stepped in, not even a wee bit of change was made in the original script. He says, “Any dos or don’ts are agreed upon prior to the writing”. Creative brainstorming with his favourite writer, Juhi Chaturvedi, who has written most of his films with a few exceptions like Sardar Udham Singh, in fact, lead to scenes/ characters being discussed threadbare and written almost in stone. For Gulabo Sitabo, they were determined not to play to the gallery.Interestingly while his film Madras Café on the LTTE and Indian intelligence operatives working in Sri Lanka may have ruffled a few feathers, he is more than confident that bringing a hero like Udham Singh alive on screen would not offend anyone.Humanism of the heroWhile he keeps mum about whether it is difficult to strike a balance between humanising and eulogising a hero, he does say, “Udham Singh was an ordinary man who became a hero.” Shah fills in, “He is celebrating the martyr through his humanism, his influences, his ideas. Shoojit’s genres may change but not his approach which is to make cinema more meaningful and less dialogue heavy.”Telling simple stories in extraordinary ways is Shoojit’s forte. Vicky Donor, Piku and now Gulabo Sitabo, the characters he introduces to the world are relatable everyday human beings. Drawn from the vortex of his personal experiences, how they ring a bell with audiences across the spectrum, he has no idea. Or at least is not willing to share the secret formula. But yes, he is tickled pink when after Vicky Donor, wonderstruck Punjabi families came to him and quizzed him: “How did you know so much about us?”Pulse of PunjabReally how did this Bengali get the Punjabi pulse so right? What explains this deep connect with Punjabis? He looks back, “Maybe it is because both Bengalis and Punjabis were active during the Independence movement. Maybe that is my link.” Besides, having spent college years in Delhi, the city he has masterfully captured in more than one film, he did have a lot of Punjabi friends. One Punjabi trait he hugely admires is their never-say-die spirit. While shooting for Sardar Udham Singh in Amritsar, he was totally taken in by the hospitality of Punjabis. But the man who never fails to hit the bull’s eye even with rather abstract themes as in the quiet yet evocative October is rather circumspect about his dedication and talent. While Shah beams, “Sardar Udham Singh is going to be truly special and visually spectacular.” Shoojit himself puts it rather succinctly, “Watch it and decide for yourself.”Not playing to the galleryRight now the world is watching his latest Gulabo Sitabao as it is streaming across more than 200 countries in dozens of languages. He is cryptic, “I don’t have to worry about box-office figures or speculate about whether people are watching it or not.” Teaming up with superstar Amitabh Bachchan yet again he admits that his bonding with the senior actor has reached a point of great trust. In fact, superstars in the making such as Vicky or Ayushmann or established ones like Deepika or Big B, Shoojit doesn’t cast them for their star value. The director, known for unusual casting, made Irrfan romance Deepika Padukone. He believes, “Casting is half the battle won, the most important determinant after the script.”Since his cinema is also character-driven, hence a lot many films such as Vicky Donor, Piku and now Sardar Udham Singh named after characters, its actors and not stars who drive his projects. For Gulabo Sitabo, he made senior Bachchan undergo complete transformation with prosthetics et al, as he wanted audiences to forget he is anything else but Mirza. So why cast a superstar with larger-than-life image in the first place? “For he is an actor too,” comes the prompt reply. Just as his films are hugely delightful, but in his words, “They are not about entertainment, entertainment and entertainment.” Yet the filmmaker who insists he makes films for himself and his set of like-minded friends has hordes nodding in affirmation and appreciation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/my-cinema-is-not-just-entertainment-shoojit-sircar-98902
