16-11-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Machines await optimum use||FOR years, farmers of Punjab have been setting paddy stubble afire to prepare their fields for sowing the wheat crop. They agree that the plumes of smoke that arise from their fields are harmful to the environment as well as human health. They admit that restricted visibility caused by the smog leads to accidents. “But what can we do? This is the way things are and always have been,” is the common rant one hears from farmers.No wonder the efforts made by the state Agriculture Department to manage stubble scientifically — in situ and ex situ — have made little progress. It’s not that the government’s attempts are half-hearted, especially under the gaze of the National Green Tribunal and the Central Pollution Control Board. In the past three years, over 50,000 machines such as happy seeders, super seeders, paddy choppers/shredders, mulchers, reversible MB ploughs, super straw management systems, rotary slashers etc., meant for stubble management, have been distributed. This year, 23,500 more machines are to be provided, of which 17,000 have already been given. For ex situ stubble management, about 220 balers have been provided on subsidy. Some industrial projects using paddy straw as biofuel have been set up. Punjab has also started field trials of the Pusa bio decomposer, along with other similar equipment, though their commercial use will take time.The menace persists in Punjab as political will to stop it is lacking. After all, the farming community is a major vote bank. As a result, stubble burning in the state is somewhat controlled only when the elections are away. The number of cases registered against farmers for burning stubble is a minuscule fraction of the incidents of farm fires reported by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre. Against an environmental compensation of Rs 2.42 crore in 9,167 cases, only Rs 5.4 lakh has been recovered.This year, the number of stubble burning incidents in the ongoing season has gone up by 65 per cent over last year. The farmers are upset this time over an ordinance to set up a commission to monitor the air quality in the National Capital Region. “The stubble burning incidents were lower than those last year till October 28. The incidents increased after the ordinance was signed by the President, with the provision for heavy fines and jail term for guilty farmers,” says Punjab’s Agriculture Commissioner BS Sidhu.Also, farmers are up in arms over the Centre’s farm laws. Randeep Singh, a Sangrur-based agriculture activist, says though farmers have bought or rented machines to manage stubble, the anger against the government forced them to burn stubble this year.Last year, the Supreme Court had said that farmers be given compensation for scientific management of paddy stubble at the rate of Rs 2,500 per acre. “Most of the farmers did not get this compensation as it was stopped abruptly. Thus, they got demotivated and resumed stubble burning,” says Talwinder Singh Gaggon, state vice-president of BKU (Qadian).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/machines-await-optimum-use-171042
16-11-2020||Parveen Arora||Earning, not burning||EVEN as farm fires continue to rage across Haryana, some farmers in the state are profiting from the adoption of crop management systems either through custom-hiring centres (CHCs) or individually after purchasing subsidised machinery.Virender Yadav (32), a progressive farmer of Faras Majra village in Kaithal district, manages crop residue with the help of a baler. “After spending four years in Australia, I returned with my wife and kids to my country to do farming. As stubble burning was a major issue, I decided not to go that way and also to encourage other farmers,” says Yadav, adding that he purchased a baler and a tractor for crop management.“I charge Rs 500 per acre from farmers to clean their fields, which costs me around Rs 1,500 per acre. I sell the crop straw to industries, from which I get Rs 2,000-2,200 per acre,” he adds. “The only major expense is on diesel as all these machines are tractor-mounted,” he says.He resents not receiving subsidy for two balers and one cutter at the right time from the government. “I have purchased two balers and a cutter forRs 30.5 lakh in September, but I have not received the subsidy, which is around Rs 19.5 lakh so far. The government should provide subsidy in time if it wants to attract farmers towards stubble management,” he observes.Rajesh Kamboj, a farmer from Radaur in Yamunanagar who has set up a CHC, provides machines to farmers on rent for the management of crop waste. He says farmers can use mulchers and rotavators which mix the stubble with the soil before sowing wheat with a zero till drill machine.A number of farmers are selling the crop residue at the collection centres set up in various villages by groups of farmers, who further sell the paddy straw and fodder to states like Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi and also to gaushalas after making bundles and crushing the straw into dry fodder. This fodder is also used for livestock feed as well as in industries like cardboard, brick kiln and others. The farmers are getting Rs 2,500-3,000 per acre for paddy straw.Dr Virender Lather, former Principal Scientist of Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) Karnal, advocates paddy straw collection for later use as dry fodder or bio-fuel in the industry.“I have sent a representation to the President of India for the constitution of a national dry fodder board for procurement of paddy straw and to use it in drought-prone areas of Rajasthan, Gujarat and Karnataka. This way, the crop residue will be fully utilised without burning,” he adds.Karam Chand, Deputy Director, Agriculture (DDA), Kaithal, says there are several methods to manage rice straw. “Under in situ management of paddy straw, several machines, including happy seeders, straw choppers/mulchers, cutters etc. are being provided at 50-80 per cent subsidy to farmers. They can obtain these machines through CHCs or individually. Subsidy is given after physical verification of the machines,” he says, adding that under the ex situ plan, farmers can take balers and cutters on subsidy.Besides, various districts have made it mandatory to attach a straw management system (SMS) with combine harvesters to curb straw burning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/earning-not-burning-171043
