17-05-2020||Navnee Likhi||In utmost simplicity||South Korean filmmaker Hong Sang-soo’s The Woman Who Ran is an unassuming tale of a middle-aged, quiet and bored married woman Gamhee, who is a florist in Seoul. Her husband is out of town for a business trip and it is for the first time in five years of their married life that Gamhee is away from him. She decides to visit her friends.The film has a playful and amateurish quality to it and shows smart women dealing with smart, annoying men. Its core lies is the conversations between these women who reminisce old times and open old wounds in the process. Gamhee sees a potential different version of herself in all three friends — one married to her ex and the other two living in circumstances Gamhee digests with a little envy. As they discuss food and duality of mind and body, one gets a peek into the complex emotional lives of these women who engage in small talk but don’t expose themselves.Gamhee first visits the bespectacled, weary-looking Youngsoon, who has recently divorced her husband. They talk about love, real estate, vegetarianism, roosters... Youngsoon’s affable roommate, Youngzji, is an expert in grilling meat and loves cats. Their conversation is interrupted by her neighbour who wants Youngzji to stop feeding a stray cat on account of his wife’s phobia of the animal. But his request is met with abject dismay.Gamhee’s visit to her second friend, Suyoung, is baggier but follows the pattern of pow-wow of her visit to her first friend. Suyoung tells Gamhee about being bothered by a pushy young poet who doesn’t stop wooing her even after she has rejected him. Suyoung wants to know whether Gamhee is happy in her married life.Halfway through the film, however, it remains a mystery as to who the titular woman could be and what is ‘she’ running away from?Towards the end, Gamhee goes to an art house theater and accidentally runs into an estranged friend, Woojin, who works there and is married to a famous novelist whom Gamhee once dated. The encounter is more pronounced and it becomes clear that the two are not intimate friends. Gamhee apologises to her about their past friction. These scenes of niceties have been shot with great aesthetic sense. The background score was composed by the director on his phone; the music plays only during transitions though. The cinematography by Kum Su-min is subtle. Kim Min-hee plays Gamhee with natural grace, every movement standing out — be it bringing meat to her lips or stirring a spoon in a China cup.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/in-utmost-simplicity-85966
17-05-2020||Shardul Bhardwaj||Distress of migrant labourers brings to the mind films from past and present||A deadly virus is communalised. A mass of migrant workers from metros with barely any means leaves the city on foot, called callous behaviour by many. Majority of the nation takes a lead in cheering the above on social media and mainstream media. Whose destruction is being cheered upon? Two pop culture icons today namely: Albert Pinto’s (motor garage worker) from Albert Pinto ko Gussa Kyun Aata Hai (1980) or Salim’s (petty gangster) from Salim Langde Par Mat Ro (1989), or both and many more.The commonality between the two is that both the characters belong to films directed by Saeed Akhtar Mirza and are on the margins of society who think they are bigger than their circumstances. Both of them despise their fathers for having lived for ‘dignity’ but in ‘poor’ conditions. They are of the opinion that their whip-smart nature is what distinguishes them from those around. Salim’s walk in the opening of the film and Albert’s walk up the stairs with the hum makes their feeling of distinctness about themselves clear as day. Both these characters, at once, are every disenfranchised youth, and a particular one belonging from a communally marginalised section of the society in a big city. Another common thread is that they belong to the working class. These films clearly demonstrated that the choice our society, in the 1980s, afforded these youths was between a life of criminality or a plain disgrace of having to live through life with ‘dignity’ but also degradation.The years have marched on. The system of mill owners against whom Albert and Salim’s father were fighting have transformed into faceless corporations who control governments and their policies. The fiendish illusion of free choice and hard labour to further oneself, which plague Albert and Salim, in a market economy controlled by a handful has taken deep roots. Workers and marginalised are outrightly called lazy and evil for living under the conditions that they live in, especially in the big metros where the population lives on the ticking time bomb of limited resources.To borrow from John Berger: “The gulag equation ‘criminal=slave labourer’ has been rewritten by neoliberalism to become ‘worker=hidden criminal’. The whole drama of global migration is expressed in this new formula; those who work are latent criminals. When accused, they are found guilty of trying to survive at all costs.”In the new state of affairs emerge Murad (Gully Boy) and Anand (Super 30) in stories which exemplify the platitude “God helps those who help themselves”. Bollywood in its choice of stories picks up successes, aiming to tell a ‘motivational’ story. These stories of ‘hard fought success’ never ask why Murad or Anand have to start behind the others on the starting line of life, it is understood to be a given: because they are poor, who or what got these people in the mud of endless deprivation is not important. What is important is that they ‘beat all odds to become successful’, the nature and reason behind those odds are not necessary until they are beaten. If one were to believe these films, one can only conclude that everybody has a chance in this ‘free competition’, it’s just that some are lazy and stubborn. One should aspire to be a Murad or an Anand, not a whiff of protest should be registered about why inhuman struggle is the only prerequisite to life for most.It’s like a situation from Brecht’s play Good Person of Schezwan where after many years of praying to the gods for betterment in living conditions, the gods descend to find one good person so that it can be proved that it’s the people who are good or bad and not the conditions. The success story films of Bollywood about the young men and women are out to prove the same. Salim’s killing at the end after he decided to lead a life of ‘honest labour’ and Albert’s hurt at being treated like an outsider by the rich clients he thought were friends are not moments of hopelessness, but of liberation for the audience which can discern that continual ignorance of a fellow human’s pain and suffering would lead to one’s own end, where a small brotherhood at the top wants to distract us by falsities of ‘hardwork’ and ‘obedience’ as ladders to the top where they sit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/distress-of-migrant-labourers-brings-to-the-mind-films-from-past-and-present-85961
17-05-2020||Chaitali Patel||Grandmas from two worlds doing their bit||On my last visit home, while rummaging through a stash of family photographs, I chanced upon a picture of my sister dressed in a bright patchwork dress. When I showed the 40-year-old sepia photograph to my mother, she was quick to point out that my sister was wearing a dress that she had made with samples of fabric brought home by my uncle. My family was into the business of dyes and textiles, and fabric swatches were always lying around the house. There were so many, that these were generously given away to anyone who cared to take them.A few weeks ago in a photograph that was shared in my family WhatsApp group, those cloth samples from eons ago made another appearance. This time, a distant relative, 83-year old Ramaben Patel, was using those pieces to make masks in Detroit, USA. It was a conversation with her niece who was making a mask at home for her personal use which inspired Ramaben to make masks. Having learnt sewing from her mother, Ramaben was always fond of stitching clothes for her family. Her daughter, Sejal, lent a helping hand, and the two together have made 250 masks. As Covid-19 spread rapidly through the US and the demand for masks grew, they started making masks for a local doctor’s office, and later for the grocery store run by Sejal’s husband. Every customer who walked into the store without a mask was given one free. The octogenarian took those fabric swatches from India to the US hoping to make a handbag, but when the pandemic struck, she found that they lent perfectly to making masks. Besides those samples, they use fabric sourced from a local store. Once the masks are stitched, these are washed in hot water, dried and ironed. A batting fabric is used at the back of every mask that acts as a filter. They also shipped a box of masks to Florida, to one of their friends who wasn’t able to source any locally. In Pune, another mother-daughter duo, are doing their bit to combat the ever growing demand for masks. Seventy-three-year-old Shobha Kalbag and her daughter Amita, have made more than 1,000 masks and donated these to a local NGO, Punyadham Ashram. The NGO, in turn, distributes these masks to municipal hospitals, Army hospitals and the local police station.Forced to be indoors because of the nationwide lockdown, Kalbag senior, decided to use her fondness for stitching to help those on the frontline, many of whom could not find a basic mask to use. On an average, Amita and her mother make anywhere between 30 and 60 masks, depending on the time they have to spare. While her mother does all the stitching, Amita helps with the cutting and folding. Punyadham Ashram supplies them with soft cotton fabric. Community service comes naturally to both ladies. Kalbag senior used to volunteer with a school for children for special needs, teaching the students embroidery. Amita works with the ashram as chief coordinator.Amita says they hope to keep going for as long as they can. Their Usha sewing machine broke down recently, but that only caused a temporary break, as her father was able to fix the problem and get it up and running soon enough.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/grandmas-from-two-worlds-doing-their-bit-85960
17-05-2020||Suditi Jindal||Parenting during the pandemic||“Your children are not your children.They are the sons and daughters of life’s longing for itself.They come through you but not from you,And though they are with you yet they belong not to you.”These famous lines of a poem by Kahlil Gibran come to my mind whenever I think of children — my own or others. The present times of the pause (lockdown is not the word for me) have thrown a new challenge at parents with their young children at home.Begin from the beginningBehind every action is a thought and behind every thought is intent. Let us examine and settle our intent for parenting our children. According to parenting expert Dr Shefali Tsabary, “When you parent, it’s crucial you realise you aren’t raising a “mini me,” but a spirit throbbing with its own signature.” We are to provide our children with the most conducive environment to grow. This is composed of physical, emotional, mental, social and spiritual elements. We learn about parenting from our children, as much as they learn about life from us. Therefore, it is a two-way learning for both. Next is our thought that determines our parenting style, which is to influence our children, and not manage them. Our children are not a task that needs to be tended to. The next step of developing a positive parenting style involves our action, and our children will not follow our advice but will follow our example. This, however, is not so simple.We have to develop a knack to display genuine enthusiasm for every chore we do, whether at home or outside it. However, these days the chores will be restricted to those within our house. We cannot expect a child to feel good about making his/her bed if we ourselves detest it and grumble about it. Also, it is not humanly possible to simply adore every task that we do in life, so we must learn to be honest about our dislike and express it thus. A cribbing parent is a big irritant for the child. It serves us in good stead to openly declare that we do not like doing a particular piece of work and seek help in doing it.It cannot be stressed enough at this point that times have changed. As parents, we have to innovate parenting and make it suitable to fulfil the present-day needs. If our world has turned topsy-turvy because of the pandemic, so has that of our children. A few practices that have helped many parents to preserve their sanity and still be a relevant parent have been shared here:Care for the caregiverParents should take good care of themselves before offering any care to their children. A cranky and irritated parent rears an anxious and irritable child. We should steal a few minutes or an hour exclusively for ourselves, before the day begins. Do whatever we like, such as, strolling in our lawn as we sip the tea, meditating in the sunrise light, or exercising. Once we are fully charged, our day will not lack luster.Develop and follow a routineWe should have a time-table for ourselves and plan our tasks for the day keeping in mind everybody’s schedule. Developing a similar time-table for children is also essential. Once they see us following the schedule, they will naturally fall in line. Some common activities in everyone’s schedule can be meal-times, time to get ready for the day, sleep-times and play-time, among others.Strike a balanceThe time spent at home should be a balance between household chores, tasks related to work or school in case of children, and time for relaxation and recreation. We can prioritise our time and distribute it differently among various activities. However, our schedule should have time for rejuvenation and connecting with the family. It is also a good idea to keep shuffling the time-table to keep it fresh and exciting.Monitor screen timeA lot of our life is happening online, but our parents managed to thrive and live a fulfilling life before the advent of the internet. As parents, we should make an effort to incorporate a few of the activities from those times to make our life during present days as happy and content. I rediscovered an engaging activity of going through the old newspapers in search of quotes during this pause. My children and I search a quote, note it down in our ‘quotable quotes diary’ and then discuss it to understand it. We have thus developed not only a repository of quotes, but have etched these in our memory by writing these down and discussing these. Interestingly, some words have become triggers for memories of our time spent together.Don’t hesitate to seek helpWe can seek professional help or help from our friends and family members when our methods to create a happy and wholesome environment are not yielding the desired results. It is a good idea to talk to your friend about your frustration and just let out the steam. This has helped many acquire a fresh perspective and come up with a more successful strategy to beat the odds. Social distancing only implies physical distancing, and not emotional distancing.Instill a sense of gratefulnessThe present times are the time to actually demonstrate the attitude of gratitude. We should celebrate the new challenges with our children and the new achievements they bring to our life, once we overcome them.Prof Alan Delamater of Miami Miller School of Medicine in one of his articles said, “Teaching children the habit of gratitude would appear to be good for their long-term mental health, as well as increasing pro-social behaviours that benefit the community and society as a whole.” Our very own Puducherry Governor Dr Kiran Bedi in a recent interview with interns stressed upon teaching children gratitude.The present times are a pause. The pause is only here to break the old pattern of our life, it is not here to put on hold our life. So let us all rise up to the occasion of being better versions of our parenting-self in the changed times, and embrace with joy the new-age parent-child relationship.Develop life skillsThe present times are the best to learn the basic survival skills, and the more advanced life skills. Of course, it takes lesser time and it is easier to roll out a chapatti than to teach our child to do so, but we must make use of this time to invest in his/her upskilling. This also provides a good opportunity to bond over our busy lives. Remember to teach the new skill with a smile so that the child does not approach it with distaste. As parents, we should not be negligent of acquiring new skills ourselves, such as, better communication with other family members, keeping in regular touch with near and dear ones who don’t live with you, new ways to do our work from home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/parenting-during-the-pandemic-85959
17-05-2020||Pushpa Girimaji||Fighting Covid-19: Don’t be misled by ads||In recent times, I have come across several advertisements promising to protect consumers from the dreaded coronavirus. Most of them claim to be ayurvedic or herbal products and people are buying them, believing that these will protect them. Are there any laws to prevent such ads and protect consumers?The Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act specifically prohibits false and misleading advertisements relating to drugs. The definition of ‘drug’ under the Act is quite comprehensive and includes any medicine for the internal or external use of human beings or animals; any substance intended to be used for or in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of disease in human beings or animals; and any article, other than food, intended to affect or influence in any way the structure or any organic function of the body of human beings or animals. The Act not only prohibits advertisements of drugs for the treatment of certain diseases, disorders, conditions such as diabetes, obesity, menstrual disorders, but also bans false and misleading advertisement pertaining to drugs. Under the Act, an ‘advertisement’ includes “any notice, circular, label, wrapper or other document, and any announcement made orally or by any means of producing or transmitting light, sound or smoke”. The advertisements that you are referring to come under the purview of this law. As enforcement agencies, state governments are empowered to monitor and take action against such advertisements. Those held guilty are liable to be punished with imprisonment up to six months or fine or both for the first offence and imprisonment up to one year or fine or both for subsequent offence. I must also mention that in response to complaints about Covid-related false and misleading claims , the union ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga, Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy (AYUSH) has on April 1, issued an order under Section 33P of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, directing the regulatory authorities in states and union territories to “stop and prevent publicity and advertisement of AYUSH-related claims for Covid-19 in print, television and electronic media and take necessary action against the persons/agencies involved in contravening the relevant legal provisions …”.  The Ministry said it was “imperative to apply and implement various measures for maintaining public safety in all aspects and to control dissemination of misleading information about AYUSH drugs and services.” The ministry has also asked the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI), which is a self regulatory body of the advertising industry, to monitor and report such advertisements.   What can consumers do if they come across misleading Covid-related claims in ads?You can complain to the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs on its website meant specifically for dealing with such complaints. If you key in gama.gov.in it will take you to the website. You can also complain to the state drug control authorities who are empowered to take action against such advertisements under the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act and Rules.  If the complaint is about false and misleading food advertisement, then you can complain to the state food safety authority or the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India . Misleading claims pertaining to food are governed by the Food Safety and Standards (Advertising and Claims) Regulations and enforced by the state food safety officers. Violation of the Regulation attracts a penalty up to Rs 10 lakhs as per Section 53 of the Food Safety and Standards Act. You can also complain to ASCI on its website- ascionline.org or on their WhatsApp number: 7710012345.According a government release issued in 2019, as many as 732 advertisements in violation of the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act and pertaining to AYUSH medicines were reported by ASCI during the year 2017-18. Out of this, 456 advertisements were escalated to state regulatory authorities for legal action. Similarly, in 2018-19, 497 such advertisements were identified out of which 203 cases were escalated to the state authorities. The ASCI tries to persuade the advertiser to withdraw or modify such advertisements and if the advertiser does not comply, refers the matter to the regulatory authority for suitable action under the law. I must mention that under the Consumer Protection Act too, one can file a complaint against false and misleading advertisements. The law empowers consumer courts to order withdrawal of such advertisements and even direct issuance of corrective advertisements, besides award of costs and compensation to consumers affected by such advertisements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/fighting-covid-19-dont-be-misled-by-ads-85957
17-05-2020||Pushpesh Pant||Mango for main course||In normal times, mangoes would have hit the market and we would have been enjoying the luscious and juicy king of fruits to our heart’s content. From the fragrant and delicately sweet alphonso and dasehri to langda and chausa, members in our family would have had their own eagerly awaited favourite. The mango season lasts from April to September and one hopes against hope that the lockdown will be lifted by the time the late fruiting varieties appear and one may yet be able to have a taste of the sweet and juicy aam!Mango — unripe and ripe — is used in myriad ways to enhance our dining pleasure. It is used for chutney, pickles, murabbas, cold drinks like panna, and desserts like amras, aam ki kulfi, kheer and phirni and even main course dishes. In Bengal, one encounters aam diya maacher jhal and chingari (prawns) aam. In Awadh, bawarchis claiming lineage from Nawabi kitchens boast of the vegetarian novelty ambar kaliya that mimics meat. In Tamil Nadu, it adds a refreshingly distinct sour tang to the sambar, and in Kerala, chemmeen manga curry and meen mappas cooked with ripe local mangoes are much liked. In Gujarat, they prepare aam nee guthali nu shaak, a unique dish that makes use of both the fruit and seeds.Our all-time favourite is an improvisation of Andhra mutton prepared with unripe mangoes. Called maamkiya mammsam, it can be prepared with minimal ingredients and requires no special skills in the kitchen or patience. It seems particularly well-suited for the difficult home-bound days we are living through. Some of our friends have even experimented with substituting meat with other vegetables. For us a little meat is indispensable but, as they say, to each his own!Mango mutton curryIngredientsMethodWash and pat dry the mutton. Slice the onions not too fine. Grind whole red chillies with grated or desiccated coconut to a smooth paste. Heat oil in a thick bottom pan. Add the meat and stir fry briskly on high flame for a minute, then add the onions and ginger pastes. Stir well and add the powdered spices. Add the spice paste. Mix well and add a cup of water. Pressure cook on medium flame till three whistles, remove from stove and let the pressure come down itself. In the meanwhile, peel and cut unripe mangoes into thick bite-sized chunks. Open the pressure cooker and add the mango pieces along with tamarind pulp and crumbled jaggery. Bring to a boil, reduce the flame immediately and simmer till the mangoes are done but not mushy. Prepare the tempering and pour all over the curry. Enjoy with phulka or rice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/mango-for-main-course-85955
17-05-2020||Bindu Gopal Rao||Chef Gaggan Anand’s long wait for full house||Gaggan Anand, the name that is held with utmost regard in culinary circles, needs little introduction. For the uninitiated, however, his restaurant has four times made it to ‘The World’s 50 Best Restaurants’ list and his take on progressive Indian cuisine is unlike no one else. His meals may have a dash of drama and theatrics but with two Michelin stars under his belt, Anand knows it is food that is the star of his creations. This, however, was in a pre-Covid world. The contagion has changed it all and we get talking to him on how he plans to deal with the changing dynamics.A new worldIn November 2019, Anand embarked on a new trajectory with the opening of his eponymous new restaurant, Gaggan Anand, in Bangkok with the same 65-member staff that worked with him in his previous restaurant, Gaggan. After a great initial run, however, the pandemic hit, changing things dramatically.“One thing we have to understand is that this impacts everyone. It is a human problem and not an embryonic issue. What matters most is survival and that is also my primary concern. It is not about making money or profits now, but braving these times. This is also the time for us to be there and retain our staff as it is most important that the stronger helps the weaker,” says Anand.Going out to restaurants in a post-Covid-19 world will be different. “If you remember, after the 2008 Mumbai attacks, luxury dining was not the same. Likewise, things will not be the same for a long time now and we all must adapt, understand and not get frustrated.” What has come out clearly is that the number of covers getting filled up in the restaurant will not be possible due to social distancing and it will take some time for things to settle down. “The biggest impact is we will not have a full house nor shall we have a waiting list. So, it will be a slow and steady path to recovery.”Chef Gaggan AnandThe food industry is all set to change to become cleaner. In India we must also be cautious because issues like food poisoning are commonplace and that is something that cannot be allowed to happen. You need to have better safety standards as most people eat with their hands.For the betterAccording to Anand, the one positive that has come out of this crisis is the stress on cleanliness and hygiene. Safety is going to be key — of both the consumers and the staff—and hygiene standards will need to be adhered to without any compromise.“The food industry is all set to change to become cleaner. Chefs in India have to understand that hygiene is above everything else. You need to have better safety standards as most people eat with their hands. In India we must also be cautious because issues like food poisoning are commonplace and that is something that cannot be allowed to happen,” he says.Anand also understands that the food industry will change forever as far as large banquet style gatherings are concerned. “Ten people cannot queue up in one place nor can there be massive family gatherings. We must figure out a way to tackle these things.” Incidentally, at this time, Anand is on a keto diet and is completely off potatoes and carbohydrates and admits he has lost weight while focusing on eating healthy.Human connectAnand hopes that these times will also teach people to be more equitable to everyone while going forward. “The impact of any crisis and its aftermath need to be distributed equitably and one person should not be burdened more as compared to another. My plan over the next three-four months is to open safely for my team and for our customers and focus on what we can do best and be flexible.”Incidentally, the chef recently opened his own curry house, Ms. Maria & Mr. Singh, a Mexican-Indian fusion cuisine restaurant, in March 2020 and is glad that he can take orders for deliveries and takeaways at this outlet. “At this time, I am glad that I can do at least this much for my staff. They need to support their families and hence we have started deliveries. While I know I can survive for a few months, they cannot manage without help. I just hope that we all are able get over this and a cure is found soon. We are all vulnerable and we need to control our temptations and greed must be the last thing on our mind at this stage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/chef-gaggan-anands-long-wait-for-full-house-85954
17-05-2020||Subhash Rajta||A road that opened way to good life for remote Shimla district||About a decade back, in one of the remotest regions of district Shimla, barter system was not uncommon. Money was in short supply, so villagers here preferred to offer grains in lieu of cash for any labour. Cut to 2018. A farmer from one of the around 20 villages comprising this region, falling in the catchment area of river Giri and bordering district Sirmour, sold tomatoes worth around Rs 20 lakh! “The man belongs to our family,” says Sewak Ram, a former pradhan of the Satlai panchayat. “There are five to six households of our family in the village. Collectively, we earned roughly around Rs1crore from tomatoes alone,” he said, shuffling in his plastic chair placed right at the edge of a vast expanse of fertile land, surrounded by mountains from all sides. A large portion of the field is covered by about six to eight feet high poles — tomato vines climb up on these poles — while the other half is in use for growing vegetables like cauliflower, cabbage, etc.“On an average, every household earns at least Rs5-10 lakh every year by selling tomatoes alone,” said Sewak Ram, reiterating the stunning economic transformation of the region. This collective poverty to prosperity story is indeed remarkable. That it panned out in a decade or so makes it even more spectacular. So, what triggered this transformation?Well, prosperity rushed in here at a breakneck speed through narrow and winding dirt roads. “The region had no road connectivity until towards the end of the first decade of this century,” informs Sant Ram of Kuthar village. “Road reached Dharech (a small place about 10 to 15 km from various villages of the region) 40 years back, but not an inch was added to it all these years.” Fortunately, in 2006, under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna, the long-stuck road got a green signal, and it ran down right through the middle of the region. Having waited for decades, the desperate people lost no time in drawing out link roads to their villages, some up the hill, some down. It wasn’t easy though. “After every km or so, the driver of the bulldozer would start throwing tantrums,” recalls Vidya Nand, pradhan of the Satog panchayat.The wait was indeed long, but the change was instant. Their crops changed first, their lives next. People switched to cash crops like tomatoes, capsicum and cauliflower from wheat, maize and potato, once they got access to mandis. Soon, cash started flowing in, old mud and wood houses gave way to more comfortable homes equipped with modern amenities, and vehicles lined up outside. “Even in our wildest dreams, we hadn’t thought that we would live the life we are living today. These link roads have turned around our lives, and that of our children for good,” says Raj Kumar Sharma, a Panchayat auditor, while leaning on his car parked right outside his house. There was a time, not too long back, when he had to leave his house at around 3 am in the morning and walk around 15 km to catch the only bus that left at 7.30 am for Shimla!One lifetime, two lives“In my 45 years on the earth, I have already lived two different lives, one before the road and one after it,” says Sharma. It may sound incredible but he is not exaggerating, not even one bit. Picture this: he spent a considerable part of his childhood without electricity. “Until I was around 10, there was no electricity. We would study in the light of firewood in the evening, mother would cook and elderly would spin wool. Even kerosene was unaffordable, was used only in emergencies,” Sharma recalls. And then, on finishing the primary school in his village, he would walk around 15 km to and from the nearest high school.  And later, in his youth, he would climb a mountain, roughly 15 km, with a sack of chillies or anardana on his back to reach the road, from where the produce would be transported to mandis. “Even after walking for more than three hours up the mountain, with a sack on our back, there was no guarantee our produce would get to the mandi the same day,” Sharma says. “Bus was the only mode of transport to take our produce to the market. There was just one bus on that route, and sometimes the bus driver wouldn’t stop at all. In that case, we would move our sacks slightly away from the road and wait for the bus until next day. Often, people had to bribe the driver to stop.”Now, only a few old mud and wood houses stand as a proof of the deprived life people lived until a decade back. “Almost everyone had small houses with mostly two rooms and a kitchen,” says Sewak Ram. For roofing, people had to rely on thick and random-shaped slates from the river ‘khud’, which allowed water to seep in, unlike the well-chiselled slates used elsewhere. “Every time it rained, one person had to rush on to the roof to try and fix the multiple leaks. In no time, our rooms would get inundated,” recalls Sewak Ram, throwing a glance at the now tinned roof of his house. Not surprisingly, almost every house here has been built anew, or renovated in the past couple of years.People have been quick to adopt mechanised way of agriculture. Several activities like tilling and grass-cutting, which were done manually, are done using machines now. Many are practising even drip irrigation. “We even have a couple of tractors in our village,” says Vidya Nand, with an unmistakable hint of pride.Raj Kumar SharmaEven in our wildest dreams, we hadn’t thought that we would live the life we are living today. These link roads have turned around our lives, and that of our children for good.Women empowermentAmong several gifts these serpentine roads brought to these villages, access to education is probably the most valuable. Because of poverty and absence of schools nearby, only a handful could study beyond Class V or VIII.  Girls, in particular, were adversely affected. “Because of the lack of education, our area suffered a lot. There’s hardly anyone on any big post from here,” rues Sant Ram. Things have, however, changed for the better quite rapidly in the past few years. “Now, most of the girls from here reach college,” says Saroj Thakur, who recently completed her post-graduation. Bimla Verma, a Deputy Ranger in the Forest Department, is delighted to see this change. “I was probably the first girl from this area to do matriculation when girls were either not sent to school at all or were withdrawn from school after Class V,” says Bimla.“My mother, too, wanted me to drop out like most girls after Class V but somehow I just carried on.” Of course, it was far from a walk in the park. Lack of support and encouragement from the family and society aside, meagre financial resources, too, posed quite a challenge. “I would get just one dress and one pair of shoes for the entire year. Fearing the shoes would not last a year if I used these regularly, I would walk barefoot to the school, holding the shoes in my hands,” says Bimla. “And, of course, I had to help out in chores like collecting firewood, grass for cattle and in the fields like all other members of the family.”Overall, people are extremely relieved and happy to see their once ‘backward’ place catching up with the more developed areas. “Not just our place, even the people living here were considered backward,” says Vidya Nand. “People tried their best to dissuade my in-laws from marrying off their daughter into our area? ‘Why would you want to marry your daughter with someone hailing from such a backward area?’ they would tell them.”“By the way, we have four buses driving in and out of our area every day, and connecting us to Shimla and Solan. Incidentally, there’s no bus service yet to the village of my in-laws,” he says, having a hearty laugh. Or, more aptly, the last laugh!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/a-road-that-opened-way-to-good-life-for-remote-shimla-district-85953
