17-08-2020||Post-harvest losses||Striving to rein in grain drain||Vijay C RoyPM Narendra Modi recently launched a Central scheme of Rs 1 lakh crore under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund for agri-entrepreneurs, startups, agri-tech players and farmer producer organisations (FPOs) for building post-harvest infrastructure and nurturing farm assets. It is believed that the assets will enable farmers to get greater value for their produce as they will be able to store and sell at higher prices, reducing wastage and increasing processing and value addition. The PM stated that India had a huge opportunity to invest in post-harvest management solutions like warehousing, cold chains, and food processing, and build a global presence in areas such as organic and fortified foods.Stakeholders say this is a step in the right direction but the key would lie in its implementation. Post-harvest losses have a direct impact on small farmers’ income. The small farmer generally doesn’t have all the facilities of farm mechanisation. This leads to improper harvesting and crop losses. Also, lack of primary processing impacts the shelf life of the product and increases post-harvest losses. Then, lack of market linkages further negatively affects the farmers.According to a Nasscom survey, post-harvest losses in India amount to $13 billion annually. In the case of grains, it is estimated to be around 10 per cent, while for horticulture produce, according to the industry, the farmer’s losses are estimated at 25-30%.In Punjab, like other states, there have been instances in which foodgrains worth crores of rupees were damaged due to improper storage. Also, there have been cases in which growers dumped vegetables on the road due to bumper production and a drastic fall in prices. According to experts, demand-driven cold chains, warehouse monitoring solutions and market linkage can significantly decrease such losses and boost farmers’ income in the state.Funds will be provided for the setting up of cold stores and chains, warehousing, silos, assaying, grading and packaging units, e-marketing points linked to e-trading platforms and ripening chambers, besides PPP projects for crop aggregation sponsored by Central, state and local bodies.Boost for FPOs“The announcement of the Agri Infra Fund is a welcome decision by the government as it will help the FPOs in creating their infrastructure and enable farmers gain more value for their produce. This initiative supports the collaboration we have put in place together with FPOs to increase the income of farmers,” says Debarshi Dutta, CEO, BPC Technologies India Pvt Ltd.Also, according to the industry, the move comes as a boost to the mission of quality control as standards of farm produce supply can be better monitored and controlled by the FPOs with the creation of their own setup using this fund. This will enable better returns for the produce to the farmers.GDP contributionThe fund will also help the agriculture sector enhance its contribution to the state GDP, stimulate greater export potential of the farm sector and ensure a stable and prosperous life for farmers by increasing incomes.“The fund will catalyse infrastructure development of modern cold storages and cold chains as well as warehouses in villages; it will also provide employment opportunities in rural areas as farmers will be benefited directly,” says Manpreet Brar, a progressive farmer.He adds that they will be able to get greater value for their produce, store and sell their crops at appropriate pricing, reduce farm wastage, increase processing time and overall equip an agriculture-led New India to compete globally.Will help in long runThe fund can be expected to boost rural demand for industrial goods and services. “It is a welcome step. There is a lot of investment needed in this sector vis-a vis cold chains, cold stores, silos, and taking care of post-harvest needs. This will definitely give encouragement to people coming forward to invest. The fund, provided there is proper investment, can play a role in reducing post-harvest losses in the long run,” says Sarvjit Singh Samra, MD, Capital Small Finance Bank Ltd.Agriculture Infrastructure FundThe Agriculture Infrastructure Fund, the duration of which will be till 2029, aims to provide medium-to-long term debt financing facility for investment in viable projects for post-harvest management infrastructure and community farming assets through interest subvention and financial support. Under the scheme, Rs1 lakh crore will be provided by banks and financial institutions as loans with interest subvention of 3% per annum and credit guarantee coverage under the Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) scheme for loans up to Rs2 crore.Beneficiaries will include farmers, marketing cooperative societies, FPOs, self-help groups, joint liability groups, multipurpose co-op societies, agri-entrepreneurs, startups, and Central/state agency/local body-sponsored public-private partnership (PPP) projects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/striving-to-rein-in-grain-drain-127266
17-08-2020||Post-harvest losses||Stakeholders upbeat||Parveen AroraThe financing facility of Rs 1 lakh crore under the Agri Infra Fund (AIF) has raised hopes among farmers and the scientific community that the much-neglected issue of post-harvest losses would be addressed.Hailing the step, farmers and scientists say it will help in improving post-harvest infrastructure and boosting farmers’ income. However, they stress on enhancing the MSP of the crops as the input cost is increasing day by day. Farmers say low prices and high input cost force them to dump their produce on the road.“It is a much-needed initiative for the betterment of the small and marginal farmers whose considerable yield gets spoiled due to lack of storage facility. This fund will help in creating better storage facilities and modern cold storage in villages. Many employment opportunities will be created in villages with the construction of warehouses, cold stores and food processing units,” says Dr Gyan Prakash Bhargava, retired joint director and principal scientist of Central Soil Salinity Research Institute (CSSRI), Karnal.He believes farmers would get good prices for their yield in the off-season also with the establishment of food processing units. “If a group of farmers sets up food processing units, the farmers do not have to sell their produce at throwaway prices. Exploitation by commission agents would also be curbed to a great extent,” he adds.Dr. Bhargava says the shelf life of perishable products would be increased and the losses of small and marginal farmers will drop. Also, it will contribute to doubling the income of farmers.Vijay Kapoor, general secretary, Haryana Kisan Welfare Club, and a progressive farmer from Pabana Hassanpur, is hopeful that the fund will help farmers minimise post-harvest losses. “Setting up of cold stores, ripening chambers and packaging units will help vegetable and fruit growers. It will create employment as the scheme will be implemented through agri-entrepreneurs, startups and FPOs,” he adds.Dharambir Satija, a farmer from Karnal’s Chundipur village, says poor storage leads to the spoilage of a huge quantity of farm produce across the country. To recover a portion of the losses, farmers sell their produce at throwaway prices. “The step initiated by the Union government may act as a life-saver for marginal farmers, who have less than five acres and grow perishable products,” he observes.Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni says it was a long-awaited demand of the farmers to address the post-harvest losses, but he opines that the amount to be given to farmers is meagre. “The Centre has made a provision to give Rs 10,000 crore per year to the country’s farmers. Only the big FPOs or farmers’ groups will get benefit, while the small and marginal ones will be neglected. The government should draw a plan to reach out to needy farmers,” he adds. Chaduni says the fund will provide the farmers with much-needed storage facility.On the other hand, Dr Virender Singh Lather, former principal scientist of Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Regional Station, Karnal, says this step is not farmer-friendly. According to him, it will favour businessmen and middlemen instead of creating any significant employment in the rural sector. “Perishable farm yield is mainly produced by about 80 per cent of 14.5 crore small and marginal farmers who are dependent on local markets for the sale of their produce. These farmers do not have logistic and financial capacity to benefit from the government’s ‘one nation, one market’ scheme or withhold their perishable produce amid a price crash which is generally orchestrated by middlemen or traders,” he adds.He says the government should promote processing units in every district for post-harvest utilisation of bulk perishable produce by making the ‘right to sell at MSP’ a statutory Act as proposed by the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) in its Kharif report-2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/stakeholders-upbeat-127260
