18-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Agriculture relief package is old wine in a new bottle||THE Rs 1.6 lakh crore package announced by the Centre for lifting the agriculture sector has failed to enthuse farmers, policy-makers, agrarian scientists or even the government of the agrarian state of Punjab.Old wine in new bottle: that is how most stakeholders in Punjab have reacted to the package. Dismayed that the government would treat the farmers so callously, especially after the 'food warriors' managed one of the most difficult harvests during the lockdown, ensuring India’s food security, the package has been rejected primarily because its major focus is on giving more loans to already highly indebted farmers.The relief package includes a major chunk to be extended as credit support to farmers. Unofficial estimates put the institutional indebtedness of Punjab's farmers at Rs 75,000 crore and non-institutional indebtedness at Rs 13,000 crore. This works out at an average loan of Rs 3.82 lakh each on 23 lakh farmers in the state.“Are they trying to push us further into debt? How can the government ignore the hardships that most farmers, especially vegetable growers and dairy farmers have faced in the past two months, throwing away or ploughing back their crops in the ground because of the crash in prices? In a state where farmer suicides because of indebtedness are high, it seems to be an ill-conceived policy,” says Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), rejecting the relief package.Kesar Singh Bhangoo, an eminent agro economist, says farmers in Punjab and many other states do not need more loans. “What they need now is the direct cash support for the paddy crop they are to sow. Farmers were hoping for a loan waiver, or at least interest waiver on crop loans. With migrant labour not available for farming operations and the prices of inputs increasing, direct cash support would have been ideal. The migrant labour, too, could have benefited and the painful reverse migration could have been stopped,” he rues.Even as farmers (vegetable growers, floriculturists) have suffered losses and the cost of much-needed labour for paddy transplantation is almost double that of last year, the cost of fertilisers has gone up. The subsidy for fertilisers has been reduced by the Centre to Rs 18.78 per kg for nitrogen; Rs 14.88 per kg for phosphorus; Rs 10.11 per kg for potash and Rs 2.37 per kg for sulphur for the current financial year. Last year, the subsidy rates were Rs 18.90 (nitrogen), Rs 15.21 (phosphorus), Rs 11.12 (potash) and Rs 3.56 (sulphur). “The benefit of lower crude prices has also not been passed on to the consumers,” says Jagtar Singh, a farmer from Kot Duna in Barnala.Prem Singh Bhangu of the All India Kisan Federation feels that ‘one nation one market’ will benefit traders and the corporate sector. “We fear that under the garb of this policy, the government intends to abandon state procurement and the support price of agriculture produce. It would prove detrimental to the interests of farmers,” he says.So what should have been done to make the farmers happy? Balwinder Singh Sidhu, member secretary, Punjab State Farmers' Commission, opines that the ideal solution should have been no charging of interest on crop loans and term loans for a year; moratorium on loans for two years; and giving cash assistance to labourers.“Paddy cultivation could be brought under MGNREGA for a year and it would solve the problem of labour while ensuring food security. To boost the dairy sector, the state dairy cooperatives should be strengthened as these are the only ones buying milk as private milk plants remain closed. Also, the funding pattern of all agriculture schemes needs to be changed from 50:50 ratio to 90:10 (90 per cent Centre’s share and 10 per cent states’ share),” he says.Send your feedback to infocus@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/agriculture-relief-package-is-old-wine-in-a-new-bottle-86385
18-05-2020||Parveen Arora||Farmers hope for self-reliance||THE measures announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman under the Covid-19 economic relief package, such as amending the Essential Commodities Act (ECA) and reducing farmers’ dependence on the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), have received a mixed response from the farming community as well as agriculture experts of Haryana.Farmers say these were long-pending demands and will help in fetching them better prices, but the experts find nothing new in these proposals as most of the same have already been part of earlier plans and there is a need for more financial provisions to benefit farmers. “It appears there is no major proposal with a structural change. The farmers will be benefited only if infrastructural facilities are raised at the block and district levels. Deregulating the ECA and reducing the dependence on the APMC may help the farmers sell their produce anywhere, but still a large number of them are small and marginal and the government must emphasise on abolishing the barriers to selling their produce,” says Dr Dalip Gosai, former Principal Scientist and head, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), Karnal.Dr Gurbachan Singh, former chairperson, Agricultural Scientist Recruitment Board (ASRB) and former Union Agriculture Commissioner, believes there is a strong need to help the farmers through a practical marketing system. “The proposals in the Covid relief package may help in streamlining agriculture, but it is imperative to implement these proposals on the ground. Farmers are facing problems in selling perishable commodities, be it vegetables, fruit, flower or milk. In the absence of cold storage and remunerative prices, they are forced to throw their produce on the roadside or distribute it free of cost. The provisions are already there in government schemes, but the implementation is almost missing. I feel the marketing system should be streamlined to help in doubling the farmers’ income,” he says, adding that the proposal of amendments to the ECA is a laudable step, but proper monitoring is essential.A cross-section of farmers believes that these reforms will help in uplifting the long-neglected agricultural sector and the farming community. It will provide them better opportunities to explore the market as there would be no barriers to selling their produce.“The announcements are a welcome step. Big administrative reforms such as deregulating the ECA will allow the farmers to store or sell their produce throughout India, providing better opportunities for getting better prices,” says Vijay Kapoor, general secretary, Haryana Kisan Welfare Club.Kapoor appreciates the provision of extending cold chain facilities and considers it will help in increasing the storage capacity and farmers will get better prices after selling their produce in the market during the off-season.Vijay Setia, former president, All India Rice Exporters Association (AIREA), says India has come a long way from shortage to surplus in the food sector and the policy changes were long due. “The proposals under the package for farmers and agriculture are welcome to double the income of farmers by 2022. Changes in policies were long-pending as many market committees are not taking care of farmers; rather, these places have become dens of corruption and exploitation. The freedom to farmers to sell their produce anywhere will help in making them self-reliant,” he says, seeking a reduction in market fees.RS Sangwan, retired CEO, Fisheries Department, and former director of Pargatisil Kisan Club, says the deregulation of the Marketing Act will bring better opportunities for different parts of the agricultural sector.Rattan Mann, state president, Bhartiya Kisan Union, says, “We are happy that the Centre has finally considered our demand of removing barriers to selling the produce.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/farmers-hope-for-self-reliance-86384
