18-10-2020||---||A start that wasn’t for college freshers||Renu Sud SinhaTheir dreams fuelled by Bollywood’s portrayal of campus life, almost all Class XII students were dreaming of living some of those moments. Wardrobes, laptops, things for hostel use had been planned and even bought. The long years of regimentation — of wearing boring school uniforms, classes, tuitions, living every moment under the watchful eyes of teachers or parents — all this was about to change soon.Then came the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. It didn’t just wipe away nearly a lakh of lives and the economy; it also took away the joy, hope and sparkle from young eyes as well as their dreams of initiation into adulthood, breathing in freedom on campus. All those plans of making friends (or girl friends), having all-night gossip sessions at hostel, freshers’ night — the tiny virus gobbled up everything.Ludhiana-based Arushi Sood was all set to go to Singapore. The pandemic put paid to all her plans. She is now studying liberal arts at Ashoka University, Sonepat.Chandigarh-based Arushi Chauhan had got admission in B.Tech at Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala. She was looking forward to the imagined charms of a hostel life.Mumbai-based Saanjh Sengupta and Jamshedpur-based Priyanshi Bhardwaj were all set to join Chandigarh University at Gharuan, Mohali. Chandigarh-based Poorva Kahol had set her heart on going to DU. She had to join a local college though her eyes are still on the goal, as admission process in DU has started at last. The pandemic locked down their hopes, aspirations and lives inside the four walls of their rooms within the 20-inch screens of their laptops.Bouncing backHowever, the young are also resilient if not anything else. They adapted to the changed scenario pretty quickly. They gathered back the lost sparkle, turned it into a silver lining and promptly put it around the dark cloud called the lockdown.Saanjh, who is pursuing B.Sc (Agriculture), was confused about her life goals. However, “the lockdown gave me the opportunity to explore various options and I could finally zero in on the career path I wanted to tread on,” she says.Kudrat had been taking coaching for CLAT. As Class XII examinations were being postponed from one date to another, the pragmatic kid could see a similar fate for CLAT. She dropped the idea of taking the test, appeared for her L-SATs in July and joined OP Jindal Global University, Sonepat. This astuteness paid off, as her online classes were well into their fourth week when CLAT took place eventually.Others too extended the shelf life of their long-envisioned dreams to whenever the colleges would reopen and got on to the business at hand — of attending online classes of whatever courses they were pursuing. And this generation, with technology wired in their DNA, had not much of a problem adjusting to the virtual classrooms — they lived in the virtual world anyway.Zooming in on benefitsThey were quick to figure out the pros of these classes. Zinia Chaturvedi, who is pursuing sociology honours in Sri Venkateswara College, Delhi, grins cheekily, “I can now sleep till 8.55 am, if my class starts at 9. Earlier, I had an hour’s commute to my college. I can also attend classes in my tees and shorts/pyjamas as most students only keep their mics on.”Many others find the option of recorded lectures quite a boon. They can always refer back to these in case they miss out on some topic during the live class.Even senior students find this option quite helpful. Karan, a third-year computer-sciences student with Chandigarh University, would like this to be a permanent feature when physical classes eventually start.Counting the consHowever all of them sorely miss the offline classes and the campus life, the charm and process of making new friends. As Kudrat points out, quite wisely enough, that most systems were put in place for a reason and almost everyone agrees with this thought.As most kids only keep the mic on, Priyanshi finds it disconcerting not to see her classmates. A national-level karate player, her competitive spirit finds online classes lacking the vigour of a face-to-face contact where you can judge competition.Most also find long sedentary hours before the computers physically draining and mentally exhausting. Many complain of frequent headaches and eye problems.Arushi Chauhan often finds her attention wandering during classes. All of them agree that it is easier to focus in a physical classroom with the teacher explaining things regularly. Many students, particularly literature and also interestingly from the engineering stream, find it tough to understand the lectures in the absence of facial expressions, whether frowns or encouraging smiles, or hand movements of professors.Students living in remote or rural areas are facing connectivity issues. However, most educational institutes have factored in these issues and provided solutions. Students in such areas have the option of recorded lectures, attendance is less strict and they are being given extra time to submit assignments, shares Ritu Prajapati from Meghalaya, who is pursuing B.Tech at Chandigarh University.In the initial months of lockdown, there was also the problem of non-availability of books in most remote areas. To overcome this, Panjab University provided PDFs of course books to its students, particularly those stuck in the interiors of Himachal Pradesh, says Dr Dilbagh Kahlon of the mathematics department, PU.Making the best of itMost colleges/universities and even the students are coming up with innovative ideas so that the freshers don’t miss out on the first-time charms. First-timers as well as seniors, who had experienced the maiden thrills of a college life and of course the college authorities, have tried to bring this excitement online. At Venkateswara, the sophomore batch organised a virtual freshers’ night as well as a farewell for the outgoing senior batch.In most colleges across the country, various societies and cultural, drama clubs, etc. are conducting online contests and events for students to participate and hone other skills besides studying. As one of the students remarks sagaciously, “It is the ‘education’ outside the classroom that matters, sometimes more than whatever is taught inside.”Forming virtual bondsAs most kids are finding it tough to connect with fellow students, many of them have come up with innovative ways to get to know each other. Delhi-based Mannat Singh is pursuing her PG course in social communications media at Sophia College, Mumbai. While her official online classes started on October 1, she has been attending ‘ice-breaker’ classes since September. She and almost 35 of her fellow classmates hang out virtually. They talk, debate, someone plays a guitar, another sings.Arushi Sood says they have been having ‘floor parties’ at Ashoka University. All students, assigned particular floors in hostels, have been holding virtual pyjama parties or movie nights.The Hackoverflow Technical Society of Chandigarh University has already conducted gaming nights as part of Genesis 2020. The students are also planning a virtual bonfire week soon.Practically speakingWhile classes for some practical courses like filmmaking or hotel management may have seemed impossible, our educators have not been deterred by the challenge. Amritsar-based Arsh Chopra joined B. Sc in culinary arts at Chitkara University, Chandigarh, during the lockdown. His classes have already started and professors/chefs conduct live cooking classes that students emulate in their own kitchen and post videos of their assignments. Other subjects of the hotel management course like learning how to make mocktails or cocktails, towel art, front office management — everything is being taught virtually through instructional videos.Even a hands-on course like film-making is being taught online, of course with a little twist in the tale. Aaryan Baweja is pursuing BA in filmmaking from Whistling Woods International, Mumbai. His classes started in the first week of September. The institute decided to finish off with theory classes first and postponing the practical ones to the end of the semester, hoping to conduct these when the pandemic situation becomes better. However, the students are being given practical assignments/group projects so that they are at least familiar with the basics when they start offline classes eventually. As part of group assignments some are writing scripts, those who can are location hunting or shooting, yet others are editing, doing post-production work. In short, the show is going on.When teachers become studentsBorn and brought up in a virtual world, most youngsters took to online classes like ducks to water, most teachers, particularly of a certain vintage, had some anxious moments in the initial months. However, most institutes conducted basic refresher courses for teachers to teach or familiarise them with basics of various software applications that were to be used for teaching online. Those working with private universities had it seemingly easier, as many of these universities had been offering online courses in the recent years and teachers there were a tad better prepared.However for those teaching literature, online classes were a bit unnerving in the beginning. Debrati Sen, who teaches English literature at Venkateswara, had her share of anxious moment initially. She says literature is best taught and understood in an engaging atmosphere, with lively discussions and dramatic recitations, whether it is Shakespeare, Wordsworth or Elliot and a virtual platform is not the best option for this. However, as first-year classes are yet to start at DU, the teachers have cut their teeth on senior classes that have already started. Armed with various strategies and solutions such as advanced reading lists and links to various articles and other reading material, they are all set to make it an engaging experience for freshers.In the end, whether it is teachers or students, they are all looking forward to starting of offline classes. All of them agree on one thing unanimously — they all miss the vibe of the campus and its synergy.Funny side upThe definition and perception of fun is different across generations. While online classes have not found much appreciation among kids, nevertheless each one of them has created his/her comfort zone. Fresh out of school, a scolding in class is still a sore point. Chandigarh-based Poorva Kahol has found an innovative solution — simply press exit.Priyanshi Bhardwaj from Jamshedpur finds it disconcerting not to see her classmates. A national-level karate player, her competitive spirit finds the online classes lacking the vigour of a face-to-face contact where you can judge competitionLudhiana-based Aaryan Baweja is pursuing BA in filmmaking from Whistling Woods, Mumbai. Sitting in his hometown, he has been submitting projects on script writing, shooting, editing, etc.Amritsar-based Arsh Chopra is doing B.Sc (culinary arts) at Chitkara University, Chandigarh. They emulate live cooking classes in their own kitchen and post videos of their assignments.Ludhiana-based Arushi Sood was all set to go Singapore. The pandemic put paid to all her plans. She is now studying liberal arts at Ashoka University, Sonepat.Mumbai-based Saanjh Sengupta, is pursuing B.Sc (Agri). She was confused about her goals. Lockdown gave her the time to explore options and she could decide on her career path.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/a-start-that-wasnt-for-college-freshers-157506
18-10-2020||Sarika Sharma||Kullu Dasehra & a raging virus||Prof Varyam Singh still remembers those days when he would walk for one full day along with his uncles to see Kullu Dasehra. There was just one rickety bus that plied on the route in the 1960s. The hordes of mela-goers, for whom it was a time to pay obeisance to local deities that converge at the mela, binge on jalebis, shop, watch folk dances and, finally, sleep in the open under the moonlit sky, outrightly outnumbered its capacity. A young Varyam and his uncles would spend a few days at the fair and then retreat to their homes in Banjar town of Kullu district.The other Rath yatrasWhile Kullu Dasehra at Dhalpur grounds is the biggest celebration in the district, the festival is also marked by rath yatras at Thauva in Naggar, Haripur, Vashishth near Manali, and in Manikaran.Revellers from Kullu’s remotest valleys and farthest corners, across the state, India and the world still descend upon Dhalpur grounds, venue of the international fair. But this year will be different, very different than it has been in a long time. As elsewhere in the world, the pandemic has cast its shadow over the Dasehra celebrations here as well, with just a handful of deities allowed to come; more than 250 usually participate. No commercial activities will be allowed.Every year, the day Dasehra is celebrated across India, seven-day celebrations centred around Lord Raghunath, the chief deity of Kullu, begin. To pay obeisance to him come deities from various villages of Kullu district. During the week that ensues on Vijaydashmi (it falls on October 25 this year), gods meet gods, the faithful meet the curious, and all of them intermingle, basking in the colourful traditions of colourful gods.Prof Varyam Singh, former dean, School of Languages, Literature and Cultural Studies, at Jawaharlal Nehru University, says this intermingling of the deities and their people is what will be missed most this year. “Kullu Dasehra is an opportunity for people to be together. This milan — ritualistic or traditional — is at the heart of Dasehra. It is the biggest gathering this region sees. People come from as far as Saraj, Manikaran and Manali. Their coming together is coming together of different raths, different kinds of music. The richness is astonishing,” he says.Amid the coronavirus pandemic, this richness won’t be on display in abundance. There will be music, but no dancers swinging to its beats. Seven deities have been allowed to come, but the number of visitors will be watched by the administration.Former district language officer and researcher Sita Ram Thakur says times like these need to be treated differently. “Covid-19 poses a threat to mankind. We can’t take things lightly. Some deities will come with their raths, some will show symbolic presence and some are yet to decide on their course of action,” he says.Members of Kullu Kardar Sangh, the umbrella body of local deities, feel a balance needs to be struck between tradition and safety. Heeralal, a member of the body, says tradition will be followed, but not in entirety. “Earlier the administration just wanted symbolic presence, the raths were not being allowed. They have now been allowed, but what about those who carry the palanquins to town, walking for days altogether? They can’t be expected to not stay.” Agrees Dot Ram Thakur, former head of the association. “We know that we all have to keep safe but one needs to see whether the curbs are realistic or not. There are so many ceremonies related to the deities. Aartis and pujas are held. Without people, nothing is possible,” he says.Ishita R. Girish, a storyteller from the valley, agrees Dasehra is an integral part of our lives, but understands that this is a year of doubts and concerns. She just hopes people act responsibly and stay at home. “It is a wise step to decide that the Dasehra ceremonies will be carried out with least possible people present. It’d be wiser if the administration stays strict about gatherings.”The tradition of Dasehra goes back to the 17th century. In recent history, however, the only time Lord Raghunath did not attend the festival was in 1973. This was a year after a firing incident during the festival had left one person dead. A tiff between the royal family and the administration had led to confrontation and the police had opened fire.Incidentally, this had happened the very year Kullu Dasehra was declared ‘international festival’. The following decades saw the best of national and international cultural troupes perform at the Lal Chand Prarthi Kala Kendra, the open air auditorium. It has subsequently come to host a plethora of other activities — from talent competitions for youth in the day to Bollywood nights.Yatin Pandit, a researcher of Kullu's history, dedicated to the culture, traditions and history of Kullu, says this year will impact the spiritual and tribal culture of the place. “Some deities have been invited. The others will obviously feel left out. Dhur vivaad [the years-old tussle between deities Shringa Rishi and Balu Nag on who will stay on Lord Raghunath’s right side during the rath yatra] has hogged the limelight for long. That will be missing. The scale of celebrations will obviously come down. Something, somewhere will be lost,” he says.Hasn’t a lot been lost, anyways, we ask, and Pandit agrees. “A lot. For instance, the performance of folk dance laaldi is more ritualistic now. Earlier, there would be two pandals, one by Kullu royals and the other by Raja Shangri. That tradition died with the death of his descendents. Someone who has seen the British Pathe documentaries on Dasehra would have noticed Ladakhis in the video. That has faded away.” The Punjab District Gazetteers, 1917, also makes a mention of this: “... additional interest is lent to it by the presence of picturesquely clad Yarkandis and Ladakhis who have just finished their long journey from Central Asia with ponies and charas, silks and carpets for sale in the plains. The large concourse of people enables them to do some trade on the spot, and a good deal of business is also done in the sale of shoes, brass and copper vessels, cloth and jewellery.”Shopping still is a major draw at the festival and the bulk of buying of household items (utensils, spices, furnishings, etc.) is done by locals during Dasehra only. Commercialisation has taken a toll on the festival, and not just in a negative way. “The yearly nazrana that the deities are given by the administration won’t be given to those not attending. That nazrana too comes from the activities at the mela. The loss is going to be tremendous for all,” says Heeralal.Amid all this, Prof Varyam’s heart goes out to the poor who would buy their winter stuff from the huge market for second-hand clothes that comes up in the jhoola ground every year. “A new winter coat comes for Rs4,000, but here one would get it for Rs500. It worked for the poor man. It will be missed.”The kids will miss the massive swings, the youngsters their days and evenings spent in gay abandon. Meeting long lost friends at exhibition ground; marvelling at the jumbo farm produce in the exhibition halls, trying one’s luck along with hundreds of others at Sutradhar tambola; spending chilly evenings at the open-air auditorium; getting goosebumps by the Well of Death... so much will be missed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/kullu-dasehra-a-raging-virus-157510
18-10-2020||Pushpa Girimaji||Food poisoning: Sample not needed||Last month, I took my family out for dinner to a restaurant that promised seating as per social distancing norms for Covid-19. After dinner, I ordered rasmalai. By the time I ate it and realised it was stale, my two children had already consumed them. Both had to be subsequently treated for food poisoning. I want the restaurant to pay for the suffering caused to my children, but do not have any sample of the rasmalai for testing in a laboratory. What do I do?In cases like this, a consumer cannot be expected to have a sample of the stale food for testing. Just prepare an affidavit stating the facts of the case and attach a certificate from the doctor who treated your children as evidence of food poisoning suffered by them. You can also attach a copy of the cash receipt issued at the restaurant. This should suffice for your complaint before the consumer court.I must mention here that in Yum Restaurants (India) Private Limited Vs Kishan Hedge (Revision Petition No 156 of 2020), the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has clearly ruled out the need for getting the restaurant food tested to prove its poor quality, saying that such a requirement is impractical, inconvenient and a costly exercise. In fact, this is an extremely important ruling on the ‘Burden of Proof’ required in such cases. Or to put it differently, the apex consumer court has, in this case, defined and simplified the evidence required to be provided by a consumer while filing complaints of defective food in restaurants.Can you give details of this case?The order of the National Commission in this case has its origin in the complaint filed against Yum Restaurants, Manipal, Karnataka, for serving stale food to the complainant on December 23, 2014. In response to his complaint, the consumer court at the district level awarded a compensation of Rs10,000, costs of Rs4,000, besides the cost of food, which was Rs382.While upholding this award, Justice VK Jain, Presiding Member, in an oral order agreed with the restaurant that the initial onus of proving that the food served was defective, would be on the complainant.“However, the burden of proof so placed upon the customer cannot be so high that an ordinary customer visiting a restaurant is unable to discharge the same. In my opinion, if a customer files an affidavit in the consumer complaint instituted by him stating therein that the food served to him was rotten/stale/inferior in quality, such an affidavit will be sufficient to discharge the initial onus placed upon the customer, unless it is shown that the complaint is motivated or was actuated by extraneous considerations,” Justice Jain said.Justice Jain also took cognisance of the practical difficulties a consumer would face in getting a sample of food served at a restaurant, tested in a laboratory. “It would be difficult for me to accept the submission that a customer is expected to collect the stale/rotten/inferior food served to him in the restaurant and then send it to a laboratory for its analysis. In fact, the restaurant where such a complaint is made by the customer in respect of the food will not even allow them to carry the food with them. If a customer aggrieved on account of such food is required to collect the food and then approach a laboratory for its analysis, (he) will just give up in frustration, instead of undertaking such an impractical, inconvenient and costly exercise. He will have no option but to suffer, despite the loss and indignity suffered by him,” Justice Jain pointed out.He observed further: “Moreover, when such food is duly packed and preserved, it can always be claimed by the hotel/restaurant that the food had become stale/rotten due to improper packing and for want of preservatives, even if the food is analysed and found to be defective.”In this case, the complainant had given an affidavit about the stale food served to him and also a letter from a doctor who had certified that he suffered food poisoning and was under treatment with him for a few days. That was sufficient evidence, the Commission held, thereby clarifying the nature of proof required to be presented by consumers in such cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/food-poisoning-sample-not-needed-157529
18-10-2020||Pushpesh Pant||Yummy yam||Yams are a wonderful food and have helped humankind survive many a difficult time such as droughts and famines. A rich storehouse of starch and supply, they give energy. In many African countries, yams are treated as staple, a substitute for cereals. It is said they are hardier than even millets and can grow in arid, infertile land too. In Nepal and Uttarakhand, the most favoured yam is tarud that grows between hard rocks.We have never been able to understand why we, in India, look down upon yams. Perhaps because these are associated with poor people’s diet and not considered worthy of reaching the high table. It is only in Punjab and Maharashtra that suran, or elephant foot yam, is relished. In Kerala, they have their own version called kappa (tapioca) that is paired with spicy curried fish. We recently came across a delicious zimikand curry from the Kayastha kitchen. Men from this community would generally eat meat, but women were vegetarians. So, they created for themselves this meaty recipe with a twist!Our good friend, the late Jiggs Kalra, had also created a delectable veg galouti from yam, called Tohfa-e-Zameen, for the Hyatt in Delhi. But that is another story.Dhungaar zimikand IngredientsMethod: Boil the yam, but do not make it very mushy; it should retain some bite. Peel and cut into 2-inch cubes. Fry the pieces until they turn golden brown. Remove with a slotted spoon. Retain about 3 tbsp oil in the pan. Add to it bay leaf and whole spices. As they change colour, add the onions and stir fry till rich pink. Add garlic-ginger paste and cook for one more minute. Add the powdered spices along with salt dissolved in a little water and pour into the pan. Keep stirring. When fat begins to separate, add the yam and a cup of hot water. Bring to boil and reduce the flame. Cover and cook for 10 mins. Heat ghee in a ladle, and add the whole red chilli and cumin seeds. As the seeds begin to crackle, pour the tempering over the curry. Cover it for the dhungaar to work its magic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/yummy-yam-157530
18-10-2020||Shristi Nangalia||Keep the eyesores out of sight||The inverter unit and battery that sits near the entryway, waterpipes that line the balcony walls, awkwardly placed beams and columns and unorganised clutter in the living room are just unpleasant menaces that one regularly deals with. Apart from that, water seepage, chipping of paint or wallpaper, cracking walls, etc. are some other common challenges almost everyone faces while maintaining the home. Wondering how to make them disappear? Don’t sweat anymore. Read on to know about some clever design ideas to get rid of unsightly eyesores.Fix the BeamsIf you wish to fix an unaesthetic, eccentrically located protruding beam that tops your bedroom or living areas, false ceiling can be a striking solution. You can achieve any design and amp it up with lights to conceal the disarranged ceiling setup. For a more economical and creative option, you can turn the beam(s) into a highlight by adding cornices and moldings to it. Otherwise, you can simply panel it with wood or engineered woodboards to give it a distinct look. A similar solution works for columns irregularly embossed from walls. You can experiment with wall panelling and finishes available in the market.Mask pipes & boardsFor masking stuff that need occasional repairs or checks, built-in and free-standing cabinets often pose the best bet. Cabinets can complement the decor and can give you easy access to the equipment, conduits or electric board that you plan to hide. Not only that, sideboards and other furniture with back panels can help conceal these essential, yet featureless, things in an inconspicuous manner too. It is a good idea to think about how you can double up on the utility of the cabinetry or furniture. For instance: in the entrance area, a common cabinet with open and closed shelves can be used for storing shoes and coats, and can be used to obscure the inverter unit and main electric board as well.Conceal the clutterLittle knick-knacks are an inescapable part of our lives, but controlling how much we see of them makes our living spaces more breathable. As per the availability of space, install built-in storage units that take advantage of every inch of space. Storage units are natural organisers and clutter-concealers. Think out-of-the-box and make use of negative areas and dead areas of the home — like the under-stair volume, overhead area above the doors, space around the TV unit — and turn these into useful storage solutions to stash anything and everything that clutters the living and dining room.Panel the cracking wallsRainfall, moisture, loose plaster and cracks can turn plain interior walls into sights of horror. As in case of beams and columns, panelling gives excellent hiding zones for damaged or blemished walls too. If the damage is only on the lower part of the wall, you can go with custom-made, partial panelling options like skirting and wainscoting to hide the unsightly patches.If conditions permit, you can cover the wall with a patch of lush greenery right in the indoors. Take help of an expert to install a watertight green wall system that doesn’t worsen the already-damaged wall.Partitions like foldable lattice screens, sliding panels, etc. are flexible and agile options when there is a need to apply an instant fix. Decorative screens can not only boost the design quotient of the space, but can instantly conceal anything you do not wish to keep in view.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/keep-the-eyesores-out-of-sight-157531
18-10-2020||Jagvir Goyal||Choose construction material wisely||A house builder should be very careful when choosing the material. It must be kept in mind that the costliest material may not always be the best. Here’s a look at some essential properties of materials required during the construction of a house:Cement: Many types of cement is produced these days but for house builders, only PPC cement is available. Always go for a reputed brand of cement and see that the bags are IS 1489 (Part I) marked. Choose a cement lot as fresh as possible. Cement bags carry the week and year of manufacturing on them. See that cement lots supplied are fully dry, each bag weighs 50 kg and is not more than a month old.Steel: Choose deformed steel bars instead of plain bars. See that these are IS 1786 marked. It’s also called Tor steel. Choose Tata or SAIL steel. Choose a fresh lot. Ensure it is free from rust and in straight length, instead of coils. Look for D factor i.e. prefer Fe 500D grade over Fe 500 steel. Ask supplier for copy of test certificate of steel to check its correct weight, diameter and date of manufacture.Bricks: Always choose good quality bricks, red in colour, 9”x4 3/8”x 2 11/16” in size, having sharp corners and free from distortions. Immerse few bricks in water and see that after 24 hours, these don’t gain more than 20 per cent of weight. A brick broken into two halves shouldn’t show lumps of lime on broken faces. Strike two bricks together and see that these produce sharp, ringing sound.Sand: Choose only coarse sand for construction. Never use fine sand. Coarse sand when gripped in fist will feel like cutting into skin while fine sand will just slip away. See that the sand doesn’t contain more than 3 per cent clay or silt in it. This can be checked by adding sand in a glass of water and by measuring the thickness of clay layer settled at the bottom.Crushed stone: Coarse aggregate used in construction should be free from flaky material. Commonly, it’s called crusher. See that it’s free from dust, clay or earth. Use 20 mm down aggregate for RCC work. Requisition it directly from a good source like Pathankot through local dealers or unions.Electric wires: Choose wires in copper, not aluminium and with multiple strands. Choose IS 694 (Part I) marked wires not IS 694 (Part II) marked ones. Choose 99.97 per cent electrolytic grade. Check wire insulation as three layered that is water-resistant, heat-resistant and fire-retardant with HRFR mark. Choose the right size of wires.Switches and plates: Go for modular switches only. Choose fine quality polycarbonates of FR grade. Prefer white colour as these don’t go out of fashion. Check their operation as noise proof, having ergonomic design and have spark shields.Conduits & bends: Choose PVC conduits instead of MS conduits. Look for heavy duty conduits with 2 mm thickness. Heavy duty conduits carry green markings while light duty conduits carry red markings.Water supply: Choose IS1239 marked, medium duty GI pipes having blue bands at ends. Reject pipes with yellow bands. If choosing PVC pipes, look for IS4985 marked pipes as these are suitable for drinking purpose. In PVC pipes, choose a reputed brand and minimum 2.7 mm thickness.Sanitary pipes: Choose un-plasticised PVC SWR pipes, instead of CI pipes. Look for IS13592 mark on pipes. The pipe fittings should carry IS 14735 mark on them.— The writer is former HoD and engineer-in-chief, Civil EngineeringDepartment in a Punjab PSU||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/choose-construction-material-wisely-157532
18-10-2020||Pooja Khanna Tyagi||When buying furniture online...||With reputed websites coming out with their annual sales at least once or twice a year, many homeowners have started opting for online furniture as it can be purchased from the comfort of the house. However the disadvantage of online shopping is that one cannot see the end product before buying and may land up buying products which do not suit the requirement or are of substandard quality. Therefore, if you are planning to buy online furniture, this guide can help you to make the right choice:Go for a credible sellerThe purchase of new furniture is an expensive investment, therefore it is advisable to buy large-sized or smaller pieces of furniture from a reputed website and reliable furniture manufacturing brand. Note that good manufacturers and sellers have their independent websites which comprise the company’s physical address and contact numbers. This will help one to connect with the customer care or speak directly with the manufacturer to know more about the quality of their products. Additionally, check the track record and credibility of the seller, the ratings and review of the product before you make any online purchase.Check the descriptionThe product description will give you an idea of the type of wood, colour and finish of the product. This will enable you to cross check whether the product matches or contrasts with the other pieces of furniture that are present within your home. The material used for manufacturing the furniture is important as it determines the quality and durability of furniture. It is essential to check whether the furniture is made from natural, synthetic or engineered materials, the type of maintenance required and so on so that you can choose a product that is best suited for your house. The colour and overall look of the furniture may, however, vary from the online photographs.Read the terms and conditionsStudy the terms and conditions of the product, find out about the delivery charges, installation charges, if any, warranty, return policy and time period for the exchange of the furniture so that one can return the product if it is not up to one’s expectations. Also check whether installation of furniture will be done by the manufacturer or will it have to be organised by the homeowner.Visualise furniture sizeBefore buying any online furniture, check the size of the product and the space available in your house, especially for heavy pieces of furniture like bed sets, divans and sofas. Make sure that adequate clearances around the furniture are also taken into account so that there is enough circulation space and it is comfortable to move around.Research wellCheck the quality, design, ease of maintenance and functionality of furniture before you make any online purchase. Do not forget to make a comparative analysis of the prices of similar types of furniture from other online retailers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/when-buying-furniture-online-157533
18-10-2020||---||Gift a plant||Amarjeet BatthThe lockdown has given us many lessons, one of these being cleaner environment. The gains were for all to see — deep blue sky, star-filled nights and improved air quality. Let’s not lose these gains. This festive season gift a breeze of clean air by presenting a purifying plant to your near and dear ones. Readily available and moderately priced, these plants have the ability to absorb toxic air. Here are some plants you can gift:Areca palm (chrysalidocarpus lutescens): The plant with a rich tropical look needs bright filtered sunlight and moist soil. It is rated as the best air purifying indoor plant with the highest removal rate of formaldehyde. It is the most effective air humidifier plant. Date palm, bamboo palm and rhapis palm are some others.Asparagus fern (asparagus densiflorus): The small-sized, lush evergreen fern can be planted in a pot or hanging basket. It requires little care and flourishes indoors as well outdoors. Just keep the soil moist. It absorbs benzene, toluene, octane and trichloroethylene.Dracaena (dracaena deremensis): The cane-like single stem plant has a strappy foliage. It is easy to maintain. Light fertilisation, once a month, is enough. Filtered light is preferred. It helps remove xylene, formaldehyde and trichloroethylene.Boston ferns (nephrolepis exaltata ‘bostoniensis’) These thrive best under filtered sunlight, moist soil and high humidity. The potted plant makes an adorable hanging basket in porches and patios. The stylish foliage is a stress buster. The plant significantly removes formaldehyde, benzene and xylene.Elephant Ear (philodendron domesticum): The plant with long arrow-shaped leaves makes it perfect for indoors. It prefers warm, humid and indirect light. The plant absorbs formaldehyde.English Ivy (hedera helix): The fan-shaped silver green plant can fit in baskets, cling to walls, spread as ground cover and spill over planters. It helps to remove air-based mold and is an effective formaldehyde remover.Peace lily (spathiphyllum ‘mauna loa’): An easy to care plant, it prefers low light and moist soil. White flowers bloom during the rainy season. It has high transpiration rate and humidifies the air around. It is best for removing formaldehyde, benzene and certain VOCs that are emitted by paints.Money plant (epipremnum aureum): The evergreen decorative vine can be grown in hanging baskets, trailed on support and planted in pots. Its low maintenance makes the plant a popular choice. It removes emissions like formaldehyde, xylene and benzene.Spider plant (chlorophytum comosum): This houseplant is mostly grown in hanging baskets and pots indoors. It eliminates benzene, formaldehyde, carbon monoxide and xylene.Snake plant (sansevieria trifasciata ‘laurentii’): The hardy plant survives in low light and drought conditions. Wipe the leaves with a moist cloth to enhance its look. It removes toxins like formaldehyde, xylene, toluene, and nitrogen oxides.Weeping fig (ficus benjamina) is a tall plant with drooping glossy branches. It grows tall when planted outside but can be potted where it remains in short height. It is maintenance free and absorbs toxins like formaldehyde, xylene and toluene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/gift-a-plant-157534
