19-07-2020||Minna Zutshi||Weaving their own stories||IN the narrow, winding lanes of the industrial city of Ludhiana, 62-year-old Chann Kaur proudly displays her ‘hathh da kamm’. Specialising in handcrafted handbags, she embroiders motifs like flowers, leaves, birds and butterflies on bedspreads, pillow covers, etc. Craft came naturally to Chann Kaur, and it helped her when she wanted to supplement her meagre family income. She took to making handbags of different shapes and sizes. After years of grind, she is now comfortable financially. Even during the pandemic, she was making four to five bags and wallets each day.For 60-year-old Gurcharan Kaur, a weaver from Kotliablu in Gidderbaha tehsil of Sri Muktsar Sahib district, however, it was Project Trinjan, an endeavour by the Kheti Virasat Mission (KVM), a non-government organisation, that came to her rescue. She was hard up financially after an accident left her young son critically injured. When her son succumbed to his injuries, she hardly had any source of income. Gurcharn’s skills in weaving brought her hope. She is now able to earn her livelihood, and even manages to provide for her grandchildren.Traditionally, Trinjan has been a space of togetherness, collective wisdom and shared skills — the space where women from villages gathered to spin a charkha, besides doing embroidery, weaving, knitting and crochet. This would be ‘their’ time — they would weave cloth, make durries, sing songs as well as narrate stories. They would talk, listen, learn, empathise and exchange bits of information from centuries-old knowledge and belief systems. Impromptu folk song renditions and folk-dance performances automatically helped preserve and safeguard folk culture. This was a symbol of women’s identity, freedom and creativity, and it helped them keep their emotional, cultural, ecological and societal connect intact. Over time, these spaces of togetherness started shrinking. Private spaces closed doors and enclosures became more common. Mechanisation, Green Revolution, individualism — the changes were too strong to be withstood.Connecting, yet againThe agro-ecological crisis, degeneration of environment and depleting soil health has once again brought back the focus on traditional spaces and sustainable lifestyle. Dr Davinder Kaur Dhatt, an art and culture expert who works in a premier rural educational institution in Ludhiana, points out: “Trinjan used to be a cathartic experience for women who would embroider, knit, weave as well as freely talk about their family life. They would make traditional specialties like seviyaan and wadiyaan and also share their culinary experiences with other women. All this got lost in decades of mechanical lifestyle. The pandemic has, at some level, forced us to rethink our values and priorities. A revival of community life, with its shared creative experiences, is on the anvil. ”Reviving the TrinjanMany non-government organisations are working towards women empowerment through the revival of traditional art and craft and skills. The Pingalwara Charitable Society, an organisation started by Bhagat Puran Singh in Amritsar, has been on the forefront of reviving Trinjan as a display of Punjabi traditional arts among the young. Competitions like charkha spinning, embroidery and weaving have been organised to acquaint young girls with these traditional arts and crafts that have been almost lost to the young people. “Our traditional wisdom enjoined women to be conversant with right food combinations and nutritional value of seasonal foods. It was a holistic approach, unlike the present-day focus on fragmented lifestyle,” says Dr Inderjeet Kaur, chairperson of the Pingalwara Charitable Society.Another such attempt is Project Trinjan of the Kheti Virasat Mission, which has within its ambit 300-odd women from 12 villages of Faridkot, Barnala and Sri Muktsar Sahib districts. Says Rupsi Garg, associate director of the KVM: “Women are important stakeholders in any family, society or nation. After the Green Revolution, chemical agriculture dominated and women did not find much space in this highly mechanised and market-dependent agriculture. Gradually, the culture of mutual learning and sharing started vanishing.“We need to organise these artisans and make sure that they get regular supply of raw material and regular income out of it so that they don’t have to look for any other work alternatives throughout the year,” says Garg. On an average, the women are able to make Rs5,000-Rs6,000 per month while working for four to five hours a day at their convenience, she adds.Despite restricted mobility during the pandemic, most women artisans earned well, thanks to support from informal community groups as well as such social organisations. The volunteers handheld women artisans by providing them the required raw material at their homes. The finished products were again picked up by the volunteers, thereby minimising the Covid risk to artisans.Empowering womenFiftyfive-year-old Sarabjeet Kaur Chaina’s job is that of field coordinator for various villages around Faridkot and Sri Muktsar Sahib. She coordinates and networks with women artisans whose expertise is making durries, spinning, weaving, basket-making etc. “Traditionally, if a woman (while making any art/craft/food item) ever got stuck at any step, another woman would chip in with suggestions, advice and help,” says Sarabjeet. “Women spinners are provided with pesticide-free raw cotton. Though the weavers do not require any formal training, yet from time to time, they are given suggestions on improving the finesse of the cloth they weave, ” explains Sarabjeet. She adds, “Meri income de naal naal meri pehchaan ban gayi. Koi vi mainu mere maa-baap de naam de naal nahi jaanda, na mere bacheyaan de naam naal (I got financial independence as well as my own identity).”From a space of vulnerability, weakness and isolation to a space of strength, togetherness and sharing, women are reclaiming their right to traditional skills. And in the process, giving a fresh lease of life to values like sharing, caring and compassion. Of course, economic empowerment is a natural and happy concomitant!Passion for spinningWhen 23-year-old Ramandeep Kaur spins her charkha, she feels relaxed and rejuvenated. Her stress ebbs away. A graduate in Computer Applications, Ramandeep took to spinning barely four years back.It started as a hobby that slowly became a part of her life. Now, nothing can wean her away from her charkha!Spinning has been almost a tradition in Ramandeep’s family that passed on, by default, from grandmother to mother to daughter.Ramandeep now wants to pursue spinning as a profession. She was in for a pleasant surprise when the volunteers from various social organisations approached her. She was given ‘work’ that not only gave her an opportunity to pursue the subject of her interest but also brought in money.This shy and reticent girl from Sri Muktsar Sahib takes pride in her passion for ‘hand-spinning’. Most girls of her age are not conversant with the art of hand-spinning nor are they inclined to learn it. But she is happy contributing her bit to the revival of traditional art and craft.Dye(ing), the natural wayFlowers, barks, trees, leaves are the raw material from which 18-year-old Rimpy Kaur extracts dyes. With a degree in Fashion Technology, this girl from Kotli village in Sri Muktsar Sahib is an avid advocate of natural dyes for fabrics. She uses all-natural plant materials to make dyes for the thread. She has experimented with marigold flowers, carrots, onion skin, babul tree bark (gum Arabic), pomegranate skin, and eucalyptus bark. The process of making natural dyes from barks of babul and eucalyptus trees takes a little over a month. She explains: “Soak the bark for a month. Bring the water to a boil. After boiling the water, strain the bark out and put the thread (to be dyed) into the water. After two to three hours, bring this to a boil again. Finally, pull the thread out and rinse it with fresh water.” Natural dyes are better for the skin and these help to reduce skin irritation and infections, says Rimpy. She plans to take up natural dyeing of fabrics as a commercial venture. “People visit my house to see the clothes being dyed naturally. They find it hard to believe that all the colours used are derived from plants and that no chemicals have been used. The natural colours are light and beautiful while being skin friendly. These colours have no harshness, she adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/weaving-their-own-stories-114864
19-07-2020||Nonika Singh||When films premiere inside your homes||Only the other day, Netflix announced a bouquet of 12 films. Amazon Prime and Disney+Hotstar are equally well placed in the race. With a slew of movies releasing on streaming giants, who can dispute that the box-office has shifted home. However, one wonders who gains and who loses in this new dynamics, where films are going the digital way.Atul Mohan, a trade analyst and editor of Complete Cinema, says only a mutually beneficial relationship can sustain. He says that while OTT platforms are constantly on the lookout for fresh content, “movies are a perishable commodity”. Precisely why Rajat Agrawal, creative head of Ultra Media and Entertainment and producer of Chippa (streaming on Netflix), feels the dice are loaded in favour of streaming giants.Producers are queuing up for digital release of their films, but are certainly not offloading at a loss. Many of them seem to be big gainers in this space too. Rahul Mittra’s Sanjay Dutt-starrer Torbaaz has been acquired by Netflix. Without putting a number, he insists that it has been a profitable proposition for him. But what do OTT platforms gain when they acquire films en bloc, that too at a premium far exceeding what they would have coughed up had the movie come to them after theatrical release? The answer is: more subscribers. While the AVOD (ad-based video on demand) model is alive among smaller platforms, bigger players work on subscription and valuation model. In February 2020, Netflix had 167 million subscribers worldwide. The number has now jumped to seven million short of 200. In 2019, Amazon Prime Video’s projected base was close to 75 million and that of players like Alt Balaji and Eros Now varied between 18 and 20 million. Clearly, satiating the tastes of such a humongous audience can’t be easy. Exclusive content holds the key. Netflix is projected to spend 17 billion dollars on content in 2020 and picking up new titles and investing in originals is a logical way forward.One of the lead players, Disney+Hotstar, has picked up seven big ticket Bollywood films, including Akshay Kumar’s Laxmmi Bomb, to boost its growing base. Optics is so important that to score points in the ‘sentiments game’, Sushant Singh Rajput-starrer Dil Bechara, produced by sister concern Foxstar, will also be available to non-subscribers.How much was a film bought for may remain a guarded secret, but the grapevine invariably puts out numbers. Figures floating in the market suggest Gulabo Sitabo was sold for Rs65 crore, Gunjan Saxena, The Kargil Girl for Rs50 crore and, believe it or not, Rs125 crore is the price being put on Laxmmi Bomb.Producers like Mittra may insist that stars hold little value on this global stage and that OTT platforms would eventually demolish the star system, others don’t quite agree. “Stars will always be important,” says Mohan. Film writer and box-office expert Komal Nahta adds, “Let us not forget that the cine-going audience, which is what the streamers are targeting, is the same. Hence, star value can never be undermined.” So an Amitabh Bachchan film will gain more traction, an Akshay Kumar more eyeballs and an Ajay Devgn-starrer Bhuj could walk away with the Rs100 crore-plus price tag.Revenue models, however, are forever evolving and strategising depends on a whole lot of factors. Terms like daily and monthly average are pretty common in assessing what viewers want. However, the platforms are recalcitrant to share their results of data mining. Once in a while they do ‘leak’ information though. So you may come to know that the Netflix’s Irishman was watched by 64 million and that Extraction, at a staggering 99 million, is its most watched film.In the absence of clear-cut definitions of hit or flop, the important determinant, Mittra observes, is “social media buzz.” Only, though Nahta feels OTTs are taking chances as a film could be accepted or rejected (by audiences), others believe there are no immediate gainers or losers. Ramifications could be felt much later. Amortisation is the word in this industry where broadcasters such as Sony and Zee with OTT verticals (SonyLiv and Zee5 respectively) are in a position of leveraging their advantage.In the post-Covid world, consolidation could lead to new equations. With Jio TV, promising to offer content from more than 12 global OTT players around the corner, Nahta says “some cannibalisation could happen”. But those firmly entrenched in the new ‘anytime ecosystem of entertainment’ would certainly survive. And so would Bollywood, if the tidy sum of Rs570 crore, which the makers are said to have picked up from 10 films alone, is any indicator.Nahta says movie premieres on OTT are a passing phase, but could go a long way in building brands. And if, as Ashley Friedlein says, brand is the sum total of how someone perceives a particular organisation, branding is about shaping that perception. To paraphrase Elon Musk, right now, the OTTs are in the race to match perception with reality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/when-films-premiere-inside-your-homes-114904
