19-04-2020||Navnee Likhi||The colour of time||Technically inventive and deeply moving, Garrett Bradley’s 81-minute film Time chronicles the true story of a woman of colour, Fox Rich, who lives in Louisiana and makes tireless efforts to get her husband, Rob Richardson, incarcerated for 60 years for robbing a bank, out of prison. The title of the film isn’t just a reference to Rob’s sentence, but also to every moment he is deprived of. The film has been shot in black and white. Its brilliance lies in the way it strikes a contrast between the past and present years of the lives of both Rob and Fox.The director has used archival footage from the DVD tapes shot by Fox, which shows her sons growing up. Rob is informed of their upbringing in a confessional manner by his wife. Their conversations make one aware of the passage of time since his conviction 20 years back. The film captures the couple’s love for each other in the face of insurmountable obstacles.The film is set in 1997 in Shreveport, Louisiana, with young Rob and Fox, expecting twins, preparing to move into their new home. A hip-hop clothing business that they were planning to open runs into financial problems as investors back out at the last moment. They plan to rob Shreveport Union Bank, but are caught red-handed. All three, including Rob’s nephew, plead guilty, but only Fox manages to get out of the prison at the time of arrest. Due to the messy arrangements of plea bargains and judicial complexities, Rob is sentenced to 18 years pending pre-sentencing investigation. Meanwhile, a new attorney takes over Rob’s case and begins negotiating for a lesser sentence. For two years Rob waits, but the attorney places him in an impact programme. If he succeeds, Rob would spend the rest of his life on a supervised parole. However, the lawyer drops the case midway and Rob is forced to face the trial. He loses, and is sentenced to 60 years of imprisonment.Intercut is the scene showing Fox, along with her sons, attending church services. The footage shot by Fox of Rob’s imprisonment melds with the present day, showing her composed and determined, trying to get him out of the prison. She works as an automobile dealer, besides becoming an activist. She gives powerful speeches to those going through similar situations even as she continues her own arduous journey, trying hard to keep her family afloat.The prison authorities allow only a two-hour visit twice a month to Rob’s family, and their phone conversations are cut short. Rob is not allowed to see his sons, which upsets Fox. The lighter moments in the film come from their children discussing their career plans, which include becoming a policymaker for prison reform or a doctor.The film highlights social and political issues. In the face of a ‘biased’ legal system, often harsh on men of colour, Fox puts up a dogged fight. During the family’s intimate conversations, Fox discusses her lawyer’s fee, $15,000, who couldn’t really do anything for the family. Even though the government reduces the cost of family’s health and education, Fox remains firm on getting Rob free. The film’s closing moments visually convey that Rob is released after serving 21 years of his 60-year imprisonment. To see the family together after a long-drawn legal battle is heart wrenching. It depicts that time isn’t measured by what changes, but rather by what doesn’t.The details in the film are tantalising. Bradley has made the film with unwavering dedication, and appeals to the people to change the prejudiced criminal justice system impacting the persons of colour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-colour-of-time-73284
19-04-2020||Aradhika Sharma||Realistic, rustic flavours||Finally, here’s a web-series about a village in Uttar Pradesh where the characters are neither petty crooks nor bloodthirsty criminals. The eight-episode-long Panchayat is a peek into the Panchayati Raj governance of Phulera village. Jitendra Kumar, recently seen in Shubh Mangal Zyada Savdhaan, plays the protagonist, Abhishekh Tripathi, who is posted in a dusty village as Sachiv ji or panchayat secretary (a bottom-shelf job he had to take up for lack of options).The cinematography is supported by a script that is as brilliant as it is simple and a cast of terrific actors — Neena Gupta playing Manju Devi, the elected pradhan of the village; Raghubir Yadav playing Brij Bhushan Dubey, her husband who is the de-facto pradhan; Chandan Roy playing Vikas, the astute and amiable Man Friday of the panchayat, and Faisal Mallik playing Prahlad, the cordial deputy pradhan.The screenplay, setting, characters, plot and the cinematic narration come together in one organic whole that works superbly and the viewers are treated to a composition that feels authentic, rustic and rational. The filmmaking is reminiscent of the old-time DD serials like Hum Log, Ye Jo Hai Zindagi, Nukkad, Malgudi Days, Wagle ki Duniya and Mungeri Lal ke Haseen Sapne. All these serials did not depend on sex, sleaze and deception; they had strong and cohesive storylines, controlled direction and stellar acting.Adding to the delightfulness of the show are the crafty dialogues, written by Chandan Kumar, that have faithfully captured the essence of UP parlance. The locals adore discussion and a simple question is never met with a direct answer, but some amount of conversation is considered desirable. Unlike city dwellers, the small town and village folks have both the time and inclination to indulge in endless discussions and are interested and involved in the lives of people, thus their community extends far beyond their family and embraces the entire village.While their lives and concerns may be modest, most people are canny enough to grasp the issues that could become problematic and resolve these either with dialogue or with a native, practical cunning. Like Manju Devi, the women may allow their husbands to govern in their stead, but they, specially the matronly women, have a say in their families and a voice which they don’t hesitate to use.While the issues that the director, Deepak Kumar Mishra, highlights are important to the lives of the villagers, there is no outright conflict or overwhelming drama in the half-hour long episodes. Yet, each episode picks up a topic, examines it, resolves it and moves forward. The episodes variously deal with when Abhishek buys a ‘chakke wali kursi’; goes to the bazaar to get a photograph taken for his CAT exam and gets into a fight with local lads; is instructed by the local government authorities to get a family planning slogan painted on public walls which states:“Do bachche hain meethi kheer; usse zyada bawaseer”. The management of the offence caused to the sentiments of the locals (most of who have multiple progeny) and the displeasure of the local authorities were he to remove it, is the theme of one hilarious episode.Underlying these is the deeper struggle that Abhishek must resolve within himself — the tug of war between his city upbringing and his life in the village; his aspirations for an urban and corporate life, and the reality of his rural, unfamiliar and uncomfortable life, with people whose concerns seem alien to him. He is dislocated and at war with his situation, and thus irritable and frustrated. The story that unfolds over a few months is about the growing acceptance of each other. Of bonding, humanness and shared joys, sorrows and achievements. A sense of affection and warmth develops as Abhishek starts to invest more deeply in the village and its people, which leaves the viewers with a sense of regret when the last episode is over and they are eagerly awaiting the next season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/realistic-rustic-flavours-73286
19-04-2020||Rajnish Wattas||The politics of makeovers||In a seven-page draft executive order by American president Donald Trump titled “Making Federal Buildings Beautiful Again,” he declares that the US federal government since the 1950s has “largely stopped building beautiful buildings that the American people want to look at or work in.” It further ordains that government buildings should look like those of ancient Rome, Greece and Europe. “Classical architectural style shall be the preferred and default style.” The draft praises the designs of US Capitol Building, the White House, the Supreme Court and the Lincoln Memorial with their hybrid classical, awe-inspiring Greek columns, pediments and Roman domes.In a country that historically is the land of freedoms and a beacon of democratic liberties, such a firman (diktat) on a “state-mandated architectural style that retreats so resolutely into the past is an implicit negation of the best of American culture. It is also the stuff of authoritarian regimes”, is the outcry by the media and professionals alike. A retrogressive step like this would turn the design of federal buildings into a ‘costume drama’, writes a critic in the Chicago Sun Times.Leaving aside dictatorships or authoritarian regimes, this trend is now tacitly visible in democracies too. State meddling in the arts, and most significantly architecture, has always been a favourite tool of the ruling elite to use buildings and monuments for transmitting political messaging and manifest the awe-inspiring might of the rulers over the subjects.Since time immemorial, grandiose architectural edifices, temples to the gods, palaces, monasteries, tombs or statues valorising conquerors and great kings have adorned cities. From the ancient Greek Parthenon to Roman Pantheon to the Hagia Sophia of the Ottoman empire, the magnificent temples of gods have always inspired the best of human endeavour in architecture. In our country, the historic temples, mosques, cathedrals and  Mughal tombs, including the Taj Mahal, have always been works of extraordinary human ingenuity, craftsmanship and labour. The British rulers of India culminated their Raj regalia by building the Edwin Lutyens’ magnificent edifices at the Raisina hill stretching out to the three-km-long Central Vista culminating in the India Gate.In Europe and the US, even  in the 1920-1930s, neo-classical (or rather hybrid eclectic) architectural styles were employed for making the new-age public places like railway stations, banks, theatres, offices, housing or factories. The default style, even when technology and new material like glass and steel had become available, for making high-rise structures remained rooted in neo-classicism. The cities of Chicago and New York, with its Manhattan skyline, are veritable museums of architectural styles ranging from neo-classical to modernist skyscrapers. The Chicago Tribune Tower, internally a steel structure, is clad in fake Gothic elements in stone on the exteriors. It was in this context that pioneers of modernism — architects like Le Corbusier in Paris, Walter Gropius and Mies van der Rohe in Germany (who both later fled Nazi Germany to America) — had begun to make buildings in a new idiom of architectural expression that discarded the clichéd and outdated forms dressed up in fake stone claddings over concrete and steel structures.In America, the same revolt against the decadent styles was ushered in by Louis Sullivan, who coined the famous expression ‘Form follows function’ and his disciple Frank Lloyd Wright.It is widely believed that legendry cult novel Fountainhead by Ayn Rand, with its fiery, iconoclastic protagonist Howard Roark taking on the might of the architectural ‘establishment’ was largely inspired by Wright. Trump’s draft order reverses the current ‘Guiding Principles for Federal Architecture’, written in 1962 by Daniel Patrick Moynihan for President John F. Kennedy. Moynihan’s directive states that “The development of an official style must be avoided” and that “design must flow from the architectural profession to the government and not vice-versa”.In this context, it needs to be reminded that like Mussolini and Franco, Albert Speer, Hitler’s favourite architect, planned entire cities that would speak of the greatness and glory of “republican Rome”. While developing a renewal of the German capital Berlin, the core features included the creation of a great neoclassical city based on an East-West axis with a victory column at its centre.Modernism is increasingly under attack in many liberal political regimes also. Modernist architecture has come under fire in Britain too. Thirty years ago, Prince Charles launched a scathing attack  on the  proposed modernist  addition to the National Gallery in London. The extension is “like a monstrous carbuncle on the face of a much-loved, elegant friend,” a strong critic of modern architecture, the Prince of Wales was ranting to save his country from vanishing “under a welter of ugliness.”Perhaps the appeal of classical architecture for its lovers is its ability to endure time. While modernism made technological advances, it also made a clean break with the historical styles abruptly. Modernists were designing austere buildings for the common man, public purpose, and on affordable budgets with ‘no-frills’ designs.In this context, Le Corbusier’s heritage tagged Capitol Complex at Chandigarh comprising the Secretariat, Assembly and  High Court edifices, along with enigmatic ‘monuments’ like the Open Hand, Geometrical Hill and Tower of Shadows stands out for its architectural genius and unequivocal appreciation and pride that it gets from its citizens.The proposed draft by Trump  has sparked  protests from architects and critics stating that  the President should not have the ability to issue a top-down mandate on how government buildings should look.“We are a society that is linked to openness of thought, to looking forward with optimism and confidence at a world that is always in the process of becoming,” says Thom Mayne, the Pritzker Prize winner architect. These words echo the need for upholding artistic and architectural freedoms universally, and for all humankind.State of architectural freedom in IndiaThe Vidhana Soudha located in Bengalaru, the seat of state legislature of Karnataka, is an imposing magnificent structure, though in hybrid mixed style described as Mysore Neo-Dravidian. It incorporates elements of Indo-Saracenic and Dravidian styles in a unique fusion. It was mainly the brainchild of Karnataka’s then chief minister Kengal Hanumanthaiya, who patronised the project. Powerful inputs for its design came from B.R. Manickam. It was completed in 1956. This historic revival was in total disregard for the call for modernism ushered in India by Jawaharlal Nehru for building a new post-Independence India. In contrast to this at the same time, Chandigarh, Le Corbusier’s modernist crowning glory, was coming up.Soon after attaining power in Uttar Pradesh, the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government ordered that the chief minister’s secretariat (annexe) be repainted in saffron. Wielding the saffron brush with a flourish, even the chief minister’s chair, to a new fleet of state buses, are painted in the same hue. When Mayawati came to power in 2007, she got the main Vidhan Bhawan (not the annexe) painted white from its original stone texture.Says political observer AK Mishra: “Politics of colour is old in the state. It comes in a cycle with the change of power. In 1995, Mayawati ordered all government events and projects should sport her party’s blue colour”. Similarly, green and red replaced blue after the Samajwadi Party captured power in 2012.The latest and the most ambitious makeover project is Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s push to revamp the historic Central Vista of New Delhi by adding new Parliament and Secretariat buildings, along with other changes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-politics-of-makeovers-73280
19-04-2020||Pushpa Girimaji||Faulty product: A sound case will win you justice||I am a 79-year-old man with a hearing problem. Two years ago, I contacted a company that offered advanced hearing aids with a worldwide warranty. They directed me to a doctor for tests and, on the basis of his recommendation, sold me a machine costing Rs2,40,000. However, from day one, the aid did not work and even the replacement did not help. I asked for a refund of my money. When they refused, I sought the help of the consumer court. Unfortunately, the consumer courts at the district and the state level did not award any refund. What is my option now?I have gone through the orders of the District Forum and the State Commission. It is very clear from your submission that there is an inherent problem with the hearing aid because neither the first machine nor the replacement helped you with your hearing. As a consequence, you have suffered considerable hardship on account of having to go to the company and its doctor repeatedly.Unfortunately, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has not ordered refund of the money paid by you, which may not be a small amount. Instead, it has directed the opposite parties to repair the hearing aid and replace the defective parts if necessary, and if it cannot be repaired, give another replacement! What is the guarantee that it will work this time? The reason given by the Forum is that there was no expert evidence. The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has also, unfortunately, upheld this view.I would not recommend a revision petition before the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission because in view of the Supreme Court’s order in Rubi (Chandra) Dutta Vs M/S United India Insurance Company Ltd (CA No 2588 of 2011, decided on March 18, 2011), the National Commission does not interfere with the decision of the lower consumer courts unless there is gross miscarriage of justice or jurisdictional error.Fortunately, the State Commission has given you the liberty to file a fresh complaint if the problem is not resolved even after repairing and replacing the hearing aid. So, first and foremost, you must exhaust this option, however painful it may be and then file a fresh complaint before the District Forum. It is sad that you have to file the case all over again, but you must fight it out.How do I ensure that this time my complaint will be treated positively by the consumer court? Even though the company doctor has said that the machine was defective, he is not willing to give a certificate to that effect.First and foremost, if the hearing aid does not help you even after the recommended repairs and subsequent replacement, then there is something wrong with the hearing aid. By then you would have tried out three of the machines. Frankly, that should be adequate proof of the machine’s inherent defect and it is only fair that you get back the huge amount spent on it besides adequate compensation for the harassment suffered.However, since the consumer courts have pointed to the absence of an expert opinion as the main reason for not giving a refund, I would suggest that this time you get an independent audiologist to examine the machine and give you his opinion. If private audiologists are not willing to give a certificate, talk to those working in government hospitals. However, do add that crucial evidence so that you do not give the consumer court any cause for not awarding a refund.I also notice that the District Forum has referred to the manufacturer’s warranty and said that it provides for repair and not refund. Now if you look at cars too, no manufacturer offers a refund or a replacement in his warranty, only repairs. Yet, consumer courts have directed replacement of the vehicles found to have repeated problems from the very beginning and even awarded refund of the cost of a defective automobile. So the one-sided warranty terms should not be an impediment in your getting justice.It might also help to give some decided cases of the apex consumer court pertaining to defective goods in support of your complaint. In short, put together a strong case and, this time, I hope you will get a favourable decision and justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/faulty-product-a-sound-case-will-win-you-justice-73274
19-04-2020||Pushpesh Pant||Leftover special||An extended lockdown is enough to empty the best stocked larder and to bring the menu planner in the house to the end of his/her tether as he/she struggles to provide both nutrition and variety to the family.The window to replenish supplies is a very short one, reminding of the adage — necessity is the mother of invention. To be honest, we can’t claim any credit for this one. The recipe came as a gift from Suman Vyas, a food-loving friend in Nathdwara, who believes in zero-waste cooking. She says her mother had picked the recipe in Mount Abu. The name of this ‘one-dish meal’ is sail phulki.We also recall a delightful sweet dish prepared with stale roti. However, when we first ate it, it was prepared with fresh roti at a food festival at the India International Centre in the Capital. Atiya Zaidi, another good friend, had organised a Jaunpuri food festival and we had finished the meal tickling our sweet tooth with manda. It was composed of pasta-like pieces of roti in thickened milk. If you feel up to it you may split the stock of leftover roti into two and enjoy both savoury and sweet at the same time.Also knocking at memories’ door is childhood treat of choorma made from ghee, gur and roti, not even distantly related to the Rajasthani staple daal-bati. Laksmiji Jambolkar, who taught us law many moons ago, used to rustle up a lean and mean upma with rotis laced with sambar masala. But that is a different story. For now, enjoy this one!Sail PhulkiIngredientsRotis (leftover) 3-4Onion (sliced fine) 1Tomato  2Garlic-ginger paste 1 tbspMustard seeds 1/2 tspRed chilli 1Chilli powder 1/2 tspCoriander powder 1 tspCumin powder 1/2 tspTurmeric powder 1/4 tspCurry leaves 10-12Dried mint leaves (crushed) 1 tspCoriander leaves (chopped) 1small sprigGreen chilli (deseeded, optional) 1Sugar (optional) 1 tspSalt to tasteOil 1/4 cupMethodCut the roti with a sharp knife into 1-inch broad strips and then cut diagonally into half to shape as pasta. Keep aside. Heat oil in a pan, add mustard seeds, whole red chillies and curry leaves. When these begin to splutter, add the onions and stir fry till golden brown. Then add ginger-garlic paste and stir fry briskly for another minute; add tomatoes and the powdered spices along with salt and sugar, if using. Sprinkle a little water and scrape the bottom to avoid burning the spices. Put in the roti-pasta strips. Sprinkle dried mint and green chillies. Stir, cover and cook on low flame for 2-3 minutes. Remove from stove and serve hot. Garnish with coriander leaves and green chillies as a standalone dish of homemade desi pasta or an interesting side dish that can be enjoyed with rice too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/leftover-special-73273
19-04-2020||Jasvinder Kaur||The lost story of Made in Amritsar||Around 200 years ago, as Maharaja Ranjit Singh, aided by his legendary French generals, was consolidating his kingdom, the latter were introducing Europe to rich North Indian textiles. At the heart of this trade was Amritsar, the undisputed food capital of North India today, but a major centre for textiles in the distant past.Amritsar, for many centuries, has in one way or the other been associated with textiles, either as a producer or as a trading centre. In fact, it became a centre of production of shawls and was at the forefront of exporting them to Europe during Ranjit Singh’s rule.Kashmir became a part of the Sikh kingdom in 1819 after Ranjit Singh invaded it. Shortly afterwards, in 1822, Ranjit Singh hired men from Napoleon’s army — Jean-Francois Allard and Jean-Batiste Ventura — as his generals. By 1835, these generals were exporting shawls to Europe, and Amritsar had become the centre of the Kashmiri shawl trade.Weavers and dyers from Kashmir settled in the plains and hills of Punjab during this period. One of the factors that pushed them to do so was famine. As a result, Kashmiri colonies were established in places like Amritsar and Ludhiana in present-day Punjab and Nurpur and Tiloknath in what is now Kangra in Himachal Pradesh.Shawls made in Amritsar — jamavar or kani and amli — were of high quality. Writing in 1872, Baden Powell mentions that shawls from Amritsar were close in quality to Kashmiri shawls. The striped shawls were called jamavar or kitraz, and were popular in Iran and Turkey. These were made by the complicated kani technique. As these were used to make jamas, the word jamavar was also used for them. The amli shawls, on the other hand, were embroidered Kashmiri shawls.A complex weaveWeaving of kani shawls in the early 19th-century Kashmir was a slow and laborious process. A single shawl could take up to 18 months or more. Owing to their high demand, a method was devised to weave the shawl in pieces on two or more looms. This way, the shawl was made in much less time. These pieces were then handed over to the rafugar or darner. He would join them with such precision that it was hard to tell. William Moorcroft, an English explorer, mentioned this in his writing in 1821 and called it a recent innovation. He undertook a detailed study of the shawl industry between 1820 and 1823, and wrote an account that has been preserved at the India Office Library, now part of the British Library, London.Early 19th century saw the beginning of the amli or embroidered shawls. These were introduced in Kashmir at the instigation of Khwaja Yusaf, an Armenian, who came to Kashmir in 1803 as an agent of the Constantinople Trading Company. He saw a chance to produce the embroidered shawls in a much shorter time than kani or jamavar. Since these shawls didn’t fall into the category of woven shawls, he was also able to escape the duties levied on kani shawls. His company thus made huge profits and ushered in embroidered shawls. This also pushed the demand for plain pashmina shawls which were then used as a base for amli shawls.By the third quarter of the 19th century, the important centres of weaving plain pashmina were not only in Kashmir but also in Ludhiana and Amritsar, the holy city being a formidable manufacturer. At an art exhibition held in Lahore in 1864, shawls — pashmina, amli, and kani or jamavar — from Kashmir, Amritsar and Delhi were exhibited.Ever-expandingWith time, the shawl industry declined and the carpet industry came up to fill the gap. Trade in carpets rose partly on the ruins of the pashmina shawl trade. By 1911, Amritsar was exporting carpets worth Rs5 lakh; it picked up a steady pace after the Great Depression. Among other things made in Amritsar were different styles of embroideries. Powell, in 1872, writes about Lahore and Amritsar as the centres for gold embroidery or salma work. Amritsar was also producing some of the finest phulkaris, some of which were even exported to America.During the British Raj, the most important item of import were piece goods, and Amritsar was trading in silk and woollen cloth. Silk trade centre was located at Batti Hattan. It was later shifted to Katra Ahluwalia, which, in turn, became the centre of trading in piece goods. Sant Ram Reshamwala was one of the importers of silk from Europe.The fabric imported in early 20th century did not just include pure silk, but also artificial silk from Japan, Italy and France. It was cheaper and came in attractive colours. In the 1930s, majority of silk was imported from Japan, so much so that many firms from Amritsar opened offices in Japan. From Europe, cottons with European motifs like roses were imported.From Amritsar, the fabrics made inroads into other parts of Punjab. They became popular with women, who used them to make suits and dupattas. The designs, patterns and textures were different from what was available locally. Women here knew them by various names like Lady Minton (probably Lady Hamilton), Malaysia, Dil-ki-pyaas, Aap-ka-nasha, Do-ghorae-di-boski (probably from China), Shangai (probably from Shanghai). The most famous among these was the Do-ghorae-di-boski or double horse boski from China. The brand still sells on alibaba.com.Fashion fabricsIn Punjab, another interesting fabric that came from abroad and became very popular among women was the one used for making parachutes. Known as ‘parachute cloth’, it was not sold as continuous yardage, but in pieces. The stitched parachute would probably be opened up and sold in triangular pieces or chattrian (umbrellas) about 6-7 feet wide and 10 feet long.These were probably the surplus parachutes that were allowed to be sold after World War II got over in 1945. In the initial years of the war, the material used for making parachutes was silk. After America joined the war by the end of 1941, the Allies used parachutes made of nylon as they were unable to import silk from Japan.In Britain, there are many stories of women making their wedding dresses, blouses, petticoats with the RAF parachute material. These were white, lime green and sometimes orange in colour. It was, however, not an easy material to get as it was illegal to obtain it while the war was on. Even the used parachute had to be turned in to the authorities for investigation. Women in England used any material available to them during the war for their wedding dresses, whether it was parachute silk or blackout material, which had been duly bleached.Many of the fashion fabrics that were used by women in Punjab before India got Independence were used as a base for doing salma or gota work. Velvet, another popular fabric, was used not only for garments but also for palangposh (bedcover) or other household articles like cushions. All the fabrics sold during the British Raj were available at shops in big cities. And Amritsar, being a trading centre, played an important part in the textile trade and in distributing it to other parts of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-lost-story-of-made-in-amritsar-73271
19-04-2020||Nivedita Khandekar||A silver lining||As coronavirus rampages through the world, prompting many nations to announce partial or complete lockdown, there has been an unintended side effect — cleaner air and cleaner water. India, too, witnessed a similar phenomenon with the AQI (air pollution index) showing unprecedented numbers for several cities. It was, in fact, in two digits and, at some places, in a single digit on March 27, barely a week after the national lockdown.The cleaner air and water, because of the lack of anthropogenic activities, have prompted experts and common citizens to think if the gains incurred over the lockdown period will be lost once the restrictions are lifted and people are back to their routine. Let’s hope it doesn’t happen, for a cleaner environment would reduce the chances of the occurrence of unknown challenges, like Covid 19, in the future. “Infection is not restricted to droplets. It can be found in suspended air, especially on dust particles. (So), if the area has air pollution, there are a lot of dust particles, and the virus can piggy ride on dust particles into our systems,” says Dr Arun Sharma, Prof and Director, Community Medicine, University College of Medical Sciences (UCMS) at the University of Delhi.India has 14 out of 15 most polluted cities across the world. Experts have identified eight major sources of pollution in India. Power plants, industry, brick kilns, household sources, vehicles, DG sets, open burning, and dust — from both construction and desert areas. “In the lockdown, while power plants are running and household activities are on, the other (pollution creating) activities are nil. So if we control these (when they restart), we could hope for cleaner air,” says Dr Sagnik Dey, coordinator of the Centre for Excellence for Research on Clean Air (CERCA) at IIT-Delhi.He, however, warns that while we may be able to control anthropogenic pollution, we cannot control natural dust, especially in Northwest India. “In India, meteorology plays a more important role than in most developed countries. So, we may not match the WHO standards.”Even when there are programmes such as NCAP — the National Clean Air Programme — et al to control other sources of pollution, much is left to be desired in terms preventive and mitigative measures. The lockdown has shown that a drastic change can be brought about. Therefore, a change in policy with stricter implementation can be the key to a better tomorrow.Based on data compiled by World Resources Institute (WRI) (see box), Amit Bhatt, director, Integrated Transport at the WRI, spells out clear-cut solutions. “Two wheelers have to be a part of electric mobility story. Metro can be only a linear transport for long distance, but it is actually the buses that need a national resurgence – buses for all local travels, inter-city travels and interstate travels must run on clean fuel.”Can we learn at least now?We often talk of spending within our limits. Similarly, there is a budget for Earth too. ‘Earth Overshoot Day’ marks the date when humanity’s demand for ecological resources and services in a given year exceeds what Earth can regenerate in that year. Needless to add, each passing year, we are on a deficit budget – which means we are borrowing from our children’s future.If we look back at why the Earth Day was needed, it is amply clear that the humans have not taken the lessons from the past seriously. According to Earth Day website, ‘Earth Day’ was a unified response to an environment in crisis. It was on April 22, 1970, that 20 million Americans — 10 per cent of the US population at that time — took to the streets, college campuses and hundreds of cities to protest environmental ignorance and demand a new way forward for our planet. The first Earth Day is credited with launching the modern environmental movement and is now recognised as the planet’s largest civic event.Fifty years later, we are at a crossroads once again. As reported by the Guardian, even in the US, polluted areas are among the worst-hit by coronavirus. It is a lesson not just for the US but for the whole world. Air pollution and water pollution add to the global disease burden and hence it is imperative that the planet does not go back to ‘business as usual’. The economic stimulus offered by the Government of India should not cut into the environmental gains made during the lockdown period. The government will need to strengthen its monitoring of polluters and take stringent actions against them.Reminds environmental activist Manoj Misra of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyaan: “All economic stimulus must also be environmental stimulus. Example – a big boost to rooftop solar. There cannot be business as usual anymore.”The number storyNational level data compiled by World Resources Institute shows: What can be done||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/a-silver-lining-73272
