20-09-2020||Sudeep Koshy||Mid-range cars for 2020||The world is recovering: not only from a debilitating pandemic but also from the ruinous effect it is having on the economy. It inevitably sent the world’s fourth largest automotive market into a cautious crawl — an industry that accounts for almost half of the country’s manufacturing GDP. But the good news is that if reports from last month are any indication, the signs are of a steady recovery, albeit slow. From what was a dismal 40,000 in May, the number of cars sold has risen to almost 2,26,000 in August, bucking the downward trend with a reassuring 7.5 per cent growth. Kia and Maruti have emerged as beacons of possibility and consistency, respectively. The Korean brand jumped from being the 15th largest automotive brand to the fifth, with a breathtaking 64 per cent growth, while Maruti reiterated market leadership with an 18.8 per cent growth.As car brands pat the dust off their waiting stock and make space for new arrivals in showrooms, we have new model launches and facelifts to look forward to. As to be expected, the market setback has pushed some of them towards a later date. Even as they announced the Thar with great fanfare, Mahindra has reserved the XUV300 Turbo Sportz variant for early 2021; just what Tata has done with their 7-seat Gravitas. The price segment of Rs10 lakh-Rs15 lakh (ex-showroom) is, perhaps, the most interesting as we come across models in a variety of styles and sizes — from five to nine seat configurations and from hatchbacks and sedans to crossovers and SUVs. So, from this exciting array of recent and upcoming cars that are BS6 compliant, we have picked 10 models that can make 2020 actually look good!KIA SELTOSKia Seltos is still rather new. The echoes haven’t settled, of the uproar it created when more than 32,000 of them were sold even before its launch. Yet, Kia has now updated the feature list with improved voice assist, smartwatch connectivity and remote engine start that justify the hike in price by up to Rs25,000 for the petrol variant and up to Rs30,000 for the diesel.Seltos now comes with three engine options, all BS6-compliant: a 1.5-litre petrol (115PS/144Nm), 1.4L turbocharged petrol (140PS/242Nm), and 1.5L diesel (115PS/ 250Nm). The turbo engine is set apart for the GT Line variants with a 6-speed manual gearbox or a 7-speed dual clutch transmission. What differentiates Seltos in the segment are the available safety and comfort features like a 10.25” touch screen, an 8” head up display,six airbags, ABS with EBD, electronic stability control (ESC), hill assist control (HAC) and a 360º parking camera.HYUNDAI CRETASibling rivalry is benevolent when it inspires excellence. Within three months of its launch, the new Creta has clocked 30,000 bookings, which is uncannily similar to what Kia Seltos achieved. The Creta, too, is available with an array of three engines — a 1.5-litre petrol, a 1.4-litre petrol turbo GDi and a 1.5-litre U2 CRDi diesel. The compact SUV promises an engaging drive with modes like eco, comfort and sport, besides traction control modes like snow, sand and mud. In its first major upgrade, the Creta gets an all-new front fascia, refreshed tail lights and a range of safety features like rear-view camera and rear parking assist. It showcases some industry-firsts like remote engine start and impressive features like voice-activated sunroof, an inbuilt air purifier and wireless charging.Maruti Suzuki S-CrossIt turns out that BS6 implementation gave Maruti-Suzuki the chance to not only comply with emission norms but also to respond to a longstanding demand from consumers — a petrol engine for the S-Cross. So, Maruti has replaced the 1.3L diesel engine with a new BS6 compliant 1.5L petrol engine, which has a power output of 105 PS and 138 Nm of torque — the same engine that drives the Ciaz and the Vitara Brezza. Another landmark change in the new S-Cross 2020 is the introduction of an automatic transmission. Maruti’s K-series petrol engine also offers smart hybrid technology with both the 4-speed automatic and 5-speed manual. Keeping the current list of features unchanged, S-Cross 2020 adds a 7-inch touchscreen with android auto and Apple carplay, while standard safety includes dual front airbags, ABS with EBD, and rear parking sensors.MAHINDRA THARAs Mahindra Thar enters a new generation, the familiar design is refreshed just enough to build a modern identity for the SUV while making sure not to alienate “Jeep-lovers”. Perched on a brand new platform, new Mahindra Thar is 65mm longer with a 20 mm longer wheelbase. With 4-wheel drive as standard, the new Thar has made dimensional changes that encourage one to take the road less travelled more often, like its 650 mm wading depth, modern multi-link suspensions and ground clearance that has increased from 200 mm to 226mm on newly fitted 18” tyres. For the first time, Thar gets a petrol engine and this 2.0L turbo charged four pot makes 150 PS while the 2.2L diesel now makes 130. The drivetrain offers two new transmission options — a 6-speed automatic or a 6-speed manual!FORCE GURKHAIf looks can inspire adventure, Mahindra Thar and rival Force Gurkha have been doing that over the years. A single-slat grille and rounded headlamps are still a part of the tall and slender presence that reminds one of the ‘Gelandewagen,’ but the new model will feature LED DRLs, new bumpers and turn indicators on the front fenders. A new roof-mounted carrier and 17-inch alloy wheels add more adventurous proportions to the profile. The SUV sticks to its ladder-on-frame construction but would likely have contemporary equipment like a touchscreen infotainment system, power windows, dual front airbags and ABS. The BS6 compliant 2020 Force Gurkha turns to a 2.6 L diesel engine from Mercedes-Benz that still generates 89 bhp but is rich in torque at 280 Nm. Off-roading aficionados can look forward to a 5-speed manual gearbox and a manual 4×4 system.TOYOTA URBAN CRUISERIf you fancy the reliability of a Maruti Vitara Brezza with Toyota enhancements, the upcoming Urban Cruiser is the one to watch out for! Toyota’s first under-4m crossover, the Urban Cruiser will be available in three trim levels, all powered by the original 1.5 L K-series petrol engine mated to a 5-speed manual transmission or a 4-speed automatic. Interestingly, the automatic variants feature the advanced Li-ion battery technology from Maruti with regenerative braking and idle start-stop functions for improved fuel economy. The impressive specs in the higher variants include LED lighting in front and rear, ABS with EBD, rear parking sensors, a 7-inch smartplay touchscreen infotainment unit with Apple carplay and android auto, and other conveniences in connectivity.Renault Duster TurboThe French brand that made SUV dreams feasible for the average Indian car buyers has just brought another dream within reach — the desire for a powerful SUV. Renault Duster Turbo became the most powerful SUV in its segment when the variant powered by a 1.3L turbo petrol engine was launched last month. Its 154 Hp output and torque of 254 Nm will be delivered to the wheels by either a manual transmission or an X-Tronic CVT. However, this car is not just about power. Technologies such as gasoline direct injection (GDI) improves performance and efficiency while dual variable valve timing (VVT) facilitates higher torque at lower rpm while keeping emissions lower.MG Hector PlusHector is the “Internet car” that connected Indian consumers to MG Motors. In 2020, the three-row, six-seat version of the Hector has been launched, with the two relaxing captain’s seats in the second row expected to appeal to those who prefer to be chauffeur-driven in an SUV. Features like the multi-function steering wheel, 10.4-inch touchscreen, 6 airbags and 360º camera are similar to that of the 5-seater but what is different is the hands-free opening of the tailgate and the ‘chit chat’ alerts in the connected vehicle tech. The drivetrain combinations include a 170hp, 2.0-litre diesel engine mated to a 6-speed manual gearbox and a 143Hp, 1.5-litre turbo-petrol that offers the option of a 6-speed dual clutch transmission. The latter can also be paired with a 48V mild-hybrid system.HONDA CITYHonda has invigorated the fifth generation of the Honda City with enough lifestyle-empowering technology, besides offering three fuel-efficient variants. A 1.5L petrol engine that makes 121 PS and 145 Nm torque mated to a 6-speed manual transmission or a 7-step CVT; a 1.5L diesel engine generating 100 PS and 200 Nm mated to a 6-speed manual. The new Honda City sparkles with LED lights but the most impressive tech is in the cabin: like an 8-inch touch screen infotainment system that offers android auto, Apple carplay and weblink support; ambient lighting; Amazon Alexa remote control and connected car technology; and safety features like Honda’s very own lane watch camera that relays what is beside your car while changing lanes!Tata Altroz EVAmong the upcoming cars of 2020, Tata Altroz is special — an electric vehicle that falls in the Rs12 lakh- Rs15 lakh bracket, alongside the electric versions of Mahindra XUV300 and Tata Nexon (with whom the Altroz EV shares the powertrain). Driven by a 95kW motor, the Altroz will draw its power from a 30kWh Li-ion battery that can give the car a range of more than 300 km. Tata expects 80 per cent of charging to happen in less than an hour, which goes a long way in making long trips time-efficient.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/mid-range-cars-for-2020-143897
20-09-2020||Ajey Kumar is a poet from Sumnam village in Lahaul. His poems have appeared in noted Hindi literary journals such as Pahal||Lahaul fears turning into Manali with Rohtang tunnel||Ishan Marvel hails from Marbal village in Lahaul. His debut book Exit One was published in 2018.Tunnel in the Mountain | 1996But just think GurujiWhen there shall appeara hole in its chestAnd in this heaven shall entermosquitoessnakes and monkeysTouristsand poisonous airand the dirty intentions of the cityand filthy thoughts, GurujiEven then you’ll paint them like thisproudand silent?(Translated by Marvel from the original poem ‘Pahaad’ by Ajey)Rohtang Tunnel | 2000Mountain,Shall you bePierced?Atal Tunnel | 2020So you didn’t listenO…Mountain!IM: A powerful poem like ‘Pahaad’ can often tell us more about a situation than a hundred factual books. Given that the Rohtang Tunnel is finally about to be inaugurated, could you share how you conceived the first stanza in 1996?AK: Back then, everyone believed the tunnel was an empty dream. Very few people were actively fighting for it, and I was witness to these efforts, particularly by Tshering Dorjeji. Meanwhile, we organised an exhibition of paintings of Sukh Dass, who is fondly known as ‘Guruji’ across Lahaul, at Keylong. There were no portraits — just our mountains in all their silent, expressionless glory. It is these mountains that I’m referring to in the poem, for something clicked in my head at that exhibition, and the opening question emerged: ‘Par Zara Socho Guruji.’ But just think Guruji.IM: Even if people were not fighting for it, they did want the tunnel, right?AK: Of course. Who wants to be cut off from the world for six months in snow? Plus, the crops would reach the market and not go waste.Connected, finallyHeavy snow on Rohtang Pass cuts off Lahaul-Spiti from the rest of the world for at least six months during winter. Opening of the tunnel (now called Atal Tunnel) would change that. It would ensure connectivity with Kullu throughout the year, making things easier for locals who have been bearing the brunt of the weather, especially in case of medical exigencies. Foundation stone of the project was laid in 2009 and work began two years later.IM: So why is the poet unhappy?AK: The poet’s concerns are different. He feels the gravity of such things more acutely. And since action is not his domain, he can only express these feelings and raise questions even if he doesn’t have the answers. To raise them in such a piercing manner that people are forced to find answers, or at least think about them, that is my motive as a poet.IM: How did you feel when PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee made the announcement in 2000?AK: Vajpayee already supported the tunnel from a defence perspective, since it would provide an all-weather route to Ladakh. Then, in 1999, the Kargil War happened. Next year, the PM was in Keylong to make the official announcement. Amid all this, my poetic voice became trivial for I couldn’t find a single person who agreed with my views. Looking at the public consensus, I realised that perhaps it was the mountain’s own decision to get pierced. So all I could muster was that single line: ‘Pahaad, kya tum chhid jaoge?’IM: You added another line this year, and there is a clear sense of hurt.AK: I was and still am hurt that our mountains have been pierced. This abrupt model of development that we are blindly trying to implement across the world is especially harmful for vulnerable ecosystems and indigenous cultures like ours. Development must happen at a natural pace so that the people and the land get time to adapt. It’s not just a question of the environment, or loss of natural beauty and culture. I’m talking about losing our Lahauliyat.IM: What do you mean by that?AK: The essence of the people and the land. You can still find it in our peripheral villages. I have understood glimpses of it in the tales of Gyapo Gesar that we used to hear from our elders. I feel Gesar’s character embodies Lahauliyat — his innocence, sensitivity and presence of mind combined with his witty, carefree and romantic nature, and his antipathy towards the elite and his glorification of the ‘ordinary’. He embodies the best of what a rustic, pastoral consciousness can offer. To me, that is Lahauliyat.IM: It’s sad that our generation missed out on these oral traditions.AK: Then let me tell you a Gesar story about how Rohtang Pass came into existence. Once there was an evil king in Kullu, and it fell upon Gesar to go on his flying horse and destroy the tyrant. However, the Pir Panjal mountains were too high even for the magic horse. So, Gesar struck the mountains with his whip and Rohtang Pass came into being. As he raised his whip again, his aunt Kurman appeared from the heavens and stopped him. She explained that the Pass was enough, for if he struck the mountains again, Ling (Trans-Himalayas) and Mon (Indian Himalayas) would become one. So you see how our ancestors adapted the Trans-Himalayan epic to reflect their wisdom about maintaining limited connectivity with the outer world? It was a matter of preserving our Lahauliyat!IM: Maybe that’s where the balance lies — embracing modernity on one’s own terms, according to one’s own context, and without letting go off one’s roots.AK: Exactly! Now, we have undone our forefathers’ wisdom. And instead of just celebrating the practical gains, we should also be focussing on the negative prospects to try and find sustainable solutions. Not much is happening in that direction, and that’s what I feel sad about.IM: You think Ling and Mon will become one now, as in, would Lahaul become another Manali?AK: It is only a matter of time, depending on how our people and our leadership deal with this monster called ‘Vikas’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/lahaul-fears-turning-into-manali-with-rohtang-tunnel-143914
20-09-2020||Pushpesh Pant||Enjoy sweet corn chila with butter||What an amazing grain corn aka maize is! It dons myriad avatars. Some like it hot, roasted on a spit and on the cob; others like it glazed with butter. Both kids and adults love it ‘popped’, and in recent years, cups of steamed sweet corn drizzled with chaat masala have made inroads into small towns of India. In Europe, you have polenta and corn chowder. All things ‘Chinese’ may not be very popular at the moment, but it is not going to be easy to ban or banish the sweet corn soup.No, there is no dearth of desi corn recipes. The most famous perhaps is makki ki roti paired with sarson ka saag from Punjab. In Malwa region of Madhya Pradesh, locals take pride in the kees prepared from sweet corn kernels. Vegetarians now get to order bhutte ka kebab in restaurants. Makki ka halwa and kheer are, however, rare. Himachal Pradesh has an entire festival dedicated to corn — Minjar. Nepalese prepare a porridge-like dish, dhedho, from corn.We owe our recipe this week to our friend, ex-MLA Ranjit Rawat. He treated us to a delicious makki ka chila for breakfast last year. Ranjit bhai remembered his childhood days nostalgically as he narrated how the villagers in his native Salt (also known as Sult) region for long subsisted on corn pancakes as nothing else grew easily.Not difficult to master, you can try it at home. The flatbread or pancake, call it what you may, can be enjoyed both sweet and savoury. A refreshing change from paratha, toasts and cereals.Sweet Corn ChilaIngredientsMethod||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/enjoy-sweet-corn-chila-with-butter-143916
20-09-2020||Pushpa Girimaji||Face shield can’t be a substitute for mask||How effective are the plastic face shields available in the market in preventing the spread of coronavirus? Some of my colleagues at work are wearing these instead of the mask on the pretext that the mask is suffocating, particularly when worn for long periods.The mask is certainly uncomfortable, but experts do not recommend face shields as a substitute for masks. They can only be used as an additional precautionary measure along with the mask.I must mention that earlier, when Covid-19 was believed to spread mainly through large respiratory droplets propelled from the nose or mouth of an infected person, good quality plastic face shields were thought to be quite effective in protecting the wearer as well others. Some scientists even argued that they were better than the mask in blocking respiratory droplets. Besides, they also covered the eyes of the wearer, thereby reducing their exposure to the virus and also prevented the wearer from touching the face with contaminated hands.However, with growing evidence of airborne transmission of the disease, it is feared that the gaps between the visor and the skin — near the chin and the ears — can allow aerosols or microscopic respiratory droplets carrying the virus to escape from an asymptomatic infected wearer and infect others nearby. The gaps could also expose the wearer to the virus.So much so that today some of the countries that recommended or allowed face shields as an alternative to masks are now changing their stand. In June, for example, Singapore said its Covid-19 task force had concluded that shields were not as effective as masks. Similarly, in July, Swiss health officials warned citizens against using face shields and said it gave the wearer a false sense of security.According to media reports, the warning came after an outbreak of Covid-19 in a hotel in the Graubunden region, wherein it was found that hotel employees who wore face shields were infected while those who wore masks were spared. The Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, US, also says there isn’t enough evidence on the level of protection a face shield offers to people nearby from the spray of respiratory droplets from the wearer.A recent work on the topic in Physics of Fluids, a journal by the American Institute of Physics on September 1, discourages the use of face shields (and also masks with exhalation valves) and says that their widespread public adoption could have an adverse impact on Covid-19 mitigation efforts.As of now, or till research to the contrary comes up, face masks score over shields, but along with social distancing and hand hygiene. All the three are extremely important precautions that one should take.Can face masks prevent the spread of coronavirus?When it comes to face masks, their effectiveness depends on their quality and how they are worn. Even the best of masks will fail if they are loose, leaving large gaps between the face and the mask or covering only the mouth and not the nose.As far as quality is concerned, several studies have recommended three-layered masks made of different fabrics with varying mechanical and electrostatic filtering properties, for maximum efficiency. Accordingly, the World Health Organisation recommends an inner hydrophilic material such as knitted cotton, a middle polypropylene layer for good filtration and an outer hydrophobic material such as polyester or a blend of polyester and cotton to repel droplets and moisture.I must also mention that despite the health ministry’s warning, several people use masks with exhale valves. This may protect the wearer, but can affect others. In fact, the abovementioned research paper in Physics of Fluids also looked at masks with exhale valves and said they “significantly reduced the effectiveness of a mask as a means of source control as a large number of droplets (expelled by the wearer) pass through the valve unfiltered”.So wear a good quality mask, without valves, properly. And for extra protection, you can wear the shield over it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/face-shield-cant-be-a-substitute-for-mask-143917
20-09-2020||Purnima Sharma||Let’s have institutes like NSD in various cities, says Paresh Rawal||For someone who did not go to any theatre or film institute to learn the art of acting, being appointed as chairperson of the prestigious National School of Drama (NSD) in New Delhi has come as a “very pleasant surprise”. Veteran actor Paresh Rawal, whose appointment was announced by the President last week, says the news came like a breath of fresh air in these corona-ridden times, when almost every industry and profession has suffered a severe setback.“For any artiste, big or small, the future looks bleak, and this situation, if one were to look at things conservatively, is likely to continue till February-March. Of course, the optimist in me would say ‘kal parson khatam ho jayega’, but we’d be living in a fool’s paradise to imagine that the end of Covid-19 is just round the corner,” says the 65-year-old Padma Shri awardee. Rawal’s been essaying his roles of an actor and a politician — he was a Member of Parliament in the Lok Sabha from 2014-2019 (“but politics and political affiliations must be kept away from art”) — with considerable ease. But, on a positive note, he perks up, “Covid aa jaye, cholera aa jaye, live entertainment will never go out of style.”Still in Mumbai — given the “sad situation of the way the virus is spreading here” — Rawal plans to get to Delhi for the four-year stint as early as possible. “I am raring to go,” says the seasoned actor. And he refuses to be intimidated by the fact that he will be doing administrative work for the first time. “I am already working towards having a good team, starting with an excellent director, of like-minded people to give shape to my plans and our collective vision for theatre.”And one of these includes taking theatre to every city of India. “NSD must not be restricted only to Delhi. We must have similar institutes in other cities, too, for not every talented person — like say Manoj Bajpayee or Irrfan Khan — has the means to come to NSD,” states Rawal. There was a time, he recalls, when in the early 1970s, many youngsters like him learnt about NSD only when Naseeruddin Shah, Om Puri and Pankaj Kapoor blazed onto the film firmament. “Now more awareness needs to spread and we must also connect with universities and colleges to offer our talented force, even in the remote regions, a platform to hone their talent and skills,” he adds.Good theatre, too, needs to travel to every Indian city. “We need to expose audiences to plays that make them think,” says the actor. And while the theatre-going crowd maybe mature and censorship may not be required, a certain amount of self-restraint is essential while exercising creative freedom,” says the NSD chief who is currently working on three plays. “The moment the lockdown is lifted, I shall get onto the stage with them,” smiles the veteran actor who has always garnered rave reviews not just for his work in Marathi and Gujarati theatre, but also in films with a repertoire that ranges from commercial fare, including Mohra and Hera Pheri on the one hand, and critically acclaimed movies such as Woh Chokri and Sardar on the other. Those who’ve seen him essay the role of the Iron Man of India wouldn’t be surprised to learn that Sardar figures in his list of personal favourites — the others being Road to Sangam, Mumbai Meri Jaan and Oye Lucky! Lucky Oye!Straddling the worlds of theatre and films — and doing them well — is all a result of passion. “Sab balance ho jata hai. In fact, you can pack in a lot more if you have the will,” he smiles. And although all his roles, many may argue, seem tailor-made for him, Rawal says he never allows himself to take any of his characters lightly. “More so, when you always seem to be pitted against a superb, bright crop of actors, but isi mein to mazaa hai,” he smiles, talking about Nawazuddin Siddiqui (“uska to kya kehna”), Rajkummar Rao and Pankaj Tripathi, among many others. “Working with them is like a wake-up call each time — it reminds you to always keep pulling up your socks”.While on the subject of bright young actors, he mentions Sushant Singh Rajput, “such a talented youngster who’s gone too soon”. Impressed with his work in films such as Kai Po Che! and Sonchiriya particularly, Rawal remembers his brief meeting with Rajput not too far back. “Even in those 15 or so minutes that we chatted, he came across as very bright and positive, with a philosophical approach to life.”Self-made actors such as him are to be admired, says Rawal, whose brush with theatre started in 1972 when he was barely 17. “Just watching good Marathi and Gujarati theatre helped me make a start. Soon after I got onto the stage, I started picking up the nuances not just of acting but also of direction, lighting and stage-setting,” he states.He remembers, “Back then, the maahaul of Marathi and Gujarati theatre scene was very vibrant and motivating — with people like Girish Karnad, among many others, at the helm”. And when Prithvi Theatre came up in 1978, “it became Kashi, Mecca, Medina for theatre aficionados like us”. That is why, he stresses, while films and web-series may rule the roost in these times of Covid-19, theatre will bounce back, for, “there’s nothing like performing live in front of an engaging audience”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/lets-have-institutes-like-nsd-in-various-cities-says-paresh-rawal-143918
20-09-2020||Manpriya Singh||Meet the meme makers||A lot has been said and ‘shared’ about memes — often sarcastic, at times irreverent, and almost always entertaining. But not much is known about the creative doodlers or memers, the persons who made you laugh umpteen times with their funny posts on social media. With jokes and memes going viral, the profession of making memes has found its verticals: full time, freelance to professionals and amateurs. Looking at the brains behind some of these posts which have brought smiles on our faces in the middle of the pandemic:Shekhar Dahal (31) was in college pursuing a Master’s degree when he and his friends started following pages which published memes. “We particularly liked 9GAG. These were crisp and funny.” Soon Shekhar started creating his own content. It’s nearly three years since he started The Visual House page on Instagram.The best videos and memes on the page have touched nearly 300k likes.Thescriptwriter and assistant director says that he has merged his passion with profession. “You can earn between Rs20,000 and Rs2 lakh a month as a meme maker,” adds Shekhar.Twentysix-year-old Jitendra Sharma’s interest in memes peaked around 2008 when there was an introduction of Rage Comics in India. “I was barely 14 then, and all I had was a newly registered Facebook account,” shares the man behind the meme page @tedthestoner, which boasts of 1.5 million followers. Many companies keep chasing him with their offers. “I have received job offers because of Ted. Some political parties also approached me to create content for them. But my vision for the page is very different from a company that runs purely on a profit basis.”This is also the sentiment shared by 21-year-old psychology student Aakash Rawat, behind his video memes, which go by the name DesiQueerMemes. He started the venture a year back to make fun of serious situations. Little did he realise that in the process, he’d be contributing to smashing taboos associated with the gay community. “Today I have a loyal fan base. Many brands approach me to endorse their products but I make sure that the advertisers respect my terms and conditions”, he says, adding, “I wear their stuff in my videos, and that’s it”. With a decent following, one can easily make Rs40,000 to Rs50,000 a month, he says.A little bit of curiosity about the brains behind that funny post, at times even leads to amused ‘fans’ reaching out. Shares Karan Jalan, who often has audience reaching out to him through his content page with fan mails and kind words. “I came up with a series wherein the idea was to make fun of ourselves. In a way that resonated with everyone without belittling anyone.”Jitendra would have you believe that “making memes is no rocket science. These are just funny pictures with text on them”. He says, “If you think you have a funny bone, you must try your hand at creating memes.” For passionate amateurs, there are many meme-making apps on the web. For those serious about pursuing it as a profession, ‘meme careers’ is a bona fide category in the job search engines. All the meme makers agree on one thing though, there are no rules or any rule book when it comes to getting paid for making memes. “Do not start with the expectation that you’ll be making lot of money. It’ll come later, though,” advises Jitender, adding that, “the best payments I got were messages telling me that my memes had helped bring smiles in difficult phases of their lives.” If not payments, that takes care of the perks checkbox.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/meet-the-meme-makers-143919
20-09-2020||Navnee Likhi||Christopher Nolan’s sci-fi espionage drama Tenet||British-American filmmaker Christopher Nolan’s staggeringly ambitious, brain-bender sci-fi thriller Tenet is about a CIA secret agent, who must manipulate the flow of time in order to prevent World War III. John David Washington, referred to as the Protagonist in the film, is told to head a secret organisation called Tenet. John meets Laura, a scientist who studies bullets. Laura’s entropy has been inverted so that they can move back in time. The Protagonist traces the bullets to Priya Singh, an arms dealer residing in Mumbai. When the Protagonist meets Priya (played by Dimple Kapadia), she tells him that the bullets had been supplied by Russian agent Andrei Sator, a megalomaniac villain. The Protagonist recruits funny and affable British agent Neil.The film opens with the Protagonist participating in an undercover SWAT operation at an opera house, where he has to rescue a spy and capture an artefact. The spy is rescued but the Protagonist is captured and tortured before he consumes a cyanide pill. He wakes up to learn that the pill works to camouflage the mission and fake it as a mock exercise. The succeeding scenes unfold in Italy, London, Mumbai, besides many exotic Scandinavian and Baltic locales. The men on mission are shown journeying in-and-out of these countries and also moving around in dusty battlefields where time moves back and forth.As the mission progresses, the Protagonist and his partner Neil meet Sator’s estranged wife, Kat, who is desperate to rescue her child from her husband’s clutches. Kat tells them that Sator was blackmailing her with regard to a fake artefact which she had sold through him. The Protagonist and Neil meet Sator, who tells them that he has the artefact, which was part of the future-developed algorithm, capable of destroying the world.Kat tells the Tenet team that Sator was suffering from cancer and he would trigger the algorithm before committing suicide soon. Kat goes back in time to delay Sator’s death while the Tenet team tracks the assembled algorithm to an abandoned Soviet city.The film is a glossy global espionage adventure showing frantic car chases, brutal restaurant kitchen fights, besides bungee jump from a Mumbai skyscraper. It is exciting to see buildings crumble and reassemble immediately afterwards. The complexities added to the time-travel techniques over the course of film are mind-boggling. Tenet doesn’t really give you the time to understand the plot of the film as there are secrets to be unearthed and puzzling mysteries solved.Ludwig Goransson’s background score is fascinating. Cinematography by Dutch Hoyter Van Hoytema is enthralling with stunning visuals. Dimple Kapadia’s presence in the role of arms dealer Priya gives goosebumps. John David Washington capably weaves charm and swagger around the character’s no-nonsense ire while Robert Pattinson is convincing in the role of Neil.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/christopher-nolans-sci-fi-espionage-drama-tenet-143920
