20-04-2020||BS Dhillon & Kamal Vatta||Covid cloud over farm sector||The Covid-19 pandemic has forced a lockdown in India and other countries. The agriculture sector in Punjab — India’s food bowl — is facing multiple challenges, which in turn will affect the entire country. With most of the economic activities halted, the sector is witnessing disruption of production, dysfunctional markets and supply chains and a threat to livelihood as income and employment opportunities shrink.The crisis has hit harvesting and threshing of wheat. Wheat harvesting is completely mechanised through combine harvesters and requires only 1.6 man-days per hectare, three-fourth of which is casual labour. Harvesting of 35.65 lakh hectares will require 41 lakh man-days, which can be managed easily by employing local casual labour — which has lost work during the current crisis — and involving family members. Agricultural wages may increase and wage workers may shift from the construction sector to the farm sector in the near future. The state government should ensure timely availability of harvesting machines and smooth procurement of wheat, following social distancing norms. An effective mechanism involving line departments, procurement agencies, commission agents and village panchayats and multi-step procurement as envisaged by the state government will help in eliminating farmers’ harvesting and procurement-related problems.The next challenge will be the sowing of cotton, maize and the transplantation of paddy, which will require 495 lakh man-days of casual labour, a jump of almost 12 times when compared to the harvesting season. Most of the labour will be required for paddy transplantation and a spike in labour demand may give rise to a sharp increase in wages. It may cause a delay in paddy transplantation, decline in area under paddy and an increase in the area under basmati and cotton. The area under summer vegetables may also fall as these are labour-intensive crops. The state government should plan to promote the use of mechanical paddy transplanters; their timely repair and availability will help in coping with labour shortage.Although free movement of farm machinery has been allowed, the cost of harvesting operations may rise. There is a need to ensure smooth functioning of machinery rental services through farmers’ cooperatives and private service providers.As seed supply chains of cotton are dominated by private suppliers, adequate and timely availability of seeds should be ensured. The state must also check unfair rise in seed prices of cotton. The government should constitute a team comprising officials of the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and the Department of Agriculture, and seed suppliers to project the demand for all types of seeds.The involvement of key stakeholders in supply chains of fertilisers and agro-chemicals will address the issues related to these inputs. The state government should coordinate with the Centre on the timely availability of fertilisers to Punjab’s farmers. The supply of feed and fodder will remain affected, raising the costs, squeezing the profits and reducing the production of dairy, poultry and related products. Also, access to formal credit may fall. Wage workers and marginal farmers, with greater dependence on informal credit, will be hit more severely.A fall in agricultural prices and a rise in costs will result in lower farm income. The non-farm income will also drop. Though demand for wage work in agriculture will increase, it will fall substantially in other sectors with an overall decline in wage employment. The food consumption of the rural poor will be hit hard. To alleviate such distress, time-bound food coupons for poor, unemployment allowances and employment generation through MGNREGA should be explored.It’s also vital to strengthen village panchayats, their capacity building and greater involvement in tackling the crisis at the local level. It is the best time to build viable partnerships involving farmer producer organisations, self-help groups, farmers’ cooperatives and other local institutions to strengthen the value networks within the state. Such models can then be replicated on a larger scale.— Baldev Singh Dhillon is Vice Chancellor and Kamal Vatta is HoD, Economics & Sociology, PAU, LudhianaSend your feedback to infocus@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/covid-cloud-over-farm-sector-73533
20-04-2020||Wheat Procurement||Teething problems to the fore||Archit WattsEVEN as wheat procurement has begun amid curfew in Punjab, chaos and confusion prevail among arhtiyas (commission agents), farmers and officials of local market committees across the state.Though the number of procurement centres has been increased from 1,820 last year to 3,791 (including rice mills) this year, farmers and arhtiyas are complaining about the non-issuance of coupons, mandatory to bring produce to the purchase centres.A total of 27 lakh coupons are to be issued for wheat procurement, which will last till June 30. Arhtiyas are claiming that the centralised system for coupons is not working. “The state government should have empowered the local market committees to generate and issue coupons to arhtiyas, farmers, labourers and accountants. The committee officials, along with the arhtiya association, can better handle the situation. They know which arhtiya needs how many passes. Also, there is no information about how to use Ola app to get the coupons. Some arhtiyas were getting the coupons of those purchase centres where they don’t even go. Some youngsters recently hired by the market committees had fed the information of last year’s trade into the system, which has now created a mess. The coupons are being generated from Chandigarh and issued here,” said Bunty Goyal, vice-president, Kacha Arhtiya Association, Muktsar.A cross-section of the arhtiyas said, “The government recently purchased cotton through the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI), ignoring us, but now during the pandemic it has decided to procure wheat through us just because it is a cumbersome process. It shows the biased approach of the government towards the arhtiyas.”There is a cap of 50-quintal produce to be brought by a farmer at a time. For this purpose, also to ensure social distancing, the ground space at mandis has been divided into enclosures of 30x30 ft, space earmarked for cleaning, filling in gunny bags and lifting. However, the situation on the ground is altogether different. The Punjab Government had stated that those involved in the task of procurement would be given face masks, gloves etc., but labourers are working without the mandatory safety gear. Social distancing, too, is not being maintained.In rural areas, the arrangements are still not in place at some purchase centres. A district mandi officer admitted that making all arrangements would take time as the number of purchase centres had gone up.A random visit to some purchase centres revealed that there were hardly any arrangements for handwashing or sanitising tractor-trailers or mandis.Ranjit Singh, a farmer, said, “I have visited a few purchase centres, but the arrangements were not in place. At a purchase centre, labourers cleaning the ground said it was sanitised three days ago.”A cross-section of the farmers said, “When the arhtiyas are confused, how can they guide us? The state government should simplify things or emulate the Haryana authorities. The neighbouring state has not fixed a cap of 50-quintal produce. How can we bring just 50 quintals in a day? Where will we store the remaining produce? If we daily bring only 50-quintal produce, it will result in more visits to mandis, increasing the risk of getting infected. The issue of coupons should be sorted out at the earliest. Then the government should remove the 50-quintal clause. Only thereafter the situation can improve. The produce has just started coming to the mandis and the situation is chaotic. Imagine the scenario when the arrivals will pick up in the coming days.”Additional Chief Secretary Vishwajit Khanna said one-third of the farmers would be issued coupons daily with holograms and the number of the trailer allowed for bringing the produce that day.The state government has deployed over 8,600 police personnel and more than 6,400 volunteers for round-the-clock vigil in mandis and villages to ensure smooth procurement. Keeping in view the infrastructural constraints and limited availability of manpower and machinery with the procurement agencies, the Punjab Mandi Board has decided to cap daily lifting of wheat in grain markets and purchase centres at 3 lakh tonnes.Wheat is being purchased at the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,925 per quintal. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has written to the Prime Minister, reiterating the demand for incentive to farmers bringing their produce after April 30.On wheat storage, the CM has said that the lifting of foodgrain had started as over 70 railway racks had transported wheat. “Also, the state has sufficient space in rice mills to accommodate the fresh produce,” he added.The state has been contributing 30-35 per cent of wheat procured for the Central pool to ensure adequate buffer stocks of the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/teething-problems-to-the-fore-73530
