20-07-2020||Vijay C Roy||The harvest of collaboration||Perturbed about his dwindling farm income, Kamalvir Singh, a marginal farmer from the nondescript village of Sirkapra in Patiala district, registered Nojvan Farmer Producer Company Limited in 2017. The idea was to assist small and marginal farmers and raise their income by involving them in an allied activity of apiculture. The initiative, which started with a few farmers, has now 580 members and a turnover that touched Rs 4.5 crore in the last fiscal.“Thanks to apiculture, members of the FPO are making their income grow without any additional burden on agriculture. More farmers are now engaging in this activity and the membership is witnessing steady growth,” says Kamalvir.The FPO has also obtained FSSAI (Food Safety and Standards Authority of India) certification for packaged honey products and an export certificate for bee pollen. It is also the first FPO working in this sector to export bee pollen. It has exported consignments worth Rs 1.75 crore.Many farmers in Punjab are reaping a rich harvest by joining FPOs. Gurdaspur-based FPO Young Innovative Farmers’ Producers Organisation was registered in 2015 with the objective of increasing farmers’ income through collective production and marketing. The FPO has around 230 members and deals with production, collection and marketing of milk and milk products. It has also started a farm machinery bank for members and other farmers.“We have also opened a sales outlet of animal feed. We supply quality animal feed at reasonable rates to the members. The net profit in the fiscal year 2019-20 was around Rs 7 lakh, which was passed on to the members,” says Avtar Singh Sandhu, president of the FPO.Another FPO, the Rupnagar Producer Company Ltd (RPCL), was registered in April 2013. The FPO was promoted by NABARD (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development) and Ambuja Cement Foundation. Beginning with 10 farmers, at present over 310 farmers are shareholders in the company. The FPO clocked a turnover of Rs 3 crore in the last fiscal. It is engaged in diverse sectors: sale of pesticides and fertilisers, farm machinery bank, procurement of foodgrains and an aggregator for biomass.“The FPO has also acquired an arhtiya licence to procure the produce. By way of sharing of proceeds, the FPO gives additional benefit to farmers through wheat and paddy procurement over and above the MSP,” says Sanchit Sharma, CEO of the FPO.Small and marginal farmers in the state face stumbling blocks such as rising cost of cultivation, no assured market, lack of access to modern technologies and quality inputs. As a result, they are not able to realise optimal productivity and remunerative price for their produce. Through FPOs, the famers can have access to benefits such as quality agri-inputs and extension services. Besides economy of scale in their operations, this has resulted in increased bargaining power for them.Promoted by NABARD, there are 103 FPOs working in various sectors, with each FPO having 100-200 farmers as members. The FPOs are engaged in activities such as input supply, seed production, vegetable farming, dairy processing, processed food, honey production and marketing. A few have started custom-hiring centres for farm machinery.Although many FPOs are still in a nascent stage, they have, on the whole, brought about visible change in collectivising the operations of small and marginal farmers.“The Centre’s decision to set up 10,000 more FPOs is a step in the right direction as these will be promoted under a uniform policy. However, the key factor will be implementation and monitoring,” said Puneet Singh Thind, president, Northern Farmers’ Mega FPO. The FPO provides handholding to farmers, right from the formation of the FPO to the marketing of products.“The announcement by the Centre will go a long way in promoting processing and value addition in farm produce which is restricted to the wheat-paddy cycle,” says JPS Bindra, NABARD’s chief general manager, Punjab regional office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-harvest-of-collaboration-115287
20-07-2020||Parveen Arora||Platform for farmers||With the aim of strengthening the agriculture sector and doubling farmers’ income, the Union Government plans to set up 10,000 new farmer producer organisations (FPOs) across the country with new guidelines.The FPO, a group of farmers dealing with business activities related to farm produce, works for the benefit of members, including small, marginal and women farmers. Presently, there are over 450 FPOs with more than 76,000 farmers in Haryana. Of them, around 30,000 got themselves registered on the IT portal of the Small Farmer Agri-business Consortium Haryana (SFACH), a nodal agency looking after the FPOs’ formation and management in the state.According to a survey conducted by The Tribune, most of the FPOs in the state are facing challenges such as a lengthy and costly process to avail certification for organic farming, difficulty in getting loan, no appropriate price of produce, low productivity in organic farming, and inadequate knowledge of the market.“We had started an FPO with 100 members. Now, we have 600 members, of which 150 are involved in chemical-free/organic farming of desi wheat and paddy. We applied for a certificate for organic farming around four years ago, but it is a cumbersome affair for a farmer. It should be cost-effective,” says SP Tomar, vice-chairman of Horticulture Farmer Producer Company Limited, Karnal.He say farmers have little awareness about the branding of their produce. “The members who cultivated organic wheat and paddy witnessed a downfall in production in the first three years as the soil takes time to gain fertility without fertilisers,” he adds.Vikas Chaudhary, director, Progrowers Producer Company Limited, Taraori, and other members of the FPO had to face hiccups. They could not get a loan from a bank as they do not have any property to mortgage. “We are 372 members. We have to fight hard for several months to get a bank loan,” he rues. He, however, says that now, with the support of the Horticulture Department and SFACH, they got a project of the crop cluster development programme, under which they will process and package tomato products.Dr Paras Ram, Agri-business Manager (FPO), SFACH, claims Haryana is witnessing a good response as farmers are showing interest in joining the FPOs. “The state government has mandated to form FPOs for agriculture-related activities. In 2018, while fixing the targets for Parivartan blocks, the state decided to form 10 FPOs in each of the 46 Parivartan blocks and assigned this work to SFACH with the objective of strengthening the farmers’ capacity and skills for bargaining in trade practices of agri-business, to provide marketing linkages, facilitating access to fair and remunerative markets, including linking of producer groups to marketing opportunities through market aggregators and employment generation,” he adds.He says SFACH had signed an MoU with NABCON (NABARD Consultancy Services) for management and providing incentives to 13 FPOs. As a result, these FPOs are engaged in various agri-business activities and have significant business turnover as start-ups.NABARD is also playing a vital role in this project. Abhimanyu Malik, District Development Manager, NABARD, Karnal, says since around 85 per cent of farmers are small and marginal and the average landholding size has shrunk to 1.08 hectare, farmers need to come together to reap the benefits of collectivisation.Battling roadblocksMany FPOs based in Haryana are facing issues such as lengthy, costly process to avail certification for organic farming, difficulty in getting bank loans, unremunerative price of produce, and inadequate knowledge of the market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/platform-for-farmers-115286
