20-12-2020||Renu Sud Sinha||Yours, Gulzar||At 86, Gulzar has achieved almost everything in the field of words, but is still not ready to rest on his innumerable laurels. Driven by his love and passion for poetry, Gulzar was 76 when he started off on yet another uncharted path — to gather contemporary poetry in Indian languages in one volume. A decade later, what emerged was a labour of love and passion — 365 poems, a poem for every day of the year — reflecting the ethos of a nation born some 70 years ago.The book starts with verses of hope tinged with the rosy glow of freedom, but soon turns into disappointment of expectations not met. The feminist movement, emergence of Naxalites and their struggle, the trials and tribulations that Punjab went through — in short, it is the poetic journey of a nation and its testing times.‘A Poem A Day’ is a massive 968-page book ostensibly “for anyone who likes poetry and is interested in the use of words and language”, as the author’s note says in the beginning. However, as this child of Partition, growing up on classical poetry of undivided Punjab, experienced the turning and tossing of his era in the poetry of his times, he wanted the Indian youth of today to experience the joys of contemporary poetry so as to relate it to their times and not the verses of Tagore or Ghalib of bygone eras they read in their textbooks.So, the grand old man of letters waded through Indian regional poetry, literally from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, starting from 1947 to 2017, to sift through the works of contemporary poets rooted in their soil, (apni zameen se judey, as he says in his inimitable style), and translated most of them into Hindustani and English.Because language has no borders, there were also poets from Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, all foreign lands now, as well as languages and dialects without scripts of their own, written in scripts of better-known languages.Poets from the land of his birthBorn in Jhelum district of undivided Punjab, Sampooran Singh Kalra may have been particularly fascinated by the poets and poetry of North-East, but was always connected with those from his own land despite moving to Bombay.Amrita Pritam and her Partition-based “Ajj Aakhan Waris Shah Nu” was an obvious choice, as were Shiv Kumar Batalvi, Paash, Sukhbir, alias Balbir Singh, Lal Singh Dil, Mohan Singh, Surjit Patar and Ustad Daman (Pakistan) among the contemporary names from Punjabi poetry.Many poets and writers, who could not find a place in the book due to space constraints, remain etched in his consciousness and he talks about them with much admiration — Navtej Singh, Harnam Singh Naz, Gurmel Pannu and S. Swarn.Timeline of a nationPoems written in all 34 languages since Independence have been included in a chronological order, capturing and reflecting the journey of a nascent nation through its evolution. It starts with verses of hope tinged with the rosy glow of freedom, but soon turns into disappointment of expectations not met. The feminist movement, emergence of Naxalites and their struggle, the trials and tribulations that Punjab went through — in short, it is the poetic journey of a nation and its testing times, through the eyes of the poets who spoke in the voice of masses, yet had a limited reach.The journeyThe hurdles were countless — lack of proper scripts, non-availability of translations and sometimes translators, even the English translations of Punjab’s most popular poet Shiv Kumar Batalvi were hard to come by. So what kept Gulzar going? A simple yet burning desire to bring to the young their poetic heritage.And who were the people who helped him traverse the path? He makes particular mention of Ananth Padmanabhan and Udayan Mitra from the publishing house for their support but at home, it was daughter Meghna who kept her “Papi”, as she fondly calls him, from burning the candle at both ends at the “young” age of 86.The indulgent father speaks of her and the women poets included in the book with much admiration. Shefali Debbarma, Mamang Dai, Mamta Kalia have found a special mention at various foras where he has talked about the book. And he refuses to bind their words within their gender, as he feels women, in their poetry, have achieved the equality they may not have found in reality.He also refuses to burden Meghna with the task of carrying forward his legacy, as he feels she has the capability to forge her own legacy and imprint. He fondly talks of her capacity for detailed research and hard work, her feminism — reflected in her works like ‘Filhaal’ and ‘Talvar’.A peek into the futureAfter this mammoth project of capturing the past, what’s on his mind? The confining months of lockdown may have provided a requisite pause but have also brought home the problems of the common man whom he lovingly calls “Murari Lal”. His troubles and struggles will feature in “Murari Lal ki Nazmein” in the coming months.The living legend is also mulling over publishing the leftover verses that could not be accommodated in this book — poems on universal emotions such as death or poems on the poem itself. His legions of fans await.The plight of migrant labourers plodding home during lockdown, hoping to escape the pandemic, hunger and misery, is reflected in this unpublished, untitled poem that Gulzar, who still writes in longhand Urdu, has shared with the readers of The Tribune:Mahamaari lagi theeGharon ko bhaag liye the sabhi mazdoor-karigarMachinein band hone lag gayin thee sareeUnhi se to haath-paaon chalte rehte theWarna zindagi to gaon mein hee bo ke aaye theArre, sagaayi, shaadiyaan, khalihaan, sookha, baadhHarr baar aasmaan barsenaa barseMarenge to wahin jaakar jahaan par zindagi haiYahaan to jism laakar plug lagaaye thePlug nikaale sabhi neChalo ab ghar chalein sabSab chal diyeMarenge to wahin jaakarJahaan par zindagi hai.I Have Seen This Scene Beforeby gulzarI have seen this scene beforeA whole army standing entrenchedWith guns on shoulders, ready to fireAnd, in front, a crowd of peopleWaving hands;Perhaps it is 1919, and AmritsarSomewhat like Jallianwala Bagh.Or maybe it is the scene of Lahore in 1936:The day of the freedom struggle’s annual assembly.So much in this scene seems to be familiarThe faces appear to be knownThe despondency and anger on their facesTheir ages, their emotionsAll of this, I am acquainted with.Maybe, it is 1942 in Allahabad:In a railed – off islandIn the centre of the town squareAn entire army in readinessLines drawn, their guns ready to fireAnd in front a mob of peopleWaving hands;Their fists clenchedThe same flag in their handsThe same slogans on their lipsThe bullets fired in the same waySome people dying as they died beforeBlood flowing the same way on this very street.My Mother and My Poemby surjit patarMy mother could not understandmy poemalthough it was written in mymother-tongue.She only gathered thatthere was some grief in her son’s mind.But wherefrom his grief camewhile I am here.My illiterate mother scanned my poem with great careand said to herself: look, people, lookthe sons whom we gave birth fromour wombstell their grief to the papers not to us.She took the page to her breast hopingperhaps it is the only wayof getting close to her son.Will Be Killedby rajesh joshiThose who not participate in thismadnessWill be killedThose who oppose, will be made to stand in the witness boxThose who speak the truthWill be killedIt will not be tolerated that someone else’s shirtBe whiter than ‘Their’ shirtThose wearing spotless shirtsWill be killedPushed away from the world of ArtWill be those who are not bardsThose who do not plodWill be killedFlying the flag of religionThose who do not participate in the rallyWill be shot brutallyWill be named atheistBiggest crime this time isTo be unarmed and to be innocentThose who are not criminalsWill be killed.Alibiby ranjit hoskoteWipe your fingerprints from the air,rinse out the mug from which you dranklast night’s coffee.Clear the view in the windowwith a sweep of plush curtainthat takes cloud, sky and mountain with it.Cut the photograph from the frame,grab the red hair-band from the onyx jar,the spectacles from the desk.Cover your tracks.Walk through water.You were never here.(Written originally in English)Rainby ramakanta rathAs I was about to go outto meet youit rained.How could I,dripping with water,meet you? I came back.It hasn’t rained for a long, long time,but you’ve moved away.A drop of water will no longer fallon this bone-dry body of mine.— Excerpted from ‘A Poem A Day’, selected and translated by Gulzar, with permission from HarperCollins.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/yours-gulzar-186908
20-12-2020||BN  Goswamy||The mercenary who loved finer things||History of the Origin and Distinguishing Marks of the Different Castes of India. Ms. folio, written within red and gold borders, with 120 full-page illustrations, and 2 illuminated opening pages, native leather. (c. 1830).— Descriptive title of the volume by James Skinner, in the Library of Congress, WashingtonJames Skinner (1778 - 1841) — ‘Sikandar Sahib’, as he came to be known and called by his devoted troopers — was evidently a man of parts. One could simply describe him as a mercenary — one of the many, whether French, Irish, Scottish, German, Austrian, or English, who one finds roaming the plains of India in the 18th and early 19th centuries, ready to fight for anyone who paid well: ‘swords for hire’, so to speak — but that would do him little justice. For certain, he was a soldier with the rank of Lieutenant Colonel, who raised formidable cavalry regiments that still bear his name in independent India’s Army — ‘Skinner’s Horse’, the ‘Yellow Boys’ — and who did fight for the Marathas and, eventually, the East India Company. He was diplomatic enough to keep up with high officials of the East India Company which had declined to offer him employment initially because he had an “Indian’ wife. But he had other interests, too. Passions, in fact. Living in style, from his perch at Hansi in Haryana apart, he was, like the Fraser brothers to whom he was close and with whose name discerning patronage of art is associated, he was deeply interested in painting and set about engaging Indian painters — then more or less at a loose end, royal Mughal patronage having dwindled and virtually dried up — to work for him.Unlike many other mercenaries, however, ‘Skinner had one other talent: he knew Persian well and could write long texts in it. One reads this with the fact that, possibly on account of his ‘Indian’ connection — his wife who he used to designate as a princess from some royal family or the other — he was genuinely interested in things Indian: ancient Indian texts for one, and, for another, the people whom he knew and saw every day; if not in his immediate environment, at least in the streets outside. From all this emerged at least two works that remain of absorbing interest: the Tashrih al-aqvam, which was finished in 1825, and the Tazkirat al-Umara of 1830: the former dealing with The Origin and Distinguishing Marks of the Different Castes of India, as noticed before, and the latter with Historical notices of some Notable Families.The Tazkirat volume is illustrated with portraits of known and oft-painted rulers and highly-placed zamindars, mostly of Rajasthan and the Punjab. The Tashrih volume — the word means, literally, ‘exposition; elucidation’, and aqvam is the plural of qaum, used here in the sense of a community or profession — is far more lavishly illustrated, one might add, which draws one to itself, for even though it does not deliver all that it promises in the title, it engages mostly with common people of virtually no rank: priests and account-keepers, performers and artisans, butchers and bow-makers, perfumers and distillers, faqirs and charlatans, jugglers and courtesans, musicians and dancers, snake-charmers and street-surgeons. It is a record of sorts of what one sees: thematically of a piece in a sense with masses of ‘Company’ work, which went under the name of firka paintings, commissioned or collected by officers of the ‘Company’ for taking back home as ‘picture postcards’, so to speak, from a country which was vastly different from their own. But these paintings — there are, it might be mentioned, two manuscripts with the same title and theme: one in the Library of Congress in Washington and the other in the British Library in London — are leagues above the general run of firka paintings in respect of quality. Not every leaf is of the same high order, but the vast majority of them is. And this because Skinner had the discrimination — and the opportunity — to engage painters of singular talent.Sadly, the names of the painters whom Skinner asked to work for him are, uncharacteristically, not recorded even though it has often been suggested that among them was one of the most gifted of the painters then active — Ghulam Ali Khan, who first worked for the last of the Mughal rulers, and then for the Fraser brothers. The quiet but sharp observation to detail, the singing line, the delicacy with which colours were applied, are in evidence everywhere. When a painter picks a subject like a kamangar — maker of bows — for instance, his portrait of the man might not be all that realistic, meant as it was to be a generalised image of a bow-maker, but nothing that could have been there in and around him as he worked is left out: the hookah which he smokes in between bouts of work, the shoes that he has taken off before perching on the ground, the earthen brazier alive with embers and smoke, the long-handled container with coals which he holds under an unfinished bow to heat the bamboo rod which he is about to bend, the half-finished bows hanging on a peg on the wall. Everything is in place, neatly placed and meticulously painted. When Skinner’s painter turns out the portrait of a painter, again, every little detail is marshalled as the man, leaning against a bolster, legs crossed, knees raised a bit to support the wooden takhti on which is pasted the sheet of paper with the unseen drawing on which he works as if peers through the pair of spectacles he is wearing. On the ground all around and close to him lie the tools of his trade: the large wooden box lying open with drawers and grooves for brushes; a small wooden box with pigment-containers; the shells on which pigments are seen glistening; the little brush-box with its lid laid aside; rulers for drawing lines. It is a perfect study. But nothing comes close to the portrait of the aged player of the double-gourded veena — as an exception, the name of the venerable man, the much celebrated ‘Mian Himmat Khan Kalawant’, is inscribed both above the portrait and on a part of the tube itself — for the painter seems to have reached out and touched the very soul of the blind musician as he, lost to the world around him, plucks with his superbly rendered, delicate fingers the strings of his instrument. There is something deeply moving about the rendering; seeing the work, an elevating, almost mystical, feeling descends upon one.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-mercenary-who-loved-finer-things-186911
20-12-2020||Shailaja Khanna||How does one show ‘bhaava’ to a camera?||The first dancing duo in Indian classical dance, the first really popular solely Kuchipudi performers, the first joint Padma Bhushan awardees... Raja and Radha Reddy have many firsts to their name. In the 1960s, Kuchipudi dance was virtually unknown to the north of Vindhyas. Greats like Yamini Krishnamurthy and Indrani Rahman would occasionally include a Kuchipudi item like the famous thali dance (tarangam). The Reddys not only brought recognition to the dance form, but also a great deal of glamour. At the Queen Elizabeth Hall in London in 1974, after a performance with items depicting Lord Shiva, the press acclaimed the tall and handsome Raja as ‘The Black Shiva’. At a landmark performance at Avignon, France, the audience called them out nine times for standing ovations, and it was only after the duo did a shashtang namaskaram did the clamour die down. Sixty years after their debut, the tradition is being ably carried forward by the younger Reddys — Yamini and Bhavna.“I was obsessed with music and dance as a boy and that obsession remains,” says Raja, adding that the last nine months have been hard for everyone. “Initially, we did try to put out some online performances to recorded music, but we did not enjoy it. How does one show ‘bhaava’ to a camera, how does one restrict one’s movements to its vision? Most importantly, the vibe from the audience was missing. Though the auditoriums are dark, we can sense their energy and hear their appreciation. The love we have received over the decades has pampered us and we really need that,” says Raja, who is married to Radha and her younger sister, Kaushalya.While the trio has been keeping busy with choreographing new concepts and teaching online, Radha feels for the younger generation of artistes. “For someone who concentrated on the arts as a full-time career, it all stopped abruptly! Cancelled shows, no income,” she says, voicing her fear that young instrument makers may not choose to continue in the line. She says governments abroad have tried to support artistes, Germany, in particular. “In India, we just have too many artistes, too many issues. I feel it is important that ticketed concerts come back, especially in Delhi. That will help survive while gauging the worth of a performer.”Recently, they took their 24-year-old festival, Parampara, online. Kaushalya, who curated the festival, tells that they relayed recordings of old performances. “We did not want to record new content where the artistes cannot give their best in the changed circumstances, without an audience. So, we used archival content,” she says.Laudably, the Reddys have been passing on the tradition to the younger generation. Their elegantly constructed three-storey building houses a 30-year-old teaching institution that has made Kuchipudi one of the most popular dance forms in the Capital. “It was quite a task when we started. I didn’t realise it would involve so much work,” says Kaushalya, adding, “We have around 100 students at any given time; around 80 per cent of them being Punjabis! Interestingly, it was only when we took the troupe to perform at the Patiala Heritage Festival and were announcing the names of the dancers did we realise that we had so many Punjabis among us.”But how do non-Telugu speaking disciples understand the lyrics? “Rajaji involves the students in the whole process while choreographing a piece and explains each line. It is not possible to dance and express the ‘bhaava’ without knowing the meaning. Also, since girls come to us from a very young age, around 5-6 years, it’s not that hard to teach them,” Kaushalya says.On what the immediate future holds, Kaushalya laughs: “Being artistes, we are very spontaneous. We never plan too much in advance!”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/how-does-one-show-bhaava-to-a-camera-186912
20-12-2020||As this incredible year comes to a close||Missing ‘live’ experience||However, some artistes remain reluctant to embrace the virtual space, the insidious need for a ‘live’ connect still overwhelming them. Virtual concerts are recordings; there is no spontaneous audience feedback, they reason. That physical acknowledgement of creativity, that connection between several people at the transmission of art, is missing. Nightingale of the South, Bombay Jayashri puts it thus: “The presence of the audience, the vibrations that are required in that journey of creation of music, are necessary. I am so scared of not experiencing that. Even if you can’t see anyone in a dark hall, you do experience the energy.”Currently in the US, ‘thinking’ singer Mahesh Kale considers two factors relevant. “Technologically, we are still not at a place where we can really replicate the ‘live’ experience. Personally, I do not want classical music to become just background music, a mere tertiary activity,” he says.Jayashri says her guruji would say a diary full of concerts should not make an artiste happy. “If there are breaks between concerts, you will have time to think, to add to your music. This break is very important for me,” she says.Perhaps the period will allow performers to perform for themselves, thus enriching their art. As violin legend Dr N Rajam says: “My first audience is myself.” — SK||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/missing-live-experience-186913
20-12-2020||Puneetinder Kaur Sidhu||The F&B survival menu||It is no secret that Covid-19 has, in one fell swoop, completely upturned the food and beverage industry on a global scale. The unpredictability and uncertainty of the past few months has found the food world reinventing itself in order to keep up with a dramatically changed consumer behaviour. Innovation has taken centrestage and all stakeholders, from food manufacturers to restaurants to retailers, have adapted beyond measure to stay in the reckoning and be counted. Heightened safety precautions, trimmed menus, immunity-boosting ingredients, contactless service, and digital payments are some of the new marketing mantras in the retail space. Major investors, on the other hand, are shying away from retail, training their sights instead on packaging, frozen food, bulk orders and exports, says hospitality consultant, Chef Vikas Chawla.Several disruptive F&B trends have spawned during these times. Some have gained a strong traction, an equal number are emerging and gaining steam. Resurgence in home-cooking is being witnessed, as is the usage of healthy and local produce, the latter for fear of contagion from exotic goods. Grocery shopping has by and large moved online, effectively replacing weekly visits to supermarkets. Simple DIY meal kits are being feted as the next best thing to cooked food. Premium deliveries, cloud kitchens, brand collaborations, and live social media tutorials are but a few reinventions in the voluminous inventory. We take a closer look at some of them.Home chefsTopping the list is the exponential swell in home chefs. With whole families confined to working and studying from home, it was only a matter of time that planning, strategising, and experimenting spilled over into the kitchen. Countless WhatsApp groups sprung up populated with eager takers for freshly prepared meals, pickles, spice mixes, rubs, cakes and confection — shared through daily or weekly menus. YouTube channels mushroomed just as fast as a hungry audience willing to watch and learn. “The virtual aspect blurred geographic boundaries and more and more people from other countries could join in too,” shares Vernika Awal of Delectable Reveries. A Delhi-based home chef, she regularly hosts live programmes and uploads video recipes on Instagram.Chefs come callingFor those reluctant to step out into public places just yet, or place orders through aggregators, the chef-at-home concept helps recreate restaurant-like food for a select group within comfort zones. As lockdown restrictions eased and safety bubbles came into being, several hotel chains saw a tentative but steady rise in demand for culinary experts. With a restriction imposed on numbers, the Hyatt Regency team in Chandigarh found a wider audience for its Hyatt At Home service, both for small house parties, as well as, intimate wedding gatherings.Cloud kitchensThis trend is more or less here to stay. With customers generally staying away from restaurants, and experts being let go, cloud kitchens were a natural outcome. They offer a wider choice of cuisine, and are able to cater to a larger customer base. Professional chefs Harangad Singh and Ravi Tokas joined hands to set up their increasingly busy cloud kitchen in Gurugram. “Parat (meaning layer) came about with minimal investment, all from personal savings, second-hand equipment from eateries that were closing down, and a team that had been idling after losing jobs. We were posting profits within a couple of months!” shares a visibly pleased Harangad.Doorstep deliveryNot exactly a novelty, but the pandemic had hotel chains and restaurateurs scrambling to stay connected with their dine-in regulars through doorstep deliveries. Biryani brands, already leading the home delivery segment, were to soon find themselves in the company of many newly minted peers, ranging from affordable dining to gourmet experiences. “Delivery makes up nearly 50 per cent of our business at present,” says Varun Tuli, managing director at Yum Yum Tree. Already ahead in the premium delivery game with Noshi, their Asian cuisine brand, adding Pot Pot (Indian food) and Wheaty (sourdough breads) to the stable was a breeze.Brand collaborationsSeveral joint efforts, where brands and professionals came together to curate culinary experiences, have taken a hold of our imagination. Encompassing the beverage component are bottled cocktails. Sip At Home is one such lockdown baby, a collaboration of Upstairs Club with Gaah, Chandigarh-based entertainment solutions company. This initiative includes crafted pre-mixes delivered home, accompanied by multi-genre Sip At Home playlists on Spotify. Perry Road Peru, a distilled cocktail good-to-go for six months when refrigerated, is a collaborative consequence of Stranger & Sons with Bombay Canteen. More recently, Blue Tokai announced the revival of their Sula Barrel Aged Blend, a coffee created by aging green beans in Sula wine barrels.In a digital worldThe virtual existence these past months had us glued to screens, trawling the web and social media for novelty and challenges. We went from the Dalgona coffee to sushi and pick-me-up cakes, before falling back on easy-to-follow recipe demonstrations. In an interesting reversal of roles, influencers too began cooking at home with locally available products, encouraging their audience to follow suit. Food consultant and blogger Jimmy Makkar revealed that earnings from blogging collaborations, never a stable income to start with, reduced significantly. Still, social media will continue to essay a significant role as eateries gradually re-open, and potential customers look up ratings and reviews by convincing voices that have lasted in the space.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-fb-survival-menu-186914
20-12-2020||Devi Poojari||India on a platter||While the pandemic hasn’t been kind to most people, it sure did awaken the curiosity of many who were willing to explore their culinary prowess in the kitchen. That said, for individuals like Saransh Goila of the Goila Butter Chicken fame, this forced downtime enabled him to reignite his passion for cooking through an idea that was originally meant to be a 13-part travel show about street food that the diverse geography of India had to offer. “I wanted to undertake this journey for a while now. On Independence Day, as India celebrated 74 years of freedom, I decided to do a digitised version of this concept,” he says as we began conversing about the increasing level of interest that has been generated around Indian regional cooking.He firmly believes that while discussion around the significance of food that is hyperlocal has been around for a few years now, it was a matter of breaking stereotypes that surround Indian cuisine on a global level. The proclivity to research further also meant familiarising his followers with food that they may or may not have come across before. Saransh asserts that “every chef has a signature personality attached to the food cooked as well as a strong opinion on ingredients that must be communicated in a manner where the dishes seem accessible and easy to experiment with”. He started out by announcing to his followers to put him in touch with people from various parts of India who could educate him about food that was cooked in their homes or had grown up eating. He also began interacting with local food experts and home chefs who were firm about not adhering to the stereotypical expectation of the cuisine representing their region.A few interactions and recipe tests later, #74DishesOfIndia was kick started with Ladakhi specialty ‘Skyu’ — a local favourite made with handmade pasta and winter vegetables. Saransh was challenged with finding the right ingredients required to put together these dishes as well as finding alternatives, if needed. “Although I don’t claim any of the showcased recipes to be authentic, yet I try to hold on to the essence of each dish because it is a representation of the culture and history associated with the region it originates from,” he says. One of the key advantages, he confesses, to having a social media audience is the kind of leverage causes like ‘Vocal for Local’ get, a key factor in making his series a gradual success. Simultaneously, he rides high with the newly acquired feather in his cap with Goila Butter Chicken opening its doors to diners in London. Saransh hopes to take this project back on the road soon. “If that doesn’t happen, there can always be a second part because 74 dishes are not enough to represent the beautiful food India has to offer,” he signs off.Chana Dal ke FareyIngredientsMethodFor the dough, mix all ingredients in a bowl and knead to a semi-soft consistency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/india-on-a-platter-186915
20-12-2020||Satyapal Sehgal||The lantern from the hills||The passing away of Sahitya Akademi Award-winning poet Manglesh Dabral has shocked the literary community. Leave alone the loss to Hindi poetry, prose and translation, the void created by his absence, in our spiritual and emotional lives, shall be regarded as one of the most catastrophic effects this pandemic has had.The stories in his poems are those of struggling youth, the brutal force of money, administrative and political power. When he hits them hard in a language socked in pain and cry, sweat and blood, he sings the songs that his numerous readers wanted to sing for themselvesHis individual warmth, humanity, sensitivity and simplicity travelled into his poetry and prose and back into his life, encompassing the people who came close to him and his writings. The stories in his poems are those of the struggling youth, the brutal force of money, administrative and political power. When he hits them hard in a language socked in pain and cry, sweat and blood, he sings the songs that his numerous readers wanted to sing for themselves. His unflinching commitment to the marginalised, his radical understanding of politics, society and human values was in no way detached of the homely affections and gentle, soft brotherhood he carried down from the hills of Garhwal to the plains of the North.The quietness of solitude, the flow of rivers, the vast sky overhead, the flowers, smells and the slow pace of life, the women, people — young and old and the struggles of livelihood, the simmering anger against injustice, exploitation and the loss of the ethos of the ethnicity and a sense of displacement can all be dissected in his poetry spread over almost half-a-dozen collections. One of his favourite poetry lines, often quoted by him, attributed to German playwright-poet Bertolt Brecht read as follows: “Pahadon ki yaatanaayein hamare peeche hain, maidanon ki yaatnaayein hamare aage hain”. (In our past are the agonies of the hills, in our present are the torments of the plains.)All through his journalistic career, he edited literary and opinion pages in various Hindi journals and newspapers. He was among the top literary editors the language had in modern times. Maybe he was the best in his times, more so after the demise of Dharamvir Bharti and Raghuvir Sahay, editors of Dharmyug and Dinman, respectively, who evolved canons for a serious, professionally competent and socially, historically responsible journalism with a human face. Using original sources of language, he made Hindi much more than just a language of translation. Manglesh was the Supplement Editor in Jansatta in the 1980s and 1990s, and there was scarcely an edition which was not worth preserving. Every budding writer wanted to be published by him, and there was hardly any significant writer in Hindi who did not prefer to be seen there. He was fighting a consciousness war on behalf of the interests of the masses and for a sustainable future for all. His articles underscored the vanishing lifestyles and sub-cultures as the onslaught of neo-liberalism was swarming up everything coming its way. It brought in economic risks for him; however, he weathered them all without any cynicism. He remained a person with graceful demeanor but with unshakeable self-belief and ethical steadfastness. He got some brickbats too, but earned much love from poetry lovers across the world.As the tremors created by his death die down, the vividness of his legacy shall be much more pronounced. And without his kind of poetry being written anymore, it would be a different and difficult literary world we shall have to live in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-lantern-from-the-hills-186916
