21-06-2020||Roopinder Singh||Love & legacy: From the memoirs of Faridkot Princess Amrit Kaur||Graceful, soft-spoken and alert, 86-year-old Amrit Kaur, Rajkumari of Faridkot, is regal, as she ought to be. The eldest daughter of Raja Harinder Singh of Faridkot spent her childhood in her father’s palaces. Naturally, she was raised by governesses, who ensured that along with regular education, she would also learn singing, embroidery and playing the piano. The princess particularly remembers her governess, the Australian Miss Foley, who wanted porridge for breakfast every day. “Before the Partition, she went to Lahore and saw violence and killings there. She came back and packed her bags”.Amrit Kaur’s brother, Harmohinder Singh, and her sisters Deepinder Kaur and Maheepinder Kaur, all lived their early lives in Faridkot palaces of their father. Amrit Kaur has fond memories of her father.A princess remembers“My father was a gentle person. If he wanted you to do something, he would sit you down and talk to you. On the other hand, my mother, Rani Narinder Kaur, was a strict disciplinarian. Clothes had to be folded and kept just so! She would check the cupboards to ensure that this was done!”Her father ensured that she learnt how to ride a horse. Like so many other beginners, she fell down, and was promptly put back in the saddle! Soon she became a good rider.Raja Harinder Singh also had a legendary collection of cars, and he taught her how to drive, in the Raj Mahal, naturally. “He sat next to me in a small car and said, ‘Drive.’ I saw that my grandmother and mother had just stepped out for a walk, and I started looking at them to see if they were looking at me. I nearly rammed into a wall! I got a reprimand, recovered, and finally, I learnt driving. I didn’t have a licence. Eventually, my husband got me one.”The parents ensured that their children got conventional education after home schooling. She did her Matric, and then enrolled for FA and BA at St Bede’s, Shimla. The nuns were strict at this all-girls college. The boarders bonded, especially her group of friends. “There were five of us, and we sat on one table for all of our meals.” They kept in touch with each other. Two of them, Gursmat Sandhawalia and Ajit Sanghera, live in Chandigarh.One time, they slipped out of the hostel, rented cycles and went to the Mashobra estate of her grandmother, where “the gardener was very kind. He gave us a bunch of roses.” Her massi (aunt), who was also in college at the time and had accompanied them, said she would keep the bunch on her cycle. Unfortunately, she fell from the bicycle, the handle hit her so badly that she almost stopped breathing. Her friends Ajit and Surjit, being doctors’ daughters, took charge and pumped her chest. It worked, and soon they were able to complete their trip, return the cycles, and make it back to college before breakfast. “It was Sunday, so it was half-an-hour later, at 8 am”, she recalls. She played the piano and engaged in extra-curricular activities. She graduated with a BA degree from the college at 18.A new beginningIn 1952, she would marry Major Harpal Singh. We refer to the Faridkot Gazetteer of 1915 for his background: “The Sardars of Machaki are Sekhon Jats.... Colonel Sardar Harnam Singh, who is Commandant of the Faridkot IS Sappers, is now with the company at the Front....”Col Harnam Singh had earned laurels in World War I. His son, Major Harpal Singh, served in World War II on the Burma Front. He joined the Faridkot Police in 1946, and at the time of their marriage, was Raja Harinder Singh’s aide-de-camp. Amrit Kaur’s family did not approve.“That did not last long. My mother always had cordial relations with her brother and sisters, and we stayed at Kenilworth (in the Mashobra estate of Raja Harinder Singh) with our grandfather, in Faridkot and Delhi with the family and attended family weddings,” says Gurveen Kaur, Amrit’s daughter.Harpal Singh was inducted into the Indian Police Service (IPS) in 1954. The couple spent the ensuing years in Jalandhar, Patiala, Kapurthala and Shimla, wherever he was posted. He served at various times as AIG Traffic, Deputy Director National Police Academy, Border Security Force (BSF), Deputy Inspector-General (DIG) Haryana Police, held a diplomatic assignment in the USA, and as Director-General of the Vigilance, Haryana State Electricity Board.Starting with Faridkot as a state in the British-ruled India, he saw the Partition, creation of Pepsu, which merged into Punjab, and then the trifurcation of Punjab into Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana. He was allotted the Haryana cadre. Prof Karuna Goswamy recollects how he was close to her uncle, Ashwani Kumar, the celebrated police officer. “He was a man full of energy, and my uncle relied on him,” she says.As Amrit Kaur talks about him, her love and affection for her husband comes through with full force. She remembers the postings, and takes pride in recounting his professional achievements and accomplishments. We look at the picture of a UN General Assembly session on August 13, 1958, in which he stands out with his turban. The Indian delegation was led by Permanent Representative Arthur S Lall. “US President ‘Ike’ Eisenhower addressed the General Assembly. Later, it was remarked that ‘for a multinational gathering, the delegates (except for a bearded Sikh) all looked terribly alike in drab sack suits’,” she recounts fondly. The session was triggered by the US intervention in Beirut in July that year and the deteriorating security situation in Lebanon and Jordan. They lived in a tony address on 84 Street, off Central Park in Manhattan, New York.A year later, they were in Rohtak! “We had three-four good friends there, and a year later, we took leave and went to Kashmir.” The Princess navigated many such vicissitudes in her life. From palaces to government accommodations, the family made the best of circumstances. “She is a person of great refinement and has the ability to manage situations with élan,” asserts Prof Karuna Goswamy.Their children received the best education they could and did well. Their son, Jaskaran Singh was born in 1954 in Ambala. He enrolled in Mathematics Honours at St Stephen’s, Delhi. He was enrolled for the LLB course when he took an exam and joined the SBI with two of his college mates. Now retired and settled in Loughton, Essex, he has worked with Barclays and Lloyds banks.Daughter Simar Negi, who retired as Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax, Delhi, too, was born in Ambala in 1955. The youngest Gurveen Kaur was born in 1962. A lawyer, she was Additional Advocate General, Punjab. She lives with her mother and recollects that her first camera was gifted to her by her grandfather.“Amrit Kaur is known to be very well turned out. She is chic, not skin-deep, but extremely nice,” says Prof Karuna Goswamy. The recent lockdown provided the family with another opportunity to be together. The daughters were with their mother while Jaskaran, who had gone back to the UK from India just before the lockdown, is now with his family there. However, the estate of the Raja of Faridkot is still locked down. It is under litigation and Amrit Kaur politely declines to discuss the case since the matter is sub-judice.Matter of honour“I am not fighting for money, I am fighting for my honour, to show that my father could not disinherit me,” Senior Advocate Manjit Singh Khaira, recalls Amrit Kaur saying. “She fought for 28 years to prove her father’s love for her. The will was forged, and we proved it,” says Khaira, who led the case from the trial court to the high court.Amrit Kaur is the only survivor of her generation. Her brother, the heir apparent, died in 1981. Her sister, Maheepinder Kaur, died in 2002. Both were not married. Deepinder Kaur, who lived in Kolkata and was the chairman of the Maharawal Khewaji Trust, died in 2018. She is survived by a daughter and son. The latter now heads the trust.Amrit Kaur’s family has spent a long time in Chandigarh. They are very much a part of the social scene and maintain a discrete profile. In her college friend Ajit Sanghera’s words, “She is a humble, generous person who is ready to help anyone.”A lifetime of experiences and decades of litigation sit lightly on the shoulders of the gentle lady who has carved a place for herself in a world that has dramatically changed since the time she was born as the eldest child of Colonel H.H. Farzand-i-Saadat-i-Nishan-i-Hazrat-i-Kaiser-i-Hind Raja Sir Harinder Singh, Brar Bans Sahib Bahadur, Raja of Faridkot, KCSI.FIGHT FOR ROYAL INHERITANCEDATELINE1989: Raja of Faridkot, Harinder Singh Brar dies. His purported ‘will’ is made public, bequeathing his properties to the Maharawal Khewaji Trust which his younger daughter Deepinder Kaur heads.1992: His elder daughter Amrit Kaur, who’s been kept out of the ‘will’, moves court against the ‘will’.2013: Civil court holds the will as fraudulent. Maharawal Khewaji Trust and a nephew file appeals.2020: The Punjab and Haryana High Court upholds the civil court judgment, awards 37.5% share in the estimated Rs20,000-crore property to Amrit Kaur and Deepinder Kaur; 25% of the share goes to the descendents of Manjit Inder Singh, brother of Raja Harinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/love-legacy-from-the-memoirs-of-faridkot-princess-amrit-kaur-102069
21-06-2020||BN Goswamy||The timeless tale of Nala and Damayanti||Karkotasya naagasya Damayantyaa Nalasya chaRituparnasya rajarashe kirtanam Kali-naashanam[Reciting the story of Karkotaka, the serpent, of Damayanti and Nala, and of the royal sage, King Rituparna, destroys the evil effects of the Kali age.]— From the Nalopakhyana in the MahabharataNala and Damayanti, their passionate union and their unfortunate separation; in the course of that their trials and their tribulations; and, finally, the end of their troubles and their reunion — finds its place in the great epic, the Mahabharata. And the point of it being told there by a visiting sage, even though it has nothing directly to do with the ongoing conflict between the Pandavas and the Kauravas, is didactic.Things are bad now, the sage tells Yudhishthira, the seniormost of the Pandavas, but they will turn. Another noble king had, in the past, suffered at the hands of ‘outrageous fortune’, losing his entire kingdom at the throw of dice, but all this will change.Damayanti, the sage tells the Pandavas, was the daughter of King Bhima of Vidarbha who announced her svayamvara at which she could choose a husband for herself.The fame of her beauty and her nature having spread far and wide, kings and princes of all hues, even the gods — including Indra, Agni, Varuna and Yama — and guardians of the quarters, flocked together to that ceremony. But Damayanti had already fallen in love with young Nala, king of Nishadha, through the mediation of a golden swan — hamsa is the term used — who acted as a messenger between them.At the svayamvara, Damayanti chose Nala, even though the four gods had tried to play upon her an elaborate ruse trying to trick her into choosing one of them. Their heart’s desire granted, Nala and Damayanti got married and spent long years in great felicity. But then fate struck.The spirit of the evil age, Kali, who had also been a contender for Damayanti’s hand, had decided to avenge himself upon the young couple. He planned and he plotted and succeeded in separating the two, each of them going through untold suffering. Finally, however, all this ended. Nala, having lost his kingdom at one point to his own brother in a game of dice earlier, recovered everything: his kingdom, his lost wife, and his peace: all through having learnt from a kindly king who had employed him as his charioteer, all the intricacies of that game of dice. Having narrated this uplifting account, the sage departed, adding that the mere recitation of this tale destroys all sins.Frontispiece to the ‘Nala-Damajanti’ book by Ruckert. 1845.Whether for the destruction of sins, or for savouring its sheer charm, the tale of Nala and Damayanti entered countless texts of early India. Even in that other great epic, the Ramayana, it finds mention. In the Samhitas, and Brahmanas, of old; in the Puranas ranging from the Padma and the Linga, to the Vayu and the Matsya, one finds it in one version or the other. Those great repositories of tales, like the Brihat-katha, and the Kathasaritasagara, feature it. This apart, independent texts devoted wholly to the tale — like the Nalachampu of Trivikram Bhatta, the Naishadhananda of Kshemeshvara, the Davadantikatha of Jinasagara Suri, the Nalaramayana of Rajashekhara — came to be written. The charm of the story seems to have been irresistible. Even the famous German poet, Friederick Ruckert, succumbed to it, for he translated the entire text from Sanskrit into German verse and published it in the 1840s, including in it an illustration of a European-looking Damayanti listening to the Swan delivering her lover’s message. All this apart, several series of paintings, or illustrated manuscripts, centering upon it, were commissioned by Indian connoisseurs, in styles ranging from the pre-Rajasthani and the popular Mughal to the Deccani. But perhaps the most outstanding of paintings of the Nala-Damayanti theme came out of the Pahari area. In the hands of a painter of the celebrated artist-family headed by Pandit Seu, based in Guler, the tale sprang to life like nowhere else. There are paintings in that series — now for the most part in the Karan Singh collection in Jammu — as also incredibly refined drawings scattered over different collections. In these the painter sets out to search for the ultimate in the expression of delicacy of feeling. Every situation, each detail, is told as if in a soft whisper. How Damayanti hears from wandering minstrels of the beauty and the nature of Nala and falls in love with him; how a golden swan captured by Nala in his garden is released because it promises to fly to Damayanti in her distant home and speak to her of Nala’s nobility and his love for her; how the love of the two grows by the day, in fact by the moment even though they have not met yet; and how Nala wins her hand in the svayamvara, are all there in this extraordinary series. Here, Damayanti swoons at the mere thought of her lover, the gods fall hopelessly in love with her, Nala turns invisible as he enters his beloved’s apartment, and all this time that golden swan keeps an eye out for the pair. There is a wispy softness of line in these paintings; the brush appears barely to touch the surface of paper, and forms look as if they have just been ‘breathed’ upon paper.It is not easy to pick just one work from the series to speak about. But — purely for the sheer refinement of it all — one could look at the folio where the swan lands in Damayanti’s garden for the first time. Discreetly, she leaves her bevy of friends and goes quietly into a small grove to be able to speak with the swan, or hear it, all by herself. Damayanti listens with great care, hanging on every word, but even as she listens, out of sheer shyness, she pulls a veil towards her face, for it is her great love’s words that are being conveyed to her. This simple, but moving, gesture seems to say it all. When the painter Raja Ravi Varma turned to this tale, what moment from it did he pick? Damayanti’s conversation with the swan, the theme being selected later for a postage stamp. The props, the dresses, the postures, all came out of his theatrical cupboard, so to speak, but the moment is well chosen. And when the contemporary photographer, Venket Ram, turns to re-creating with his lens ‘scenes’ from Ravi Varma’s old paintings, what does he do? One of the images he picks is ‘Damayanti and the Swan’, dresses up Ramya Krishnan, that talented film actress from the south, as Damayanti, and clicks.Evidently, a tale for all times and all seasons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-timeless-tale-of-nala-and-damayanti-102070
21-06-2020||Krishnaraj Iyengar||Indian musical instrument, bansuri, on a global note||A young man would sit around Kolkata docks trying out different waste materials like PVC pipes and bamboo to create the perfect sound. Destined to be the patriarch of the Indian bansuri, he rose to become none other than the legendary Pandit Pannalal Ghosh (1911-1960) whose name remains synonymous with one of the world’s most sublime musical instruments.Originally a folkloric instrument associated with Lord Krishna, the bansuri’s captivating tone was confined to village gatherings and folk merry making. It was the undying conviction of Panna babu that elevated the simple piece of bamboo to one of the world’s most sought after instruments in the 21st century.Internationally renowned tabla and sitar maestro Pandit Nayan Ghosh, nephew of Pandit Pannalal Ghosh says, “In cities across India, one can often bump into bansuri players and students on a street. Individuals from around the world fly down to India to learn the instrument. Previously it was the sitar that was the world’s most popular Indian instrument, thanks to the Pandit Ravi Shankar wave. Today, it’s the bansuri”.Panna babu, he explains, pioneered the bansuri as a classical instrument. “He invented the larger, full-sized bansuri and made it a full-fledged concert instrument on par with sitar or sarod. He did face flak from the conservatives of his era, but his conviction was unshaken. This unparalleled contribution, which he fulfilled in a short span of just 20 years, would otherwise take generations,” Pandit Ghosh says.Celebrated flutist Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia’s Mumbai institute Vrindavan Gurukul draws in students from diverse nationalities, both men and women. His eminent disciples have propagated his style in countries across the globe with concert halls brimming with music lovers and the uninitiated alike. “Credit goes to Panna babu to bring the flute to center stage. It was merely an accompanying folk instrument. Today, it is Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia who is credited with the instrument’s worldwide popularity,” says the maestro’s leading disciple, famed flutist Pandit Roopak Kulkarni.He believes that his guru simplified flute playing techniques, even the Dhrupad-ang aalap, contributing to its popularity. “We find flutes in every culture. There are Indian bansuri students from every corner of the globe — Japan, Brazil, Europe, even Pakistan! Bansuri must now be taught on university level,” he opines.The saadhna of bansuri learning has produced outstanding representatives even beyond India’s boundaries. Acknowledged as one of the leading maestros of Western Classical flute, Chicago-based Lyon Leifer also stands as a top-ranking bansuri exponent of Panna babu’s style which he learnt from the legend’s disciple Pandit Devendra Murdeshwar. A few months ago, he organised a one-of-its kind flute seminar in Mumbai’s world-renowned conservatoire Sangit Mahabharati, where India’s foremost bansuri masters participated.Leifer believes that the Bansuri’s versatility has had a far-reaching effect with even international genres employing it. “My student Mathew Davis is a well-trained jazz musician who implements his bansuri training in an avant garde jazz trio that tours the world. He finds the Europeans very receptive to his bansuri. He also tours with a classic New Orleans Brass band and audiences love to listen to his raga music. It helps them chill!” says Leifer.Indeed, the bansuri calms the spirit and awes the listener. A favourite subject of poets and literary figures throughout history, the instrument carries a deep spiritual and historic significance. The universality of its sound has people from varied cultures relate to its music. “Bansuri is the adivadya or primordial instrument associated with Lord Krishna. Panna babu’s technical and aesthetic contributions made it hard for people to believe that the flute could sound so rich and ethereal. Hariprasad ji popularised it internationally,” explains veteran flutist Pandit Nityanand Haldipur.The bansuri, he says, is a simple looking, light and portable instrument without any external attachments like strings. This is one of the reasons for its high global popularity. “The bansuri is an instrument that you can play just anywhere. You don’t even need to tune it if it is constructed in tune. No wonder there are so many takers for it the world over,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/indian-musical-instrument-bansuri-on-a-global-note-102071
21-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||The love story of Buwa and Hasan lives on||THE Mughal-era love story of Buwa and Hasan may not be as well-known as that of Laila-Majnu, Romeo-Juliet and Shirin-Farhad, but it has lived on in folklore for more than 350 years. As per folklore, Buwa was the daughter of Mustafa Kalal, a cavalry official based at Kot Kalal (the Jhajjar area in Haryana), during the reign of Mughal emperor Jahangir. A bold and beautiful girl, Buwa once went to a jungle on her horse, where she was attacked by a tiger. Hasan, a brave and courageous youth, happened to be nearby. He saved her life, and the two fell in love. Buwa's family was grateful to Hasan, but when he sought her hand in marriage, her father was reluctant, though he did not turn down the proposal straight away. Instead, he got Hasan inducted in the army and sent him to a battle. As fate would have it, Hasan was killed in the battle.The love story finds mention in the Rohtak District Gazetteer of 1910, under the topic ‘Antiquities of Jhajjar’. “His (Hasan) body was so heavy that it could not be lifted for burial on the battlefield, but when the bearers turned towards Jhajjar, it was found to be quite light,” the Gazetteer mentions.Deeply saddened, Buwa got a tomb built for Hasan Shahid. She did not marry anyone, and passed away after some time. “Buwa built the tomb and mausoleum, and died shortly afterwards; she was buried nearby,” states the gazetteer. A pond located close to Hasan's tomb is popularly known as ‘Buwa wala Talab’; the site brings back the memories of their eternal love story.Tombs and inscriptionsHasan's tomb is one of the many tombs in the necropolis situated to the east of Jhajjar town. These tombs fall within the time period of 1579-1636. Researchers say there are nearly a dozen tombs, with many of them withering away. As of now, the site is under the Archaeological Survey of India.“The courtyard of Hasan's tomb has four uninscribed gravestones, two of which are uprooted. Two gravestones have qalamdan carved on them, indicating the deceased were male,” maintains Dr Subhash Parihar, a former Associate Professor of History at Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, who has done research on Islamic architecture and necropolis of the medieval era.A slab in the central arch of the façade of the mosque (not extant now) had an inscription in Persian, which translates as follows: “In the time of Jahangir, the king of the world, this light tomb of Hasan Shahid has been made.” The inscription indicates that the tomb was made in 1625.Architectural qualitiesBichhua stone or kankar has been used with red sandstone for the construction of the tombs. Inscriptions carved on marble slabs were fixed in the walls. Some tombs have cupolas built to cover the graves.“The combination of light grey bichhua kankar and red sandstone imparts an endearing look and enduring quality to the edifices. The façades of some tombs are beautifully embellished with floral paintings,” observes Ranbir S Phaugat, a cultural historian.Dr Parihar points out that each of the surviving tombs has a rectangular platform, approached by a flight of steps. The corners of the platforms are often marked with a turret. The western side of most of these tombs is occupied by a bare mihrab wall (qanati masjid) as seen in Idgahs. Two tombs have mosques on the western side.“Another distinctive feature of these tombs is the presence of prominent moulded bosses in the spandrels of arches,” adds the historian.Poor maintenanceUnfortunately, the tombs as well as the Buwa wala Talab are poorly maintained. While the cluster of tombs, including that of Hasan Shahid, are under the protection of the Archaeological Survey of India, the pond has now become part of a nearby park. “The originality of the Buwa wala Talab has been compromised due to its renovation. Ideally, it should have been included in the ASI-protected heritage site comprising the group of tombs so as to conserve it in its original form,” says Rajkishan Nain, a well-known art historian of Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-love-story-of-buwa-and-hasan-lives-on-102072
21-06-2020||Harbans Singh||Dogra rulers and their run-ins with China||Archaeologists know Akhnoor, in Jammu, as the last Indus valley settlement in the North. This was the point from where timber from higher reaches was floated down the Chenab for downstream settlements. In the history of the former state of Jammu and Kashmir, this was the place where, in the shadow of the Akhnoor Fort, on the banks of the mighty Chenab, Maharaja Ranjit Singh applied Raj Tilak to the Dogra general Gulab Singh and anointed him the Raja of Jammu.On this June 17, the Dogras celebrated the 199th Raj Tilak ceremony, from whence began a journey that added a new chapter to the history of the subcontinent. The first half of the 19th century had witnessed the fall of the Gurkhas, the Marathas and the Jats while battling the British for supremacy. In the meantime, the Sikhs attained such heights of power and splendour that Lahore attracted people from far and wide. However, their downfall was as swift as their rise — by 1946 they too were a spent force.From among the remaining Indian princes rose the man who was to shape the destiny of the region. Ambitious but cautious, Gulab Singh took approval of the Lahore Durbar for his ambitious campaigns in the snowbound mountains with Ladakh (Tibet-i-Kalan, i.e. the greater Tibet) as his first target. He had realised that the occupation of the Himalayan kingdom would not only give him the monopoly over Leh’s flourishing entrepôt frequented by merchants from Tibet, Sinkiang (present day Xinjiang) and Kashmir but also the control over an important route between Tibet and Kashmir, which was used for the lucrative pashmina trade. This project began in 1834 under the command of his most trusted and intrepid Dogra General Zorawar Singh. It claimed thousands of lives, including that of the general during the Lhasa campaign in 1842. In 1841, the present day battalion of the 4th Jammu and Kashmir Rifles, then commanded by General Zorawar Singh, captured Mantalai Standard, the flag of the Chinese Imperial Army in a battle in Tibet. It is still in possession of the JAK Rifles. Eventually, with the general killed and the army annihilated, the biting winter and snow halted the march of the Jammu force towards Tibet.Farsighted and flexibleIt was in these adverse circumstances that the farsightedness and flexibility of Raja Gulab Singh came to the fore. Unlike earlier examples, he did not seek reprisals even as he re-established control over Leh, and accepted the limits of his ambition. The Tibetans and the Imperial Court of China, on the other hand, too, realised the futility of waging a war in this extreme end of their empire at a time when it was facing a greater threat in the form of the first Opium War. As a result, both the parties entered into a treaty, signed at Chushul in 1842. It was agreed that the traditional boundary between Tibet and Ladakh would be respected and trade would follow the traditional route between Lhasa and Leh, opening up new trade interests for the Jammu kingdom. For the next 120 years, that's where the boundaries of Ladakh remained, notwithstanding the fact that the border regions of such lands were inhabited by peregrinating populations for whom cultural identities were stronger than political ones.Beyond LadakhWhile conquering Ladakh, Raja Gulab Singh looked westward towards Baltistan, known as Tibet-i-Khurd, i.e. the little Tibet, and brought it under his control in 1840, laying the foundation of future expansion by his successor to take control of the trade routes to Kashgar (Xinjiang) and central Asia. It must be said that Kashmir did not figure in his plans since it was part of the Sikh empire. However, a combination of circumstances, which generated a lot of heat and dust, made him acquire it after paying the indemnity that the Lahore Durbar was unable to pay. In 1846, the journey of a soldier in the Sikh army reached its pinnacle with the Treaty of Amritsar between him and the East India Company, bestowing upon him the title of Maharaja.Soon, these conquests and acquisitions formed the geostrategic pivot that was vital for the interests of Tsarist Russia, decaying but still formidable Imperial China and Great Britain. It continues to be so except that the old rivals are known by new names. Had the Partition of the subcontinent not taken place, India would have been a major player in the politics of the region spanning two continents. But with the Partition began the first phase of the dismantling of the legacy of Maharaja Gulab Singh, when Pakistan occupied the strategic region of Gilgit after the British engineered a revolt of Ladakh Scouts, and Baltistan. What followed is wrapped in enigma and historians are yet to explain the reason why Indian Army marching through Kargil after crossing Zoji La in November 1948 moved towards Leh rather than take the road to Skardu where the State forces had held out against the Pakistani siege till 14th August 1948. Thus, we cry over spilt milk when we protest over the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) since we had displayed no intent to recover the area from Pakistan.The final phase of dismantling Maharaja Gulab Singh's legacy was nearly completed last year when, on August 5, 2019, Ladakh acquired a separate entity as a union territory, and Jammu was left in the prickly and uncomfortable embrace of Kashmir as another union territory. With the proud achievements of the Dogra dynasty receding to the pages of history, this 199th Raj Tilak celebration is a reminder of the ruthless march of time which reduces Alexanders and Chandraguptas to mere dates and landmarks.—The writer is the author of ‘Maharaja Hari Singh: The Troubled Years’ and ‘Karan Singh: Jammu and Kashmir 1949-1967’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/dogra-rulers-and-their-run-ins-with-china-102073
21-06-2020||Nonika Singh||Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide reveals the perils of stardom||Suicide, we all know, is a preventable tragedy. Only when a bright young star such as Sushant Singh Rajput chooses to end his life for reasons hard to fathom, all eyes turn towards the industry he was a part of. Even before his ashes could be immersed, Bollywood’s postmortem began. The industry and its bigwigs such as Karan Johar are not just under censure, but also facing a legal complaint.Barbs are flying left, right and centre. Voluble critics of nepotism, like Kangana Ranaut, who is now joined by hordes of others, have made it seem like an insider-outsider duel. Gifted director Anubhav Sinha called out the privilege club. Raveena Tandon admitted groupism exists and Ayesha Takia wrote about bullying.As battlelines get sharpened each day, the question that looms large is whether Bollywood dynamics are a sure-shot recipe for mental ill health? If one goes by the record of just the Covid-19 times, two young television actors called it quits before Sushant’s fatal act shocked us all. As fans and Bollywood grapple with the tragedy, all clearly does not appear to be well in the glamour world. Yet another question that raises its ugly head is: is the dice so heavily loaded against outsiders that it could set one on the path of self-destruction?Actor Aahana Kumra, last seen in Netflix’s Betaal, is candid enough to share what it means to be an outsider in filmdom where talent is neither directly proportional to success nor to opportunities. Though she did not know Sushant personally, she admits to having been in a similar space and has experienced lows which could have pushed her into a similar direction. “It sure is an industry where ‘fit nahi’ is a term that is bandied upon ‘outsiders’ so often that it could break anyone’s resolve. It’s a constant war within where you face rejections day in and out,” she says.Rahul Mittra, producer of the hit franchise Saheb, Biwi Aur Gangster is a classic case of a rank outsider. He makes no bones about the fact that the industry is riddled with nepotism. He says, “Nepotism cuts the queue and provides you not just access but opportunity on a platter.” Having said that he also feels that to reduce the entire debate to outsider-insider binary is missing the real issue. And the crux of the matter, he states, is: “This is a cut-throat and cruel industry where survival for everyone, even star kids, is difficult. You are up for public scrutiny week after week, being assessed not for your talent but box-office figures. How much was spent on the film, how much it gained or lost, is the hero dating the heroine, was there a casting couch, everything is grist for the gossip mill. To make matters worse, in case you fail, there are huge numbers out there gloating over your misery.”Actor of many a significant film, Divya Dutta agrees that if you are a star, the pressures are greater. “You have to behave and act in a certain way and be seen at the right place,” she says. Ah, the perils and trappings of stardom... Aahana feels it’s not just stardom that one needs to take with a pinch of salt. “Rather, don’t take the people around you seriously.” Exactly the same sentiments which Hansal Mehta posted: “Here are many young ‘outsiders’ in this industry. Remember, there is an establishment that will make you feel like the next big thing until they need you. They will drop you and mock you as soon as you falter. Do not fall for the trap. The ones that celebrate you will, some time later, celebrate your downfall.”Mittra says one can co-exist with nepotism as long as there are no deliberate attempts to sabotage fresh talent. “At some point, all of us face resistance. Even when I was producing Saheb, Biwi Aur Gangster, I was told to not take a certain director or actor. Similarly, when Viacom 18 pumped in the money for my sequel, they must have been asked, ‘Why back him?’,” he adds.Negotiating your way out of this unpredictable maze, where uncertainty hangs like Damocles’ sword, requires tad more than sheer talent. The trick, industry insiders believe, lies in finding a balance between the professional and personal. “Sadly, newcomers are told — learn horse-riding, go to an acting school, join a gym, but no one tells you about keeping the mind fit,” points Mittra. He and others like Aahana make a strong case for therapists, especially trained for the job, to understand what it means to be a part of this creative and mercurial profession.Divya may not have so much faith in professional help but she does reinforce the need for keeping communication channels open at all times. “Not just outsiders, everyone out here is insecure, for despite millions following you, the journey in Bollywood is lonely and very personal.”Among the many ironies of Bollywood is also the fact that the industry that challenged mental health taboos, both onscreen and off, falls victim to its ultimate downside, time and again. The outrage over Sushant’s suicide may be stemming from a justified place of injustice and may even give vent to bottled-up anger. However, it remains to be seen whether it will steer the conversations around mental health in a high-pressure, high-stakes industry towards fruition. Judging by the fracas and furore on social media, the very serious issue of depression too runs the risk of being hijacked by the motley tribe proactive on social media that judges as easily as it forgets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/sushant-singh-rajputs-suicide-reveals-the-perils-of-stardom-102074
