21-09-2020||Parveen Arora||Villages under vigil||WITH the onset of paddy harvesting amid the Covid-19 crisis, the Haryana government has chalked out a plan to check stubble burning, a major contributor to air pollution that chokes the national capital region in the winter. Apart from planning to establish more custom hiring centres (CHCs) to provide high-end equipment for crop residue management to farmers, the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department has categorised the fields as red, orange and green zones, based on the active fire locations detected by the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) in the last paddy season.Data shows 3,911 active fire locations were detected in the state from April 15 to May 31 this year, compared to 7,383 cases last year in the same period. A total of 6,630 such locations were identified during the last paddy season against 10,286 in 2018.Villages with six or more active fire locations have been kept in the red category, those with 2-5 locations in the orange zone and those with fewer locations in the green zone. As many as 332 villages of the state are in the red zone and 673 in the orange zone.SMS a must in combine harvestersIn order to ensure better management of stubble in the fields while harvesting, almost all district administrations in Haryana have made the installation of the straw management system (SMS) in combine harvesters mandatory. Combine harvesters operating without SMS will be impounded and the operators fined. “The SDM will issue a certificate after ensuring that the SMS is attached,” says Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, Karnal.To bring down the incidents of stubble burning this season, a strict vigil will be kept, especially on the villages in the red and orange zones. Agriculture officials, with the help of officials of several other departments, including Panchayati Raj, police, revenue and the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), will not only keep a vigil but also make the farmers aware of the proper management of stubble. Nodal officers have also been appointed to check the menace of stubble burning.“Local-level committees are being constituted to keep an eye on the erring farmers,” says Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department.Kaushal is hopeful that the plan will help in reducing the number of stubble burning cases to a great extent.The department has fixed a target of establishing around 2,000 more CHCs this season. “We have set up 2,879 CHCs in the state since 2018,” says Jagmander Nain, Joint Director (Agricultural Engineering). These CHCs will also help the farming community in better management of paddy straw.However, a farmers’ body says these steps are not sufficient for small and marginal farmers. “Farmers won’t burn stubble if they get machines for the better management of stubble without any rent. The Union government had once announced to set up straw procurement centres to motivate farmers, but nobody knows what happened to the project. The government should open such purchase centres so that instead of burning the stubble, farmers can manage it and further sell it in the market,” says Rattan Mann, president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU-Mann). He says the number of CHCs and machines is inadequate.Experts say stubble burning contributes significantly to air pollution, with the period between October 15 and November 15 being critical. Dr Rakesh Bhardwaj, Principal, Banwari Lal Jindal Suiwala College, Tosham, and an environmentalist, says the farmers need to be made aware of the respiratory problems caused by stubble burning and the various industrial uses of rice/wheat stubble. He fears that the worsening of air quality might aggravate the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/villages-under-vigil-144398
21-09-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Turning the tide a tough task: 200  lakh tonnes of paddy stubble produced in Punjab annually||HARVESTING has commenced for the paddy crop and so has the burning of its stubble. The government machinery is counselling farmers and informing them about the availability of straw management machinery to curb farm fires. However, farmers and farm unions are saying that they do not have any financially viable option to dispose of the stubble, so the farm fires will continue this year. A senior officer, requesting anonymity, admits: “Nothing can stop stubble burning until all parties, including the department of agriculture, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) and the farmers work out an acceptable-to-all solution. Any solution, ultimately, will need the nod of the Centre. And this does not look like happening.”  A farmer from Lehra Bega village in Bathinda district, Gurtej Singh, says, “Fires have already started and you will see them all over Punjab in the coming days. We are made to spend extra on clearing stubble from our fields after the harvest, without any financial support, which makes farming unviable. We need machines and labour.”Official figures say the government provided about 51,000 machines on subsidy under the Crop Residue Management Scheme for the management of paddy residue during 2018-19 and 2019-20. Dr Manjit Singh, head of department of farm machinery at Punjab Agricultural University (Ludhiana), says the state government has received about 77,000 applications this year for just 23,500 machines, showing greater interest among farmers for the stubble disposal machines.Experts say the state has about 200 lakh tonnes of paddy stubble to manage each year. Going by the sheer volume of the work, farmers need to be incentivised by the government. Member secretary, PPCB, Karunesh Garg, says, “It is too early to give any figures for the farm fires this year. Data formulation will start around September 23.”Data from NASA shows that in November 2016, the number of crop residue fires was 51,150 in Punjab, but it came down to 28,078 next year during the same period. It rose to 39,231 in 2018 and fell to 26,260 in 2019.  There were reports of rampant burning of wheat stubble in April-May this year. Delhi has been complaining for long about the bad quality of its air during particular months. Punjab is blamed as the biggest offender. Punjab’s fires are bigger in number compared to adjoining states primarily because the area under paddy cultivation is more. In 2018-19, the area was 31 lakh hectares, while in Haryana it was 14.45 lakh hectares. This year, Punjab has about 27 lakh hectares under paddy.Bharti Kisan Union (Ugrahan) leader Ram Singh Bhainibaga says, “Unless there are financially viable alternatives for the already distressed farmers, paddy stubble will be burnt. We have time and again demanded a bonus of Rs 200 per quintal for the crop residue, which works to be about Rs 6,500 per acre. Otherwise, at the current rate of payment, a farmer saves little.” Farmers who are found  burning paddy are liable to be booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. An offender can be sentenced to a term of one month along with a fine. A senior officer says in 2019, 3,141 challans were issued for recovering around Rs 40 lakh on account of burning paddy. As many as 322 farmers were booked under FIRs. And a red pen entry was made against the names of 510 farmers, which means that they will not be able to avail special government benefits in future. The state has earmarked special sites in the districts for the collection of crop residue on common land/cattle pounds and gaushalas where farmers can store paddy straw. This stored basmati residue can be transported to places where it can be used as cattle fodder. The state already has 11 biomass power projects generating 97.50 MW. These are consuming about 8.8 lakh metric tonnes of paddy residue per annum. At least two more projects are planned. Eight bio-CNG and one bio-ethanol projects, using paddy straw, are likely to be commissioned between March 2021 and December 2022.Send your feedback to infocus@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/turning-the-tide-a-tough-task-200-lakh-tonnes-of-paddy-stubble-produced-in-punjab-annually-144397
