22-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Farmers clutching at straws||Punjab’s farmers are grappling with labour-related issues during the ongoing paddy-sowing season. Their losses are likely to go up this year as a sharp rise in the input cost is imminent.“This time, paddy-sowing is quite challenging in view of the pandemic and the lockdown. We have to welcome returning migrants with garlands and sweets. The Central and state governments, besides farmers, should learn a lesson to counter such problems in future effectively,” says Rajpal Singh, a farmer from Mangwal village in Sangrur district.Though many other farmers have brought migrants back on special buses from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, Rajpal hired local labour at higher rates. Taking advantage of the exodus of migrants from Punjab to their native states, the local labourers have increased their rates for paddy-sowing.“Till last year, the per-acre rates of local labour were between Rs 2,500 and Rs 3,000, but this year these have increased to Rs 4,500-6,500 per acre,” said Darshan Singh, a farmer from Majhi village.Panchayats of many villages across the state have passed resolutions to fix wages of labourers, causing resentment among Dalit organisations.“It’s wrong on the part of the panchayats to pass such illegal resolutions as labourers have the right to demand higher wages. It has become an ‘upper caste vs Dalit’ situation in many villages. The Punjab Government should take action against the panchayats which have passed such resolutions,” says Mukesh Malaud, zonal president of the Zameen Prapati Sangharsh Committee.Some farmers hired rickshaw-pullers, rehriwalas and labourers who work in the non-farming sector as they charged less than the local labour.But the shortage of labour has worked to the advantage of the Punjab Agriculture Department as a significant number of farmers have shown interest in the direct seeding of rice (DSR) this year. A cross-section of the farmers admits that earlier they did not prefer DSR as labour was available easily and they had opted for the conventional technique of manual sowing of paddy.“Officers of the Agriculture Department have been trying to promote DSR for the past many years. Despite knowing that it is cost-effective and helps in saving water, I did not use it. But this year, I have tried it as I did not want to get blackmailed by local labour,” says Karnail Singh, a farmer from Sunam.“I tried to opt for DSR, but did not get a machine. The state government should address the shortage of machines,” says Deep Singh of Kanoi village.The shortage of labour and DSR machines has delayed the sowing of paddy in many villages. At some places, farmers have take loan at higher rates to pay to the local labour. But there are many farmers who could not arrange money from banks or private lenders and they had to borrow it from their relatives.“Covid-19 has made things worse for us. Though earlier also we faced financial problems, this year the situation is alarming. To arrange money for paddy transplantation, I had to borrow money from two of my relatives, who are doing government jobs. But they will also charge interest,” says Gurmeet Singh, a farmer from Bhawanigarh.The hike in the value-added tax (VAT) on retail fuel has raised petrol and diesel prices. It has further angered farmers of Punjab and they have demanded immediate rollback.“Punjab’s farmers were already under a huge debt and Covid-19 has been back-breaking. But the government still wants to earn more by increasing VAT. The latest hike shows that the government has no sympathy for farmers,” alleges Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary, BKU (Ugrahan).“The labour shortage created problems for farmers, but we provided them DSR machines on subsidy. We are redressing farmers’ complaints,” says Sutantar Kumar Airi, Director, Agriculture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/farmers-clutching-at-straws-102582
22-06-2020||Parveen Arora||Crunch situation||Crop DiversificationOf these farmers, 8,595 having 8,736 hectares are from the blocks of Babain, Guhla, Ismailabad, Pipli, Ratia, Shahabad, Sirsa and Siwan, where the water table has gone below 40 metres.“Under the Mera Pani, Meri Virasat scheme, paddy farmers have given their consent to diversify to other crops,” says Dr Suresh Gahlawat,Additional Director, Agriculture.The paddy-sowing season, which officially began on June 15, is witnessing an unprecedented crisis owing to labour shortage in Haryana, triggered by the exodus of migrant labourers who went back to their native states during the Covid-induced lockdown. Farmers have to rely on local labourers, who are demanding higher wages than the migrants.Joginder Singh, a farmer from Baldi village in Karnal district, prepared his 30-acre land for paddy. When he lost all hope of the arrival of migrant labourers, he had to hire local labour at higher wages. He had spent Rs 2,300 per acre last year, but he has to pay Rs 3,700/acre this time. “No doubt, the migrant labourers have expertise in paddy transplantation, but I had no option but to hire the local labourers as my fields were ready and uncertainty prevailed over the arrival of migrants,” says Joginder, adding that he will get paddy transplanted on another 25 acres after the arrival of monsoon.Rakesh Bans, a farmer from Shahabad in Kurukshetra district, has the same story to tell. He says the lockdown has adversely affected the farming community. “Earlier, during the wheat harvesting season, we faced shortage of labour. The situation is the same during the paddy transplantation season. We are dependent on migrant labourers, but very few of them have reached here this season, forcing us to rely on local labourers who are demanding higher wages,” he adds.Rajiv Sharma, a farmer from Naraingarh in Ambala district, says the local labourers have hiked their wages to Rs 5,000 from Rs 2,700 last season. He says the local labour is less efficient in comparison to migrant labourers, but they have no choice but to employ them.A few farmers sent buses to bring labourers from Bihar. Some of the farmers have deposited money into the accounts of the migrant labourers to ensure their speedy arrival. “We sent a bus for Rs 60,000 to Sitamarhi to bring around 30 labourers for the transplantation of our paddy. We have to bear these expenses as these labourers have been doing transplanting for the past 15 years in our fields,” said Dalip Singh, a farmer from Pabana Hasanpur in Karnal district.“I have deposited Rs 25,000 into the account of the labour contractor, who would bring the labour from Bihar. He has promised to reach here before monsoon. After the quarantine period, they will start transplanting paddy in my fields,” said Suresh Kumar, a farmer of Taraori, a rice bowl of the country.The exodus of migrant labourers and their reluctance to return has forced the farmers to adopt the direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique. As per officials of the Agriculture Department, the area under DSR has increased threefold in a year. “Paddy is cultivated on around 14 lakh hectares in the state, of which around 15,000 hectares have been covered under the DSR this time owing to the shortage of labour. During the previous paddy season, it was around 5,000 hectares. The area under basmati may decrease by 10 per cent due to the labour crunch,” says Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director, Agriculture, Karnal. Some farmers have bought DSR machines to overcome the labour shortage, he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/crunch-situation-102607
