22-11-2020||Renu Sud Sinha||Stray at Home: The pariah dogs are finding acceptance||It is nearly 10 pm on a chilly night in Chandigarh. Suddenly, there’s a flurry of activity in the corridors of a sector market. Some 20-odd stray dogs surround a frail woman. Sonia Sachdeva has brought food for them. The 50-year-old former teacher has been doing so for the past 15 years.Delhi-based Ashika Sharma doesn’t believe in the cliché that a dog is man’s best friend because in times of acute circumstances, she has found it to be the only friend. To repay this debt, in June during the lockdown, she paid Rs10,000 to hire a cab to Jalandhar to pick up an old abandoned Labrador rescued by an NGO.German national Kelly Simone Johnson, who shifted to Bengaluru in 2009, has been rescuing Indie dogs, as these strays are called, and placing them up for adoption in the metro as well as in Germany.Delhi-based writer, critic, journalist Jai Arjun Singh has only had strays as pets since 2008, when adopting an Indie wasn’t even in vogue. He also participates in sterilisation and vaccination drives in Saket, besides contributing time, efforts and money for the cause.Ludhiana-based artist Sahil Jain has lent a 400-square-yard semi-built property to a local NGO, India for Animals, for use as a shelter for stray animals.Because of their love and compassion for the Indie dog, also called the Indian pariah dog, many of these animal lovers have themselves become pariahs in their own community or neighbourhood. They remain undeterred, though, despite facing the ire of disgruntled neighbours or the wrath of RWAs, even family members.Sonia has shifted three houses after neighbours complained to her landlord(s), calling her a ‘crazy dog lady’. Jai has often been at loggerheads with society residents as many of them have surreptitiously tried to harm the strays. Ashika had to convince her reluctant family to adopt the blind dog.Why the fear of straysKelly feels it’s the lack of awareness that makes people afraid of stray dogs. She also blames the media for demonising these animals while covering dog-bite cases. Surprisingly, among the dog-bite cases in India, many studies peg the bites by pet dogs between 50 and 70 per cent.Endorsing Kelly’s views, Jai says these uninformed adults pass on their fears to their kids. ‘Don’t go near them. Don’t touch or play with them.’All these translate into creating fear of stray animals later in life, he feels. Bengaluru-based Debaleena Ghosh, who rescues Indies and helps in their rehabilitation and adoption, is more blunt. “It’s a result of superstitions, fear, age-old beliefs instilled in us from childhood, along with lack of any real knowledge of animals. It results in cruelty not only towards the animals, but also the humans who take care of them. Harassment, physical assault of feeders and pet owners are on the rise, made worse by the apathy from the administration and the toothless laws.”Feeding these strays is not the solution. Creating awareness, strict implementation of sterilisation and vaccination is, say most animal lovers.Undeterred, they move onWhat makes these enthusiasts go on is love, empathy and, above all, the courage to take on the haters, who outnumber this miniscule community. Each has been witness to attempts to kill, maim or injure not just the stray animals, but also those who work for the welfare of these animals.Ludhiana-based Dr Amanvir Mann, an animal rights activist , has been on the receiving end of such an intolerant attack. One of the many neighbours who did not agree with this compassionate cause owned a Rottweiler. He made his dog attack her when she opposed a move by the RWA to poison the stray dogs in her gated community. Severely injured, she filed an FIR against the owner. It took her more than five years to get a chargesheet filed, as the police would ‘advise’ her to drop this ‘minor’ matter.Sonia feeds 50 dogs daily in various sectors of Chandigarh. She single-handedly purchases and cooks 20-kg chicken-rice daily for her bachchas. A single woman, her only family member, her mother, passed away last year. She lost her job some months ago. Lack of funds is a perennial problem, but her zeal remains unbroken. A devotee of Sai Baba, this simple woman says she prays to the lord and help always arrives.Past experiences have made her cautious. She starts her feeding drive around 8.30 pm on an Activa to avoid traffic and probably people. It takes her nearly four hours to feed dogs in various sectors.Despite the attack, Dr Mann has got nearly 20 dogs sterilised with the help of local vets or under MC’s sterilisation drives, spending her own money many times, and taking care of them post-surgery.Jai, too, has been an active participant in catching dogs for sterilisation and vaccination purposes, “which any experienced catcher will tell you, is a thankless and laborious process”, he says. “Recently, we were trying to catch an Indie for sterilisation. It went on for four-five hours. Most people were just watching and refused any request for help.” There have been instances of people hiring private catchers to take strays away to other places, but his alertness and intervention have foiled these bids.Organised effortsIn a country having over 3.5 crore stray dogs (2018 figures), and growing at an annual rate of 17 per cent, individual efforts are not enough. A large number of NGOs are also working to promote the cause of adoption of Indie breeds. “Adopt not shop” may be a catchy slogan but adoption of these pariah breeds has not caught on much. “It is a lot of work to find families in India who are willing to adopt Indies,” says Kelly, who has found it easier to ship these strays back home to Germany, where they have found ready acceptance. “A pedigreed dog seems a reflection of a person’s status in society. Hence, people prefer to buy expensive, foreign breeds as pets.”Ludhiana’s Tanya Garg, who runs an NGO India for Animals, concurs. “Adoptions are a tricky business. Most of the time, it is the kids who pester unwilling parents to adopt an Indie as a pet.”Checking prospective adoptersKeerthan Vignesh, who works with Charlies Animal Rescue Centre or CARE, says the NGO has strict checks in place for those wanting to adopt a pet. “We screen new pet parents and match the dog most suitable for the family, based on the number of members, kids, elderly, space, how much time a family can devote, etc. The NGO also carries out field visits and follow-up checks to ensure if the animal is being treated well.”Based in Bengaluru, CARE was established in 2013. The NGO has been actively working for rescuing, treating and rehabilitating injured and stray animals. In 2018, it helped place 300 strays with loving families. The number doubled in 2019.Impact of the lockdownLockdown has affected the adoption process this year, says Keerthan. With lay-offs and salary cuts, funds have been scarce. “We were refused funds by companies even under the CSR projects, as they preferred to focus on humans rather than animals,” he adds.Jai agrees, “Earlier, the small-time shopkeepers, parking attendants, security guards, etc, would feed strays in their area. As the lockdown ensured a near-complete absence of humans, the strays had to bear the brunt, both psychologically as well as food-wise. When the lockdown ended, those feeding the strays earlier refused due to lack of resources.”Jalandhar-based Yuvi Singh, who runs an NGO, the Animal Protection Foundation, says the number of adoptions during the lockdown more or less remained the same. However, there was a rise in the number of abandonments. Perhaps, it was the fear of catching the virus from the animals or the diminishing resources.Established over a decade ago, the foundation, with 150 volunteers, saw a large number of abandonments in initial years. To put a check, they allow adoptions to only those referred to by members or volunteers.Driving the changeWhile our ancient culture and Vedas have highlighted the importance of feeding animals, particularly strays, surprisingly, it is the young who are bringing home the Indies. Says Keerthan, “It is the younger lot which persuades the elders to adopt strays.” Tanya agrees; her NGO has only two members but 30 volunteers all between 17 and 25.Encouraged by their parents, Bathinda-based Arnav (17) and Avni Ahuja (15) have always had either strays or abandoned animals as pets. “That’s the best way to teach empathy,” feels their mother Alpana.Bow wow to that!Why adopt an indie||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/stray-at-home-the-pariah-dogs-are-finding-acceptance-174050
22-11-2020||BN Goswamy||Photographer Anuj Ambalal brings alive sites on Mahatma Gandhi’s Dandi March route||Respected Mr Gandhi,I use the presence of your friend (Sundaram) in our home to send you these lines. You have shown through your works, that it is possible to succeed without violence even with those who have not discarded the method of violence. We may hope that your example will spread beyond the borders of your country, and will help to establish an international authority, respected by all, that will take decisions and replace war conflicts.With sincere admiration,Yours,Albert Einstein, 29 October 1932“Generations to come will scarce believe that such a one as this ever in flesh and blood walked upon this earth.”— Albert Einstein. 1948In the dark, brutal times in which we are living, anything that reminds us of higher things — ideals, lives led in the light of a moral code, even a sense of balance — comes as a breath of fresh air. At least I could feel a gust when I picked up a just released book on Gandhiji’s celebrated Salt March to Dandi. 23 Grams of Salt is how it is tantalisingly titled; it could even — considering what Gandhiji was, and stood for — have been called More than a Pair of Spectacles, the latter object being almost all that one sees of him these days. The book published by — who else? — the Navajivan Trust of Ahmedabad that Gandhiji had founded in 1929, owes itself to the imagination and dedication of young Anuj Ambalal, a gifted photographer who worked on this wonderful project for close to two years, literally retracing Gandhiji’s iconic march to Dandi, photographing sites in every single village and town that fell on the 390-km route from Ahmedabad to that seaside village. The book could be seen by most people as a dense photographic essay, but if one does that, one would be in error. For the narrative text that Anuj has put together, in collaboration with Rijuta Mehta, is arresting on its own: detailed, textured, and filled with sensitive observations as it is.Patiently, with none of the sense of haste that characterises our lives, Anuj travelled the entire route of the March, stopping at nearly every place that Gandhiji and his co-marchers — 80 they were in the beginning when they set off from the Sabarmati Ashram, but the numbers kept growing, swelling to tens of thousands by the time the March reached Dandi — talking to people, locating dwellings and rooms where Gandhiji had stayed, trees and fields redolent of his presence, and photographing. Much has changed from those times — the event occurred after all in 1930, 90 years back — for buildings have got demolished, streets re-done, fields encroached upon, but, interestingly, at nearly all places people were able to point to exact spots where Gandhiji had rested, or slept the night, or addressed throngs of people. In schools he would see images — murals or plaster busts, of whatever quality — of Gandhiji installed, his words emblazoned. Rarely was he able to meet someone who had actually seen Gandhiji, or taken part in the March, but there were a few: a caretaker who had opened a room for him, a lady whose mother-in-law had cooked a meal for the satyagrahis, a lowly worker who had milked a goat for Gandhiji. Memories grow dim and fade but, as if by magic, the mere mention of Gandhiji and the Dandi March, they flickered into life again. Interwoven with this narrative of visits are Anuj’s own private experiences: the mysterious but unexplained knocking on the door of his room at 2 in the morning at one place; the jumping over railings put up on the Ellis Bridge in Ahmedabad, a site which the satyagrahis avoided getting on to, because it had been built by the British; locating a centenarian who had seen Gandhiji and the satyagrahis but then losing him. As you read the narrative and see the images — ‘consistently beautiful: very aestheticised, very stilled, very silent’, as Timothy Hyman puts it, or ‘peeling walls of amnesia layer by layer’, in Gulam Sheikh’s words — you get the sensation of being there with Anuj, who himself must have had the sensation that he was present when it was all happening. However, there is no attempt at creating drama in these photographs, no technical pyrotechnics. All that is there is an air of simplicity, almost as if the sattvik quality of the event and of Gandhiji’s presence needed to be captured, and preserved, as it was.The volume, apart from Anuj’s own highly engaged narrative, is enriched by contributions — short but energising — by Thomas Weber who wrote that wonderful book, On the Salt March, and by Tridip Suhrud, distinguished scholar and former Director of the Sabarmati Ashram. Suhrud’s reading of a painting by Haku Shah — Meetha no Satyagraha (meethu in Gujarati stands for salt) is moving, showing a barely clad Gandhiji bending to pick up, as a symbol of defiance of British authority, a lump of salt: those 23 grams spoken of in the title. “Haku Shah’s MKG (Gandhiji) is the mendicant,” he writes, “not because he would not return to Hriday Kunj at Sabarmati, but because he has no need for a home, a dwelling now. The barest of loincloth captures the state of being a mendicant who seeks sacrifice from us and would grant us the boon of Swaraj in return. There are no surging ecstatic crowds, no poet Sarojini Naidu exclaiming ‘Hail, Deliverer’. But there is a bird, proud of its crown. A bird that is udgriva, one whose neck is turned upwards, a bird that is all of us who experience in that moment a surge of freedom that allowed us to look heavenwards.”A sense of calm descends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/photographer-anuj-ambalal-brings-alive-sites-on-mahatma-gandhis-dandi-march-route-174051
22-11-2020||---||Artist Anjum Singh’s final works were an expression of her battle with cancer||Sarika SharmaA year ago, Anjum Singh had returned to the space she grew up playing hide and seek in. As a kid, the only daughter to artists Paramjit Singh and Arpita Singh, such galleries had been second home. Last September had marked her last solo show at Delhi’s Talwar Gallery, second since she was detected with cancer in 2014. The canvas was an image of her struggle with her illness — the tumour, cells, blood, red, black, figuring in the works. I Am Still Here, it was titled, as if a prelude to the final innings of a brilliant career finally cut short last week.Anjum Singh earned a BFA at Kala Bhavan, Santiniketan, and received an MFA from College of Art, New Delhi, in 1991. Her works are in the collections of Kiran Nadar Museum of Art, Delhi, and have been on view at Prince of Wales Museum, Mumbai, and at The San Jose Museum of Art, California.I Am Still Here deepened Anjum’s investigation into the dynamic, unpredictable and internal world of the body. The works brought into view the intricate systems, the currents, flows and exchanges occuring beneath the skin.Art critic Bhavna Kakkar says the exhibition was a thematic shift from her works that had, up till now, centred around ecology. “Her earlier works tackled the themes of urban ecology and environmental degradation. Building on a career-long exploration of chaos in a city, her recent works marked an artist’s struggle with mortality,” says Kakkar, adding, “I Am Still Here was praised as one of the best shows of her career.”Having inherited artistic legacies of her illustrious parents, it surprised no one when she took up art as a career. “She was born into the art circle. She must have imbibed so much,” says Prayag Shukla, art critic and a friend of the Singhs. What’s noteworthy, he says, is that she followed her own path. “Her works bore no influence of her parents. This is a very remarkable quality. Her last work was about her own body, what was happening to her. It wasn’t just about her art. I was looking at how she must have seen life during that phase. The works were not experimental. They were very real, very honest.”Flower but not, Alien, Cobweb in my head, My Body — Candy Floss, Heart (Machine), Broken, Bleed Bled Blood Red, Blackness, Samples, Turbulence. The titles of the works in that exhibition spoke of her frame of mind, her reflections of herself and her now-changed realities. In a conversation with Meera Menezes at the launch of the show, she said she hadn’t wanted to paint about her illness per se, but was going through so much, all her experiences, musings and doubts ultimately came to the canvas. Her impressions from her hospital visits, the tubes, the blood, the apparatus, all found their way into the works.Earlier, in 2014, when she returned home after being diagnosed with cancer and a brief stay in the hospital, she was surprised to see the canvas she had left unfinished. While she had been painting a mushroom growing out of a pavement, it seemed like a tumour to her now. That piece introduced the show.Deepak Talwar of Talwar Gallery, which hosted the exhibition, says it was not easy for Anjum to carve her artistic space in the shadow of two giants of Indian art, but she was tenacious and pursued her art with openness and youthful exuberance. “In her last exhibition, she delivered her most beautiful, bold yet poignant body of work, totally her own. Little did we know she was delivering her swan song,” he says. Photographer Gauri Gill, who was Anjum’s junior at Delhi College of Art, says: “I was so moved by my friend Anjum’s brilliant, brave exhibition last year. It was deeply experiential and rooted in her suffering of the last years, and yet so delicate, lucid and transcendental.”In the various obituaries that have been published over the last few days, Anjum’s smile has leapt out of every photograph. That is how she was, her friends say. This is how she will be remembered. Some time back, she had told her parents to not mourn her death, but remain cheerful, as they are. As if she is still here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/artist-anjum-singhs-final-works-were-an-expression-of-her-battle-with-cancer-174052
22-11-2020||The New India Foundation has announced the shortlist for the third edition of the Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay NIF Book Prize||India in non-fiction||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/india-in-non-fiction-174053
22-11-2020||---||The shortlist||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-shortlist-174054
22-11-2020||Nonika Singh||Will new govt guidelines sound death-knell of the OTT industry?||LAXMMI BOMB becomes Laxmii, Padmavati had to be rechristened Padmaavat and back in time Billu Barber had to shed the barber tag. In a country where sensibilities are provoked at the slightest provocation, where social media is fast becoming a belligerent pressure group, the last thing one wanted was yet another censuring mechanism, breathing down the neck of the makers.But here it is. On November 11, a notification signed by President Ram Nath Kovind brought over-the-top (OTT) platforms like online news portals and streaming services under the ambit of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. What it would mean is not yet clear but the writing on the wall certainly reads restrictions in one form or the other. International shows, too, are likely to face the axe. Just when the makers and the viewers were rejoicing in the power and beauty of the OTT medium where writers have a free run, where makers could make powerful political statements, the news did dampen creative enthusiasm. Filmmakers like Prakash Jha hope it is not censorship and the government assists in creating self-regulated guidelines for the OTT platforms. Producer Rahul Mittra feels that creators are already feeling the heat and the whispers in the industry are building into nervous anticipation of what will/could be.Does that mean strategies are being revised and makers already making changes? Nisarg Mehta, writer of Hostages, whose hands are full as he is busy writing more than one web-series, however, says. “There has been no clear-cut instruction to dilute or rewrite anything.” At the same time, he says that we could soon reach a position where writers may have to invent characters with no religion and no background.He further argues that since we have been living in the culture of taking offence for quite sometime, OTT players are well clued in about how fast tempers fly. As it is, they have legal teams to warn them of what could be a potentially flagrant issue. At the end of the day, it is business. And of no mean figures as at last count in 2019, India had as many as 17 crore OTT platform users. With a market size of nearly Rs500 crore, the revenues are expected to grow to Rs4,000 crore by the end of 2025.Does that mean economics will overrule creative considerations and OTT players will fall in line with what the government dictates? The director of OMG: Oh My God, Umesh Shukla, says, “There are artistic ways of saying the same thing,” just as he did with his web-series on Narendra Modi. He adds, “The chapter on Godhra riots had to be factored in, but without any provocative transgressions.” Web players are often accused of crossing the line and that online content should tone down profanities and nudity is the commonest demand. Following the feedback of the audience, writer producer of Bandish Bandits, Amrit Pal Singh Bindra had decided to pare down the second season of the abusive language. Self-regulation? Mittra is not so sure if it works. But nor is he a votary of snip and cut variant of guidelines, which could not only kill the complexity of narratives but also sound the death-knell for the booming OTT industry in the country.Whichever way the cookie may crumble, Bindra believes, “Both makers and streaming platforms will find ways to reimagine and reinvent themselves.” Mehta agrees that if a strict code of censorship could not scuttle the flight of Iranian cinema, rated world class, Indian artistes, too, could take a leaf from the same book. Of course, Shukla does not foresee any draconian measures. “If the government can have sensible men like Prasoon Joshi at the helm of CBFC, they will certainly rope in creative minds to regulate the vast expanse of OTT too,” Mittra makes a pitch for the same, “Hope they involve young makers known for creating clutter-free disruptive content.”As of now, the artistic fraternity is optimistic about the expected changes. Yet the landscape of entertainment, which till now enjoyed unfettered freedom, is likely to witness another shift. Paradigm or minimal… we may be tempted to say time will tell, but it surely is a tipping point for a country rated as the world’s fastest growing OTT market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/will-new-govt-guidelines-sound-death-knell-of-the-ott-industry-174055
22-11-2020||Gautaman Bhaskaran||Physical screenings, online events mark 33rd Tokyo International Film Festival||Most movie festivals had to be cancelled this year, given the havoc caused by Covid-19. However, with some marginal letup in the rate of infections in Italy and Japan, both Venice and Tokyo held their annual events, the latter with a mix of physical and digital forms. The only entry from India, Mangesh Joshi’s Ashes on a Road Trip, reminded one of the 1998 Cannes title, Patrice Chereau’s Those Who Love Me Can Take The Train. Chereau’s work takes us to the funeral of a minor painter, and his relatives gather at his twin brother’s home, where long-buried secrets are openly tossed around. Similarly, Joshi’s work is a subtle but powerful look at how human relationships begin to break after a death. Puru Dada is gone, and his three younger brothers, Satish Karkhanis (Mohan Agashe), Pradeep Karkhanis (Pradeep Joshi) and Ajit Karkhanis (Ajit Abhyankar), begin the rituals of cremation. Puru on his deathbed had expressed his wish to have his ashes buried in their ancestral home and fields. So, the three men and their sister, Sadhana Karkhanis (Geetanjali Kulkarni), set out in a van driven by Dada’s son Om Karkhanis (Amey Wagh). The movie turns into an adventure-filled road trip, sweetly poignant at times and punishingly painful at other.Much like most Iranian movies, Reza Dormishian’s No Choice uses minimalism to tell us a socially relevant story that is as distressing as it is elevating. The work, with a mostly female cast, is gripping with its powerful imagery, no-nonsense script and brilliant performances. The film could have been a little less than 108 minutes. But never mind, it presents a socio-legal thriller without exaggerated frills and mannerisms. An auteur with the most original of ideas, Dormishian tackles hugely disturbing happenings in Iran — the miserable condition of the homeless, who do not have an inkling of even what their basic rights are, the illegal trade in surrogacy and the misdeeds in the medical fraternity that go under the guise of community welfare. Golbahar (Pardis Ahmadiyeh), pretty teenager who lives on the streets of Tehran, is recklessly used as a baby-producing machine by a pimp, Mojtaba (Mojtaba Pirzadeh). When she meets with an accident, has a miscarriage and has her fallopian tubes tied up during the procedure at the hospital without her consent, all hell breaks loose. Social-activist lawyer, Sara Nedayi (Negar Javaherian) defends Golbahar, taking on the powerful medical system.Japanese master Koji Fukada’s offering The Real Thing is, well, a romance about a salaryman (as employees are referred to in Japan). First produced by Japan’s Nagoya TV as a 10-episode series from a comic book and helmed by Fukada, The Real Thing has been condensed to nearly four hours for a theatrical opening. And in these 233 minutes, the Tsuji (played by Win Morisaki) flits from one woman to another — and then back to the first and the second in what appears like an endless game of musical chairs.There was something about first-time feature film director David Bonneville’s (renowned for his shorts) The Last Bath, which reminded one of the celebrated 1960s musical, The Sound of Music. Like Maria in the latter film, Josefina (played by Anabela Moreira) is all set to take her celibacy vows to become a nun in a convent near Porto in Portugal when a tragedy pushes her away from this path. Just like Maria is sent to take care of the widowed Captain Von Trapp’s seven children, Josefina has to rush to care for her nephew when her father passes away. The 15-year-old boy, Alexandre (Martim Canavarro), has been, in the absence of his mother, staying with his grandfather. Like Maria, Josefina, too, faces an inner turmoil in her relationship with her young nephew. The Last Bath is disturbingly complex, intense and even dark as we see a family on the verge of dysfunction.Writer-director Shen Yu, in his debut work The Old Town Girls, weaves a rather sad story of a teenager, the shy Shui Qing (Li Gengxi), who having grown up with her father, is both excited and scared when her mother, the hot-tempered Qu Ting (Wan Qian), returns home after many years. Obviously, there is gnawing tension that the movie underlines exceptionally well. There may not be many surprises in The Old Town Girls, but what is remarkable is Shui’s innocence which keeps her hoping that her mother has but noble intentions. The teenager is desperate for some kind of stability, harmony and joy, especially after the kind of raw deal she gets from her stepmother. In the midst of lurking sorrow, the director uses daylight and bright imagery for relief, and we are taken through a labyrinth of emotions. Shui’s factory-worker father’s life is no less complicated, and this presents a third dimension to the plot and also serves as a reason for his placid neglect of his daughter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/physical-screenings-online-events-mark-33rd-tokyo-international-film-festival-174056
22-11-2020||---||Chloe Zhao’s Nomadland, a modern-day nomad drama||Navnee LikhiBleary-eyed they find places to pull off the road and rest. Then, in the early morning hours, before anyone notices them, they are back on highway,” writes Jessica Bruder in Surviving America in Twenty First Century. This non-fiction book has been adapted by Chinese director Chloe Zhao for his American film Nomadland. The notification title of the book is about older working Americans who have adopted an itinerant way of life in the aftermath of the 2008 financial collapse, and move around the country in their vans in search of employment. The story centres on 60-year-old Fern, a stoical, hard-working woman. Fern and her late husband had worked for a mining company in rural Nevada for most of their adult lives. When the mining company is shut down, she needs to move out of the town. At the company’s storage tracker, Fern removes her belongings, packs her bags and hits off on a road trip exploring life as a modern-day nomad. Lonely and isolated, Fern’s van, the only vehicle on the road, is surrounded by vast, empty space with mountains at a distance. Fern’s resilience keeps her morale high. As she travels from snowy plains to the desert, she meets other nomads. The film has a simple and contemplative plot. It throws light on Americans who represent societal afterthoughts, mostly older people left behind and those on the sidelines of society.The film begins with a scene where Fern is sitting in her van after finishing work at an Amazon plant. Her co-workers offer her a place to live. She declines the offer and says, “I am not homeless, I am just houseless.” In her van, she looks at old family photographs and cooks canned soup on a burner. Fern’s commanding presence holds the character-driven film together. The succeeding scenes reveal her employment counsellor informing her that she is not fit for any work she has in her mind. She takes this blunt truth in her stride and moves to South Dakota, where she starts working as a janitor in a restaurant.As she moves from one destination to another, she meets other nomads. As they share their stories of struggle, they become an intrinsic part of her life. Linda May, a hardy nomad in her sixties, tells Fern that she had been working since she was 12 and had raised her two daughters without any social security. Seventy-year-old Sawnkie shares her agony of suffering from cancer. Then there are others, who talk of their late spouses. Many have been tossed aside by corporate America. The lonely roads, rugged mountains and rocky deserts are an intrinsic part of their lives. The film ends with Fern making her last visit to the now-empty Nevada town, the factory and home.Captivating cinematography by Joshua James Richards and Ludovico Einaudi’s background score playing delicate piano melodies give the film a new-age feel. Frances McDormand as Fern delivers a clear-eyed quiet performance infused with her no-nonsense demeanor. Nomadland is a gentle but forcefully moving tale.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/chloe-zhaos-nomadland-a-modern-day-nomad-drama-174058
22-11-2020||Manohar Singh Gill||Manohar Singh Gill remembers Tshering Dorje, his Lahaul-Spiti brother||In 1959, the Chinese suddenly attacked an Indian police patrol in Ladakh. Chief Minister Partap Singh Kairon immediately created a border district beyond Manali, across the Rohtang Pass (13,050 feet). We had to walk over the Pass and all over this mountain district of two valleys, Lahaul and Spiti, 6,000 square miles of high mountains and glaciers, with a population of about 20,000. Having done mountaineering training with Tenzing, the Everest hero, I volunteered as Deputy Commissioner in 1961.I was about 26 years of age. When I arrived in Kullu, I was met by a man of my age, from the Keylong district office. Tshering Dorje was tall, square-faced like a Tibetan and always sported an absurd Lenin-type ‘peak’ cap. Like hill people, he was always smiling. He was to be my Bhoti teacher, as the government thought we needed to learn the language. But everyone spoke Hindustani of a kind and he effectively became my ADC.I wanted to write something of my experiences, so Dorje and I went to every festival, every prayer, and even funerals. Dorje explained to me the ceremonies and I took avid notes. These became my book, Himalayan Wonderland. As Deputy Commissioner, for once my pleasure became my duty. There were no files to clear, and in the long winter, we only had a ‘kutcha’ police wireless contact with Chandigarh. Dorje was full of humour, perpetually laughing.Once, in winter, I took him down for a week’s trek to Udaipur in the Chandra-Bagha valley — which becomes the Chenab when it leaves the hills. Another time, we made a quick visit to Spiti, across Kunzum Pass (15,500 feet). Walking most of the way to Kaza, we walked all the way to Kaurik, on the Tibet frontier, spending only a night on the way. We were both fit, and I could match Dorje stride for stride. In February, I walked all over Keylong village, while he explained to me Losar, the Tibetan New Year. The heavily bejewelled girls, the Chhang to drink... the culture was unique. In mid-February, I took it into my head to cross the heavily snowed Rohtang with a group of locals who used to bring our ‘dak’ from Manali. At that time, in 1961, there were no telephone connections. Dorje was always game. We travelled for a week, through the totally snowed in Lahaul valley, climbed to Rohtang at great risk, climbed down to the other side, and walked all the way to Manali.In 1963, I came away from Lahaul and in 1966, Punjab was trifurcated, and all the mountain areas went to Himachal Pradesh. We became strangers. I got married, but in later years, my wife and I continued to go to Lahaul. Bhoti Master was always waiting. I kept in touch with Dorje and Lahaul-Spiti.As Agriculture Secretary, I sent lots of funds for the development of these valleys. I did the same as Sports Minister to encourage trekking and mountaineering. With the new cellphone technology, I was in touch with Dorje almost every other day. From ADC, he became my brother of a kind. I visited him at his home in Guskiar village in the valley and his second home, high on a Kullu mountain.As an MP, I gave funds to programmes in the Lahaul and Kullu valleys on his suggestions, by changing the rules. Normally, MPLAD Fund is given in your own state. Dorje was my life-long bond with Lahaul-Spiti, and I used to say to him that it must be some karma, and I was sure to be reborn as a Lama in a Lahaul monastery. He always agreed.I always joked that we should go together. Sadly, he left suddenly a few days ago, a victim of coronavirus.As a young man, Dorje had spent a number of years in a monastery in Tibet. He came back to Lahaul, married and had a family. He was a very learned man, not only in the Buddhist scriptures but also in Sanskrit and Hindu culture. He was widely respected in the hills and by scholars in the West. He wrote considerably and had easy access to the Dalai Lama. His going is a great loss and will leave a void in the hill culture. We had planned to go together to Lahaul through ‘Atal Tunnel’, for the building of which we worked over long years. I will still go, but without him. Every hill and peak will carry for me a memory of Tshering Dorje.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/manohar-singh-gill-remembers-tshering-dorje-his-lahaul-spiti-brother-174061
