23-08-2020||Bindu Gopal Rao||A crunchy overhaul||Breads are a staple at every meal and while curries have seen much change, the bread was somehow always left behind. This now seems set to change as chefs are experimenting with innovative fillings and grains to ensure that flat breads become interesting and tasty. As India unlocks, it might be a good time to indulge and try out these flavours.The variety on plateThe twists are many — strange yet mouth-watering. Don’t be surprised if you encounter a tandoori ragi ka masaledar nanza, makhmali pudina and rosemary paratha, chukandari worki paratha and thyme charcoal bharwan chicken baida roti on the menu. There are breads with combinations like keema matar, chicken liver and paneer makhani. If the traditional stuff like tikoni khamiri roti, Baluchi kulcha and Kashmiri kulcha is available, there is olive chilli garlic naan, cooked with black and green olives and brushed with virgin olive oil, for those who have a liking for Italian flavours.A whole lot of healthBreads are normally made from white flour and are thus heavy on the stomach. To change that, restaurants are making use of healthy ingredients. The base flour now has multigrain variants and there is a focus on flours derived from millets such as ragi, bajra and jowar, water chestnut (sinhgara) and chickpeas. Sandeep Choudhary, executive chef at Ibis, New Delhi, says their innovative offers like veggie-packed, naturally gluten-free and grain-free cauliflower flatbread have been a hit among sportspersons.Guests are driving change too. Chef Varun MB, executive chef at Novotel Hyderabad Airport, says a guest who was staying with them for over 15 days suggested that they introduce dry keema parathas for breakfast so that for others like him, who are in a rush to grab a wholesome breakfast and crave protein intake, can have a perfect dish to just grab and go.So, the next time you are dining out, make sure that you look for unusual breads. They won’t just taste better, but also be better for you. And, of course, never shy away from experimenting with them in your own kitchen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/a-crunchy-overhaul-130070
23-08-2020||Pushpesh Pant||Stewing a chicken ishtoo||The writer of these lines was born and brought up in a small hill station where the chowkidar-cum-khansama, Paan Singh, took great pride in the stew he cooked. He had learned the recipe from a memsahib whose husband had served at this outpost. As children we found the gem in his repertoire a bit bland and preferred the chicken roast or grilled chops he routinely turned out. It was years later when we encountered the desi ishtoo, first in Old Delhi and then in Purana Bhopal, that it dawned upon us that the old man was rendering a fairly faithful imitation of the Irish stew. In Kerala we have enjoyed a mildly spiced, yet exquisitely flavourful stew, not ishtoo. Let’s not digress though. What is in a name? In this case, it is not just the pronunciation that’s different, the spicing and the thickness of the gravy also vary from place to place. The original is a one pot dish where the meat, along with vegetables, is slow cooked in its own juices. Ishtoo in Delhi and Bhopal traces its lineage to do pyaaza and dum pukht. The meat — mutton or chicken — is braised and cooked with lots of onions, whole red chillies and black peppercorns. To cut the sweetness of onions, a little curd is added. Those who can’t do without aromatics may add whole spices like cloves and cardamom. Our friend Osama Jalai turns out a mean chicken ishtoo following the family recipe, a Rampur gharana heirloom. Here, we tweak it a bit. Chicken IshtooIngredientsChicken (without skin) 750 gOnions 1 kgGarlic 2-3 clovesWhole red chillies 8-10Black peppercorns 1/2 tspCurd 2 tbspSalt to tasteGhee/Oil 1/4 cupA spring of fresh mint or coriander for garnishingMethod:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/stewing-a-chicken-ishtoo-130075
23-08-2020||  ||Stewing a colonial gem||Food Talk by Pushpesh Pant     Ishtoo or stew: What’s in a name? The writer of these lines was born and brought up in a small kill station where the chowkidar-cum-cook, Paan Singh, who liked to be addressed as khanasama, took great pride in the stew he cooked. He had learned the recipe from a memsaheb whose husband had served a long term of colonial duty at this outpost. As children we found the gem in his repertoire a bit bland and preferred the chicken roast or grilled chops he routinely turned out. It was years later when we encountered the desi ishtoo, first in Old Delhi and then in Purana Bhopal, that it dawned upon us that the old man was rendering a fairly faithful imitation of the Irish stew. In Kerala we have enjoyed a mildly spiced yet exquisitely flavourful stew, not ishtoo; it has its own allure. Let's not digress though. What is in a name?  In this case it is not just the pronunciation that’s different, the spicing and the thickness of the gravy also varies from place to place. What is common though is the aspiration to equal a dish enjoyed by the colonial rulers. The original is a one pot dish where the meat, along with vegetables, is slow cooked in its own juices. Ishtoo in Delhi and Bhopal traces its lineage to do pyaaza and dum pukht. The meats — mutton or chicken — are braised and cooked with just onions (lots), whole red chillies and a few black peppercorns. To cut the sweetness of onions, a little curd is used. Those who can’t do without aromatics may add whole spices like cloves and cardamom. We feel that this indulgence veers the ishtoo in the direction of khade masale ka gosht.   Our friend Osama Jalai, journalist-turned-food impresario, turns out a mean chicken ishtoo following the family recipe, a Rampur gharana heirloom. We thank him for treating it to us more than once and sharing the recipe that we have tweaked just a little!     Recipe: Chicken ishtoo  Ingredients:  Chicken 750 g (without skin)  Onions 1 kg  Garlic 2-3 cloves  Whole red chillies 8-10  Black peppercorns 1/2 tsp  Curd 2 tbsp  Salt to taste  Ghee/Oil 1/4 cup  Spring of fresh mint or coriander for garnishing     Method:  Cut the chicken into eight-10 pieces. Wash and pat dry. Peel the onions and slice them not too fine. Crush the garlic cloves. Wipe dry the whole red chillies. Heat ghee/oil in a thick bottomed pan. When hot, add the chicken pieces, sliced onions and crushed garlic. Stir well to mix and add curd and black peppercorns. Add the chillies carefully; these should not break, or else the stew could become too hot to handle! Sprinkle salt in the end. Cover the pan with a tight lid and cook on medium-low flame for about 25 minutes. Uncover once half way and stir with a light hand. Uncover to check if done to taste. It should have a thin, but not watery sauce-like gravy, golden in hue. Garnish with mint or coriander. Enjoy with phulka or steamed rice. You may use the same recipe for mutton ishtoo. The cooking time increases by 30 minutes or so. The preferred cuts of meat are shoulder, neck and puth. Enjoy!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/stewing-a-colonial-gem-130076
23-08-2020||Muscular India||Backflap||by Michiel Baas.  Westland.  Pages 306.  Rs 699.     The gyms of urban ‘new India’ are intriguing spaces. While they cater largely to well-off clients, these shiny, modern institutions are also vehicles of upward mobility for the trainers and specialists who work there. The gyms also aspire to be a safe space for women — a break from the toxic masculinity they must deal with outside its walls. Yet, the more things change, the more they remain the same. Class barriers are less permeable than they appear. The use of bodily capital to breach them is more fraught with danger than one might anticipate. And the profession is riddled with pitfalls and contradictions. Michiel Baas has spent a decade studying gyms, trainers and bodybuilders, and finds in them a new way to investigate India. He walks us through the homes and workspaces of these men — yes, they are almost all men — to bodybuilding competitions and also into their most intimate worlds of ambitions, desires and struggles. An unusual study of an unusual subject, Baas unveils a fascinating world, hidden in plain sight.     The Loneliness of Hira Barua  by Arupa Patangia Kalita. Translated by Ranjita Biswas.  Pan Macmillan.  Pages 240.  Rs 450.  Originally published as Mariam Austin othoba Hira Barua, this remarkable collection by one of Assam’s finest living writers won the Sahitya Akademi Award in 2014. In this brilliant English translation by Ranjita Biswas, Arupa Patangia Kalita’s powerful voice is brought to fresh and vivid life. Written in a variety of styles, from gritty social realism, folklore to magical realism, The Loneliness of Hira Barua is a modern classic of Indian literature. It tells the story of Hira Barua, an ageing widow living in a conflict-ridden region of Assam with her beloved Tibetan spaniel, who fears she is beginning to resemble a lonely Englishwoman from her past. A vicious sexual assault by the invading military drives a group of women into a shelter home. On a fateful night, a group of prostitutes makes an extraordinary sacrifice for the safety of its companions. In this, and 13 other piercing, intimate portraits, women navigate family, violence, trauma, ambition and domesticity with caution, grace and quiet resilience.        Quintessentially Tata: My Journey Over 55 Years  by Syamal Gupta.  Rupa.  Pages 208.  Price 295  This is an anecdotal biography of an industry leader who ventured out of India on behalf of the Tata Group, blazing a trail for its growth into new geographies, products and services, providing rare insights into the Tatas’ spirit of entrepreneurship. It is a must-read for all those simply curious or actively interested to know about the Tata visionaries and the working of Bombay House, the head office of the Tata group in Mumbai. The author has an experience over 55 years with the group and was among one of its bricklayers. This book vividly chronicles his varied work experiences, ranging from the challenges of setting up Tata Precision Industries in Singapore in the 1970s to the difficulties of widening the group’s trade horizons in Africa and around the globe. Full of personal anecdotes, this account reflects the Tatas’ philosophy of trust, its culture of innovation and the growth of the group into new geographies, products and services, by staying committed, focusing on the big picture and building relationships to surmount difficulties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/backflap-130077
23-08-2020||   ||How the British shaped shopping||From box-wallahs bringing silks and shawls in tin trunks to retail stores selling different goods under one roof or simply placing an order through mail, innovative ways of selling products have roots in the days of the Empire     Jasvinder Kaur     When Europeans came to live in colonial India, they could not access things they were used to back home. They had to get their supplies from abroad. But this changed once shops here started selling European goods. By the early 19th century, shops with goods from abroad had started opening in India. In 1838, Emily Eden, sister of Lord Auckland, writes about the “Europe Shop” in Simla, which stocked merchandise from Europe. Messrs Barrett & Co. was the first European merchant established around 1838 in Simla. This was, perhaps, the shop Emily was referring to. Mr CJ French, writing in a journal in 1838, mentions how Messrs Barrett & Co had many difficulties in its early years of establishment, and in spite of that it had catered to the needs of the European customers, offering them even roast beef of England. Besides the goods, among the services they offered were reading room with periodicals and journals as well as billiards room. In 1845, Mr Barrett also opened a hotel in Simla. It was called Pavilion that later became Royal, and then Lowrie’s Hotel.  Many writers have given accounts of the British Raj and lifestyle of those times. An exercise was undertaken by the BBC in the 1970s to conduct oral history interviews of 76 persons, which gave an insight into the lives of those residing in the British Raj. Allen Charles also used these in the form of a book Plain Tales from the Raj. The stories recount how innovative ways of selling products were followed in India. These ways have remained so even a 100 years later.     The box-wallahs  Mrs Wood, an enterprising lady living in Calcutta, made boxes of babies and women’s clothes and sent these to the countryside in a box. An Indian salesman or the box-wallah also came on a bicycle and brought silks and shawls in a tin trunk, which were laid out in the verandah. He would then tell the memsahib ‘no need to buy, at least have a look’. This system of selling goods continues till today. There are shawl-wallahs and carpet-wallahs, who come and ring the bell to show their products. They too use a similar line — ‘madam please see as there is no charge for looking’. In small towns, vendors still come to sell pastries and buns from a tin box or a trunk strapped onto the bicycle.  Initially the term ‘box-wallah’ was coined by Army people, who gave this name to businessmen. It was said it stemmed from a certain degree of jealousy of the more prosperous businessmen. This then came to be used for all European businessmen in India at that time. This expression stuck on for a long time as later those in the corporate sector were also termed box-wallahs.  As British rule progressed, people started imbibing bits and pieces of western culture in their lives in various ways. People’s way of dressing up, their lifestyle and food habits changed dramatically forever. Demands for buying European fabrics, garments, magazines as well as other imported goods increased manifold.      Enter the retail stores  By the mid-19th century, a new concept of retailing emerged in Europe and America, where different types of goods were sold under one roof, and with the same price tag across all company stores. In India, following the same system, some big firms like Army & Navy Stores, Hall & Anderson, and Simpsons & Co. of Madras had branches in different parts of the country. Another big store was Whiteaway, Laidlaw & Co. The store was first established on the Esplanade in Calcutta, around 1879, and later many branches were opened in India. It also had a catalogue from which articles like men’s suits, women’s dresses and accessories could be purchased via mail orders.     For those seeking luxury   In 1871, the Post-Master General extended the money order network between Britain, India and Ceylon (Sri Lanka). This enabled individuals as well as shopkeepers to order things from abroad. In Punjab, it was common for people to give money to the shopkeepers to get things from abroad that they may have seen in a magazine.  For the rich and the royalty, there were firms that sold luxury goods and high-end items. Many Europe-based companies used the services of Hamilton & Co, Cooke & Kelvey, and Imrie & Lawrence to sell their products in India. British firms like Goldsmith’s and Silversmith’s company and Gerrard especially made goods for the Indian market. The European designers, who were interested in Indian clients, had made many trips to India. Jacques Cartier (1884-1942), coming to India in 1911, carried with him objects which he thought would be of interest to the wealthy like watches, along with small platinum set jewellery. He was successful in making contacts with many rulers. Among them was the ruler of Kapurthala. Other jewellers like Boucheron, Mauboussin, Van Cleff & Arpels and Harry Winston came in only after the First World War. Cartier’s early visit gave an edge to the firm, which enabled it to gain a large number of customers among the wealthy and the royalty.  Even during the Great Depression of the 1930s, the Maharajas continued to buy things from French firms in Paris and London. After the Russian Revolution, the Indian Maharajas stepped in as customers and patronised European jewellers. In the early 20th century, Bucheron and Cartier got huge orders from both the Patiala and Kapurthala royal houses. The royal houses ordered art-deco style of ornaments set in platinum. These were a rage in Europe then.      Tailor-made for all  By the early 20th century, many tailoring shops opened in bigger towns like Shimla, Amritsar and Lahore, with the latter emerging as the fashion capital of Punjab. Its shops sold cloth and also provided the services of tailors. Since, in many homes, women were not permitted to go to the bazaar, these establishments sent the thanns (rolls of cloth), and the tailor to the customer’s home. Leela Ram was one such shop with this set-up. This practice continued till much after India gained Independence. Prominent tailoring shops that stitched western clothes were Rankin & Co., Phelps and Leela Ram. Many of these had branches in different parts of Punjab, and elsewhere. Lok Nath, in Shimla, specialised in making ladies’ coats. Fashionable ladies from rich peasantry wore coats in the ’30s and ’40s when they went out. There are many photographs from that period of ladies wearing coats with sari.   Books related to stitching and cutting that described technical advances, as well as the latest styles, were published in England from early 19th century. Some of these found their way to India and customers often bought these and gave to the tailors or darzi. The darzi would come to the memsahib and sit in her verandah to repair or stitch new clothes. Indian tailors have always been good at replicating things, and they were able to make exact copies of the European clothes, given to them by their memsahib. Their expertise covered everything from coats to bras. Because of the tailors’ skills, people found that they needed to buy only a few foreign-made garments, from which copies could be made by the local tailor at much lower prices. This holds true to some extent even today.     The Simla connect  Shimla, being the summer capital of the Raj, attracted a lot of businesses that were patronised by Europeans and rich Indians. Mall Road had a variety of stores, including those of boot makers, fashionable tailors and watchmakers. The famous photographers, Bourne & Shepherd, were also located on Mall Road. Initially, Indians were not allowed to open shops on Mall Road. It was only after World War I that some shops were allowed to open, but they were directed to stock only quality goods.   By early 20th century, western influences had become more rampant as more and more people had taken to wearing western clothes or at least adopting western garments, along with their Indian attire.  Many local shops had connections abroad; some of the owners even travelled to Europe to source goods. On their return, they advertised in magazines and newspapers. Juggat Singh Kawatra & Sons of Anarkali, Lahore, advertising in The Prince magazine of October 1934, announced that their proprietor had “…just returned from European tour and brought with him new and fresh articles of the latest design”. These articles included pullovers, mufflers, jerseys, socks, perfumes, other toiletries and fancy goods. In another advertisement in the same magazine, Tilak Hosiery of Lahore promoted its tennis shirts.   Newspapers like The Tribune also had advertisements for selling tennis trousers, cricket flannels or other garments that gentlemen would need for their various activities.   After 73 years of Independence, many shops have changed but the department store culture that had its roots during the British Raj continues. The western attire, which people had imbibed during the Raj, is prevalent in most towns of Punjab. Many clubs still follow the dress code that the British had left behind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/how-the-british-shaped-shopping-130061
