24-05-2020||Gurnaaz Kaur||Punjabi film producers won’t go digital, not yet||It started with Hollywood films, and Bollywood followed suit. Courtesy lockdown, big banner Hindi films are queuing up for release on OTT platforms. The entertainment industry has been hit hard and there seems no succour anytime soon. Skipping theatre release, it appears, is the only way out for now. But does this apply to Punjabi cinema as well? The stakeholders think otherwise and cite various reasons.Just two days before lockdown, one of the most-awaited Punajbi films of the year, Chal Mera Putt-2, was released. Starring Amrinder Gill in the lead, this Rhythm Boyz production was out amidst coronavirus grabbing headlines but even then its two-day response worldwide was noteworthy. The makers say they have suffered huge losses in the last two months. “Chal Mera Putt was our big-budget film. We had Jodi’s release planned for June 26. For the last five years, every last Friday of July has been reserved for our top production. This year we are set to miss that mark too. But work we must and have just announced a new film, Uchha Burj Lahore Da,” says Karaj Gill, producer-distributor Rhythm Boyz. He says film shootings need to resume soon to keep the industry afloat. Each film employs roughly 200 people; their livelihood has been hit, he says.However, despite everything going against the industry, digital may not be the best bet for Punjabi cinema. “The kind of money OTT platforms offer to regional cinema is not enough to recover the costs. Low-budget films might be able to break even through this, but not us.” Karaj is now waiting to re-release Chal Mera Putt followed by Jodi. He is hopeful that Canada will open cinemas in June for old films and July for new ones. He has his fingers crossed.Munish Shani, who runs production-distribution company Omjee Star Studios, too is eagerly waiting for the cinema halls to open. “Multiplexes are in talks with the government to open by June end or first week of July. Once that happens and all the safety measures — such as change in seating plans, sanitising halls after every show, increasing the time gap between shows — are chalked out, things will pick up,” he says, adding that 33 per cent occupancy means something is better than nothing. However, he too feels digital release is not an option before Punjabi cinema. “Digital medium only offers you 10-15 per cent of your total budget.”For a filmmaker, reaching a wider audience is priority, and that’s not what OTT can offer in India, opines Gunbir Sidhu, producer-distributor, White Hills Studio. “The Indian market, especially states like Bihar, UP, Odisha, still do not have that kind of internet access. A big-budget film can’t recoup costs from the digital medium.”Gunbir says movie halls are still going to play a pivotal role in India, especially for another five to seven years. However, he does not deny the growing presence of OTT. “I believe the combination of both is going to be successful in India,” he says.Highlighting the economics of every film, Pawan Gill, producer of Brat Films, says the debate of OTT over theatrical release isn’t just a phenomenon limited to lockdown. It has been there since digital platforms entered the market. “In the current scenario, every producer has to see what’s the best for his film and the revenue model.”Exploring various avenues, protecting their projects, producers will first look at numbers but for an artiste, art takes precedence. Gippy Grewal is both actor and producer and he is clearly ready to wait till 2021. “Three of our films — Posti, Men in Black and Maa — were complete and ready for release, but I have decided to wait out for the rest of the year too. If cinemas open and things normalise by September, the audience will still be wary and it will take three-four months for things to pick up. I am personally not convinced about releasing my films on OTT because they were made for the big screen. Had they been designed keeping in mind digital release, I wouldn’t have blinked an eye.” However, he says the industry will have to start making content for OTT platforms in future. “It’s a lesson taught by the pandemic,” he shrugs.Punjabi film producers say web streaming won’t recover costsDirector’s takeJagdeep Sidhu, known for hits like Nikka Zaildaar, feels the global crisis has laid open a critical point for the Punjabi film industry. “We do not have much content to release digitally. Hardly two-three films may be ready for immediate release. When the lockdown was imposed, most films had post-production, editing pending. We weren’t thinking digital; our mind was working towards cinemas. Unfortunately, that means a year-long slump. Next big release will come in February 2021.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/punjabi-film-producers-wont-go-digital-not-yet-89285
24-05-2020||Dipankar Sarkar||Tanuja Chandra’s insightful documentary Aunty Sudha Aunty Radha||A non-fiction film constructed around the quotidian routine between a nonagenarian and an octogenarian, interspersed with conversations as a tool for exposition, had every chance of being mundane. But under the narrative finesse of filmmaker Tanuja Chandra, the documentary Aunty Sudha Aunty Radha turns out to be a study in a symbiotic relationship woven around the daily chores and activities of the two protagonists that shape this 48-minute film.Aunty Radha, 93, and Sudha, 86, reside in Lahra village of Uttar Pradesh. They have been living in the company of each other for years. They argue as well as bond over issues that are of little value or importance to individuals in general. But through such exchange of opinions, the two discover the stimulus to reinvigorate their lives. It appears as if they have made an accord to accept each other’s idiosyncrasies as well as companionship.The filmmaker has known the women since her childhood and was well-acquainted with their funny, strong, unusual personalities. She decided to make a film on them when they moved to their village home to live by themselves.The entourage of household helps forms an important component in meeting the duo’s daily requirements. Chandra says: “This motley group from different communities was such an endearing part of this idyllic existence that I had to record this. If I didn’t, this already disappearing way of life would be forever lost and we’d have no record of it.”The cinematographic construct captures the milieu of the film quite aesthetically. Even the basic approach to the design of sound was to create a space where the two women live, the village. The expanse of the locality is totally immersed in the natural sound of birds, domestic animals, and cricket, which gives a sense of serenity and tranquility.Chandra credits her editor, Chandan Arora for the structure he gave the film. The creative choices have shaped a genuine depiction of life, which intensifies the essential aspects of human existence, delineated through the harmonious alliance of two individuals — Aunty Sudha and Aunty Radha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/tanuja-chandras-insightful-documentary-aunty-sudha-aunty-radha-89287
24-05-2020||Saibal Chatterjee||Sarod player Soumik Datta’s latest single plays for the tiger, and nature||The fast dwindling tiger count in the Sunderbans is among the many alarming facts that have triggered London-based sarod player Soumik Datta’s latest musical creation, Tiger Tiger, a single released on the occasion of Earth Day. Thanks to his musical roots, the 36-year-old instrumentalist, composer and television presenter is of the belief that music and nature go hand in hand. “Indian classical music,” he says, “is intrinsically linked with nature.” While Datta plays a traditional Indian instrument, he uses it to create vibrant, radical sounds rooted in the present. They serve to give vent to personal concerns and reflect his hyphenated British-South Asian identity. In November last year, Datta released a five-track EP, Jangal, to express his anguish at the havoc that mankind is wreaking on the world’s forest cover. It was his response to the Australian wildfires in which billions of animals perished as well to the continuing crisis in the Amazon rainforest.Greta Thunberg, the Swedish schoolgirl who raised her voice demanding urgent action on climate change, “was a figure of great inspiration” for Datta. “For months on end I thought about the impact of the human carbon footprint on the world around us,” he says.“I imagined how the animals would have felt as they fled their habitat to save themselves from the forest fires.” He admits to also calling into question the toll he takes on the environment as a musician. “The sarod itself is a piece of wood from a tree,” Datta says.Datta is an Earth Day Network artiste. He has, over the years, collaborated with Nitin Sawhney, Anoushka Shankar and Talvin Singh and played with pop stars like Jay-Z and Beyonce. Tiger Tiger is a follow-up to Jangal. “It is a culmination of the EP,” he says. “Tiger Tiger is a faster, more frenzied track. In Jangal, the music is slower. It is based on Raag Miyan ki Malhar. I wanted to capture the beauty of the forest and the rains. I was thinking of the regenerative power of rain,” he adds.Tiger Tiger, on the other hand, is built upon Raag Meerabai ki Malhar. “The speed comes from imagining animals racing for their lives through the Australian forests.” A tiger mask connects the music videos of Jangal and Tiger Tiger. While the earlier work was shot in the Sunderbans, where the number of tigers is “greatly reduced”, the new piece assumes the form of a live performance in which Datta himself wears a tiger mask.“I wanted to have the beginning of the project rooted in the real space. So, the Jangal music video was filmed in the Sunderbans. And now, through the live performance, I am seeking to inspire myself to make changes closer home,” says Datta.For a Bengali musician, Datta was born in the steel city of Burnpur, West Bengal, the metaphor of the tiger, is a natural choice. “The tiger,” he says, “is a powerful symbol. The majestic animal stands for all that is beautiful in nature.”Datta, who learnt under the tutelage of sarod maestro Pandit Buddhadev Das Gupta (who passed away in 2018), believes that music should be used to make a social impact. That is why, he says, he did not go down the pop and rock path. “One can create engaging, entertaining music with a message at its core,” he adds.Datta’s sarod, a 19-stringed fretless instrument, is “heavily customised”. “The music I make isn’t traditional,” he says. Datta is one half of Circle of Sound, a band in which he collaborates with Austrian percussionist Bernhard Schimpelsberger.Datta has composed music for narrative features such as British filmmaker Sarah Gavron’s Brick Lane and his mother Sangeeta Datta’s Life Goes On starring Sharmila Tagore, Girish Karnad, Om Puri and Soha Ali Khan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/sarod-player-soumik-dattas-latest-single-plays-for-the-tiger-and-nature-89284
24-05-2020||Saurabh Chadha||South Korean band BTS takes over the music world||“Dream, though your beginnings may be humble, may the end be prosperous” — BTSI was introduced to BTS (Bangtan Sonyeondan) a few years back by my elder daughter. Initially snubbed as any other teeny-pop band singing about love and heartbreaks, little did I comprehend the phenomenal magic that was soon going to take over the globe. The seven-member group from South Korea, comprising Kim Tae-hyung (better known as V), Jung Ho-seok (J-Hope), Kim Nam-joon (RM, Leader), Kim Seok-jin (Jin), Park Ji-min, Jeon Jung-kook, and Min Yoon-gi (Suga) has been on a trailblazing path since its debut in 2013, each year proving superior than the last. Gaining recognition from its original, self-produced music and top-notch performances to the way it interacts with its fans, the band has established itself as global superstar breaking countless world records. Its branding prowess is undeniable, and the result is an enormous international fan base nicknamed ARMY (an acronym for Adorable Representative MC for Youth), consisting of millions of people that span various ages and cultures.BTS slowly made its way to different parts of the world. The group made its first appearance at Billboard Music Awards in 2017 where it won the Top Social Artist award. In 2018, the group announced the Love Yourself World Tour spanning across regions, including the US, Canada, the Netherlands, Germany, Japan, Taiwan and more. In the same year, BTS released its third studio album Love Yourself: Tear, which debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, becoming the first Korean album to top US charts.Star performersBTS’ course to superstardom was paved by South Korea’s wave of cultural exports to the West, from music to television dramas to elaborate fashion routines. The K-pop world has seen phenomenal growth in the 2010s, with other artistes like Blackpink, PSY, EXO and Tomorrow x Together, reaching milestones in the global music industry. From the massive success of Gangnam Style to the introduction of a K-pop award category at the MTV VMAs, what once used to have a smaller, cult following, become an internationally popular genre.Just as Abba had a massive effect on the Swedish economy in the 1970s, BTS has measurably revitalised the Korean economy and the global music industry. In 2019, the group reportedly brought in $4.65 billion for the South Korean economy through physical album sales, merchandise and concert tickets. The band is currently worth 0.3 per cent of the country’s GDP.In April 2019, BTS became only the third group in 50 years to have three number one albums on the Billboard 200 charts in less than 12 months, joining the ranks of The Beatles and The Monkees. The group has also appeared in various power listings. It was were included in Time’s list of 25 most influential people on the internet from 2017 to 2019 and featured on the magazine’s international edition cover as Next Generation Leaders. The band was listed as one of Time100’s most influential people in 2019 and ranked in Top 50, on Forbes’ annual list of the 100 highest-paid celebrities. BTS also positioned first on the list of ‘Top Rank Global Sustainable Future Leaders’ at the United Nations headquarters, while BTS’ fanclub, ARMY, was noted as the ‘Top Rank Sustainable Global Group’. Interestingly some other notable people included in this list were Malala Yousafzai and Bill Gates.In continuation of their Map Of The Soul series and their world domination, BTS released Map of the Soul:7 earlier this year. The 20-track album which blends genre skillfully, from rap of Interlude: Shadow, to the contemporary beats mixed with traditional Korean instruments on Black Swan, effectively shows off the group’s remarkable versatility. Each of its albums have topped its predecessor, and the fourth full studio outing looks to be no exception, with all 20 of its titles landing in the Top 20 of iTunes’ top songs chart within hours of release. The album is the group’s reflection on the past seven years since its debut and shows a deeper level of maturity by looking at hardships in its journey to become global icons. BTS’ fans, ARMY, remain at the heart of their music.India connectBTS has managed to gain immense popularity in India as well. There are several Indian ARMY and Bangtan Clubs eagerly waiting to see their idols perform here. Recently, Indian fans got #BTSTourInIndia trending on Twitter to catch the group’s attention and it ended up being on the trending list for more than 24 hours.Like virtually every other touring artiste in the world, BTS was forced to cancel its sold-out Map Of The Soul tour this year in the face of the pandemic. Big Hit Entertainment announced that BTS will live-stream on June 14 for a 90-minute concert, dubbed as Bang Bang Con The Live. Slated to be an historical event, the concert will continue to nurture the special connection with their fans worldwide. Whatever they do and wherever they go, the ARMY will remain the heart of their music.Milestones and recordsMost-streamed tracks- Steve Aoki Remix||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/south-korean-band-bts-takes-over-the-music-world-89283
24-05-2020||Sarika Sharma||How folk artists respond to a pandemic||For generations, craftspersons have been creating traditional folk art to mimic the daily scenario. It was but natural that they responded to the coronavirus pandemic too, and in their own way. From Ambika Devi’s Madhubani paintings to Prakash Joshi’s phad artwork, works by some of country’s finest folk artists have been inspired by it.The times have been particularly testing for the artisans. Miniature artist Tuslidas Nimbark says the last two months have been tough for two reasons. Firstly, they were scared of the virus and, secondly, worried about subsistence. “The world had come to a standstill, but we knew we had to work. So, we thought of expressing ourselves,” says the Jaipur-based artist. His work shows Lord Krishna dancing and a saint seated nearby. Between them is kept a bottle of handwash.Delhi-based Dastkar, a society that works to support traditional Indian craftspeople, first received a phad painting from Kalyan Joshi wherein men and women were seen wearing masks. “We then took to this and began motivating those artisans who felt discouraged during these uncertain times,” says Rhea Gupta, spokesperson for the organisation headed by Padma Shri awardee Laila Tyabji. She says the works have been carried out by artisans within their capacity to help give a clearer view to their own community of the pandemic that has taken over our lives.This is exactly what multiple-award winning folk artist Ambika Devi, who hails from Rashidpur in Bihar, had in mind when she got down to reflecting on the pandemic in her paintings. She says no one in the world seems to have an option but to take coronavirus in its stride. She says the last two months have been one of utmost fear for her. The unseen enemy has kept her on her toes.“I have been telling family, friends and community members what the government has told us — wear masks, maintain social distancing, et al. So when I was asked by Dastkar to create something on coronavirus, I thought my work should portray what I have been feeling, doing...” One of her works shows a family — all with face masks on — drawing water at what seems like a community tap. Another shows men and women buying vegetables while keeping a safe distance.Ambika Devi hopes people will like her work. She also wonders how the pandemic will change things, where will her works sell... If physical exhibitions are a thing of the past, she wishes their works sell online so that artisans like her continue to earn their living with dignity.Works of kaawad artist Dwarika Prasad from Chittorgarh, Rajasthan, are a tribute to frontline warriors. A melange of various small paintings made on mango or ardu wood panels, kaawad art is a centuries-old tradition of storytelling. The pandemic-inspired work has four panels highlighting the contributions of medical staff, police and sanitation workers, who have been at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus for the last two months.Dastkar plans to connect the artisans with the appropriate audience of craft lovers who would appreciate the work, and would, perhaps, want to adorn their homes with the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/how-folk-artists-respond-to-a-pandemic-89282
24-05-2020||BN Goswamy||Painted panels in Italy are allegories of governance||A wise and frugal government, which shall restrain men from injuring one another, shall have them otherwise free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement, and shall not take from the mouth of labour the bread it has earned. This is the sum of good government. — Thomas Jefferson…art is the overcoming of the past. All is presence in art. It becomes presence.’ — Hans-Georg GadamerThe year was 1338, or thereabouts, and the place was Siena, that scenic drenched-in-history town in central Italy, just south of Florence. It was then the centre of a Republic and its governance was in the hands of a Council of Nine — wise men chosen by the citizenry — who invited a gifted painter, Ambrogio Lorenzetti, to paint on the walls of the chamber, part of the Palazzo Pubblico, in which they used to meet, a number of frescoes. Lorenzetti, used to painting religious pictures, painted those of course — Madonna and Child, Ascension, Martyrdom et al. among them — but he also painted on those walls three remarkably complex, panoramic, panels: Allegory of Good Government, Effects of Good Government, and Allegory of Bad Government and its Effects on Town and Country. These superbly painted panels are still there, having survived close to seven centuries of time, serving as chaste reminders of what they were meant to convey to the wise Councillors of Siena, but, in many ways, also to us, living as we do in distraught times. The paintings naturally breathe the air of the past, now long gone, but the ringing message they hold is — how does one put it? — Timeless.While working on his magnificent 7.7 meter long panel — the Allegory of Good Government — Lorenzetti leaned naturally upon early Greek ideas: that of Justice on the one hand and, on the other, the subordination of private interests to those of the common good. But he was referring to his own times. Consequently he brought in a personification of the leadership of his community in the form of an old person, with Christ-like features, wearing the colours of the Sienese coat of arms, seated on a throne, surrounded by the Cardinal Virtues: crowned, stately female figures representing Peace, Fortitude and Prudence on the left, and Magnanimity, Temperance and Justice on the right. Above everything is the heavenly sphere, with Faith, Hope, and Charity looking down upon everything, and, below, standing in homage are 24 noble citizens of Siena. Towards the left of this stately group is the beautifully drawn figure of Justice — lovely maiden on a high throne-like seat — looking up at the figure of Wisdom, book in hand, holding the scales of Justice. On the pan of the scale at right, as we see it, is an angel distributing rewards and, at left, another angel meting out punishment for evil deeds. From these scales descend two cords which wind down, reach the hands of another maiden who names them Concord — harmony in other words — and sends them trailing, binding together the crowded group of citizenry. Meanwhile, while everything is in place, the gentle figure of Peace reclines back on her seat, holding a palm-frond in one hand. A plethora of other symbols are strewn all over the panel, each needing careful decoding by us but evidently clear in their import to the Council of Nine that ran the Republic.On another wall, at right angle to this panel, are scenes of the city of Siena representing the Effects of Good Government. A sense of quiet and order reigns here. From the height of their homes, men and women calmly peer down; the streets are bustling with people but there are no signs of discord. A sense of plenty prevails. Commerce flourishes; shopkeepers sell their wares; people pause in the street to talk to one another; in a joyous group at left, nine women break into a slow dance, representing, possibly, the nine Muses. Just outside the limits of the city are open, gently undulating spaces reminding one of the landscape of Siena of today. There gentlemen on horseback set out for hunting; farmers take their pigs to the market; donkeys are loaded with grain; there is sowing and harvesting. It is an idyll that Lorenzetti paints here: all, as he presents it, is the result of good government.Quite the opposite happens on the facing wall where the effects of bad governance swing into view. Here, the scene is dominated by the presiding figure, marked by horns and fangs, who is identified as Tyranny. He sits enthroned, resting his feet upon a goat — symbol of luxury and lust — and holding a dagger in his hand. On his left is Cruelty, seen as tormenting a baby with a snake; next come Treason shown as a man holding a lamb with a scorpion’s tail, and Fraud: a woman with bats wings and claws as feet. At right are the figures of War and Division and Fury, and above everything hover Greed, Pride, and Vainglory. Justice, hands and feet tied, is lying at the feet of Tyranny, her scales broken and lying by her side. The city seems filled with despair: shops and schools are empty; people are being knocked down in the street, and arrested without recourse to justice. Outside the city, the countryside looks barren: burnt and ransacked. Nothing grows, and fear seems to reign supreme.There are things here to ponder over. All this, seen through the heroic eyes of the painter, and possibly of the Council of Nine, was then: seven hundred years ago. The question that can linger in the air above us, however, and nag us, is that is all this to be discarded because it is old? Antiquated? Or, thinking differently, are all those traits and virtues that serve as reminders in these panels — Wisdom, Peace, Fortitude, Prudence, Magnanimity, Temperance, Justice — still of relevance because they make for good governance? And, again, all that one sees in these panels making for bad governance — Tyranny, Cruelty, Treason, Fraud,, Division, Fury, Greed, Pride, Vainglory — are things that one should be constantly wary of? Using the tongue of old, I would say: ‘Methinks they are’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/painted-panels-in-italy-are-allegories-of-governance-89281
24-05-2020||Nonika Singh||Lyrics straight from Sahir's heart||Zindagi sirf mohabbat nahin kuch aur bhi haiZulf rukhsar ki jannat nahin kuch aur bhi hai...Maine tum se hi nahin sab se mohabbat ki haiSongs that touched usJinhe naaz hai Hind par... (Pyaasa)Yeh duniya agar mil bhi jaaye toh... (Pyaasa)Aage bhi jaane na tu...(Waqt)Allah tero naam ishwar tero... (Hum Dono)Aurat ne janam diya mardon ko... (Sadhna)Kabhi khud pe kabhi halat pe... (Hum Dono)Main zindagi ka saath nibhata chala gaya... (Hum Dono)Tum agar saath dene ka wada karo... (Humraaz)Chalo ek baar phir se... (Gumraah)Kabhi kabhie mere dil mein khayal aata hai... (Kabhi Kabhie)That’s the quintessential Sahir Ludhianvi, the people’s poet, poet’s poet too, whose love for humanity transcended that for an individual. No wonder his love songs were not always dripping with saccharine sweetness, they leaned more towards humanism. One of the few lyricists who did not dovetail his poetry to meet the demands of Hindi cinema, he wrote as he pleased, uncompromising and unflinching.If the songs he wrote acquired an iconic status, legendary tales defined his life and tryst with Indian film industry, which began in 1949 with Azadi ki Raah Par (1949.) But the enchanter, which is what his penname Sahir means, truly began to cast his spell only after Baazi. His partnership with yet another genius music maestro SD Burman led to the birth of immortal songs such as “Yeh duniya agar mil bhi jaaye to kya hai” and “Jinhe naaz hai Hind par woh kahan hai” from Pyaasa —these songs may well be called the anthems of the marginalised.Sahir was often called the bard of the underdog. But he himself was no weakling, rather a colossus who demanded not just more money than music directors but also greater credit. Besides, he strongly felt that a tune must follow the lyrics, not the other way around. Temperamental and egoistic, he and Burman had more than creative differences after the stupendous success of Pyaasa and went their separate ways. Nevertheless, his creativity climbed one pinnacle after another as he teamed up with a host of music directors such as OP Nayar, Khayyam, Laxmikant-Pyarelal, Ravi, Roshan and many others.Roshan’s son Rajesh Roshan, a noted music director, remembers Sahir’s creative partnership with his father with great fondness. The two not only shared love for music but also big cars, a drink in the evening, and more. Sahir would take days to pen a ‘mukhda’ and Roshan would wait patiently. The song “Jo wada kiya” was their favourite. Later, when Rajesh turned a music director, Sahir penned “Ek raasta hai zindagi” for Kaala Pathar, fulfilling his promise to come up with one of his best songs.Indeed, the songs that have passed the test of time are so many that one can’t even begin to count his best. Very little of what he wrote is not relevant today. Even though his idea of romance differed from his contemporaries, his love songs are akin to ballads and carry within an imprint of romance that can neither be replicated nor forgotten. “Aaj sajan mohe ang lago lo”, “Abhi na jao chhod kar” or later ones like “Kabhi kabhie mere dil mein”… all of these are sheer poetry.Was he a greater poet or a lyricist? The debate would, perhaps, never be settled, for there was no dividing line. No creative or commercial constraints that would hem his poetic prowess when he wrote for dozens of films. What he experienced he wrote — the angst, the rebellion, the love he had for women in his life and respect for his mother; all of it manifested in his songs. As a person, of course, he was a sum of many parts. Javed Akhtar has gone on record to say so, speaking at length about the paradox that Sahir was. Interestingly, he also considers himself best suited to pen a biopic on the lyricist whom he knew closely and admired. His long list of aborted affairs, including the one with the doyenne of Punjabi poetry, Amrita Pritam, is the stuff celluloid stories are often made of. Biopics have been announced and shelved. The latest buzz is a web-series based on Akshay Manwani’s biography Sahir Ludhianvi: The People’s Poet.Immortalised on screen or not, one doubts if it will be able to match the beauty of the songs he penned straight from the heart. “Mein pal do pal ka shayar hoon…Mujh se bhetar kehnewale”.Well, the film world has seen many a stalwart, but few came even close to Sahir Ludhianvi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/lyrics-straight-from-sahirs-heart-89275
24-05-2020||Minna Zutshi||Sahir’s Ludhiana fails him||In the 1980s, noted Urdu poet late Kaifi Azmi came to Ludhiana to attend an event organised by the Progressive Writers’ Association. Later he expressed his desire to visit the place that housed Sahir Ludhianvi’s memorabilia — a place that, he supposed, would be the literary and cultural hub for poets and writers in Ludhiana. He said, “Mein salaam karney ke liye unke ghar jaana chahta hoon.”But to his surprise, Kaifi found that there was no place in the city dedicated to the memory of the poet. He then did what he thought was the next best — he stood on the Jagraon bridge and paid his respects to the poet who had chosen to make the city a part of his identity.Also read: Lyrics straight from the heartAnother progressive writer, poet and critic, late Ali Sardar Jafri, on his visit to the city, expressed “huge disappointment and pain” on Ludhiana’s failure to honour the memory of Sahir, whose formative years were spent in the city.Strangely, for the poet who embraced the name of the city as his very identity, Ludhiana on its part has not chosen to keep him alive in public memory, says Sahir’s friend and author Dr Kewal Dheer. Recounting an incident revealing Sahir’s feelings for the city, Dr Dheer says, “We had invited Sahir for a mushaira in Ludhiana. We got a few envelopes ready so that these could be given to the participating poets as ‘token of our appreciation’. Sahir simply refused to accept it. “Mehmaan nahi hoon. Mezbaan hoon (I am not a guest. I’m a host),” was the poet’s clinching argument.Dr Kewal DheerLack of vision, petty politics, bureaucratic wrangling — each and every factor played its part in not letting a cultural centre on Sahir come up.Sahir was born as Abdul Hayee in Sekhewal village (now in the Ludhiana East Assembly constituency) in 1921. His mother later moved to his maternal grandparents’ place in the Karimpura area in Ludhiana. Not many in the city are familiar with Sahir’s soul-stirring poetry, particularly the literary poetry that fired the imagination of the youth in his times. Sahir did not merely pen his thoughts or give vent to his emotions, he also documented the then-India, as Delhi-based filmmaker Rajesh Badal remarks. Sahir’s first long nazm Parchhaiyan focused on the dehumanising aspects of war.“We cannot ignore the fact that we failed to tell the youth about Sahir and his literary greatness. Lack of sensitivity, commercialisation of culture, coupled with a consumerist approach have been responsible for this lack of interest,” says Dr Dheer, who has penned two books on Sahir — Dastan-e-Sahir, Sahir Ludhianvi — Sahiri Aur Shayeri.Down memory laneDr Ravinder Vatsyayan from Ludhiana has “endearing memories” of his meeting with Sahir at SCD Government College in 1970. Sahir had come to the college for a match between old and new students. Vatsyayan was given the duty of holding his coat. He wore it the entire day as a badge of honour!Lost in a legal-political mazePoets, writers and lovers of Urdu language in Ludhiana resolved to construct a memorial for Sahir. In 1995, the then-Chief Minister Beant Singh released a grant of Rs65 lakh for the construction of Sahir Cultural Centre. However, in August 1995, Beant Singh was assassinated and the cultural centre remained a stillborn idea. “Lack of vision, petty politics, bureaucratic wrangling — each and every factor played its part in not letting the cultural centre come up,” says Dr Dheer adding what was worse was that a signboard near Fountain Chowk Road that was to be rechristened as ‘Sahir Ludhianvi Marg’was unceremoniously removed. The silver lining The SCD Government College, however, has acknowledged the literary and cinematic achievements of its alumnus Sahir Ludhianvi. Dr Amarjit Hayer, who retired as Professor of Journalism, Languages and Culture from Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, says that the college has acknowledged Sahir’s literary greatness. “Sahir penned two poems on his alma mater. The college, during its Golden Jubilee celebrations in 1970, invited Sahir and awarded him a gold medal.” The college, which had once asked Sahir to quit, finally recognised his accomplishments.“The college takes pride in the achievements of Sahir Ludhianvi. The SCD Government College is celebrating his centenary year. We look forward to celebrating the poet’s birth centenary in 2021,” says the college principal Dr Dharam Singh Sandhu, as he proudly shows the group photo of Sahir and his classmates displayed in the college gallery. The college auditorium and also the botanical garden are named after the poet.Sahir Ludhianvi’s fans too have been trying their best to keep his memories alive. The Sahir Ludhianvi Library in Punjabi Bhawan received funds from former Chief Election Commissioner of India Dr MS Gill, also an alumnus of the SCD Government College. Dr Kewal Dheer has been keeping the banner of the annual Jashn-e-Sahir mushaira afloat. Sahir himself had attended this mushaira in1975.Sahir and AmritaAt a public event in Lahore where Sahir read Taj Mahal, there was “a slim, delicate and extremely beautiful young girl” in the queue. Instead of the customary autograph book, she extended her hand. Sahir wrote on her palm: “I have signed a blank cheque. You can cash it any time.” The girl was Amrita Pritam! Amrita’s love for Sahir was intense. A couplet she wrote for him, says: “Maine toot ke pyaar kiya tum se/ kya tumne bhi utna kiya mujh se?(Source: Literary critic and author Gopi Chand Narang, in his foreword to Surinder Deol’s book Sahir: A Literary Portrait)EnchanterIn the mid-1930s Abdul Hayee selected Sahir (magician, enchanter) as his takhallus. The inspiration for adopting ‘Sahir’ as his takhallus was Mohammad Iqbal’s couplet: “Is chaman mein honge paida bulbul-e-sheraaz bhi, sainkron sahir bhi honge saahib-e-eijaaz bhi”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/sahirs-ludhiana-fails-him-89273
