25-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Coping with labour pangs||THE shortage of labour in Punjab due to the Covid-19 lockdown and the migrants’ exodus has prompted the state’s farmers to find mechanised solutions for paddy cultivation, which is expected to see a sizeable shift to direct seeding of paddy.Farmers are not only looking at buying direct seeding of rice (DSR) machines, but also modifying wheat drill machines like zero-till machines and happy seeders — under the guidance of the state Agriculture Department — to slow the seed dispensation rate, making them conducive for direct seeding. And this modification is costing just Rs 1,000 per machine.Agriculture Secretary, Punjab, Kahan Singh Pannu says 2,000 DSR machines would be supplied to farmers, including one-sixth to agriculture cooperative societies. The machines cost Rs 65,000, and 40 per cent subsidy is being given on the cost. “The department worked with engineers to use 2 lakh happy seeders by modification of the seed conveyor system (closing its groove partially with silicon) to slow the rate of seed dispensation. We have trained operators of small workshops across the state so that zero-till machines and happy seeders are so modified that the seed dispersal speed is reduced from 40 kg to 8-9 kg, which will then make the happy seeders the perfect machinery for direct seeding of rice,” he says.The initiatives raise hope that the Covid-19 lockdown will not impact paddy cultivation in Punjab. Almost 30 lakh hectares’ area in the state is expected to be brought under paddy cultivation. Traditionally, paddy is first planted in nurseries and then transplanted in the fields by specialised labour that comes from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.It is estimated that each year, 10-12 lakh labourers come to Punjab for transplanting paddy. This year, however, the travel curbs have altered the scenario. According to estimates made by the Agriculture Department, just about two lakh labourers are available in the state for paddy transplantation. No wonder that the rates demanded by them from farmers are almost double than those given last year. Farmers in Sangrur say labourers are demanding Rs 5,000 per acre of transplanting as against Rs 2,000-2,500 in 2019.Shagandeep Laddi, a farmer from Sangatpura village of Sangrur, says he has been using DSR machines for two years now. “I cultivate 12 acres, and one acre can be seeded in just 45 minutes. Farmers in and around my village have seen its efficiency. While I am using my DSR in others’ fields by charging them just Rs 700 per acre, the labourers are demanding Rs 5,000 per acre and no one can afford to pay that much. It’s obvious that farmers will go for direct seeding,” he explains.However, Sukhpal Singh of Balianwala village in Rampura Phul says though mechanised solutions are available, these are too few and not uniformly present across the state. “The state government has announced now that it will give a 40 per cent subsidy on DSR machines. But we have been cautioned against over-mechanisation of farms for years. So, people are wary of buying new machines,” he says.Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), expresses his anguish that the farmers are staring at a bleak future with regards to the paddy crop. “With fewer machines available, many farmers will have to go for transplanting paddy. Labour is not only not available, but wherever available is very expensive and will eat into farmers’ income. Those who cannot afford the labourers will have to do it on their own, and this transplanting season will lengthen. This could impact the yield and farmers could then suffer losses,” he rues.Last year, PAU did direct seeding on 1 lakh acres, which was successful. The premier agricultural university has already announced the schedule for direct seeding of basmati and non-basmati varieties of paddy. Earlier, farmers were of the opinion that direct seeding led to excessive weed growth. But the state government has now arranged for weedicides that are very effective. Direct seeding also helps conserve groundwater.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/coping-with-labour-pangs-89734
25-05-2020||---||Direct seeding gains ground||Parveen AroraWITH migrant labourers unable to come to Haryana ahead of paddy-sowing, the woes of the state’s farmers are going to worsen in the paddy season. Severe shortage of labour owing to the Covid lockdown is set to adversely affect paddy transplantation in the state, which is among the leading contributors to the Central pool. Haryana produces around 68 lakh metric tonnes of paddy on 32 lakh acres.The state relies on labourers from UP, Bihar, MP and other states for farm-related activities, but due to restricted movement, such workers are confined to their native states.In the absence of migrant labourers, who are adept at paddy-sowing and charge nominal rates, farmers would have to depend on local labour, which is demanding double the rates charged by the migrants. Earlier, during wheat harvesting, farmers had faced the same problem and got harvesting done with the help of combines.Jasbir Singh, a farmer from Jainpur village in Kurukshetra district, says, “I always prefer labour from Bihar for paddy plantation, but due to the lockdown, there is no hope of their arrival this time. I paid Rs 2,200 per acre last year to migrant labourers for paddy-sowing, but the local labour is demanding Rs 4,200-4,400.”“We faced problems during wheat harvesting due to the shortage of labour and it will be the same story during paddy plantation. Local labourers are in high demand, due to which they have hiked their rates,” says Subhash Gurjar, a farmer from Dhourang village in Yamunanagar district. The shortage of labour will delay paddy plantation, he adds.Amid the labour shortage and the high rates sought by the local labourers, a large number of farmers may adopt the direct seeding of rice (DSR) method.“The shortage of labour is forcing us to opt for the DSR, which is no doubt water-saving, but it gives lesser yield in comparison to the paddy transplantation method. It also has weed issues, but we have no option but to go for it,” says Ravinder Mehla, a farmer from Baldi in Karnal district, which is considered to be a rice bowl of the country.Farmers are also approaching the Agriculture Department for paddy-sowing machines. "I and other farmers of the district went to the Deputy Director, Agriculture, and requested him to provide us machines at subsidised rates for paddy plantation," says Kuldeep Balana, district president, Bhartiya Kisan Union, Panipat. He claims that the input cost has already increased manifold.Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director, Agriculture, Karnal, says farmers can adopt the DSR method as it saves 25-30 per cent water in comparison to the traditional paddy transplantation method. He appeals to the farmers to switch to alternative crops like maize or pulses for saving water. “The state government recently launched the Mera Pani, Meri Virasat scheme, under which farmers who opt for maize, pulses etc. or diversify into horticulture or growing vegetables in place of paddy during the season would be given an incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre,” he says.“The scheme has been launched specifically for the eight paddy-intensive blocks — Ratia, Siwan, Guhla, Pipli, Shahabad, Babain, Ismailabad and Sirsa. If the farmers of other blocks are keen to stop sowing paddy, they can apply for the incentive by informing the authorities in advance,” he adds. The government will provide 80 per cent subsidy to the farmers for adopting micro-irrigation and drip irrigation system along with growing crops in place of paddy.KVK TRIALSDr Dalip Gosai, formerPrincipal Scientist and head, Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), Karnal, says due to the scarcity of labour, farmers can use the direct seeding of rice (DSR) technology. The KVK has conducted long-term trials under the Cereal Systems Initiative for South Asia (CSISA) in which paddy variety Pusa Basmati 1121 and Pusa Basmati 1509 were cultivated. It was found that there was no yield penalty and the farmer could save around Rs10,000/hectare,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/direct-seeding-gains-ground-89735
