25-10-2020||Jasvinder Kaur||When kameez got a collar: Trends from colonial Punjab||During the entire British period, the traditional dress of women in Punjab did not undergo many changes. Their ensemble of salwar, kameez and dupatta — commonly called ‘suit’— saw little structural changes during this period. As men had a closer interaction with their European rulers, their dressing style was influenced by them. Women, on the other hand, practised purdah and therefore had limited interaction with the outside world. Due to this practice their dressing style, by and large, did not change much.However, European influences did bring in some changes like the fusion of several western elements into women’s traditional clothes, the manner of tying a saree, and above all, the use of cosmetics and accessories. This is evident in old photographs of that period. At first glance, Punjabi women did look dressed in their traditional clothes. However, a closer look will reveal the presence of quite a few Western elements in many garments and accessories supplementing the basic Indian dress, mostly in upper-class women.Borrowing from men’s clothesIn Europe, women’s dressing as well as their lifestyle had changed dramatically after World War I. Women had to lead more active lives, filling in the jobs that had once been the domain of men. This necessitated a new way of dressing that gave them the comfort and freedom to perform these new jobs with ease. Many women began wearing clothes similar to those worn by men.In this post-war period, military influences were evident in the cut and colour of women’s garments. Jackets, waistcoats, ties, military collars, cuffs and boots became part of their wardrobes. According to newspapers of the era, it was difficult to make out the difference between men and women as they seemed to have similar silhouettes. Famous designer Coco Chanel, in the early part of her career in the 1920s, rode on this trend — as well as gave impetus to it. She started designing comfortable clothes for women that were inspired by menswear. One of her well-known outfits was based on the Englishman’s tweed suit.Punjabi women’s clothes were also impacted by western styles as they also started adding collars and cuffs, found in men’s shirts, to their kameez/kurtas. Some district gazetteers mention women using European-style collars and cuffs on ordinary kurtas. Even the back of the kameez was now being styled like men’s shirt with a cross-back and a pleat below the collar. This style remained popular throughout Punjab till shortly after Independence. Even when its popularity waned, older women continued to wear this style for a long time.However, this style has survived in Haryana (part of undivided Punjab) and Western UP. One can spot this trend in a recent Hindi film Saand Ki Aankh where Haryanvi women are seen wearing short shirts with men-style collars and cuffs. This style is also evident in old photographs and was replicated even in formal wear.Vaskat or waistcoatA garment like the men’s waistcoat entered Punjabi women’s wardrobe around the end of 19th century. This was called the vaskat. The 1888-89 Gazetteer of Ludhiana district mentions that Jat women wore kurtas with a waistcoat as was worn by men. This was worn over their kurta or kameez with a dupatta draped over it. It became part of their formal attire worn at fairs and festive events. The word vaskat itself was a distortion of the word waistcoat, similar to English waistcoat.The waistcoat had evolved in men’s dress by the early 20th century. The man behind evolution of its finer details was Prince Albert of Wales (later King Edward VII), who also brought changes in men’s fashion that are evident even today. Being a trendsetter, his wardrobe was copied all over the world. When Bertie (as he was known), went on vacation, tailors from all over Europe followed him, making notes and taking pictures. Edward decided to alter the waistcoat by lowering its height to reveal more shirt-front. Some say the change was done as the earlier version was more prone to food stains while some claim it was less constricting for the prince as he felt bloated during a meal and undid the bottom button of the waistcoat. This norm is followed till today.Vaskat had many similarities to its parent garment — the waistcoat. The U-shaped neck, plain straight back, pointed lapels, use of European-style buttons — are all indicative of its origin. Some of these even had turned-over pockets like the men’s overcoats worn in England.Cosmetics and accessoriesThe lifestyle changes that took place in Europe in the 1920s encouraged women to come out to work, as well as socialise. With the freedom to dress also came the freedom to use cosmetics, earlier associated with women of ill repute.A container of Coty’s loose powder and (right) surme daani and surmchu. photosby the writerCosmetics became popular in Europe. Lipstick, contained in a round, metal tube, had been invented in 1915. Commonly called ‘make-up’, cosmetics now became essential for a woman’s appearance. Hollywood movies of the 1920s and 1930s feature women carrying a distinctive look: red cupid-bow lips, dark rouge on the cheeks, kohl-rimmed eyes, plucked eyebrows, and wavy hair, generally with a shingle bob cut. They had typical mask-like appearance, achieved by using loose powder on the face.During that time, hardly any women in rural Punjab used western cosmetics. These were neither available nor affordable. However, there were some traditional ingredients that could give similar results. Bark of Sakk tree (walnut tree) came in bags from the hills. Chewed upon for dental health and hygiene, it would also leave behind a bright orange lip stain, giving the appearance of lipstick. Women, both rural and urban, commonly used this more for cosmetic purposes than dental hygiene. There were surma and kajal for the eyes. Surma was available in rock form (galena stone) even in small village shops. Ground twice after soaking in gulab jal (rose water), it was then applied inside the eyelids with the help of a surmchu , a kind of a large, blunt needle, part of surme-daani (container in which surma was kept). Kajal was the soot gathered from the flame of the diya (wick-flame lamp). A drop of desi ghee or butter was used to moisten it and make it into paste/kajal. It was then applied on the outside of eyelids as well as on the eyelashes. Besides these, henna paste was used as a mask for hair, either for colour, tinting or as a conditioner.As some stylish, upper-class women in Punjab, who followed European trends, took to using make-up, cosmetics started becoming available in bigger towns. Use of loose face powder became quite popular in early 20th-century Europe. Coty, a beauty products company, became popular and its loose powder was widely available in Punjab. It came in a round, small cardboard box with a ‘Made in England’ stamp at the back. Whether women used any other cosmetics or not, they did use the face powder and Coty’s face powder became a must for almost every urban woman. Other make-up products, as well as perfumes, became available in Punjab to a limited extent, and were advertised by shops in newspapers and magazines.Many publications started publishing tips on how to use make-up. Sister Susie, in 1935, wrote about using mascara, lipstick, rouge and nail polish. Women at that time were not cosmetic conscious.Along with make-up, wealthy women of Punjab also became aware of the latest hair grooming trends. Curling was as popular in Punjab as it was in Europe, and women used curling irons to create waves in their hair, a popular style in Europe of the 1920s and 1930s. This wavy style is evident in many photographs of the period, even if the women’s heads are covered, as was the norm in Punjab. There were shops in Lahore and Amritsar selling curling irons, and they often advertised them in magazines and newspapers like The Tribune.Photographs of Punjabi women from the 1920s and 1930s show them wearing mostly Indian clothes, but with some western accessories. The most common and visible of these accessories was the brooch. The typical image of a woman from a well-to-do family has her with a covered head, wavy hair, and wearing a saree or a dupatta, held in place at the shoulder with a brooch.After Independence, women’s dressing style changed as many of the above-mentioned styles faded away. However, as availability of things increased, more and more people started using cosmetics. It has become a huge multi-billion dollar industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/when-kameez-got-a-collar-trends-from-colonial-punjab-160868
25-10-2020||Until quite recently||The little-known artists from region||— WG Archer, Paintings of the Sikhs. 1966Historians of art have generally evaded coming to terms with painting in the nineteenth century Punjab: they have drawn near to it but, almost as if they were examining a thorny branch, touched it gingerly. No serious student of Indian art has been able entirely to ignore it and yet a close look at it has frequently been cast with reluctance, if not distaste.— Oriental Art, Spring 1969I was not exactly looking for it — it just turned up in the sheaf of images I keep ferreting away somewhere in my folders — but it did two things, this sketch. It brought a quick smile to my lips, and, at the same time, introduced me to a Punjabi ‘artist’ whose name seems to have got lost in the whorls of time. It was a sketch, recording/celebrating? virtually the first coming of railways to our part of the world, somewhere in the early sixties of the 19th century, and the painter/draugtsman seems to have drawn it — on a sheet picked up from a discarded sarkari register perhaps — at the asking of a lithographic press, the Chashma-e Noor, at Amritsar. In the lower part of the sketch is a complete scene: at the extreme left three persons, one of them a Muslim, at the ticket window, with a large clock on the wall dutifully recording the time as 12.50; the train having just steamed away, two and a half carriages are seen, one of them occupied completely by women — a zenana dibba, to be sure — but all desis, with the words, in English letters, ‘THRD CLASS’ — the artist evidently not being on good terms with vowels — and, in Urdu letters, ‘darjasoyam’, meaning ‘Third Class’, emblazoned outside. In another carriage are seen hatted gentlemen — British or Anglicised — the three sporting superior airs. Right in front of course is the engine, the driver, a hatted figure, busy at work, obviously employed by Northern Railways, for the words ‘NR’ are painted on the door of his cubicle. However, the ‘artist’ does not forget to claim credit, and adds — clearly establishing his knowledge of English — the words ‘HURNAM SINGH’: his own name. Sadly, we — at least I — am not aware of any other work by this artist. But it would have been nice, considering the delightful vignette that he boldly brings in at the top of the sketch: a rag-tag party of four musicians and three soldiers following their leader, an English ‘sahib’ on horseback with a whip, which looks more like a morchhal than a whip, hurrying, having perhaps just performed with elan the ceremonial task of celebrating the arrival of railways.One would be entitled to wonder where all this is leading, if anywhere, especially when I open with what many would be inclined to dismiss as a negligible work of art. It is not that I am unaware, as far as the plains of the Punjab are concerned, of more substantial names — apart of course from those of painters from the Punjab Hills, Pahari in other words, who were working at different courts including that of Lahore or in the Malwa states, or, again, artists from Jaipur/Alwar working at Patiala — who were active in the 19thcentury. But I am greatly interested in seeing if we are missing out on some names. To that purpose, I am aiming at exploring collections, in the hope of making some discoveries.Private collection.I am encouraged in this endeavour by the initial flush of success I have had, while working with the great collection of paintings in the Chandigarh Museum. There are, for instance, two Punjab portraits here, each quite accomplished, of personages that one surely does not know much about: one, a simply dressed elderly Sikh of gentle bearing, sitting cross-legged, hands resting in lap, on a finely woven durrie spread out in front of a half-open door. There is a gravity of air about the figure, reflectiveness written all over it, and the colouring — shades of brown — deftly handled. On verso is a pencilled note in English, identifying the person as “Chaudri Sadhu Singh, Member MC (?) Jhang” — Jhang being the name of a town and district now in Pakistan, and associated in the Punjabi mind with the immortal love story of ‘Heer’ — and stating that is is “by Pir Bakhsh of Jhang”. Interestingly, there is another portrait by Pir Bakhsh also in the collection: a fierce looking person identified by the pencilled inscription at the back as ‘Nawab Mohammed Ismaeel Khan Tial’. Not having ever heard of Pir Bakhsh, I searched for him only to discover that he was also a painter of monuments, and in the collection of the V&A Museum in London, there is an attractive study of the Mausoleum of Hazrat Burhan Shah at Chiniot, that town having been once a tehsil headquarters of the district of Jhang. More than this we do not know anything, at least at the moment, about Pir Bakhsh.Nor do we seem to know much about the painter ‘Ganga Ram’ who seems to have been active at Patiala or some Phulkian state in the 19th century. There is a portrait by him of ‘Hakim Sadr Din’ — Sadruddin surely — : a noble-looking figure seated in a chair who, judging from the finely designed chogha he wears and the expensive looking carpet on which the chair is placed, might well have been a royal physician, and thus part of high nobility attached to a court. Patiala perhaps? The figure is clearly identified by an inscription in Gurmukhi on the top margin which says it is a ‘tasveer’ baqalam — that is in the hand of — Ganga Ram. More about the painter we do not seem to know.Finally, it is time to turn attention — in this very collection — to the engaging work of Sardul Singh whom one knows a bit about, as being the son of Kapur Singh, well-known painter, and thus grandson of the celebrated Kishan Singh. Active around 1900, Sardul Singh — based as a painter and photographer in Amritsar — turned out series on the lives and deeds of the great Sikh gurus. Of uncommon interest is a folio in the collection — painted in the style that we easily associate with 19th century Punjab — showing how the Janamsakhi of Bhai Bala came to be written. Bhai Bala is seen narrating the events of Guru Nanak Dev’s life to Guru Angad, while, seated in a corner, Baba Buddha ji, is reducing everything to writing. Boldly lettered inscriptions in Gurmukhi describe everything, including the painter’s name who speaks of himself as the ‘das’ — humble servant — of the great Gurus.As for my endeavours, not too bad for a beginning?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-little-known-artists-from-region-160869
25-10-2020||Krishnaraj Iyengar---||Anubrata Chatterjee takes tabla to the world online||Son of tabla luminary Pt Anindo Chatterjee, Anubrata is one of India’s finest young tabla players. Having inherited the traditional repertoire of various gharanas from his father and his grand guru, the legendary Pandit Gyan Prakash Ghosh, he is upbeat about future projects. With a solid classical grounding and a refreshing contemporary outlook, Anubrata, 36, has successfully touched diverse global audiences. Changing tides Anubrata feels the audience has significantly changed since Anindoji’s era. “I believe music is just a reflection of society that we live in and is thus ever changing,” he opines. Bridging the gap between connoisseurs and lay people has been his endeavour even as he presents purely traditional repertoire with immaculate tayyari (technical proves), nikaas (delivery) and laykaari (mathematics) which sweeps the uninitiated off their seats. Anubrata believes a lay person can be transformed into a connoisseur if he is drawn to the details of Indian music through an appealing performance. He feels too much emphasis is laid on fully understanding classical music to enjoy it. “It is absolutely alright not to understand the details of our art and yet enjoy it. Just like when you visit a movie theatre, you do not have the knowledge of cinematography or filmmaking but have an enriching experience,” he adds. As the West understands us Anubrata feels western audiences research any music that appeals to them. “They try to connect to Indian music’s soul and have evolved over the years,” he says. Recalling a funny anecdote, he says, “In 1975, my father was accompanying legendary sitarist Pandit Nikhil Banerjee at London’s Wigmore hall. The audience misunderstood his appreciating nods to Nikhilji’s aalaap and asked the organisers for a ticket refund. They thought the latter was erring, which my father disapproved of! The audiences have evolved much since then.” Anubrata’s organisation, Matra, organises regular workshops and shows in India and abroad to spread awareness. Its short-duration concerts, called ‘Beats And Pieces’, present pure classical music to lay people. “Every 15 minutes, there is a new raag, taal, artiste and energy. I have only compromised on the duration and not the musical content,” he insists. Most audiences, he feels, have avoided classical concerts finding them too long and boring. While he wants ‘Beats and Pieces’ to be a TV show, for now he plans to take it online in the wake of the pandemic which has also put several of his plans on hold. These include The Koto Tabla Project with Japanese Koto maestro Yumi Kurosawa. The two artistes have done over 15 shows in the US and got featured at the National Gallery in Washington DC. They were scheduled to perform 15 more shows this year. Unlocking creativity During the lockdown, the artistes  suffered immensely, with social distancing hitting the concert scene hard. But Anubrata is neck-deep in online video gigs, classes through Matra, which also offers stage performance tips and traditional repertoire training to young and established tabla players.  Talking about the future, he says he plans to do a biographical documentary on his father, “a living legend”. His musical mantra is individuality. “Justice would be done to the great ustads only when you infuse your individuality into their repertoire,” citing his father’s example and that of several other masters who have shaped tabla’s traditions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/anubrata-chatterjee-takes-tabla-to-the-world-online-160870
25-10-2020||Sarika Sharma||In support of farmers, theatre of protest||In the last three weeks, Ludhiana-based Harkesh Chaudhary has taken his play to 25 locations across Punjab. From Jagraon railway station to Sudhar toll plaza, from Romana Albel Singh near Jaito to Mehal Kalan in Barnala, Rampura Phul and Lehra Bega in Bathinda, Bareta in Mansa, Ferozepur Cantt, among others. His hour-long play Utthan da Vela, which translates as ‘Time to Rise’, is his way of showing solidarity with Punjab farmers, protesting against Centre’s farm laws. And not just him, there are several theatre groups, big and small, which have come up with productions on farmers’ issues.The venues are the least ideal — railway stations, petrol pumps and toll plazas. The stage is as basic as it could get. But that doesn’t deter these theatre actors and directors who know their art is not, and cannot be, for art’s sake alone today. The idea is to entertain the protesters, often running into several thousands, but never entertainment alone. They identify with the cause of their audience — colourful and spirited.Amritsar-based Kewal Dhaliwal’s Manch Rangmanch has revived Joginder Baharla’s Punjabi opera Harian Saunnian and has been performing it at toll plazas and petrol pumps across Bathinda, Barnala, Sangrur and Mansa districts. A member of Indian People’s Theatre Association (IPTA), Bahrala had written the play in 1950. Seventy years later, it is as relevant. Based on a conversation between the crops and the farmers, where the crops wonder why does the farmer, who works so hard to make them grow and fruit, remain poor. The message of the half-an-hour show is simple: “Our fields. Our crop. Our soil. We sow. Our right.” An opera, the production has been appreciated by the audience, says Dhaliwal. “It is a colourful play, full of dance and song. It makes an immediate connect with people who feel so happy their lives are being understood that they shower Rs10 notes on us.”The energy at the protest sites is the greatest reward, says Satpal Banga from Patiala-based People’s Art. “People cry, raise slogans, applaud,” he says. Banga has revived Gursharan Singh’s 1980 play Eh Zameen Saaddi Hai. Originally written against the Punjab government’s decision to take away the barren land small farmers had been cultivating for years, it has now been tweaked as per the present times. However, a play isn’t where their activism ends. Banga’s team has been going to villages, speaking to people and telling them why the farmers and farm organisations are opposing the laws.Activism in theatre is what the late thespian Gursharan Singh, the man who inspires various theatrepersons spread across Punjab today, practised. This is why it isn’t surprising that he is often evoked at the protest sites.Amolak Singh, president of Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak (PULS) Manch, says this is the ideal coming together of theatre, people and farming community. “Artistes are performing at around 120 protest sites and each is alive with art and activism. This is something that has happened after a long time,” he says.Play list||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/in-support-of-farmers-theatre-of-protest-160871
25-10-2020||Manisha Gangahar---||The warped future of technology in Black Mirror||“It’s my life…Mind your business and leave my business…”  But not anymore! The 1992 song has been inundated by the world of Black Mirror and the “my”, the “private” and the “personal” come crumbling down, gradually but surely. Disturbing yet intriguing, the science fiction series being aired on Netflix pans out the worst tendencies of our society and where we might be heading, courtesy the technology. Black Mirror, created by Charlie Brooker, while exploring our warped future, suggests that our virtual selves have lives of their own, existences that are recognised through surveillance and identities “housed” within the formulations that eerily displace the established perceptions of self, place and home. The means to power is now the “personal data” which when wrought in the hands of the Other or the State leaves human existence in a bleak state of affairs, as the dystopian television series envisages. While almost every State upholds the Right to Privacy and even has laws to protect its violation, privacy remains a “concept in disarray”, difficult to comprehend and articulate. In the new order of the day — surveillance capitalism — the private is always under the gaze, most of the times with the ‘consent’ of the subject without he or she actually being aware of how much intrusion is being allowed.  Several episodes of Black Mirror, with each being an independent story, focus on how the cutting-edge technology not merely facilitates modern conveniences but traps people in virtual captivity. In the episode “Arkangel”, a chip technology called ‘Arkangel’ allows the mother in the episode, Marie, to keep a check on her daughter, Sara, and censor certain images and track her acts. While the system is initially successful, some flaws lead to serious problems. As Sara becomes a teenager, parental surveillance, at its extreme, begins to choke her. In “The Entire History of You,” people have devices implanted in them that monitor and record everything they experience. The episode ends up revealing some ugly truths about people and their behaviour. It reveals the possible outcomes of constant surveillance and consequences of losing control of private information gathered by these surveillance systems. In “Shut Up and Dance”, a hacker captures people’s secrets and blackmails them by making them perform a series of tasks, each growing more disturbing and extreme. How far will people go to keep their technology usage private? There would be no filters to a hacker’s access to sensitive and personal information. With technology being the protagonist in all seasons, Black Mirror is fascinating and disturbing. What remains interesting is that the situations and the settings of the episodes are quite familiar but are pushed to the farthest limit in the dystopian future.    In the episode “Fifteen Million Merits”, Bing Madsen exists in a constant state of surveillance, with an unseen authority monitoring his every action, including trivial routines like brushing his teeth or urinating. Each activity he undertakes — feeding himself, performing the rituals of personal hygiene, even skipping an advertisement — costs him a currency called ‘merits’, which he earns by pedalling a stationary bicycle in front of a screen. There is no privacy left. The man on the street would rationalise the encroachment upon one’s privacy saying that his needs are better understood and facilitated for, but it could also be interpreted as using or rather appropriating somebody’s personal information for another’s benefit. Is the cost limited to needs being met? Perhaps not! One is bound to feel violated and exposed, lose peace of mind and be agitated and freak out knowing that nothing remains private.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-warped-future-of-technology-in-black-mirror-160872
25-10-2020||Nonika Singh||Reflection of Mira Nair’s Punjabiyat||Internationally feted, New York-based filmmaker Mira Nair right now riding on the buzz generated by her BBC series A Suitable Boy, currently streaming on Netflix, is a true blue Punjabi. She laughs easily, doesn’t take herself too seriously or her work pompously, loves Urdu ghazals and Punjabi folk music and is an eternal optimist. Even in the face of adversity, she looks at the upside rather than the downswing. Currently busy creating a biopic on renowned artist Amrita Sher-Gil, in a freewheeling interaction, the filmmaker, who has given us some timeless cinema from Salaam Bombay to The Namesake to The Reluctant Fundamentalist, talks about how beyond aesthetics, beauty and emotions, her cinema is about life.If you think she deliberately sets out to adapt literary works, she says, “I don’t have a checklist of books which I hope to or intend to adapt. Even though right now I am sitting in my library, it isn’t as if I am going to make a movie out of each one. The Namesake was like a solace to me after I had buried my mother-in-law in New York and could instantly relate to Jhumpa Lahiri’s longing and yearning of immigrants.” Similarly, Mohsin Hamid’s The Reluctant Fundamentalist spoke to her for having been married into a Muslim family she could instantly empathise with the outsider tag and being marked for who you are. As for Vikram Seth’s A Suitable Boy, it was the book’s relevance, the contemporariness of the novel written way back in 1993 and the nostalgia for the period (1950s), it details that did the trick for her.Can her series that bats for syncretism and harmony, despite the obvious divide, change perceptions in the polarised times we live in? “Well, I don’t think of my work that grandly. But yes, I do hope it can initiate a dialogue.” As her cinema talks about serious issues, yet is bereft of melancholy, we wonder if that is by conscious design. “I don’t want my cinema to be like boring homework; come and take this message. Somewhere deep down, the celebratory aspect of it is also a reflection of my Punjabiyat.”Often the stories she tells, especially like the classic Monsoon Wedding, are also a means to touch base with the Punjabi in her. Indeed, characters inhabiting two worlds too fascinate her. That could be one of the reasons why she has chosen the 20th century artist Amrita Sher-Gil as a subject for her next film. She says, “Yes she came from the West to the East and settled here in Punjab, while my journey has been in the reverse direction.” Interestingly, Amrita has captured her imagination ever since ever. The fact that here was an extraordinary artist who died so young before she could be truly recognised pains her no end. Can we hope to love Nair’s Amrita? “I don’t create work to earn your love. But yes, I am sure it can inspire others, especially the young, for here was a flame.”No doubt, work on Amrita’s biopic is a huge challenge but it has begun in earnest. Research has taken her to Amrita’s letters, her photographs, paintings and, of course, the two books penned by Amrita’s nephew Vivan Sundaram, who has given the go ahead to the film. While she already has two screenplay writers on board, the hunt for reel Amrita, too, is on. Refusing to reveal any names, she admits, “there are several in my head.”Casting may not be half the work done but she agrees is very important as miscasting can mess things up. Her latest A Suitable Boy appears to be a showcase of the very best (name any actor worth his salt and he/she is there), that Indian film industry has to offer.In hindsight, could she have taken more fresh faces? She takes a slight affront, “But every actor fit the part.” Besides, hasn’t she been always unafraid to try people who have had no intention of ever becoming an actor. If you remember Salaam Bombay and bunch of child actors who came through workshops, she reminds us of Kamini Khanna (Monsoon Wedding) whom she discovered in a park in New Delhi. She is mighty proud of her two latest discoveries, the female lead Lata played by Tanya Maniktala, whom she describes as ‘dewdrop in motion’, and Joyeeta Dutta (Tasneem), who she is positive is going to be a star.Blending stars with new talent is a process she truly enjoys, even as one star seems to be a clear favourite. She shares, “No doubt Tabu is a dear friend. But I cast her for only she could distil Saeeda Bai. with just one ada.” And Nair can suffuse her work with such riches.Much of what we see in A Suitable Boy is poetic, so visually sumptuous and aesthetic. Do women directors have a distinct signature? “I would hate to generalise. Men can be as sensitive. But having said that I must say I will never portray woman as whimpering or not standing up for herself. In my films, she will always be a beating heart.”So those of you who are marvelling at Lata’s choice of the suitable boy and reading it as an endorsement of arranged marriage, she begs to differ rather vociferously, “Without naming him, I would say he represents the real spirit of modern India.” Dare we say Nair herself represents cross cultural cinema rather is often hailed as the diva of the same? She smiles, “Well, titles are for you to give…”All she knows is she has the rhythm of amalgamation and her works are a counter to the western eye. Also when she gets into the specifics of culture, “Local becomes universal.”As it did with Salaam Bombay from which she draws till date and, of course, the quintessential Monsoon Wedding whose musical adaptation for stage will soon premiere in India. Perhaps, it will come to City Beautiful too. Till then she tells her Punjabi admirers, “Keep the spirit of largess, the world so needs today, alive.”A Musical journeyIf Monsoon Wedding figures as one of your favourite films, here is good news for you. Its musical stage adaptation with fresh songs composed by none other than Vishal Bhardwaj is all set to premiere in India. Guess what, Nair is not only keen to bring the musical to City Beautiful, she even has a story around Chandigarh in her mind. But for now, it’s Amrita that her creative energies are channelled towards. On whether Amrita’s art or the colourful persona take precedence, she says, “Artist makes the art.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/reflection-of-mira-nairs-punjabiyat-160878
