26-04-2020||Shardul Bhardwaj||Gene Deitch: The road shall go on||One of the best-known animators of all time, Gene Deitch passed away in Prague on April 16 at the age of 95. He was best known for his direction of Tom and Jerry (1961-62) and Popeye (1960-63). He was nominated for the Academy awards several times and won it for Munro (1960) and was awarded the Winsor McCay Award for his work in animation. Here ends the recitation of the list of achievements generally meant to start an article about a master of his craft, a routine which the artist if he looks down now shall detest. Especially Gene Deitch, who in his own ways was a big one for breaking comfortable tradition.A lot of discussion concerning Deitch seems to be centred on how the 13 Tom and Jerry shorts he directed were ‘bad’ as compared to the Hannah-Barbara era and the Chuck Jones era. One of the reasons offered is that he changed Tom’s characterisation to the one who always loses and gets flogged the most. Another reason given is Deitch’s use of different music as compared to the Hannah-Barbara which critics consider improper only because Hannah-Barbara or Chuck Jones never used it. In fact, Deitch got a few mails issuing him death threats after the shorts were aired. Deitch pointed out while talking about the creation of Nudnik: “Like most animators, I was inspired by those great cinema clowns, Buster Keaton, Laurel and Hardy, Charlie Chaplin.” A tender-hearted, simpleton Nudnik would only be met with contempt and difficult situations. Deitch’s Jerry, the mouse, has to be seen as an extension of both the great cinema clowns and Nudnik, the enjoyment derived by audiences in looking at Chaplin’s tramp and Jerry are quite similar. We marvel at how the simple underdog gets stuck in impossible situations due to his gullibility and then struggles to get out, also a classic clowning theme. The audiences go back to these classics to relive that moment when the underdog beats the unbeatable. Deitch merely amped up the physical comedy of this small mouse giving it back to old Tom. Deitch clearly did not agree with the idea that Tom and Jerry shall get over all their differences in the end. The second argument about music seems to be a thorn because of discontinuance of an earlier smooth Hannah-Barbara feel. This point can be hotly debated but one has to say the quality of music cannot be ‘bad’ only because it refuses to follow in the footsteps of its predecessor. The screen was not the only place where Deitch decided to break away from the norm, it was his private life too. In 1959, on a 10-day visit to former Czechoslovakia, he fell in love with his second wife and decided to stay on in the country, where he also set up his animation studio. He called himself “the only free American living and working in Prague during 30 years of Communist Party dictatorship”. It was atypical at the time for a leading personality of American show business to be living in a Communist dictatorship and be working for leading Hollywood studios like Paramount and Rembrandt Films.The list of other gems carved out by Deitch like The Hobbit and Alice of Wonderland in Paris will not suffice in detailing his marvellous career. Eduardo Galeano in a parabelesque short named Road Goes On writes: “Among the Indians of upper Orinoco, he who dies loses his name. His ashes are stirred into the plantain soup or corn wine and everybody eats ... the dead one, now living in other bodies, called by other names, wanders, desires, speaks.” It’s highly unlikely that Deitch’s name shall be forgotten, he shall continue to wander into the minds of younger generation rediscovering this master, he shall desire and speak through all the others who at some point or the other have had childhoods filled with the cat and mouse chase and the spinach-eating Popeye, the sailor man.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/gene-deitch-the-road-shall-go-on-76552
26-04-2020||Shoma A. Chatterji||Every Sixty-Eight Minutes, a dowry death||Every Sixty-Eight Minutes, a 40-minute fictional film directed by Anindita Sarbadhikari, strikes quite an unusual note in the scheme of films on dowry deaths. “I was approached by David and Goliath, a professional media studio comprising Lal Bhatia and Irfan Zaki. Adil Hussain, the actor, also joined in as co-producer. They asked me to make a short film on any women-oriented subject. I gave them a couple of stories and they chose this one. For years now, I have been working on various issues around women — from female foeticide to trafficking to domestic violence,” says Anindita, who is a single mother by choice and is also an alumnus of the FTII, Pune and also of the National School of Drama, Delhi.According to the National Crimes Records Bureau, every 68 minutes, a girl in India is murdered or compelled to take her life for pressures, torture and violence directly linked to dowry. “I always get motivated by true stories because the bare truth in them is something nobody’s imagination can create. Some stories stay with me for years... If I cannot place them on film, I try to tell them whenever I get the opportunity,” says Anindita.In May 2019, an IIT scholar committed suicide. The brilliant girl had travelled around the world, was economically independent ...her social media profiles showed her always with this sweet smile. I could not forget her. We think education or economic independence empowers a woman. So why couldn’t this girl break free of her oppressive reality? Why did she have to take her life? This became my root story. There was another video that went viral about a retired judge mercilessly beating up his daughter-in-law.“I delved into dowry deaths and stories of domestic violence and found out that according to the NCRB data, every day 21 girls are killed or forced to commit suicide because og dowry. I just had to tell this story,” she adds.Anindita makes the spacious, empty waiting room of a city morgue a framing device. The parents (Laboni Sarkar and Adil Hussain) and the girl’s best friend (Richa Sharma) are waiting to receive her body. Between this framing device, we are witness to the horror-filled life story of beautiful young girl, a highly educated doctorate whose work entails travelling around the world, dressing up as a bride waiting for the groom to arrive. Her father stakes all his savings to pay dowry in cash and kind. Once she gets married, the scenario unfolds with scenes of graphic violence. She shifts to staff quarters in the university where she teaches but her husband (Tota Roychoudhury) does not spare her of the physical violence. The girl finally commits suicide.  “Much of the film is written out of real stories, dialogues came out of actual conversations. The girl, who has a doctorate in science, has no problem marrying a man chosen by her parents because their horoscopes have matched. Isn’t that the reality around us?” asks Anindita. The film, shot on a lavish scale with beautiful music and brilliant cinematography, justifies the lavish mounting with the affluent backdrop of the story. She does not move out of the marriage because her father tells her everything will be alright. Is death “alright”? The film leaves you to ponder on the question.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/every-sixty-eight-minutes-a-dowry-death-76550
26-04-2020||Shristi Nangalia||Spend your lockdown time like a boss||Coronavirus scare can be overwhelming. An easy way to get over the boredom due to prolonged lockdown is to take up painting and crafting. What better than producing things to decorate your house? Moreover, this will help your hyperactive kids to learn something new. Here are some engaging (and simple) DIY home décor crafting ideas:Amp up the wallsStick some painter’s tape on a discarded plywood piece to make a geometric pattern, colour the inner segments and remove the tape for a crisp and colourful final output. Fix a nail or screw at the back to hang the piece on wall or simply place it on any open shelf around your house.Allow your child to write his/her favourite movie dialogue or an inspiring quote with acrylic or plastic paint. Next, help the child hang it over his/her bedroom wall to cherish.Refurbish old mirror frames and photo frames by colouring these with a bold, accentuating colour.You can get a little more artsy by applying string art, block printing and calligraphy to make one-of-a-kind wall décor panel, quoted frame, a name plate and more.Refurbish your furnitureGive a facelift to your drawers, sideboards and chairs. Paint floral or geometric patterns over the exposed areas of the furniture. Else spray a bold or metallic colour on an old chair or coffee table.Mould magic with macrameMacrame is the art of tying knots with strings to make coarse laces, geometrical patterns and fringes. Learn simpler knots with the help of online tutorials and make decoratives like wall hangings, hanging plant holders, table runners, throws, etc.Brighten up with hanging lampsFrom around your home and garden, collect bamboo strips or GI wires, ropes, torn fabric, broken beads and feathers. You will need a strong glue or needle and thread to bring together a crafty handmade hanging lamp. Structure the frame of the shape you like and cover the same with patterned or printed or crochet fabric of your choice. Stitch the edges or use a strong glue to fasten the fabric over the frame. Embellish the lamp with beads, feathers, tassels, etc. Lastly, affix a pendant bulb inside to complete the setup.Planters with boots, tyresLook for broken or discarded teacups and mugs from your kitchen or store, paint these if you like and pot succulents or your favourite herbs in good potting soil from your garden. You can work it out as a mini-gardening lesson for your kids. Reward? Beautiful table and shelf décor of your taste.Besides this, unused cans and ceramics, rejected shoes and bags, old tyres, broken crates and drums, etc. can act as pots for bigger plants. Make sure all the planters and pots you make have drain holes.Expertspeak“Give your plain walls a makeover and or even use the idea on furniture and lampshades. A brown book binding paper to make a stencil since it has plastic on one side.” — Preethi Prabhu, interior decorator and décor blogger.“You can use an old OHP sheet, or a thick cardboard, or an old plastic tablemat and cut out shapes from it, to make your stencils. For your first project, use a very simple shape like a triangle or a circle. Add lovely motifs to the wall. You can use any acrylic paints, or left-over wall paints to paint over the stencils. It’s a good idea to practice on some newspaper first before painting on the wall.” — Sharon ColacoDSouza, décor consultant and stylist.Papier macheAn easy DIY parents can do with their kids is papier mache. Soak bits of newspaper in water overnight and then mix fevicol to make a dough.The mixture can be used to make masks, old plastic bin covers and small animal sculptures.A lovely tepee  All you need is 5 long sticks — you can forage them from the garden, or you could just “borrow” the sticks off the adjustable height dusters in your home. You need 3 such sticks of approximately the same height, a whimsical colourful fabric — curtain/bed sheet and some rope. Just tie the sticks together using a clove hitch knot — you can look up the knot, or if you were a Girl Guide or a Boy Scout you probably already know. Once the sticks are tied together at the top, drape the curtain over it, and use a little rug on the floor inside. Let the kids set up their little space with their favourite books, or toy, and they are all set!Furniture with feetCollect old pairs of kiddy socks and stuff these toe to heal with fillers — old rags, or quilting batting, or anything you may have. Then just roll the socks up on the kids bed, study tables and chairs in their rooms, and watch them howl with laughter as their furniture now seems to have their own feet! Ideally, create this for one piece as a surprise for them, and when they get all excited, let them spend the morning creating feet for all the other furniture pieces!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/spend-your-lockdown-time-like-a-boss-76546
26-04-2020||Subhash Rajta||Fight against Covid-19: Deities return gifts in times of distress||Humanity is under siege, the threat is grave.  No wonder, even deities are rushing to the aid of beleaguered humans. In the upper regions of Himachal Pradesh, several local deities have made contributions to local administration or the Chief Minister Fund to help in the grim battle against coronavirus. The gesture, as a matter of fact, is very much in keeping with the past — in the times gone by, whenever any famine or epidemic threatened the existence of human beings, local deities always came to the rescue of their people. “In the early 1950s, a major famine hit this region. I remember local deities opening up their bhandaars (stores) and distributing grains to the suffering people,” recalls Mohan Rathore, senior vice-president of the District Shimla Kaardar Sangh, an association of people managing the affairs of local deities.Almost every temple belonging to local deities had stores called durgs, in which grains like bathu and koda, which do not go bad for years, were stored. “Whenever there was a famine or any epidemic, the temples would distribute the grains among people,” says Rathore. Interestingly, many temples still have these durgs. “We have two and they are partially filled with the grains since long. Ever since famines became a thing of past, they have not been opened,” says LR Bhandari, a kaardaar (functionary) of Mata Dharech temple.Reaching outNormally, the area of influence and working of a deity is limited to the region inhabited by its devotees. However, there have been exceptions, rare though, to this rule — the 1962 India-China War being one such instance. “The country was facing a massive shortage of resources and ammunition. The deities opened up their bhandaars right away and donated large amounts of gold. Also, with the help of erstwhile royal families, hundreds of guns too were given away to help the country,” says Virender Kanwar, a descendant of an erstwhile ruling family of Madhan. Rathore agrees. “Our devta, Chikreshwar Maharaj, contributed 200 gram of gold during the war; it’s documented.”Many kaardaars of different deities remember having heard stories from their ancestors/predecessors about how the deities helped out during epidemics. Rai Lal Mehta, a kaardaar of Nageshwar Devta, Mandhol, recalls their area was hit by an epidemic during World War II. “Our devta came out of his temple and moved from village to village, assuring people he was there to take care of them,” says Mehta. “One can imagine how reassuring it would have been for the people.”While several stories of divine intervention may sound quite incredible in modern times, a few come with a reasonable dose of evidence. One such story goes like this: Long time back, Raja Mahendra Sen of Junga was afflicted with an incurable disease. He tried everything but to no avail. Once he was travelling with his wife when they spotted the temple of Mata Tiyali. The wife prayed for the wellbeing of her husband. Miraculously, the Raja was cured instantly. As a mark of gratitude, he offered a 210 bigha jungle around the temple to the deity. “That jungle is still with the temple. It stands as a proof of that centuries-old incident,” says Laiq Ram Sharma, a kaardaar of Tiyali Mata. Incidentally, most deities have their own forests, in which felling of trees is totally prohibited. “So, you see, our deities play an important role in environment conservation too,” says Sharma.Connect stays strongEven today, the pact between the deities and their devotees hasn’t eroded much. They continue to be their “protector, adviser and deliverer of justice”. “If someone feels wronged at the hands of someone powerful, all he needs to do is apprise the deity. Once it’s done, everyone, including the offender, knows justice will be served sooner or later,” says Sharma. “This unshakeable faith in deity’s justice keeps society humane and promotes peace and brotherhood.”Such is the faith that many a time people prefer to settle their land disputes with the help of deities rather in the court of law. “A while back there were a lot of land dispute cases from the Kotkhai region. All of a sudden, these were withdrawn. Later, we found out that their deity had resolved all of these,” said Madan Chauhan, an advocate and president of the District Shimla Kaardar Sangh. The process is simple — from wherever the deity, carried by its pujaris in a palki, crosses through the disputed site, it’s accepted as a boundary by the parties involved.Going beyond their traditional roles, a few deities are creating new opportunities to be of more help and relevance in modern times.“We have created a trust that helps in creating infrastructure in local schools, offers stipend to students, help people construct link roads, et al,” said Chauhan, a kaardaar of Shadi Devi, Matiana.No wonder, the devotees have stayed faithful and grateful over the centuries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/fight-against-covid-19-deities-return-gifts-in-times-of-distress-76544
26-04-2020||Rana Siddiqui Zaman||Smita Bellur: The bridge between Hindustani and Sufi singing||Don’t leave music, whatever may happen...” Smita Bellur had been told by her mother just a few days before her death. She was still a teenager then, unable to take decisions for herself. Life moved on, but her mother’s words remained. No wonder she was to leave her career as a software engineer and take to singing Hindustani classical vocals and Sufi renditions when the time came for it.Despite almost no financial returns compared to what she was earning as a corporate honcho, Bellur is happy. Making no pretensions, this rising star on the firmament of classical vocals and Sufi rendition says, “Music was always my calling. I have always seen myself performing on stage before a large audience.” At the recent International Sufi Music Festival, Jahan-e-Khusrau, in New Delhi, one saw her singing a combination of classical and Sufi Amjad Hyderabdi and Warsi Brothers’ kalaam to immense applause.But before she took up music full time, she was employed with the Bits-Pilani. On her way to and back from office, she would listen to her gurus and classical maestros. A time came in her life when she quit her high-paying career and engaged in music full time. The trigger was a Sufiyana kalaam by Hazrat Ameer Khurau playing in her car. “I went into trance. That day, I quit my job and devoted myself to music,” she recalls. That was almost two decades back.Her passion bore fruit and she cut a few albums while doing shows across the globe. An association as senior faculty for Shankar Mahadevan Academy, a fellowship from Karnataka Sangeet Nritya Academy and the India Foundation for the Arts, etc. further honed her skills. She is now a regular on music festival circuits, television channels and radio stations.However, for any woman, a journey into classical music and Sufiyana kalam isn’t an easy task in India yet. That gaana-bajana sarcasm still doesn’t spare them. Fortunately, Bellur has lived most of her life in Bengaluru “where training in music and arts is considered equivalent to worship of vidya. My parents were keen on my learning music. But I knew it won’t get me much financially. To survive, I trained in a technical field.”So, what does it mean to be a Sufi singer? “I learnt Hindustani classical to be better at basics and Sufiyana to reach a wide range of audiences. Thumri and khayal have too limited an audience. Ghazals are about beloved, love lost and found and wine. But I find Sufiyana kalams uplifting. They talk about love for humanity, and in unique ways. Hence, it has local as well as international reach,” says Bellur who followed up her training in Hindustani vocals with Sufiyana, “which is both entertaining, meditative and spiritual and has a much wider reach than just classical and ghazal singing.”Bellur agrees it is also about how you package your music. She says Rekha Bhardwaj and Richa Sharma may not be trained in Sufi gayaki but have the skills and are among the most well-known women singers in India. In the recent past, Nooran Sisters and Roohani Sisters have brought some stir in the calm waters of Sufiyana kalam which remained largely unoccupied by women, but for Abida Parveen.“Aaj kal achchi gayaki ke alawa bhi bahut kuch chahiye hota hai stage presentation ke liye. Famous Sufi singers from Pakistan, like Sanam Marvi, are young, beautiful and presentable. People like listening to them. However, it is true that legends like Begum Akhtar, Shanti Hiranand and Abida Parveen never had to think about presentation, only gayaki. Times have changed. Mumbai, where I live, gives much attention to presentation, and even at all festivals, a singing artsite has to be a complete package.”Even if you fit the bill, Smita says, financial viability is a challenge. “For an independent singer, survival is very difficult. Organisers don’t want to pay well despite your skills. At times, it goes as low as Rs5,000-10,000 per concert, a fee that the artiste has to share with accompanists. The latter still get a lot of chances with various vocalists, but for the main artiste, payments have always been a challenge,” she minces no words.Lockdown bluesThe shutting down of the country due to Covid-19 has led to cancelling of various concerts and it is the beginning of a tough time for artistes. Bellur is keeping herself busy by taking classes and still keeps releasing her ghazals, Sufi kalaams and classical (Hindustani and Carnatic) renditions on social media. “God is ‘razzak’ (the one who gives rizk, the food). He will take care of us,” she smiles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/smita-bellur-the-bridge-between-hindustani-and-sufi-singing-76542
26-04-2020||BN Goswamy||The moving world of Beili Liu||We heard the news, read articles of the unimaginable situation of children being separated from their family at our southern border. We were saddened and shocked to see the images of migrant children in cages at detention centres. But the news cycle moves on with relentless speed. We forget — consciously or subconsciously — and the numbers become numbing, abstract concepts. — Beili Liu on her installation, ‘Each and Every’Throughout Liu’s work, I am struck by a delicacy that speaks of vulnerability and yet projects a fearless quality that defies its fragility. — Comment by a visitorThere are images that sear, and keep coming back to you: ‘soft-footedly’, as a poet said, ‘holding red lanterns of pain in their remorseless hands’. All of us, each his own, carry some in our heads, nursing them, helpless in our lack of ability to erase. The image, in my case for instance, from My Lai in the Vietnam War: napalm bombs raining down, people running to flee a sea of flames, villages behind them reduced to rubble and ash; and, at the centre of the image, a young naked girl, her clothes burned off, screaming in agony. Or another: a photograph of the lifeless body of a young boy — a dark-haired toddler in fact — wearing a bright-red T-shirt and shorts, washed up on a beach, lying face down in the surf; child of some Syrian refugee couple attempting to reach a Greek island, using the sea route.Somehow — or naturally perhaps — images like these came rushing to mind when I was in Texas recently and went on to see that jewel of an institution set in the heart of the Dallas Art District: the Crow Museum of Asian Art. Headed as it is by its Director of uncommonly broad sympathies, Amy Hofland, I have always associated the place with shows that move or lift the spirit. This time, a set of two exhibitions currently on had been specially recommended to me, both curated by Jacqueline Chau whose taste and abilities I value. What I was going to see, I was told, was the work of Beili Liu — a gifted young woman artist of Chinese descent now teaching at the Austin campus of the University of Texas — whom I did not know, or had not even heard of till now, because, even though I had taught at the same University, that was long years ago. The two installations bore tantalising titles: ‘Lure’ was one of them, and ‘Each and Every’ the other.It all began at the ground floor: a spacious gallery bathed in the glow of a soft red light, in which a virtual forest of strings, all coloured red, hung from the ceiling; at the bottom end of each were hand-coiled disks of red thread, each pierced at the centre by a single sewing needle, enabling its suspension from the ceiling. Some discs were connected to another, as a pair; some pairs were made from a single thread, each meticulously worked out with hands. And as one saw with unbelieving eyes this magical garden of red ‘flowers’, subtle air currents set the red thread coils swaying and turning slowly while the loose strands of thread on the floor drifted and became entangled and then separated.You could walk lightly around the entire arrangement even if not quite circumambulate it while taking in the beauteous sight. But then, a didactic on the wall told you that the entire installation was inspired by an old Chinese legend of ‘The Red Thread’, which tells that ‘when children are born, invisible red threads connect them to their soul mates. Over the years of their lives they come closer and eventually find each other, overcoming great social divides or physical distances’. ‘Lure’, I reminded myself, was the title of the show.Charmed as I was with what I saw, I was, candidly, completely unprepared for what I saw in another gallery, equally spacious, on another floor. Here, also, thousands of strings hung from the ceiling, but there was virtually no colour, none at all. All that one saw was literally hundreds of items of uniformly grey clothing of small children — frocks, shorts, trousers, socks, shoes — all neatly arranged, and all, lying close to one another, spread on the floor, even though not touching it. The whole installation felt like a quiet, monochromatic scene because each string and each garment was dry and coated with cement, the singular grey colour binding them into a dead uniformity. The clothes were permanently pressed, and yet not totally flat, ‘preserving some sense of their original shape, even maintaining the drapes, folds, and materiality familiar to fabric’. It was as if they had all belonged to children who had worn them once and had now disappeared in a nameless void. A silence lingered over the entire scene and one was gripped by an overpowering sense of sadness and loss. As a visitor, deeply moved by the sight, put it: “One almost became numb, staring out at them”. For her — possibly a mother who had been separated from her child by politics — “the forest of strings turned to mist and then a mirage in the distance went off into infinite space. In a split second, I visualised a crowd of children as they got up off the floor and faded off into space like spirits from another world”. Beili Liu, in this stunning installation, might have been speaking of herself as ‘an artist, mother, and immigrant’, but she was also addressing herself to ‘Each and Every’: the title that she had chosen.Speaking for myself, I too, like the visitor who wrote the words that I have cited above, felt deeply moved by all this. There are embedded, in Beili Liu’s work, ideas of transience and fragility, of chaos and order, of despair and hope. And, taken together, they make for that reaching out towards understanding the ‘human condition’ [‘La Condition Humaine’] that Andre Malraux spoke of years ago. One sees it in an installation like the one in which Beili sits by herself, stitching, under a threatening bank of 1500 dagger-sharp scissors suspended from the ceiling above her, hovering like a cloud,to draw attention to the lot of Chinese seamstresses ceaselessly at work; or, in that other installation called ‘Thirst’ featuring a 38-foot tall drought-killed tree anchored in the center of the Lady Bird Lake in Austin. This, last mentioned, is her memorial to the loss of over 500 million trees that are known to have died of thirst in the droughts between the years 2011 and 2013.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-moving-world-of-beili-liu-76541
26-04-2020||Sarika Sharma||Migration to saaddi ma boli||Ma boli, saaddi ma boliBacheyaan nu hai dindi loriMa ne sanu janam hai dittaDharti ma ne jagah hai dittiMa boli vich bolna sikheyaMa boli ne maan vadhayaa…Tinna ton vaddi ni maayaMa de charna ch sis navayaMil ke asi pyaar vadhaya — Saadiyaan Tinn Maavaan by AryanThey speak the language. They write poetry in it too. They talk about birds, earth, Bhagat Singh, azaadi, coolies… they talk about dreams. This one by a Class V student talks about three mothers — the mother who gives us birth, mother earth and mother language. Language, for kids like Aryan, is a strange phenomenon. His parents are from Uttar Pradesh but his poems are in Punjabi. Living in a slum near Grain Market in Patiala, does he too wonder about this predicament? Maybe not. Maybe it comes naturally to him. Just like his teacher, poet and translator Satpal Bhikhi, who was born in Punjab but traces his roots to Mainpuri in UP.As it becomes a long journey home for some migrants and an endless wait for others in the times of the pandemic, there are migrants for whom Punjab is home and Punjabi the mother tongue. They may or may not have been born here, but they have known it enough to be able to read and write in it and loved it enough to be able to pursue literature, the highest form of creativity, in it.Satpal Bhikhi, poetI don’t know Mainpuri as well as Bhikhi. Punjabi is the language I converse in with my friends and family. I grew up on Punjabi literature, magazines like Nawan Zamana and Soviet literature that was available to us in Punjabi.A teacher at the government elementary school in Grain Market, Satpal says he doesn’t know Mainpuri as well as he knows Bhikhi in Mansa where he was born. His father came here looking for work in 1961 and stayed on. “I just know Punjabi. I just know Punjabi culture. I love Punjabi language. This is my language. This is the only language I can express myself in,” says Bhikhi, who won the Sahitya Akademi’s highest award for children’s literature, Bal Sahit Puraskar in 2017. He has penned about 15 books for kids and translated world literature for them.Pradeep Bose, poetI don’t think a Punjabi-speaking/writing Bengali is an aberration. Why should I be? I was born and brought up here. This is what I am most at home. In fact, my Bengali is not as good as my Punjabi, but I can speak Pahari well too as my wife is one.His brother Laxmi Narayan Bhikhi, 12 years elder to him, is also a prominent Punjabi poet and critic. He was a month old when they landed in Punjab. “Our father came here and engaged in agriculture. He was unlettered, but wanted us to study,” he recalls. Though not a conventionally bright student, he took to poetry early on, while still in school. Sympathetic to the Naxalite movement, he wrote progressive poetry and revolutionary songs.Around the same time Pradeep Bose, whose father came to Punjab from Bengal to join his job with the Railways, was learning the uda, aida of Punjabi language. In the next decade, he was to be in the thick of literary action in Punjab, more specifically, Ludhiana. Studying to be a veterinary doctor at Punjab Agricultural University, he was the secretary of the Young Writers’ Association when his friend Pash was murdered and organised a gathering at PAU in protest. His first poem was published in Amrita Pritam’s Nagmani in 1976.Surjit Patar, poet & president Punjab arts councilWhat is mother language? For me, this earth is mother. And people enrich each other’s languages. So many of our words have come from Persian. Come to think of it, even words such as ishq and rabb are not ours.Now based in Rajasthan, Bose says his Bengali is not as good as his Punjabi. He may have left Punjab, but not Punjabi. His latest anthology of poems, Shehar de Khilaaf, has just been published. He says a Punjabi-speaking Bengali isn’t an aberration. “Why should I be?” he asks. “I was born and brought up here. This is what I am most at home.”With native Punjabis opting to send their kids to private schools, kids of migrants labourers are mostly the only ones studying in government schools where Punjabi is the medium of instruction. Satpal’s students come from all over India — UP, Bihar, Odisha, Bengal… and, at times, from Nepal too. As teacher, he has been actively encouraging his students to express their creative instincts in Punjabi. Saadiyaan Tinn Maavaan by Aryan was part of his anthology of poems which came out in two volumes between 2016 and 2018. Satpal says he gave topics to kids, who penned several poems. The best ones made their way to the anthology. Rajni, a student of his, he proudly tells, won an award from the Punjabi Sahit Akademi, Ludhiana, too. “She wrote four books too. Sadly, she couldn’t pursue her studies. After Plus Two, her parents married her off. Dickens says poverty is a social disease. And when you are plagued by this disease, all other diseases follow. She had the potential, but life’s realities caught up with her. She quit writing.”Rajni reminds one of Madhuri from Surjit Patar’s remarkable 1999 poem Aaya Nand Kishore:In search of subsistencearrived Nand Kishorefrom faraway Biharin the train Sealdahaccompanied by many more.---------------------------------------With him was Ramkalihis wife, suave and gentle.Close to Ludhianain a village Barewalthe roots took hold and germinated.---------------------------------------From the womb of Ramkalitook birth his daughterwho was named Madhuri.Yesterday I saw Madhuriin the same village schoolwith her plaits tied in ribbonwiping clean her slatewriting Punjabi alphabet.---------------------------------------The daughter of Nand Kishorewriting Punjabi alphabet!So deep is the relationshipbetween alphabets and subsistence…  (Translated by Gurshminder Jagpal)The second half of the poem is about the village landlord’s grandsons going to a convent school in the city. Patar says this poem is his reflection on how a language lives and how it dies.Aaya Nand Kishore inspired London-based Punjabi poet Amarjit Chandan to write an essay. He says the poem is a tale from early 1970s Punjab when the arrival of migrant labourers from UP and Bihar coincided with the migration of Punjabis to foreign lands and the alienation of new-rich Punjabis from themselves, their land and their language. However, the migrants were not welcomed in the new land. Local leaders were soon spewing venom against them. But they were here already, and here they are today, adopting the land and learning the language it speaks.Recalling the essay written in 2000, Chandan says it saddens him to see Madhuri is denied the basic human right of getting an education in her mother tongue. “Maybe she’d be a writer of Punjabi one day. But at what cost!” Chandan sometimes writes poetry in English, with which he has lived almost all his life. “But I still can’t enter the soul of English language. This is my sad predicament,” he says, but chooses to not comment on non-Punjabis writing poetry in the language which is not their blood language.But poet Gurbhajan Gill is generous in his praise. “They first inherited a land and then they inherited its language,” he says. And that is why, for him, the Bhikhi brothers, Bose, singer Ravinder Grewal’s migrant lyricist, are all “brave people”.‘Viewed differently if from UP, Bihar’Poet Satpal Bhikhi says “you are automatically viewed differently in India if you are from UP, Bihar or from Kashmir”. Add to it economic and caste backwardness. “I don’t think this bias is as strong as it is when you are from elsewhere in India,” he says. Laxmi Narayan Bhikhi feels the Punjabi intelligentsia has failed the migrant. He says their heart bleeds for Punjabis abroad but they don’t see those who have migrated to their land in the same light. “One never sees them talk about the migrants’ rights.” He says people go abroad because there are no jobs for them here. “Same is true for those who come to Punjab, isn’t it?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/migration-to-saaddi-ma-boli-76539
