26-07-2020||Bhim Raj Garg||Punjab’s Rafi, Rafi’s Punjab — a bond of love||A young Pheeku was casually singing Waris Shah’s Heer when Pandit Jiwan Lal Mattoo of All India Radio, Lahore, discovered him. He took him under his wings, gave him training in classical music and honed the talent of the lad who the world would come to know as Mohammed Rafi. His singing talent was to be recognised on a grand scale during a performance at the All-India Exhibition, Lahore, in 1937. Present at the occasion was KL Saigal, who had predicted then and there that the young man would become a singing sensation. And he did, and he remains a singing superstar 40 years after he became one with the stars.Rafi was born in a small village, Kotla Sultan Singh, of Amritsar. With his rich tonal voice, versatility and crystal clear intonations, he rendered thousands of unique heart-wrenching songs, varying from fast, peppy numbers to classical songs, heartrending melodies to romantic songs, qawwalis to ghazals and bhajans to patriotic songs. Rafi’s mellifluous voice boomed not only across India but around the world. However, it is the inseparable connection between him and Punjab that we talk about today.Rafi was introduced to filmdom by music director Shyam Sunder in 1942. His first song was a duet, “Pardesi…Sohneya Oye, Heeriye Oye” with Zeenat Begum in a Punjabi movie Gul Baloch (1945). Rafi sang another duet, “Aa Chann Ve”, with Munawar Sultana under Lachhi Ram and a chorus, “Sun Sun Nikki Jehi Gall”, under the music direction of Pt Amar Nath. His songs became very popular even before the release of Gul Baloch on August 23, 1946. The rest, as they say, is history.Bombay beckoned soon and actor-producer Nazeer paid him Rs100 and a rail ticket from Lahore to Bombay. The story of Rafi’s first recording as narrated by Naushad goes like this: “In order to give a marching effect to the patriotic song, “Hindustan Ke Hum Hain” (Pehle Aap, 1944), he asked the chorus singers to wear heavy military shoes and sing the song making a rhythmic sound by hitting the booted legs in unison. After the recording, Rafi’s feet were bleeding but his face was glowing with the joy of singing his first song in a Hindi movie.” However, some say Rafi’s first Hindi film song was “Jab Dil Ho Kaabu Mein” (Gaon Ki Gori, 1945).and son Khalid.A successful Bollywood outing had kicked off, but Rafi was extremely nostalgic about his Punjabi roots. Love for his land led him to record many Punjabi folk and film songs and shabads from Gurbani. Following Partition of India, he devoted equally to playback singing in Hindi and Punjabi movies. He rendered 262 songs in 105 Punjabi movies. He recorded five songs in Punjabi film Lachhi (1949) under the music direction of Hansraj Behl. His solo, “Jag Wala Mela Yaaro”, went on to become immensely popular on both sides of the border. His duets with Lata Mangeshkar, “Kaali Kangi Naal” and “Tumba Vajdae Na”, also made it to the top of the musical charts. He became the most sought-after playback singer in Punjabi cinema.In 1951, he sang three songs under Sardul Kwatra and his duet with Asha Bhosle, “Tun Peengh Te Main Parchhavan”, hit the bull’s eye. Punjab was still reeling under the pain of Partition when his philosophical rendering, “Darh Vatt Zamana Katt Bhale Din Aawange” (Jugni, 1953), was released, offering a healing touch.By now, Rafi had become a force to reckon with in Hindi cinema and found little time for Punjabi movies. However, he made a comeback with “Jatt Kudiyaan Ton Darda Mara” (Bhangra, 1959). Next year, he gave voice to dance director Sohan Lal Khanna’s popular bhangra number “Teri Kanak Di Raakhi Mundiya” (Do Lachhian).Apart from Punjabi film music, Rafi cut many records of non-film songs, Punjabi folk, shabads, naats, etc. A 78 rpm record of two shabads from the 1950s, “Har Ko Naam Sada Sukhdai” and “Jis Sar Upar Tu Swami”, became an all-time hit and was regularly played from the community loudspeakers in village gurdwaras in the mornings.His heart in the right place, Rafi’s conversations at home and in private circles were always in Punjabi. If any, there was one wish that remained unfulfilled: a chance to go to Lahore. A performance was cancelled due to the Indo-China War and he was always remorseful about it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/punjabs-rafi-rafis-punjab-%E2%80%94-a-bond-of-love-118094
26-07-2020||Kalpana Sunder||A bite of churchkhela, Georgia’s dessert||AT first glance they look like party decorations or giant waxy candlesticks — a rainbow of colourful strings festooning every market and street stall in Tbilsi, the capital of Georgia. Our local guide Nino explains that they are actually churchkhela or juice-coated nuts, which are Georgia’s favourite candy and energy bars. Made from grapes, nuts and flour, its manufacture was included on country’s Intangible Cultural Heritage List in 2015.Legend has it that churchkhela was originally made for Georgian soldiers marching into battle because it was compact and easy to carry, and was a nutritious, calorie-packed snack that would not perish easily. It was traditionally walnuts dipped in grape juice, thickened with flour, and then dried in the sun. “The best churchkhela comes from Kakheti region, which is also famous for wines,” says Nino.We watched the process of making churchkhela at Dr George Laboratory, a family enterprise outside Tbisli, the capital of Georgia. The small family run unit uses special Saperavi and Rkatsiteli variety of grape juice from Kakheti. This cinnamon-coloured juice is placed in a gargantuan bronze pot and heated, stirred with a big wooden spoon and condensed to almost half the quantity. Wheat flour is then added to thicken it, making it viscous. This thick, gelatinous liquid called tatara is used for dipping the nuts.Walnuts, almonds and hazlenuts are used generally and sometimes raisins and dried peaches are added. Before they are threaded like flowers onto a string using a needle, the nuts are shelled and softened in water. We try our hands after the strings are attached onto a hooked wooden stand, dipping them gently into the liquidrepeatedly, till they are well coated and then left to dry in the sun for at least five days.Churchkela is locals’ favourite snack for road trips, hikes and picnics. It’s also served as a dessert during celebrations. It is usually made during the grape harvest season in autumn, and can be stored for long periods though it tastes divine when fresh. We carry a few strings of these ‘Georgian Snickers’ back home, and every bite of these chewy sweets reminds of the time in this beautiful country with wooden houses and rolling mountains at the crossroads of Europe and Asia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/a-bite-of-churchkhela-georgias-dessert-118081
26-07-2020||Pushpesh Pant||The easy side to Japanese cooking||We have always wondered why Japanese cuisine is not better known in India. There are so many affinities between our culinary philosophy and it is under the influence of Buddhism that the Land of the Rising Sun had become almost exclusively vegetarian for centuries. Meat eating was resumed only in the modern period.The Japanese traditionally followed the cycle of seasons and valued local produce. Scholars have suggested that it is satvik repast at its most sublime. Japanese don’t like to interfere with natural textures, tastes and do minimal cooking to preserve nutrients and natural flavours. Of course, everything is aesthetically presented like a floral arrangement or a beautiful painting on silk scrolls.Rice is a staple and is consumed boiled or in the form of noodles. The noodles, it is believed, are an import from China and are also prepared with wheat and buckwheat. Udon noodles are eaten in hot or cold soup and rice is more often than not topped with dry stuff such as slices of meat, fish or vegetables.In recent years, some Japanese ‘delicacies’ have entered India, at least its big cities. Sushi (fish, roe or prawns rolled in fermented and wrapped in sea weed) has become immensely popular. Indians have, as is their wont, adapted it and started rendering it in vegetarian avatar. Sashmi, that is thinly sliced meat or fish served uncooked, has, however, met with resistance as we aren’t sure about the quality of ingredients available in the market and also are repelled by the idea of eating raw meat.There are quite a few specialty restaurants that have come up in the vicinity of Japanese industrial plants where quite a few expat Japanese managers and engineers work and provide a ready market for ‘home food’.Now, one is told that most of the stuff used in Japanese cooking is imported — from sea weed to sake, mirin vinegar to miso (bean curd). But you don’t have to wait for expensive and exotic imports to get a taste of Japan. Many dishes can be made at home. The Japanese use minimal spicing and little oil and for yakitori, teriyaki and sukiyaki, it is enough to have handy a bottle of soy sauce, good quality wine vinegar, sugar and salt. Tempura, tantalisingly delicate, may deter some, but you just can’t go wrong with good old chicken yakitori, resembling our own tikka. The difference is that chicken for yakitori is not marinated and that is what gives it a distinct identity. While you must resist the temptation to sprinkle tandoori masala on it, you could resort to the Chinese Five Spice Powder, the tension in the region not withstanding!YakitoriIngredientsFor sauce:Method:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-easy-side-to-japanese-cooking-118086
26-07-2020||Puneetinder Kaur Sidhu||Art nourished by food||Look around, and you will find that food has a propensity to make its presence felt in everyday happenings in the most subliminal fashion — in imagery, as a motif, symbolically, even metaphorically. It does not limit itself to being a mere reflection of the history and culture of different geographies, but has proven to be a deep-rooted cornerstone of our existence.And because all of us physically, emotionally, and interpersonally thrive on food, it has come to play a significant role in our social and cultural lives. An aspect that the ongoing pandemic has highlighted equally, and all too glaringly! Our focus these past months, you will realise, has been on comestibles — how to procure, how to clean, how to cook, who to feed, where to deliver, etc.It comes as no surprise, therefore, that food made an early appearance in art, craft, folklore, music and literature. The diversity in its depictions, often serving as revelations about class, gender, politics and religion, has spanned countless civilisations, cultures, and chronologies. It has, in a manner, left an indelible imprint in society’s collective memory.Literary meals“Food to literature is what background music score is to cinema. It is an intertwined part of the narrative. It engages the senses, establishes relationships, reflects socio-economic stratification and gives glimpses of a culture. It is both literal and metaphoric. From piety to gluttony, starvation to celebration, scarcity to abundance — paying attention to the food, being served or not being served, leads to a keener understanding of the world being depicted,” says Dr Harpreet Gill, Associate Professor, MCM DAV College, Chandigarh.She elaborates further, “Oliver Twist’s famous entreaty — ‘Please, Sir, I want some more’— exposes the gluttony and cruelty of the board members and the plight of orphans in Victorian England. The Cratchits in Dickens’ Christmas Carol embedded family warmth into Christmas dinner. And probably also contributed to good old plum pudding being christened as Christmas pudding. Goscinny and Uderzo’s Asterix and Obelix comic series customarily end with a feast, where the entire community comes together and celebrates their victory. And in this happy image, we look for the gagged and tied Cacofonix. It is a tradition.”Mango manifestationThis recurrence of food imagery across arts and folklore serves as a trail of information-rich clues about the times of its inception. Were it not for its presence in the wall relief of Queen Hatshepsut’s funerary monument in Thebes, for instance, we would not have known that the pungent peppercorn had made its way to Egypt in the 15th century BC. The tiny spice’s preservative properties had found a place of much importance in the burial chambers of mummified Pharoahs.In this manner, the arts invite us to feel a specific place at a particular time, with food-related elements completing the sensory experience.In the Indian context, nothing strikes the chord in the way the mango, our national fruit, does. A symbol of prosperity and fertility, it has long held writers, singers, artists, weavers and designers in its spell. The 13th century poet Amir Khusro called it the fairest fruit of the country — Naghza tarin mewa Hindustan. In a later (circa 18th century) miniature painting from the Deccan School, he is shown seated under a fruit-laden mango tree with his spiritual master, the Sufi mystic Nizamuddin Auliya. Moroccan traveller Ibn Battuta, who visited India during the reign of Muhammad bin Tughlaq, reveals his fascination for the mango in the profusely detailed notes he made about its texture, variety, flavour and usage in his travel journals.Traditional adornments also depict the fruit in abundance; the manga malai, a gem-encrusted necklace strung with mango-shaped pendants in gold is one of the most famous pieces of jewellery from the Malabar region.Regardless of what you call it — ambi, kairi, paisley — the mango finds an equally wide representation in Indian textiles. Whether it is the fine needlework on Kashmiri pashminas, or the kalamkari block prints of Andhra Pradesh, craftsmen have skillfully employed, in plenty, the use of the stylised mango in their creations. It also came to be embroidered on to the cool chikankari muslins that Nur Jahan introduced to her tropical wardrobe. Similarly, the mango motif can be spotted in the borders of Paithani silk saris of Maharashtra. Beyond their usage as motifs, extracts from seasonal fruits and vegetables have long been employed to dye cotton and silk yarn.“Vegetable dyes have been used by the traditional rangrez to create patterns and richly coloured textiles for both functional and sartorial requirements of communities. Through this association we’ve come to identify colours as baingani, jamuni, piaji, santari, and angoori, among others,” shares Delhi-based entrepreneur Shilpa Sharma.Folksy PunjabCloser home, the once-vibrant tradition of weaving drawstrings — azarbands or nadas — of Punjab employed the ambi as a decorative element. Paeans have been sung about the ‘reshmi naaley’ of Patiala, a city that also boasts of delicate footwear with tilla-work as a longstanding handicraft. It is hard to find a pair without the paisley.The state’s well-known embroidered textile, phulkari, is an intricate study of interplay between the creator and her surroundings. Traditionally made on hand-woven khaddar or malmal, a bagh is a type entirely covered in motifs that are generally floral in nature. The belan bagh is a colourful and fairly common variation, with stylised representations of the rolling pin emblazoned across it. Vegetables like mirchi, gobhi, dhania, and karela lend their name and motif-shape to eponymous baghs. Similarly millet cobs and wheat ears have been spotted embroidered along many a phulkari selvedge. The latter also borrows its name — kanki butti — from kanak (wheat). Coconuts and walnuts have also been known to make a geometric appearance every now and then. The sainchi, on the other hand, is a scenic narrative of daily village life and often includes human elements, including women cooking or churning milk.In all this, it’s somewhat surprising that the ambi makes only an occasional appearance here. I suppose that’s why we sing about the fruit instead, to make up for that other anomaly! “Ni ambiyan nu tarsengi, chhad ke shehar Doaba”, laments a lover on discovering his beloved is moving on and away.“Rut bhangra paan di aayi, ke ambiyan nu boor pai giya”, goes one of several duets that celebrate the advent of spring. A time of much significance for an agrarian land as it also coincides with the harvest season. The reference to crops, seasons, festivals and fields is but expected. Indeed, Punjab’s lilting folksongs are a lyrical manifestation of its hardy, happy and spirited people. Songs like “bajre da sitta ve assaan talli te maroreya” also celebrate the voice of the woman, giving her agency to articulate her existence. Confident in herself, she compares her sulking lover’s pliant return — “Ruthra jaanda mahiya ve asaan galli wich moreya” — to the millet cob she bends easily in her palm. “Mele nu chal mere naal kude” (see box) in Asa Singh Mastana’s earthy voice is, perhaps, the finest example of the joie de vivre Punjabis are synonymous with. Thrilled at the bountiful harvest that waits, the farmer invites his wife to accompany him to the Baisakhi fair, promising her an outing replete with fun, food, and shopping. Ultimately, a joyous celebration of labour!Mele Nu Chal Mere Naal KudeAjj saare chhad janjaal kude,ajj saare chhad janjaal kudemele nuu, ahaa, mele nu chalmere naal kude, ho ho, ho hoKar buha samb shtaabi ni,le pakad sandook di chaabi nikoi soot tu kad gulabi ni,pa tille di gurgaabi ni le booteyan waala rumaal kude, mele nu…Ni vaisakhi ajj manawange,vaisakhi aj manawange,mele te bhangre paawange,ral se peeng chadawangeTe baeke authe khawaange,Ladduaan da, ahaa ladduaanda leke thaal kude,mele nuu, ahaa, mele nu….Kankaan diya faslan pakiyaan ne, kankaan diya faslan pakiyaan ne, ghar saade barkhta vasiyaan ne, mera pyaar tere naal boodha naiSone da kadaa deya choorha nai,rab keeta, ahaa rab keeta haimalamaal kude, mele nu…Tere nain jo peeti bhang ude,tere nain jo peeti bhang ude,te waang tamaater rang ude,koi nazar na tenu laa deve,Jaadu na akh da paa deve,rataa rakhi, ahaa,rataa rakhi roop sambhaal kude, mele nu…— Asa Singh Mastana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/art-nourished-by-food-117990
26-07-2020||Pushpa Girimaji||Face masks: What works, what doesn’t||Following the Covid-19 pandemic, we were all told that we should wear masks to contain the spread of the disease and we don’t have to spend money on expensive masks, but can make our own simple cotton masks from any old cloth or just tie a scarf or a large handkerchief to cover our mouth and nose. However, with several of my friends catching the virus despite the mask, I am wondering whether the masks that we are wearing are safe enough. Can you throw some light on this?Well, N-95 masks offer the best protection — the number 95 representing the percentage of filtration efficiency of the mask. Besides, they are so designed as to fit snugly around the nose and the mouth so that there is no gap between the mask and the face, thus offering maximum protection. However, because of their shortage, these have been reserved for those working in the health sector or those taking care of Covid-19 positive patients at home.Studies have shown that homemade single layered cloth masks do not, in any way, match up to the filtration efficiency of the N-95. And if these masks are loose fitting, then the protection is even less. However, one need not despair. The fabric masks can be as good as the best, with the use of the right material, design and fit.Several recent studies evaluating the efficiency of cloth masks in filtering viruses have given us excellent insight into the filtering properties of various fabrics and how to design them in such a way as to ensure maximum protection from the deadly virus. I would like to quote in this context, a study published in April in the American Chemical Society Journal (ACS Nano) this year. Titled ‘Aerosol Filtration Efficiency of Common Fabrics used in Respiratory Cloth Masks’, it looked at 15 different kinds of fabrics, including cotton, cotton quilt, natural silk, flannel (65 per cent cotton and 35 per cent polyester) , synthetic silk or polyester, chiffon (90 per cent polyester and 10 per cent spandex), different polyester cotton blends, to mention some. The study’s conclusions guide us in making the best masks for our protection.The study points out that the filtration efficiency of a fabric varies on the basis of its thread count. Cotton, for example, performs much better as a material for mask, at higher weave densities or thread count; 600 TPI (threads per inch) cotton was found to be far more effective than 80 TPI cotton. It recommends that porous fabrics should be avoided and those with tight weaves and low porosity, such as those found in cotton sheets with high thread count should be used for making the mask.The study emphasises that more layers of fabric provide better protection than a single layer. For example, while two layers of natural silk offered 65 per cent filtration efficiency, four layers gave 86 per cent. The efficiency of one layer of 600 TPI cotton was 79 per cent, while that of two layers was 82 per cent. Similarly, a layer of chiffon gave 67 per cent filtration efficiency, while two layers, 83 per cent.It found that by combining different kinds of fabrics and leveraging their mechanical and electrostatic filtering properties, the mask could be made even more effective. For example, a hybrid cloth mask made of one layer of high thread count cotton and two layers of natural silk or chiffon was even more superior. While such hybrids of cotton and chiffon showed a filtration efficiency of as much as 97 per cent, that with cotton and silk showed 94 per cent.The study found that an ill-fitting or loose mask that did not hold onto the face tightly and left gaps reduced the filtration efficiency by as much as 50-60 per cent. While a proper fitting cotton and silk hybrid mask provided a filtration efficiency of 94 per cent, an ill-fitting one gave a filtration efficiency of just 37 per cent.Are such masks available in market?I am sure they are. These days, so many companies are making masks. You can also make them at home or get one tailored for you. Just ensure that they fit well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/face-masks-what-works-what-doesnt-117992
26-07-2020||Sarika Sharma||100 years of Subhadra, IC Nanda’s play on widow remarriage||A hundred years ago, Ireland was seeking freedom from British rule and its artistes were using freedom of women as a metaphor to seek freedom for their nation. Perhaps under the influence of his Irish teachers, a young man in India had felt swayed enough to sit up and write about the women in his own country, their rights, their lives, their choices — all denied to them by the feudal society they lived in. Known as the father of Punjabi drama, Ishwar Chander Nanda’s 1920 play on widow remarriage, Subhadra, was a revolutionary piece of writing for the times, a major departure from the tradition of religious and folk theatre of Punjab. The play turns 100 this year.Photo courtesy: Amarjit ChandanThe three-act play tells the story of a young widow suffering under the rigid laws of society. Aware of her sufferings, her parents feel helpless under the social mores, but her brother wants to get her remarried to his friend. The whole world turns against him for defying the social mores, but he persists. Nanda borrowed the plot from his friend who had attempted a similar step vis-à-vis his sister.Playwright Atamjit points out that the Punjab of that time was undergoing a tragic social change. In the preceding few years, several men had left Punjab villages to fight in World War I. “So many lives were lost there, leaving as many women widowed. It is amid this background that Nanda talks of second marriage.”He says Nanda was the pioneer when it came to writing on women and women rights. “His very first play, Dulhan (which kicked off modern Punjabi drama) had the same theme — liberty of women. The society around was feudal and the drama committed itself to the cause,” he says, pointing out that Nanda was under the influence of Norah Richards, the Irish actress and theatre director who introduced Punjab to progressive theatre in Punjabi language. She was fondly known as Lady Gregory of Punjab, after the legendary Irish dramatist.Dulhan (also known as Suhaag) is the story of a young girl whose father wants to get her married to an elderly man, but the girl refuses. “It is a very peculiar situation for the girl’s mother. She understands her daughter but is bound by economic compulsions. When the baraat is at the gate, the girl runs away and the parents marry her younger sister, almost an infant, to the man. While one realises that marriage of an even younger girl is a bigger problem, the elder one’s decision to run away is a revolutionary step. Nanda’s play celebrating her guts won the first prize in the competition organised by Norah Richards,” says Atamjit. The award encouraged him to write more such plays. For instance, Lily Da Viah, which was about a rich woman marrying her poor tutor.courtesy: panjab digital libraryNanda toured villages staging Subhadra, starting conversations, inviting criticisms... Theatre director Sahib Singh says Norah wrote that Nanda’s plays, including Subhadra, often met with criticism. “They would often create a stir and Norah would tell her students that only amid such opposition can the rigid norms of society be broken,” he says.In recent times, however, Subhadra stands forgotten. It was last staged in 1992 by Gursharan Singh. Sahib Singh played the progressive brother and local actor Sonia played Subhadra. While Atamjit feels lost interest in the play hints at its irrelevance in today’s times, Sahib Singh says that as long as women are denied their due, the play will serve as a metaphor for women’s rights.'Reformers’ understanding of a widow’s sexuality was complex'Anshu Malhotra, Professor and Kapany Chair for Sikh and Punjab Studies at University of California, Santa Barbara, has written extensively on gender issues and discusses the play in her 2002 book Gender, Caste and Religious Identities: Restructuring Class in Colonial Punjab. She says the reformers’ understanding of a widow’s sexuality was complex, but they normally used the fear of her sexuality (outside of marriage) to advocate widow remarriage. “IC Nanda does that in the play too. Also, in reality, not much changed for widows, with very few remarriages actually taking place,” she says. Atamjit agrees, but points out that in Subhadra, the second marriage is not an act of emotion, but a rational solution. The situation was grim, but there was no solution. “He offered one,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/100-years-of-subhadra-ic-nandas-play-on-widow-remarriage-117993
