26-10-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Legislative lacunae||GAUGING the unrest among farmers, Punjab has taken the legislative route to pass amendments to the Central laws, throwing the ball in the BJP’s court. The amendments seek to secure the MSP and initiate criminal action against those buying the crop below the MSP, besides provisions against hoarding of foodgrains, even though it is the Centre that procures grains and pays for the produce at the MSP.Political analysts and agriculture experts say the amendments are based on apprehensions that the Centre is shying away from procurement and could eventually dismantle the MSP regime. The state government has tried to address the concerns of the farmers by tabling the Bills in the Assembly. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has even threatened to knock at the door of the Supreme Court if the President refuses to give his assent.No sooner were the amendments passed during the recent House session that Congress leaders and spin doctors were out in the field, setting the agenda for the 2022 Assembly polls.Every major political party in Punjab, be it the ruling Congress or the opposition Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party, is trying to reach out to the huge vote bank of farmers. In the run-up to the 2017 Assembly polls, the Congress had promised a major loan waiver scheme to woo farmers. This poll sop had paid dividends to the party.The BJP, the ruling party at the Centre, has launched a series of schemes for farmers in recent years, including Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN), but the 2020 laws — initially promulgated as ordinances —have put the party on a sticky wicket. It is a moot point what the farmers would gain from this tussle between the state and the Centre.A political analyst, Prof Pramod Kumar, Director, Institute for Development and Communication, says the main issues of the Centre procuring the foodgrains and giving the MSP have not been addressed in the state amendment Bills. Instead, the state should have passed a resolution seeking a written commitment from the Centre to address both issues.“The basic question is: who is going to procure the foodgrains? If the Centre doesn’t procure at all or procures partially, will the state do the needful? If the Centre fixes the MSP at less than the cost of production, will the state fix its own MSP and procure the produce? If neither the state nor the Centre fully procures, then who will procure? If the Centre says that it will procure as per its Acts, will the state government debar it from procurement,” asks Kumar.What the Bills offerThe Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill: No sale of paddy and wheat in Punjab will be valid unless the payment is equal to or above the MSP. Those buying at less than MSP will be liable for punishment of three years and a fine.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill: Makes it mandatory for those entering into contract farming with farmers to pay the MSP or above. Punishment of three years and fine if the law is violated.The Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill: Keeps all powers to fix stock limits of foodgrains with state. Rejects the Centre’s powers to fix stock limits. The Bill aims to protect the consumers from hoarding and black marketing of agricultural produce to secure and protect the interests and livelihood of farmers and farm labourers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/legislative-lacunae-161259
26-10-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab’s Farm Bills: Farmers in for the long haul||THE passage of the farm Bills by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha last week witnessed rare — though short-lived — unanimity between ruling and opposition parties. The Bills, many experts fear, may not be legally tenable, but the fact that various political parties together opposed the Centre’s laws is a significant development.Gian Singh, an eminent agro economist who has studied farm suicides caused by high rural indebtedness in the state, says just like Punjab ushered in the Green Revolution and made the country food-surplus, the state has now taken the lead in confronting the Centre over laws aimed at corporatising agriculture. “Other non-BJP-ruled states are looking to emulate Punjab’s Bills,” he adds.The passage of these Bills seems to have placated the farmers, who had been protesting for a month or so, for the time being. Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), says they are aware that the Bills are unlikely to offer them protection against the Central laws.“Our agitation has got a big boost with the entire House (except two BJP MLAs) supporting the amendments to the Centre’s laws. It emboldens us to take on the Centre at the national level,” he adds.The state government maintains that agriculture, Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) and land are state subjects under the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, and states have the powers to frame laws and make related policies. Some officials, however, admit that the Central laws would be in force in the state till the time the Bills passed by the Punjab Assembly are cleared by the Union Home Ministry and sent for the President’s assent. They are apprehensive that the Bills may not be granted approval. “The ideal thing would have been to amend the APMC Act, and declare the entire area of the state as a primary market yard. The Central laws are applicable only outside the area of an APMC,” says a senior officer on the condition of anonymity.The Union Government can frame laws to control the production, supply and distribution of agricultural products. Thus, this aspect of trade of commodities falls in the Concurrent list, and the Centre has framed its Acts on this basis. In this light, it is yet to be seen if the Bills passed by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha can stand legal scrutiny, being in direct conflict with the Central laws.Eminent food policy expert Devinder Sharma says the most important difference between Punjab’s Bills and the Centre’s Acts is that the former keep the mandis relevant and recognise MSP as a right of the farmers.Another dimension of the Bills is that these will dissuade private players from entering Punjab. Already, private participation in foodgrain procurement in the state is less than 1 per cent. By passing Bills that make buying of foodgrains at rates lower than MSP a punishable offence, inviting fine and a three-year prison term, the state is virtually shutting the door on private players. Already, big corporate houses prefer buying grains from Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh because of the high tax rates in Punjab. Only horticultural crops and cotton see some private participation. With MP and UP implementing the Central laws and imposing minimal taxes on the purchase of agricultural produce, the corporates could shun Punjab.Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary, BKU (Dakaunda), however, feels that is a distant possibility. “The success of our struggle now, to stop corporatisation of agriculture, will ensure that the Centre does not shun the purchase of crops. Buying crops and maintaining adequate food stocks are needed for the nation’s food security and we hope better sense prevails on the policy-makers. The system of buying grains from farmers has continued for decades; it sustains agriculture here. In a welfare nation, this cannot be stopped. That is why indications to this effect are meeting with stiff resistance from not only farmers, but also from all sections of society in the agrarian states,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/punjabs-farm-bills-farmers-in-for-the-long-haul-161253
