27-04-2020||Inderpreet Kaur & Pranav K Singh||Covid-19 effect: Dairy sector in the doldrums||The spread of Covid-19 has forced the country to go under lockdown. All businesses in Punjab have taken a hit, including the dairy sector. Only essential commodities, including milk, are allowed to be home-delivered. However, the domestic consumption of milk has been disrupted by the curfew in Punjab. Mainly due to the closure of commercial outlets, the demand for milk has seen a drastic fall.More than 70 per cent of milk is being produced by small farmers; milk provides immediate cash for their livelihood. These small farmers are worst hit due to lower demand and consequently no/partial procurement. The major share of milk is handled by the unorganised sector comprising milkmen, milk contractors, halwai shops/ creameries/city-based private dairy shops etc., while only 30 per cent is handled by the organised sector — dairy cooperatives and private milk plants. Milk is a perishable product and it can’t be stored without proper processing. That is why reports of dumping of fresh milk by farmers are coming in from different parts of the world. In the Indian dairy sector, milk is collected twice a day (morning and evening), unlike the developed countries where it is stored in silos at dairy farms and collected by dairy plants on a weekly or biweekly basis. With the drop in milk demand, the sale of dairy products, particularly value-added products, has also gone down. Private plants which are mainly involved in the production of value-added dairy products are witnessing a major liquidity crisis.Punjab has the highest per capita milk availability in the country. It accounts for around 6.7 per cent of the total national milk production. It has 10 milk plants in the cooperative sector with a total installed capacity of around 20 lakh litres per day. However, current daily milk procurement is 26.5 lakh litres per day (as on April 1, 2020) which is around 32 per cent higher than their installed capacity. It’s tough for dairies around the country to handle a surge in fresh milk supply on the one hand and a concurrent major drop in demand for milk and milk products on the other.Usually, when there is greater availability of liquid milk, extra milk is converted by dairy plants into skimmed milk powder (SMP) to meet the peak demand in the summer season. However, mainly due to the liquidity crisis and limitation of working capital, dairy plants cannot afford to manage delivery of surplus milk. Punjab has one of the strongest networks of milk procurement by organised sector players like Verka, Nestle, Amul, Nutricia, True Milk, Metro Dairy etc., but still dairy farmers are finding it difficult to dispose of their milk. Some milk plants are accepting the milk from farmers on the condition of deferred payment, while other plants have started practising a weekly milk holiday — no milk collection on that particular day. Difficulties are also arising in fixing milk prices. There is a fall in milk prices and farmers may be disposing the milk at a price lower than the cost of production.Punjab has 32 lakh households, of which about 14 lakh are rearing cattle. It is imperative for the government to come up with measures to bail out the dairy sector. The government can ensure hassle-free availability of easy credit through banks to meet the working capital requirements of dairy plants. If required, provision of granting loan against the stock of SMP/butter/ghee (long shelf life products) could be a good proposition for the banks. The government can streamline doorstep delivery of milk. It can consider allowing the opening of halwai shops/creameries for a few hours daily, provided social distancing norms are observed. Under the free ration scheme being undertaken by the government during lockdown, milk packets can be included. Dairy farmers and plants can convert milk into ghee and other products which have a longer shelf life.— The authors are livestock economist and dairy technologist, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana. Views are personal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/covid-19-effect-dairy-sector-in-the-doldrums-76958
27-04-2020||Parveen Arora||Slow start amid hiccups in Haryana||Amid the Covid-induced lockdown, wheat procurement began in Haryana on April 20. Among the major hurdles which resulted in slow harvesting and procurement are shortage of labour for harvesting, rain and thunderstorm during harvesting, invitation to a limited number of registered farmers through phone calls or SMS to purchase centres for selling their produce, names of registered farmers ‘missing’ from the e-kharid portal of the Haryana Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB), and opposition to e-procurement by the arhtiyas.In the first three days, the procurement process started at only about half of the purchase centres across the state.During this period, around 44,000 farmers turned up at these purchase centres and around 53 lakh quintals of wheat was procured. Now, the state government has chalked out a plan to involve panchayats and farmer producer organisations (FPOs) in procurement to speedup the process.“I have not received any message from the Market Committee or the arhtiya concerned so far, though I have harvested the crop on about 20 acres and am already registered,” says Sunil Bisla, a farmer from Dayalpur village of Faridabad district. “I do not even know how long I will have to wait in view of the threat of inclement weather,” he adds.Expressing resentment over the system of inviting only those farmers who were registered on the portal, Rattan Mann, state president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), says there should be a provision of issuance of passes to the farmers who have already cultivated their crop. “A majority of the farmers have been facing the problem as they are illiterate and have no knowledge of the system. They have already harvested their crop and have no storage space. I request the government to provide gate passes to these farmers also,” he demands. The number of farmers at each purchase centre should be increased, he says.Arhtiyas allege irregularities in the issuance of tokens to farmers. “Only 15-20 per cent of the commission agents are getting work, while others are left jobless as only 50-100 farmers can sell their produce in a single day,” says Devash, a commission agent from Faridabad.The move to allot purchase centres to arhtiyas by the HSAMB authorities is also not going down well with the agents in almost all districts of the state. “The department has dedicated rice mills which have limited space, while the number of arhtiyas is high. The department should raise the number of arhtiyas in the grain markets,” says Rajnish Choudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas’ Association.“There are some issues with the Meri Fasal, Mera Byora portal. “The J and I forms of April 20 are not getting generated. We have raised the matter with the marketing board, but to no avail. Farmers are not getting messages in time,” says Dayal Chand, president, Arhtiyas’ Association, Thanesar grain market.“e-procurement is a major issue for the commission agents. The market committees have been sending messages to the farmers asking them to bring their produce, but the latter have been claiming that they get messages during odd hours. It is better if the work of calling farmers is given to the commission agents. We have been doing procurement, but if this issue is resolved, things will get much easier,” says Dolat Ram Bansal, a commission agent in Kurukshetra.Most farmers do not have sufficient space to store the produce till their turn comes at the purchase centres. In some districts, farmers are in a hurry, while in a few they are withholding their produce. Suresh Kumar, a farmer of Dhiktana village in Hisar district, says he brought his wheat produce as he was in need of money. “I need money for domestic purposes and also to prepare for the kharif season. I arrived in the Hisar mandi and the purchase process started almost immediately,” he says.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that maintaining social distancing among farmers, arhtiyas and labourers is still a challenge at purchase centres. Thermal scanning of the farmers is being done at the entry gates of the purchase centres, but sanitisation of the vehicles of the farming community is not being done in a majority of the grain markets. The authorities have to struggle to enforce the guidelines of wearing masks and gloves by the labourers, arhtiyas and farmers.Raj Kumar Beniwal, chief marketing enforcement officer (CMEO), HSAMB, says the slow procurement in the initial days is due to the strike by arhtiyas at various purchase centres. “We have made all arrangements at the purchase centres. Instructions have been issued to the officials for ensuring sanitisation and other safety measures to curb the spread of Covid,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/slow-start-amid-hiccups-in-haryana-76957
