27-09-2020||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal opens doors to tourists, on way to a slow recovery||LAST year, a total of 1.72 crore tourists visited the state — 1.68 crore domestic and 3.56 lakh foreign guests. Government records put the number of registered hotels at 3,679, with a bed capacity of 1,03,053, and home stays at 2,189 (bed capacity of 12,181). Add to it the guest houses, and the total number exceeds 10,000. This year, if at all any numbers are being cited, these are of losses and layoffs.Winter tourism is a miniscule fraction of what the summer rush entails. So, when the lockdown was announced on March 24, the state’s tourism industry could foresee trouble ahead. The blow came when the entire summer season was wiped out. The state government did allow restricted tourism activity from June 8, but the e-pass and mandatory Covid-negative reports for entry into Himachal meant a negligible footfall. The fear of the pandemic and the overhead SOP costs meant that very few hoteliers ventured to allow guests.The unrestricted entry from mid-September has come as a relief for the beleaguered tourism sector, but the overall sentiment remains dim. Shimla and Dharamsala hotels witnessed about 25 per cent occupancy on the first weekend after the borders were opened, but hopes of a gradual revival are being tied with government support, since it is mostly small hotels, guest houses and home stays that have chosen to usher in guests.Sanjay Sood, who heads the Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association and Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association, wants the government to acknowledge the severe beating the sector has taken. “Till we don’t get support, it will be very difficult for us,” he says, as he lists the demands: soft loans, GST waiver for a year, subsidised power and water.The lurking fear of the pandemic has resulted in the hospitality sector of the tribal districts of Kinnaur and Spiti valley unwilling to beckon tourists till October 31. The Manali Hoteliers Association, which will start operations from October 1, remains adamant on allowing tourists only after Covid testing at the Kullu border.Reports of unruly tourist behaviour in the first week of the border reopening — moving around without masks and littering the forests — has only added to the resolve not to open elsewhere. “We cannot take the risk of unforeseen circumstances. It is only after apple harvesting that we will welcome tourists to our pristine destinations in Kinnaur,” says president of the Kinnaur Tourism Associates. No package tours, trekking, camping or jungle safari will be allowed in the Spiti valley, adds Sonam Targey, spokesperson of the Spiti Tourism Society, who points at the limited medical facilities.Some panchayats in Kullu-Manali have passed resolutions not to allow tourists. “We cannot put the entire community at risk simply for our earnings. We have requested the government to create a Covid testing facility at Bajaura, entry to Kullu district, so tourists are screened before entering,” says Anup Thakur, president of the Manali Hoteliers Association. So far, tourists have been staying in private guest houses or home stays.Another fallout of the lockdown has been the huge job loss as the hospitality sector provides indirect employment to lakhs of people like taxi drivers, tourist guides, those involved in adventure activities, dhabas, restaurants and small shops. With hotels closed, the purchase of milk, vegetables and fruit from the villages in the vicinity of hotels also stands affected. However, hoteliers are critical of the government for failing to back them.“I have disposed of the services of all my staff as the situation is unlikely to get normal at least till March. With very limited arrivals and the risk of a Covid-positive person being found in my hotel, I would prefer to remain closed,” says a Shimla hotelier.But all cannot be bad news. And that silver lining comes from Ashwani Bamba, president of the Upper Dharamsala Hotel and Restaurant Association. “Hotel occupancy is expected to improve to 35 per cent by the second week of October. We are getting queries from the across the country.”He points to an interesting trend of ‘working from mountains’. “Several IT professionals are asking for hotel rooms for 15-20 days. The government should cash in on the work-from-home trend.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/himachal-opens-doors-to-tourists-on-way-to-a-slow-recovery-147227
27-09-2020||Anil Walia||Huge image-building, infra upgrade needed for revival of tourism||Ahotelier for 30 years, I speak from experience. The hill states primarily attract tourists during the summer months. This year, things were different following the lockdown. The tourism industry and its stakeholders have been the worst hit with no income for six months.While Rajasthan, Goa and Kerala begun attracting the ‘pent-up’ domestic tourists, the restrictions on entry into Himachal with several pre-conditions for issuance of e-passes and arbitrary approval led to its gaining the reputation of being ‘tourist unfriendly’.Despite the government allowing opening of hotels for inter-district tourists almost two months back, only a handful of small units resumed operations. Himachal finally allowed unrestricted entry from September 15. The sudden opening of borders has led many to wonder why the tourism lockdown was enforced in the first place. As much as the tourism stakeholders want things to get back to normal, they only hope the industry does not become a reason for spreading the contagion in a zone that has been relatively free from it. The entire hotel industry of Kinnaur and Spiti has decided to remain closed till October 31.Many hotels have decided to remain shut as they feel the tourist arrivals will be miniscule. Also, no hotel is re-employing the entire staff.The first weekend after borders were opened saw hotels in Kasauli, Shimla and McLeodganj-Dharamsala registering 10 per cent occupancy, but without discounts. The hoteliers have been given minor concessions, but want soft loans to be able to refurbish properties and rebate in power-water charges.There is a dire need to promote Himachal as a safe destination, akin to what Kerala did after the floods. The government will have to step up tourism infrastructure projects to improve connectivity. An image-building exercise is essential to regain traveller confidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/huge-image-building-infra-upgrade-needed-for-revival-of-tourism-147228
27-09-2020||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur feels that despite wanting to do much more for the severely hit tourism sector||Want to do much more for tourism, hands tied, says Jai Ram Thakur, HP CM||There is no second thought that Covid-19 has dealt a severe blow to the tourism sector in the past few months. We have tried to provide relief to the hoteliers within our limited resources and despite wanting to do much more for them, our hands are tied. Yet, we are eagerly awaiting the award of the 15th Finance Commission and if our financial position permits, we will definitely provide more relief to the tourism industry.During my recent visit to Manali and in my frequent interactions with hoteliers, I have got the feedback that the revival has begun, even though slow, with the opening up of state borders. The fact that Himachal is still far safer in terms of the virus spread and number of cases, as compared to other parts of the country, makes it a preferred destination. The hoteliers have got a lot of queries about the safety norms and facilities in the changed scenario.Manali hospitality units had about 7 per cent occupancy in the first week after opening of borders, which is very welcome, considering how far Kullu-Manali areas are as compared to Kasauli or Shimla. The revival has already begun though the road ahead will be bumpy and difficult.Initial surveys have pegged the losses suffered by the hospitality sector at almost Rs4,000 crore. The government does realise that a lot will have to be done to attract tourists and provide them a very safe and re-assuring atmosphere. Since the government will have to take the lead, we have asked the HPTDC to come up with attractive packages for tourists.The hoteliers will have to ensure a very safe and comfortable stay for their guests as that is the only way to reassure people that Himachal is safe. An extra amount of effort will have to go into this, but there is no other way to get the tourism industry back on track.As far as the tourists are concerned, they will have to abide by the social distancing norms as till now it has been seen that they are being very casual and are not wearing masks, which is not acceptable. The police have been told to be very firm with such people as we cannot risk the health of people of our state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/want-to-do-much-more-for-tourism-hands-tied-says-jai-ram-thakur-hp-cm-147230
27-09-2020||Harkiran Kaur Sodhi||Harpreet Kaur and her 31 rings, an Afghan Sikh refugee’s tale||HARPREET Kaur was a young girl in Delhi when she married her love and moved to Kabul. “At first, I couldn’t understand where I had come. I used to cry in my room,” she recalls. Slowly, the community’s irresistible warmth touched her. “Phir mera bahut dil lag gaya and I didn’t want to leave.” Her parents had left Afghanistan for Delhi after Baisakhi in 1947. She grew up as a daughter of refugees in Delhi but little did she know she was going to become one herself, when she had to move back from Kabul after her husband’s death in a blast in Afghanistan. Harpreet Kaur is one of the rare Delhi transplants into Kabul, who eventually returned to Delhi, now a city of strangers for her.Harpreet has two children, both born in Afghanistan. Her husband, Rawail Singh, was a community leader and trader. “He taught me to read and write. I am literate because of him,” she says. “Every day we made lunch at home, and went out for dinner,” she recalls. Her kids went to good schools and speak fluent Punjabi. She remembers the little things he did. “Every evening their father would come home from work and teach them Punjabi,” she says. “Every year on our anniversary and my birthday, he gifted me a ring,” Harpreet remembers, “I had 31 rings in all. I felt like a queen.”When a six-year-old Muslim girl landed at her doorstep, Harpreet took her in. She became her third child, and grew up with her own children. “Whenever my kids got a dress made, she would get one too”. To Harpreet, it didn’t matter what faith she belonged to.Never in their wildest dreams had the family imagined that their life would change forever. In 2018, her husband received an invitation to join a caravan of Sikh leaders of Afghanistan to meet the President, Ashraf Ghani, in Jalalabad. “I had a feeling that something bad was about to happen,” Harpreet says. But her husband didn’t think twice, “Mein seva karan ja rehan, meinu kuch nahin hunda,” he said, and left. That was the last time Harpreet saw her husband. In a country where explosions and bombings are so frequent, life is uncertain. When Rawail Singh, along with 12 other Sikh leaders, went to meet President Ghani, their van was asked to wait at the gate of the President’s complex. Before they knew it, a suicide bomber appeared and the leaders were no more. Ghani was unharmed. He continued with his meetings.The tragic incident changed the lives of the families related to these 17 leaders. Harpreet’s life was thrust into turmoil. Living in areas of conflict does not make the pain of loss any less. Trauma translates into a blur sometimes, and before she knew it, Harpreet had landed in Delhi. “Afghanistan wasn’t safe,” she says. She left her house in care of the Muslim girl she had raised, now 20 years of age. She left Afghanistan six months after the blast, and took next to nothing with her. But despite having arrived in Delhi more than two years back, Harpreet still considers Afghanistan her home.Harpreet now lives in the Tilak Vihar neighbourhood of Delhi, along with many other Afghan Sikh refugee families. The community continues to struggle. While stories of Partition are romanticised from afar, there is nothing beautiful about this modern-day Sikh refugee crisis. As they all wait to emigrate, the question remains — how are they doing in Delhi?When the pandemic struckThings took a turn for the worse for the community when Covid-19 struck. “My son assisted at a local shop for a meagre pay but during the lockdown, the shops were closed. One day I found him crying like the way he did when his dad died,” says Harpreet. When she asked him the reason, he said, “I want to go back to Afghanistan. I cannot find work; I can’t sit here and be useless all day. If we’re going to die, we’re going to die, why not just go back home?”Harpreet had taken on seamstress tasks but low demand caused that to shut down too. “We live in a rented house. There are bills to pay: electricity, water and phone,” says a teary-eyed Harpreet. She says, no organisation was providing any support, and even if there was any such support available, she doesn’t know how to go about seeking it. “No one asks about us. It’s as if we don’t matter,” she adds, “no one cares to know how we put food on the table — saada koi puchan wala nahin hai”. She goes on, “We moved to Delhi for a better life, but sometimes I wonder if Afghanistan was better.”Similar has been the fate of most Afghan refugee families. Losses trickled down to lay-offs and many members of the community went without even the paltry assured income. “The situation in Afghanistan has continued to worsen. Thinking of going back means accepting death. Yet, this thought continues to cross our minds — not just because it is home, but because of what Delhi has given us,” says Harpreet.Earlier this year, 25 Sikhs were killed when a militant attacked a gurdwara in Kabul in the midst of an ardas. Efforts have been on to bring back remaining members of the Afghan Sikh community to Delhi for reasons of safety. But is that enough, asks another Afghan Sikh refugee Giani Gurnaam Singh, who has moved from Jalalabad to Delhi. According to him, evacuating Afghan Sikhs has a laudable effort but more needs to be done."We must not assume that landing in Delhi is the solution - it is only a new beginning", he says. International efforts to resettle the community appear limited to newly arrived refugees.They must be provided long-term foreign resettlement and short-term empowerment efforts. All the individuals interviewed for the Afghan Sikh Voices project view Delhi as only a temporary relocation, as they hope to leave for the West soon.Harpreet’s story is a testament that time is not always healing, and humanity is not always forgiving. It has been two years since Harpreet came here but her situation continues to worsen. Now, as a 40-year-old, with two teenage children, she has no NGO assistance to register with the UNHCR or resettle in a different country. Foreign philanthropy provided short-term resettlement assistance to other families.Harpreet’s three-year visa will expire next year and she has no clue as to what comes next. Nothing makes sense to her. When asked how she pays the bills, she says, “I sold the 31 rings my husband gave me.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/harpreet-kaur-and-her-31-rings-an-afghan-sikh-refugees-tale-147233
27-09-2020||Bindu Gopal Rao||Masks become the canvas for art, craft||Ranti village in Bihar is known to be a cluster for Madhubani art. Women in the village have been painting masks as an art outlet since the pandemic began. “Most artists started painting on masks as all fairs and exhibitions had been cancelled due to the lockdown. Since many of them, particularly women, were dependent on art for their livelihood, the masks gave them an opportunity to give an outlet to their creativity and become relevant in times of adversity,” says Madhubani artist Mahalaxmi.Initially some women’s groups started making masks, but soon a lot of artisans across the country started using masks as a canvas to display local art and craft.The national association of craftspeople, Dastkari Haat Samiti, has launched a mask catalogue that reveals a collection of varied art forms. The masks include artworks by well-known artists: Madhubani masks by Remant Kumar Mishra, Pattachitra masks by Apindra Swain, Gamcha masks by Rangila Dhaga, Kalamkari masks by Ramji Devraj and Kantha embroidery masks by Rajesh Roy, among others. “The artisans bring heart-warming embellishments to the mundane mask and make every face an ornament,” says Jaya Jaitly, founder of the Dastkari Haat Samiti.Local artisans and handloom clusters in the North-East states have been getting support from organisations like Antaran Artisan Connect to sell the masks they make. “Artisan Lovitoli from Nagaland initially tried her hand at making masks for herself. She used cotton fabric woven on her traditional loin loom to make strong and durable masks. Likewise, Tarali Das from Assam has used Muga silk, also known as golden fibre, to create beautiful masks. These masks became a hit soon,” says Sharda Gautam, who heads this crafts initiative by Tata Trust.Some textile brands have been experimenting with naturally dyed fabric to make eco-friendly ‘wellness fabric’. “Based on ayurveda’s principle of Nasya, organic cotton yarn is dyed in 108 herbs, after which these are woven to create the fabric that is used in apparel and masks. The barks of indigo, red sandalwood, aloe vera, neem and tulsi are boiled and combined with pure handloom fabrics to create masks. Our next batch has handloom checks on either side with a middle layer of aloe vera,” says Shaswaty Nair of textile label Shrivatsa. Brands like Ethnicity have been making masks using traditional art forms like Ikat and block print fabric. Bengaluru-based luxury bridal brand Limited Edition has introduced handcrafted masks ‘Veil’. These masks in hues of red, mustard, black and blue use the traditional block prints, known as Ajrak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/masks-become-the-canvas-for-art-craft-147234
