27-07-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||MGNREGA softens the blow||AMID the Covid crisis, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) has sustained thousands of villagers who had been rendered jobless across Punjab. These also include the youth who returned to villages after they lost their jobs in towns and cities.After the lockdown was first imposed in March-end, the rural sector in the state rose to the challenge of harvesting wheat despite many restrictions, even as vegetable/fruit growers, dairy and poultry farmers faced a tough time. The government handled 3,700 procurement points and created 1,100 new ones this time to ensure social distancing.The Department of Rural Development and Panchayats has made effective use of the MGNREGA scheme to bail out unemployed people, particularly in villages.The average number of working days under MGNREGA was 31 in Punjab in the financial year 2019-20. The work is said to be progressing even better this financial year. The average was less than 20 about a couple of years ago.Financial Commissioner (Rural Development and Panchayats) Seema Jain says, “In the Average Daily Progress Report, the number of people employed under MGNREGA in Punjab was 1.5 lakh during 2019-20. The figure has gone up to more than 2.2 lakh in the current financial year.” As a result, the state has been able to clean at least 6,200 ponds this year.Gurcharan Singh, sarpanch of Sangat Khurd village in Bathinda district, says “We have been regularly getting funds for our ongoing projects of water works and general sanitation. There has been an increase in the workforce during this time. The scheme has been beneficial particularly for many people who used to travel outside the state for jobs.”In contrast, certain villages complain that they are being ignored. Hardeep Dakha, sarpanch of Fazilka’s Khanwala village, located on the Indo-Pak border, says: “As we are supporters of an opposition party, our village has not been given MGNREGA projects. Villages located 17 km from the border are being given money under the Border Area Development Fund, but we are being denied the same.”Wheat harvesting was challenging this time because the traditional workforce which came from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh could not enter Punjab due to the lockdown/curfew. The harvesters came in large numbers from the towns and cities of the state where they worked in the construction or catering business, or as taxi drivers. Also, a significantly large number of family members of farmers took part in harvesting this year.Besides increasing the number of mandis for procurement, the government also extended the procurement season till June 15. The movement of wheat to and from the mandis remained smooth.Counting the lossesThe crash in capsicum prices forced irate farmers to throw a tractor-load of their produce on the Mansa-Bathinda road in April. Others who faced such problems included fruit growers, dairy and poultry farmers. Specific losses were worked out in a study conducted by the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID) in the first week of May.Dr Sucha Singh Gill of the CRRID says, “The imposition of curfew in the state in March disrupted the supply chain from the farm to the market. The labourers were not allowed to move out of their homes to work for collection of these products. Vehicles were not allowed to ply on the roads. The perishable commodities remained unsold, causing losses.”Dr Gills says, “The estimated total loss in four categories (vegetables, fruits, dairying and poultry) suffered by farmers was Rs 1,340 crore during the peak period of the curfew (first 40 days).” Dairying, with losses to the tune of Rs 808 crore, was the worst-hit, followed by vegetable farming (Rs 440.4 crore), poultry (Rs 56 crore) and fruit farming (Rs 36.5 crore).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/mgnrega-softens-the-blow-118492
27-07-2020||Deepender Deswal||Fields of opportunity||SURESH Kumar, a vegetable grower of Kharkari Makhwan village in Bhiwani district, used to reap dividends every year. He also provided employment to labourers in his fields. However, the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown have upset his economic plans. He was unable to sell his tomato grown on 22 acres, of which 17 acres was taken on lease. He struggled to even recover the input cost this season. In a cascade effect, he could not retain the services of the landless labourers employed in his fields.“The labour is required for plucking, grading and transportation. But in the absence of a market, a large section remained without work. About 1,000 landless workers got employment during the vegetable season in our village. But, this time, due to crop failure, hardly 10 per cent of them could get work,” he says.Suresh says the kharif season has started and the labour is needed for work such as paddy plantation. “The return of migrant farm workers to their native places has provided an opportunity to the local landless labour to get employed in the fields this season.”The sarpanch of Miran village (Bhiwani), Ashok Kumar, says they offered work under MGNREGA to about 150 registered workers, even as there is enough agricultural work for the labourers. “So far, the scheme workers have not got mandatory 100 days’ employment, but our village has about 7,200 acres of cultivable land and labourers have adequate opportunities to work in the fields,” he adds.Inderjit Singh, president of Kisan Sabha, says the rural employment situation has aggravated since the imposition of the lockdown as many workers have been rendered jobless in the organised and unorganised sectors.MGNREGA can go a long way in compensating for the lack of demand as rural economy had been witnessing a slowdown even before Covid-19, he adds. “Expansion and strengthening of MGNREGA, with at least doubling of work days from 100 to 200 as well as enhancement of wages, could have put some cash into the pocket of small farmers and agricultural workers, which in turn could have improved the much-needed demand component. For this to happen, there should be a handsome increase in the MGNREGA allocation from the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced during the lockdown,” demands Inderjit Singh.The Kisan Sabha leader says paddy plantation work is suffering as skilled migrant workers are staying put in their home states, mainly Bihar and UP. To make matters worse, plantation rates are being unilaterally fixed at some places to put a cap on the wages of the labourers. This issue could have been settled by compensating a part of the plantation wages through MGNREGA. A suggestion to this effect was made jointly by the Kisan Sabha and Khet Mazdoor Union, he adds.Prof Samar Singh, Vice Chancellor of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (HAU), admits that farmers suffered due to the lockdown as their farm products could not reach the market. He says farmers need to diversify their activities to boost their income. “HAU is offering short-term skill programmes in various other agricultural activities like apiculture, food and confectionery, value addition in agricultural products etc. The Centre of Food Science and Technology initiated programmes to help farmers manage the situation during the pandemic. The university is also supporting them by setting up small-scale industries at the farmers’ level with focus on post-harvest management and value addition,” he adds.Need to diversifyProf Samar Singh, Vice Chancellor of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, says farmers need to diversify their activities to boost their income. “HAU is supporting farmers by setting up small-scale industries with focus on post-harvest management and value addition,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/fields-of-opportunity-118493
