27-12-2020||Shiv Visvanathan||2020, and little sense of an ending||A narrative of a year ending is sometimes more than a literary problem. Usually a year’s events can be assembled like a family album presented with a sense of awe or familiarity. But sometimes, events become surreal and it is not easy to even juxtapose them into any idea of linearity. 2020 was a strange year, full of historical events that somehow looked meaningless. One can list the headlines like a town crier, but as a narrative, the year makes little sense. One has to invent a new genre, a surreal accounting that goes beyond socialist realism or magical realism. Literature and sociology feel helpless before the cascade of events; where history enacts itself as trauma.2020 began with Shaheen Bagh and CAA. A little slum near Jamia Millia provided a lesson in constitutional history and solidarity in citizenship. Democracy seems to have been reinvented like a parable again, but Shaheen Bagh disappears as Covid demands its own attribution.Covid is the one event that dominates 2020 and brings out our sense of stereotype and mediocrity. It operated along the faultlines of all major dualisms, formal, informal, public, domestic and created a world of shattering indifference. The documents were classic — from migrants being sprayed with chemicals to a child sitting innocently next to its dead mother on a railway platform. Covid showed that the migrant was an invisible creature, helpless in coils of exploitation. The pandemic triggered the greatest migration since the Partition and India watched it like an empty event. It was as if pain and suffering on this scale was impossible to grasp. Even Bollywood failed to create a myth of meaning from it. In fact, all it could offer was the saga of Bollywood through Sushant Rajput. One suddenly sensed Bollywood as fiction was more real than Bihar as reality. It was as if Covid was a parallel world which Indians entered occasionally.The ridiculous and the banal dominated us in a way that is difficult to label. In the middle of the coronavirus, India pretended to have found a new leisure class discovering cooking and fitness. An Olympiad of death exponentially presented was no match for the excitement of stars in Maldives. Maldives became the promised Covid land and a film star without a Maldives shot was irrelevant.In a strange sense, Covid declared the declining power of Bollywood. Bollywood was no longer a myth machine, but an extension of the ad industry.The Chinese intrusion into India added a touch of sombreness, but India acted as if it was a Bollywood movie. The Chinese were demons that our heroes Rajnath and Jaishankar managed to shake off. A great civilisation degenerating into brutality hardly bothered our elite. It was as if the BJP wanted a touch of Chinese machines to stay in power. Geopolitics seems to be haunted by trivialities. Indian politics reduced the border to a sideshow where the internal dramas were taking place.The world’s focus was on the US election, with Trump as an all-consuming obsession. Trump was the superhero of this era. A man who enabled America to caricature itself, becoming a display of threat and inanity difficult to digest.Yet, as the events unfold, one realises it is not the events in their caricatured immensity that haunt us, it is the nature of narrative that is challenging. It is as if history — whether it is nationalism, globalisation, super power rivalry — makes no sense. All of them get reduced to banality and in the way we consume it. I think India discovered it had arrived as a post-truth society. We did not destroy an event, we embellished it through entertainment. Trump is a caricature of the American dream, Covid gets reduced to a Bollywood serial. People don’t care and the media, the most lethal casualty of the year, plays to audiences. Narrative and truth are no longer important. Politics as consumption is. A disaster has to be diverted into entertainment. A border war becomes slapstick, migrants dying an exercise in exponential magic.2020 marked the death of narrative and news. It was presented as the end of the print era. Covid was an epidemic of the digital. Countries wallowing in backwardness competed for digital acclaim, Guinness book style. It was as if the news supplement had colonised the editorial page. It did not make a difference whether it was WHO or Bollywood that was the source of news. Nothing seemed convincing except as caricature or entertainment. The year discovered two new words: digital and exponential. Both labels marked India’s entry into science fiction territory. What haunted one was the enormous gap between the enormity of historical events and the inanity of interpretation. One would need a surreal Hegel or Marx to grasp the poignant emptiness of the era. It was as if middle class India and the media decided History with a capital H made no sense. It was better seen through the lenses of Bollywood or TV, presented as an inane serial or a piece of digital gossip. Bigg Boss, or Kangana Ranaut made more sense as metaphor than the best of our social science intellectuals.It was not merely India alone. The world seems to have embraced this epic of nonsense; the Nobel committee gives a peace prize to a Nigerian leader who then proceeds to decimate a community. It showed that Kissingers are alive and well in every culture of power.The farmers’ crisis in one sense becomes the exemplary event of the year, exemplary only in terms of the nonsense it evoked. The regime immediately suspects it of Khalistani, Naxal, anti-national, pro-Chinese, pro-Pakistani pretensions. There is no sense of guilt that Parliament has not even debated the Bill effectively. India, which boasted of a rural imagination, suddenly seems to have lost sense of agriculture as livelihood. The Swaminathan Report is treated like an Old Testament document. There is little empathy for the farmer in the regime as the unity of farmers becomes the real Opposition. The sadness is there is no coherent narrative or policy beyond allowing the intrusion of corporates into agriculture and accelerating the level of vulnerability.In fact, right in the middle of this, Narendra Modi, who has become a background figure, presented the Central Vista project of a new Parliament as if it was an architectural Christmas cake to the nation. It is as if neither democracy nor agriculture makes sense. Central Vista embodies the Haussmannic mentality of Lutyens, of centralised powers, indifference to vulnerability and informality. The ceremony of Central Vista becomes the year-ending ritual for a regime that does not care, where a Home Minister handles all issues as if they were internal security problems.It is not just that narratives collapse. A sense of democracy collapses with the end of storytelling. 2020 becomes the year of inanity and mediocrity in power locally and globally. The storyteller as witness watches helplessly as events unfold without meaning. One has to change dictums that power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely. Power corrupts and the inanity of power corrupts absolutely. A regime loses a sense of problem solving of welfare as it moves into authoritarian control.— The writer is a noted academician||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/2020-and-little-sense-of-an-ending-190074
27-12-2020||Bose Krishnamachari||World in lockdown, the canvas craved||Looking back, this has been one of the most unusual yet noteworthy years of my life. I remember the last few days of February and the early days of March 2020 — my exhibition at the Emami Art Gallery, Kolkata, titled ‘The Mirror Sees Best in the Dark’, was coming to a close. I had seen this through and had taken a flight to Madrid for the ARCO20, a large annual and one of the oldest contemporary art fairs in Europe. I was fortunate to have made it back in Mumbai safely, right before the pandemic began picking up momentum.For many like me, who once had a lifestyle that involved constant travel and movement, this year has been a call back home. Being indoors for the most part of this year has allowed us a lot of time for observation and reflection. It was, however, alarming to see the bustling city of Mumbai, and the entire country suddenly come to a standstill during the initial lockdown. There was panic and fear among the people, concerns about the economy, the government’s handling of the crisis. The images of the migrant workers who set out for their homes on foot reminded me of the black and white stills from the Partition.I am grateful that my family and I managed to stay safe this year. While at home, we would try to keep ourselves occupied with games of chess, cards, learning some cooking, tending to our kitchen garden, and so on. I am not sure if it was just as a result of more time and a greater focus on the news, or that so much chaos was actually unravelling everywhere around the world! The theatrics of both the government and the media seemed to be upsetting, unending, driving us all to emotional burnout.Recognising that the pandemic would create serious disruptions in the academic year for school and college students, as a passionate educator, I felt it was my responsibility to take up as many opportunities as possible to continue to give educational presentations to students (both school and college) of disciplines of art, design, architecture, technology and so on.As the art world began engaging increasedly with the digital format, at the Kochi Biennale Foundation, we made some modifications to our programming as well. Initially during the lockdown, the team approached our artist friends to share with us what they had been thinking about and creating. We wished to use our platform to show how artists continue to work during such a situation, what sort of art is created during a pandemic, and what purpose art serves during times like these. The result of which was the lockdown series, where our social media handles hosted a collection of diverse works of various mediums of artists around the country and the world.Although we were to open the 5th edition of the Kochi-Muziris Biennale this December, continued unprecedented challenges owing to COVID-19 drove us to reschedule the opening to November 1, 2021, in the hope that circumstances by then would be more conducive for everyone to have complete Biennale experience. However, our other programmes have continued to go on in a modified format. The fourth edition of the Students’ Biennale has been re-structured to take place online, and the programme towards the online opening next year has commenced under the leadership of five curator-mentors, viz. Adip Dutta, Archana Hande, Manoj Vyloor, Suresh K Nair, and Vasudha Thozhur. The Art By Children activities have also been adapted as a Learning at Home programme, with exercises that encourage children to engage creatively with our present circumstances. Our educational workshops for young practitioners have also moved online, including the graphic fiction workshop with Sarnath Banerjee. A few more workshops have also been planned for the next few months.The only physical exhibition I managed to work on this year was a group show titled ‘Origins of a Perennial Bouquet’ that I curated for a new art gallery, called the Vida Heydari Contemporary Art Gallery, in Pune. It featured artists Benitha Perciyal, Manish Nai, Sudarshan Shetty, Sumedh Rajendran and Tanya Goel. The gallery did quite a remarkable job in ensuring the safety of its visitors and staff, given the safety concerns. Entry was staggered and upon reservations of slots only, ample physical distancing was maintained within the gallery space as well.Exercising caution, I have been travelling within Kerala over the last few months working on an art project with the local artist community. It’s been an illuminating journey so far, discovering some new and fresh talent from the state, and also revisiting the works of some of the master practitioners of the Malayali artist community.A quote by German artist Joseph Beuys comes to mind — ‘Every human being is an artist, a freedom being, called to participate in transforming and reshaping the conditions, thinking and structures that shape and inform our lives’. This year called for sensitisation and a rethinking of the way we have been going about our lives for so long. And we, as a people, were able to adapt, find a way around obstacles, and reinvent the norm. Art has always continued to grow, even in darkness, and will continue to do so.— The writer is president of Kochi Biennale Foundation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/world-in-lockdown-the-canvas-craved-190075
27-12-2020||---||A testing time, but stage managed||Neelam Mansingh ChowdhryWhen will anyone want to be in a dark room full of strangers again, I ask myself over and over again. Theatres are shut, time seems frozen and tomorrow is a distant dream. I recall the story of Dalai Lama being asked if he would like to be born again despite the fact that the world will not get better. He answered: “If I could be useful, then I would like to be born again.”In violent times, the notion of usefulness is radical. Can art be useful? Art sometimes, I feel, is an extravagant and exquisite waste of time and a world complete by itself. Yet, the irony is that art is useful in a deep and enduring way. Poet Joseph Brondsky describes art as the oxygen that might arrive when the last breath has been expended.photos courtesy: writer and The TribuneWe are living in difficult times that expect from us certain responses. No matter how many impediments, we cannot afford inertia due to despair.An invite from Rang Shankara to work on a performance piece became the catalyst and ‘Black Box’ was birthed. New content was entering the work space as no matter which text I studied and improvised on, the fear of the pandemic was all-persuasive, insistent and slinked its ways through my threshold. I could not escape the contagion, the fear of the virus, the loneliness of being ‘home alone’ the desperation to reach out, to speak to connect, elements that entered my work space.The images of migrants going home, trudging along highways, on rail tracks, trunks on their back, transportation shut, everything immobilised. These images exploded and became the theme of the play.The actor sets up a stage, tells a story to a passing dog, an imagery audience? An attempt to keep the imagination and sanity intact? Craving food, a simple meal, but only managing a sandwich, perhaps donated. Humanity asserts itself when the protagonist shares his frugal meal with a stray dog.Kabir Singh Chowdhry filmed the play by retaining the identity of it being a theatrical piece, yet exploring its cinematic dimensions.The new dictum ‘All the web’s a stage and the show must go online’ haunted and lodged itself in my head. Can the digital space replace the performance space that involves intimacy, touch, feel and smell? I don’t really know, and have no answers. The digital space is a simulacra where the artiste and his/her desperation of disappearing, of being invisiblised was palpable. Webinars, virtual festivals, lectures became rampant, a deluge. A necessity too, to feel that you are still ‘alive’.The hard part of creation is the financial aspect. It’s an uncertain future, but despite that some heart-warming works have emerged. Jyoti Dogra’s ‘Nihayati Niji Baatein’, Mohit Takalkar’s ‘The Colour of Loss’ and Amitesh Grover’s ‘The Last Poet’ made a lot of sensational buzz. Atul Kumar created a theatre performance in an outdoor space in Kamshet.A range of performances, small, large, solo and ensemble, innovative, experimental, have been making the leap. The pandemic, strangely, has also been freeing, giving the space to explore and reinvent one’s imagination and passion.“New ways of making theatre have come into existence and even though it isn’t live, theatre is still happening. And that’s because the process has been inherently a theatre process — it has been embodied both in the moment of making and performing,” says Maya Krishna Rao, who created a character called Paru, expressing the dilemma of the times. Mahesh Dattani wrote a short play called ‘Untouchable’ on two men meeting in 2032 where the pandemic that started in 2020 has revisited twice over. This was his first experience with Zoom, he says.Welcome to the new dark, uncertain dystopian world which can, despite the lurking fear, still deliver a hard punch. Necessity is, really, the mother of all inventions.— The writer is an acclaimed theatre director||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/a-testing-time-but-stage-managed-190076
27-12-2020||---||A year for music, not musicians||Dub SharmaIt has been an unforgiving year, 2020. Cassettes died ages ago and CDs have long given in to consumption via digital downloads and online streaming. Hence, most film and non-film industry musicians have been depending on live performances for making money. The pandemic hasn’t helped.Pune-based aswekeepsearching, captured the essence of isolation.aswekeepsearching.inClosure of performance spaces across the globe shut the revenue streams down for most of the live musicians. As in other industries, there was no plan B for this industry as well. So, like everyone else, recording artistes and musicians took to social media actively — not just to promote their music, but also to perform for their audiences remotely. Studio artistes took a while to figure out a way to record and produce music at home but a lot of them began successfully producing high-quality content without stepping into a professional production environment.Relatively better off were artistes signed by major record labels. They were able to release music and music videos and promote them well on all possible platforms. However, it was a difficult year for independent artistes and independent record labels that suffered due to no live bookings and severely low payouts from various music and video streaming platforms. Disturbing news kept trickling in too — several musicians considered changing careers to support themselves and their families. If at all the pandemic has helped in any way, it has been in highlighting the foundational problems with the industry and the way artistes are exposed to audiences and monetised.Interestingly, music consumption increased drastically this year — a news report suggests that the subscribers of music streaming services grew by around 40 per cent. But unless it leads to enough revenue to support artistes financially, they cannot become part of the winning marquee. Most music streaming platforms are designed to be dependent on revenue from advertising, which is, in turn, dependent on a lot of other factors than direct support from listeners.We haven’t reached this abyss overnight. Successive governments have seen music, or arts in general, as less important areas. Corporates, on the other hand, have been using the arts to create large advertising platforms. This is similar to how the live music business is largely dependent on the food and liquor business, where food and liquor are the products being sold using music as a tool, instead of music.This particular time, unfortunately, isn’t very favourable for people who see music as a form of expression. All new platforms favour the supply-and-demand style of music manufacturing and artistes are forced to reposition according to the popular music consumption platforms and their formats, instead of being allowed to compose what they feel like. In an excessively hype-driven environment, musicians are nobody’s concern. In an environment designed to discourage honest artistes and entertain shiny music with low shelf life, who will rethink the future of music?— The writer is a music director||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/a-year-for-music-not-musicians-190077
27-12-2020||Sushant Singh Rajput||In remembrance of those we lost from the world of art and entertainment||21 Jan 1986 – 14 Jun 2020Actor Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14. What followed was an appalling trial by media, with accusations of drugs, depression, nepotism, murder and abetment to suicide flying thick and fast. As one investigating agency after the other was put on the job, many Bollywood biggies got sucked into the high-octane drama, fuelled and driven by 24/7 television. A private tragedy was turned into a public spectacle and no one was spared of the mud-slinging, including the actor’s family. Sushant’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, along with her brother, was arrested. #JusticeForSushantSinghRajput kept the twitterati busy, but in all the noise and din, what was lost was the silent mourning for a promising life cut short. And remembering the man who won hearts with his TV show Pavitra Rishta, and then went on to give memorable performances in films like Kai Po Che!, MS Dhoni: The Untold Story and Kedarnath. His last film, released after his death, was ironically titled Dil Bechara, an adaptation of The Fault In Our Stars.Pandit Jasraj28 Jan 1930 – 17 Aug 2020A voice that mesmerised millions across the globe could also charm animals, and even conjure up storms, literally out of thin air. As the legend goes, Pandit Jasraj, a name synonymous with Indian classical music the world over, was performing Raag Todi on the grounds of Sankat Mochan Temple in Varanasi (1996), when a deer came near the stage and stayed till the performance ended. According to another tale, a rendition of Raag Dhulia Malhar brought about a storm on a calm summer night when he was performing in Delhi in 1998. His magical voice that could traverse over all four-and-a-half octaves was a perfect blend of sur, laya and gayaki. Born in Hisar into a family of musicians belonging to the Mewati Gharana, Pandit Jasraj’s journey started under his father Pandit Motiram. After his father’s death at four, he would accompany his elder brother and guru, Pandit Maniram on tabla. A caustic remark at 14 made him switch to singing. What taal lost, sur gained. An eight-decade career, studded with numerous international and national honours, including the three Padma awards, his contribution to Indian music is immense. His legacy lives on in his unique creations that include Jasrangi (a unique jugalbandi style), Haveli sangeet, more than 300 compositions, and perhaps a minor planet named after him.Kapila Vatsyayan25 Dec 1928 —16 Sept 2020A life that enriched the world of arts in myriad ways, art scholar Kapila Vatsyayan wore many hats. A redoubtable author, an able administrator, adviser and a dancer in her own right, her journey may have started when government patronage for the arts was unheard of. Yet, she not only patronised the arts at a personal level, working with luminaries like Jawaharlal Nehru, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad and Indira Gandhi, but also helmed many important institutions. The founding director of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, she was also chairperson of the Asia Project at the India International Centre. The recipient of Padma Vibushan and former Member of Parliament, she leaves behind a treasure-trove of wisdom and knowledge with her books like Bharata: The Natyasastra, Traditions of Indian Folk Dance, Classical Indian Dance in Literature and the Arts and The Square and Circle of the Indian Arts. The archives she built at IGNCA are as enviable a collection as her insightful life. Much ahead of her time, she was a true scholar of ancient Indian culture and civilisation.Soumitra Chatterjee19 Jan 1935 — 15 Nov 2020The streets of Kolkata swarmed with people who came out to pay tributes to Soumitra Chatterjee when he died of Covid last month. A Dadasaheb Phalke Award winner, he was the first Indian actor to be conferred with France’s highest award for artistes, Ordre des Arts et des Lettres. Ironically, the actor wasn’t awarded National Film Award for much of his earlier work, which included most of the world class cinema he did with Satyajit Ray. The doyen of Bengali cinema started his film journey with Ray’s Apur Sansar in 1959. He went on to do 14 films with the ace director. With his role of sleuth Feluda, he won hearts across generations. In a career spanning 300 films, the versatile genius worked with directors like Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Rituparno Ghosh. Besides screen and theatre, his poetry recitations saw full house as well. Even in his 80s, the Padma Vibushan recipient could carry a film on his shoulders. Complete scripts were written keeping him in mind. When Sujoy Ghosh came out with his 14-minute epic thriller Ahalya, he said he made the film only to direct SoumitraChatterjee.Satish Gujral25 Dec 1925 – 26 Mar 2020Artist, sculptor, architect — Satish Gujral excelled in each role he took up. Having lost the sense of hearing when he was eight, silence was to fill his world with unparalleled imagination. This silence was to manifest itself on his canvas, making him one of India’s best-known artists. The pronounced pain of Partition in his works brought him recognition — women huddled together, the trauma and pain evident on their faces, becoming a symbol of the great migration. An implant brought back the sounds of the world to him, at 72 years of age. But when the sounds became too much, he returned to silence again, six years later. As an architect, his designs for the Embassy of Belgium and India Islamic Cultural Centre in Delhi stand out. Younger brother of former Prime Minister Inder Kumar Gujral, he was awarded the Padma Vibhushan in 1999. In his death in March, the country lost one of its greatest icons of modernism, who towered the art scene for six decades.Ebrahim Alkazi18 Oct 1925 — 4 Aug 2020The year was 1963. The ruins of Ferozeshah Kotla became the setting for the epic story of Mahabharata. India had still been bearing the brunt of the 1962 war with China when Ebrahim Alkazi staged Andha Yug, discussing the cost of violence. The play, along with his productions such as Tughlaq and Ashaad Ka Ek Din, will be remembered for long. Hailing from an Arab family settled in India, he studied at the prestigious Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, UK. At the National School of Drama, he mentored actors like Naseeruddin Shah, Om Puri and Rohini Hattangadi. His passing away at the age of 95 in August sent his students back to the classroom. They remembered stories of his strict nature, of his appreciation that was to remain the best compliment ever, his lessons in dignity of labour, his appreciation of other arts. Among the tallest of contemporary Indian theatre practitioners, Alkazi quit NSD in 1977, at the age of 52, and set up an arts gallery. His experiments in theatre, meanwhile, continued, and will continue to inspire generations to come.Basu Chatterjee10 Jan 1927 – 4 Jun 2020Film director, screenwriter Basu Chatterjee worked as an illustrator and cartoonist for nearly two decades before turning his gaze towards filmmaking. Known for his content-driven cinema, he has left behind an unparalleled cinematic legacy with films like Rajnigandha, Chitchor, Khatta Meetha, Baton Baton Mein, Chameli Ki Shaadi and Ek Ruka Hua Faisla. Before debuting as a director with Sara Akash in 1969, Chatterjee assisted Hrishikesh Mukherjee and Basu Bhattacharya. He even wrote the screenplay for the film, which was based on a novel of the same name. The film got him Filmfare Best Screenplay Award. Coated in satire, a humorous take on the common man’s problems was at the heart of his repertoire. He found his quintessential hero in Amol Palekar, who helmed six of his films. Amitabh Bachchan played the protagonist in his critically acclaimed film Manzil. Chatterjee received the National Film Award for Best Film on Family Welfare for Durga in 1992. This master storyteller of the urban middle class ruled television with shows like Rajani and Byomkesh Bakshi, winning the hearts of audience as well as critics.Rishi Kapoor4 Sept 1952 – 30 Apr 2020Eternal heartthrob, Chintuji to millions of his fans, the ever-charming Rishi Kapoor, lost the battle with cancer in April. The cherubic child actor of Mera Naam Joker, the breakout star of Bobby, he endeared himself to cinema lovers time and again. Be it as the romantic hero in hits like Khel Khel Mein, Karz, Rafoo Chakkar, Chandni or with twinkling toes in Hum Kisise Kum Naheen. In his final innings too,the star actor took centrestage in film after film. Ever since he re-discovered himself as the mean and menacing Rauf Lala in Agneepath (2012), experimentation defined his choices. Cantankerous Babulal of 102 Not Out, 90-year-old grandpa of Kapoor & Sons, righteous Muslim of Mulk, Rishi proved he was the rightful inheritor of the rich legacy of acting that came naturally to the son of Raj Kapoor. If spontaneity was his middle name, candid charm was his innate style. Khullam Khulla: Rishi Kapoor Uncensored was not just the name of his autobiography, but that is who he was, as he tweeted fearlessly. The actor, who had begun to master his autograph soon after his debut in Mera Naam Joker, leaves behind a signature impossible to erase and equally hard to emulate.Saroj Khan22 Nov 1948 – 3 Jul 2020When Sridevi danced to choreographer Saroj Khan’s Hawa Hawai moves in Mr India, not only did these capture the imagination of an entire generation, but also rewrote the rule book of Bollywood dance. Shattering the glass ceiling and becoming the first woman choreographer of Hindi cinema wasn’t easy for Saroj, born Nirmala Nagpal. Starting her career at three as child artiste Baby Shyama, she worked as a background dancer in films like Howrah Bridge, Taj Mahal and Madhumati. In a career spanning four decades, Saroj choreographed more than 2,000 songs and won three National Awards. Fondly called Masterji, she made leading Bollywood stars like Sridevi, Madhuri Dixit and Aishwarya Rai groove to her steps. Bollywood’s go-to artiste, Saroj was best known for the dance form mujra. She fused elements of folk and classical Indian dance into film choreography. Her dance moves in iconic songs like “Ek Do Teen” (Tezaab), “Dola Re” (Devdas), “Choli Ke Peeche” (Khalnayak), “Mere Haathon Mein” (Chandni) and “Yeh Ishq, Hai” (Jab We Met), will remain etched in memory.As Subhash Ghai, in his tribute, said, ‘With her death, an era has ended’.SP Balasubrahmanyam4 Jun 1946 – 25 Sept 2020The passing of SP Balasubrahmanyam due to Covid at age 74 silenced a beautiful voice that was loved all across India. Thanks to the Hindi film industry, the velvet voice of Balasubramaniam — or simply Bala — sailed over the Vindhyas and enriched the North, West and East, too. Thus Bala’s beautiful singing became a voice of India, instead of remaining the voice of South India, which had been the fate of wonderful singers like P Jayachandran of Kerala and PB Sreenivas, celluloid voice of Kannada superstar Rajkumar.Bala was introduced to listeners of Hindi songs in 1981, with Ek Duuje Ke Liye, a year after the death of Mohammed Rafi. Bala was the rightful follower of Rafi, both as the sweetest male voice in Hindi cinema and as a man of unmatched humility. He was Kamal Haasan’s voice in Hindi songs, and when Salman Khan arrived, Bala sang some of the emerging superstar’s greatest songs in films like Maine Pyar Kiya, Patthar Ke Phool and Hum Aapke Hain Koun..! Bala was heard lesser and lesser in Hindi films — Haasan retreated to the South and Salman became a toughie, less likely to lip-sync soulful songs — but he remained deeply loved, as was evident in the mourning that followed his death.Irrfan Khan7 Jan 1967 — 29 Apr 2020As an actor, he never missed a beat but in real life, his heart stopped beating as he succumbed to neuroendocrine tumour gnawing him for two years, leaving millions of fans grief-stricken. India’s most visible ambassador to Hollywood, seen in movies like Life of Pi, The Namesake, Jurassic World, Inferno, A Mighty Heart and The Amazing Spider-Man, he was truly an international star. A product of National School of Drama, the film industry may have taken a while in recognising the sheer brilliance of this rather diffident actor. But Paan Singh Tomar and a National Award established him firm and square as an actor par excellence. Be it the titular part of Maqbool, Rana of Piku, Ashoke Ganguli of The Namesake and Roohdaar of Haider, it’s near impossible to say which his best role was. He achieved perfection each time he melted into a character and proved his worth on the box office barometer too. From sombre to comic, there wasn’t a genre or formula that would limit him. A critics’ darling, directors’ favourite and viewers’ delight, his early demise seemed like a personal loss to his countless avid fans.Akbar Padamsee12 Apr 1928 — 6 Jan 2020A modernist in the true sense, a pure colourist, creator of metascapes, whatever may be the epithet you choose to confer on Akbar Padamsee, he is, perhaps, best described in his own words. “You need the mind of a mathematician and a poet to be a painter.” Trained at Sir JJ School of Art, he learnt as much from his international experiences and worked with surrealist painter Stanley Hayter. Yet, when it came to putting his brush, rather knife, to canvas, he drew inspiration from Sanskrit texts and Indian philosophy. It might be fashionable to use words like avant garde today, but here was an artist who broke barriers of mediums and subjects. Film director Ashim Ahluwalia was so inspired by Padamsee’s films that he decided to reconstruct his 6-mm film, Events In A Cloud Chamber. He may have courted controversy with his nudes, which invited chargesof obscenity, but Padamsee would call his creations “dressed in shadow”. The Padma Bhushan recipient went beyond the obvious and captured essence and stillness as his works would constantly remain a study in contemplation. But then, here was a thinker’s artist who felt no need to play to the gallery or gallerists.Jagdeep29 Mar 1939 — 8 Jul 2020The Soorma Bhopali of Sholay, Jagdeep, aka Syed Ishtiaq Ahmed Jaffrey, enjoyed a long innings spread over nearly 400 films, winning audiences with his comic act. Calling Bombay home around Partition, he was just six when picked up from the streets to enact in a film. The rest, as they say, is a rags-to-riches story. From his first break in 1951 in Afsana as a child artiste, he continued to work as late as 2012. He also directed a light-hearted comedy Soorma Bhopali, taking the lead role in it. It was his comic timing that won him fame. Jagdeep was seen in yesteryear melodies — “In Pyar Ki Raahon Mein”, “Chal Ud Ja Re Panchhi” and “Chali Chali Re Patang”. His last message to his fans was through his son Jaaved Jaffrey’s social media handle in 2018, “Main muskarata hoon, main Jagdeep hoon... Aaye o haste haste aur jao haste haste,” he said in a short video in which he reiterated his famous dialogue — “Hamaara naam bhi Soorma Bhopali aise hi nahi hai, ab aap samajh lo”.Wajid Khan7 Oct 1977 — 1 Jun 2020Musical heartbeat of many Salman Khan films, composer and singer Wajid of the Sajid-Wajid fame has gone too soon. He became a victim of Covid-19, exacerbated by an underlying kidney ailment. In sync with the tradition of hit jodis of Hindi film industry, he, along with his brother, embellished the music of films like the Dabangg franchise, besides Garv, Tere Naam, Tumko Na Bhool Paayenge and Partner. Inspired by Pandit Bhimsen Joshi, in a way it was his robust voice that set the tune for “Hud Hud Dabangg”. A singer in his own right, besides their favourite Salman, Wajid also lent his voice to Akshay Kumar. His song “Chinta Ta Ta Chita Chita” from Rowdy Rathore became an instant hit. So did the foot-tapping “Mashallah”, which he sang in his inimitable style. As his song “Baaki Sab First Class Hai” from Jai Ho resonates, his premature end will forever rankle.Nimmi18 Feb 1933 — 25 Mar 2020A female superstar even before Bollywood could accept this, Nimmi, born Nawab Bano, ruled the silver screen in the 1950s. There are other firsts to her name. Her second movie, Mehboob Khan’s Aan (1952), was the first Indian movie in colour. She was also, perhaps, the first actor to turn down four major Hollywood offers as she was “uncomfortable with kissing scenes”. She had gone to meet Mehboob Khan on the sets of Andaz when she was spotted by Raj Kapoor, who launched her in Barsaat (1949). In ashort journey of 15 years, she worked with top names like K Asif, Sohrab Modi, Dilip Kumar, Dev Anand, Sunil Dutt, Kishore Kumar and Naushad. Even among contemporaries like Madhubala, Nargis and Meena Kumari, her beauty stood out. Madhubala is said to have got insecure during the making of Amar (1954), which starred Dilip Kumar.Among her memorable films are Udan Khatola, Daag and Mere Mehboob. Some of her iconic songs include “Hum Se Mile Tum, Sajan”, “Dil Ka Diya Jala Ke Gaya”, “Tum Na Jaane Kis Jahaan” and “Jia Beqarar Hai”.Astad Deboo13 Jul 1947 – 10 Dec 2020Hailed as a pioneer of modern dance in India, Astad Deboo was born into a Parsi family in Navsari, Gujarat. Trained in kathak at the age of six, he learnt kathakali, and later Martha Graham’s modern dance technique, besides José Limón’s. A recipient of Padma Shri in 2007, Deboo’s fusion dance broke the barriers of style, culture and nationality. He collaborated with the likes of Pink Floyd, Gundecha Brothers and Dadi Pudumjee. Amalgamating Indian classical with western group dance techniques, he created a dance style unique to him. Deboo also initiated social consciousness in his projects. He trained marginalised streetchildren and worked with differently abled youngsters. Deboo’s dance innings spanned half a decade, taking him to about 70 countries, collaborating with scores of artistes. Deboo was also honoured with the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award. He choreographed for MF Husain’s Meenaxi: A Tale of Three Cities, besides working with filmmakers like Mani Ratnam and Vishal Bhardwaj. During the lockdown, Deboo choreographed his last piece Boundaries, an ode to migrant workers. India lost a cultural treasure in the death of this pioneer of modern Indian dance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/in-remembrance-of-those-we-lost-from-the-world-of-art-and-entertainment-190080
