28-09-2020||SK Sandhu||Farming laws and agitation: Reach out to stakeholders||THE ongoing agitation by farmers’ organisations needs to be understood from the perspective that farming is not just another vocation or profession. The farmer treats his land like his mother. The three farm ordinances were introduced over three months ago. The Centre had enough time to educate farmers about the potential benefits and the long-term implications for the farming sector, particularly in Punjab and Haryana. That opportunity has been somehow missed.Now, the ambit of the agitation — in view of the perceived impact of these ordinances/Bills — has widened to include arhityas, middlemen and labour unions as well.The Centre believes to have unfettered the farming sector by opening intra-state and inter-state trade of produce and giving the choice to farmers to enter into contract farming. The amendments to the Essential Commodities Act intend to boost investment in agri-marketing infrastructure and reduce volatility in prices of agri-produce. The Centre feels that these Bills are in the long-term interests of the farmers. However, the latter seem increasingly convinced that the government is moving towards elimination of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime.A strong apprehension among farmers that the traders may offer the MSP to begin with and would exploit them once the APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) infrastructure turns defunct can be addressed by amending the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill by inserting a clause that no agricultural produce will be traded in any trade area at a price lower than the MSP. Similarly, the convoluted provision contained in Section 5(b) regarding “mutually agreed remunerative price” under the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill be amended as “mutually agreed remunerative price which shall not be less than the MSP of such produce.”The farmers are also apprehensive about the provisions relating to certification of quality, grade and standards of the produce by third-party assayers as most of them are small and marginal, and lack legal support available with the sponsors.The dispute resolution mechanism under the Bills does not inspire confidence among farmers and seems to be tilted in favour of the buyers. The buyers in general would have better access to legal facilities compared to the farmers. Instead of the proposed mechanism, let each state appoint a regulator at the state level and tribunals at the district level to adjudicate any dispute arising out of any transaction. Each buyer, while registering with the registration authority, would pay a fee to be used for setting up a corpus fund to meet the expenditure incurred on the running of the regulatory framework. The state governments need not be burdened with additional financial costs. Each buyer will also make an annual contribution towards the corpus as the buyers would be getting substantial benefit by not paying any market fee, levy or tax on the purchase. A panel of lawyers will be kept by the states to take up any dispute on behalf of any farmer before the regulator/ tribunal. The cost of such legal services to the farmers can be met out of the suggested corpus fund. However, it is conceivable that the farmer will sell his produce outside the APMC only if he is offered a price higher than the MSP.A part of the problem has arisen out of the huge trust deficit between the farmers and the government. An elaborate consultation with farmer and labour bodies needs to begin immediately as a delay would harden the stance on both sides. The consultative process can also be used to inform everyone about the benefits of these Bills for the farmers, the labour force, consumers and the country as a whole.The credit procedure and structure may be reworked in order to fulfil timely financial needs of the farmer which is done by the arhitya today. Something like a debit card with a reasonable limit can be given to each farmer. As payments to farmer are online, this credit can be settled at the harvesting time.It would be a prudent long-term agriculture marketing strategy if the market fee, levies and cess on the agri produce sold inside the APMC are also rationalised.The author, a retired IAS officer, served as MD, Punjab Agro||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/farming-laws-and-agitation-reach-out-to-stakeholders-147767
28-09-2020||Sher Singh Sangwan||Threat to APMC, MSP||THE Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill are being opposed by farmers’ groups in Punjab and Haryana, where the APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) and MSP systems are almost fully operational.Farmers of other states have also joining the protests.As per the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, any trader may engage in inter-state and intra-state trade of the ‘scheduled farmers’ produce’ with a farmer or another trader in a ‘trade area’.The ‘scheduled farmers’ produce’ are the commodities specified under any state APMC Act and the ‘trade area’ means any location such as the farmgate, factory premises, silos, cold storages or any other structures or places from where the trade in farmers’ produce is undertaken. But the trade area does not include the premises, enclosure and structures constituting markets under APMC, its licensed private markets.In a trade area, no market fee, cess or levy shall be levied on any farmer or trader or electronic trading and transaction platform for trade and commerce in scheduled farmers’ produce, whereas it may be done in the APMC market. Obviously, the buyers, even individuals, may not go to the APMC market due to additional fees and cess.The regulated markets for regulation of marketing practices were put in operation during the 1960s after enacting the Agricultural Produce Markets Regulation (APMR) Act. All primary wholesale assembling markets were brought under the ambit of the APMC which framed the rules and enforced them. Earlier, the Royal Commission on Agriculture, 1928, had recommended regulation of marketing practices which resulted in the preparation of a Model Bill in 1938, but it lingered on till the 1960s when the APMC came into force. In the past 50 years, there has hardly been any agitation by farmers against the APMC framework.However, corporates have expressed concern over the APMC due to its fees and other taxes being realised there. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce Bill may dismantle the APMC to promote tax-free ‘trade areas’ of processors, stockists, etc. like the primary assembling markets which existed before the APMC.The MSP was started for wheat and rice, but over time it has covered 20-odd crops.It is a well-documented fact that the procurement at the MSP in Punjab and Haryana has been the strongest incentive for the farmers to make India an exporter of wheat and rice instead of an importer. Similarly, more procurement of pulses at the MSP in recent years has resulted in their self-sufficiency. But these two Bills will start dismantling the APMC system due to no tax in trade areas and could do way with the MSP regime, which was protecting and increasing the income of farmers.It is a fact that owing to increasing stocks of wheat and rice, the Central government is under constant pressure to keep the stocks within a manageable limit.Even the stocks of pulses and oilseeds procured by the government at the MSP are not disposed of before the next procurement season. The MSP has become a nationwide phenomenon due to higher procurement in recent years.No mention of the MSP in the marketing reforms Bills has created apprehension among farmers. In such situations, the better alternative would be the area planning through registering for procurement before sowing of crops.The author is a former Professor, SBI Chair, CRRID, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/threat-to-apmc-msp-147768
