28-06-2020||Rajnish Wattas||Time to reinvent cities||“If mankind is to live on, the urban patternhe occupies will require major unravellingand reweaving”— Arthur B GallionDoes it take calamities to create new city models? History of urbanisation seems to suggest so. Most global metropolises underwent major renewals following manmade or natural catastrophes: be it London, Paris or Chicago. And now, the post-Covid-19 city, too, will have to be reimagined.Even when the pandemic subsides, the assumption that city life will return to the old ‘normal’ is unlikely to happen. The propensity for pandemic hotspots to sprout predominantly in dense, poorer and polluted urban clusters will make people tell themselves, ‘governments cannot ensure our health safety, we must secure ourselves’. In India, heart-wrenching defining images of lakhs of migrant workers trudging back to their rural homes, hundreds of miles away, echo that.Not surprisingly, most Covid hotspots in India are congested, low-income, slummy urban clusters that not only bear overwhelming disease burden, but also the brunt of air pollution and water contamination issues. Cities, especially metropolitan ones like Mumbai and Delhi, are also abodes of sharp inequalities and rich-poor divide. Antillia — Mukesh Ambani’s skyscraper villa — soars high above the shanties of Dharavi of Mumbai, symbolising discordant scales of privilege and poverty.In the developed world, too, there have been sharp differences in Covid-19 cases depending upon urban densities. New York, one of the most crowded cities in America, remained at the global top of the pandemic’s mayhem curve with 20,000 dying over three months till the recent dip. By night, the Manhattan Island holds 1.6 million population that doubles in the morning, with people pouring in like high tide, crowding up its offices, coffee shops, streets and iconic plazas like the Times Square. Most of them are empty now.Urban-rural reduxIronically since late 20th century, urban planners and economists serenaded the rise of big cities globally. Harvard University don Edward Glaeser, in his book Triumph of the City, called them ‘engines of growth.’ Other planners, too, drum-beated that urban density increases, ‘workers’ productivity and minimises their carbon footprint’. It was argued that megacities with high densities enable economies of scale and bring together talent, generating new ideas and innovations through multi-disciplinary interactions. By 2016, more than a fifth of humankind was living in cities of 1 million people or more. The largest 300 metropolitan areas now generate half of the world’s wealth. But Covid-19 has questioned the relevance of such high-investment, high-density cities with their gleaming skyscrapers in the world? There is talk of return to smaller organic satellite/suburban towns with greenery and cleaner air, assuring romanticised countryside lifestyles.The urban-rural redux is not new. In the 19th century, coal-driven factories cast palls of smoke and pollution over most western industrial towns. However, Ebenezer Howard, an English court reporter, planner by avocation, changed all that with his book, Garden Cities of To-morrow, published in 1898. The Garden City aimed to marry the health benefits of nature with urban conveniences. It was to be encircled with an agricultural belt and industry was to be planned on its preserves, so that the poor could earn their living though at a little distance. Howard managed to get two Garden Cities built — Letchworth and Welwyn — in England; and in the United States, the suburb of Radburn in New Jersey, besides other such inspired townships. It is ironic though that the centenary celebrations of Welwyn city, slated for April 29 this year, had to be cancelled due to Covid!The garden city in IndiaThe Garden City idea took root in India during the colonial era with examples of Bengaluru (then Bangalore) and Edwin Lutyens’ New Delhi. In 1947, with the Partition of India, the East Punjab Government decided to build a new capital city at Chandigarh to fill up the void of Lahore going to Pakistan. A.L. Fletcher, a top bureaucrat tasked with the preparation of the brief for the new city was very impressed by Ebenezer Howard’s concept for Garden City and championed it as the inspirational model for Chandigarh project.The original team of American architects and planners for Chandigarh comprising Albert Mayer and Mathew Nowicki, too, had been big proponents of the Garden City ideology. However, owing to tragic death of Nowicki in a plane crash the American team had to be soon replaced by Le Corbusier. But many of the green city ideas underlined by the Mayer team became precursors of what Corbusier also developed later on. In 1922, Corbusier had presented his model of the Ville Contemporaine, “a city of three million inhabitants that featured tall office towers surrounded by lower residential blocks in a park setting” that he fondly called the ‘Vertical Garden City’. Though eventually he had to make a horizontal ‘Garden City’in Chandigarh, it imbibes many of the core values he advocated for new-age cities. The fact that Chandigarh has done much better in containing Covid-19 endorses the relevance of such green cities in the future too.Conceptualising a sustainable cityMany experts forecast that the current, ‘working from home evolution is likely to turn into a working from home revolution’. In the future, the economic benefits of being packed tight in centralised offices might be lost if distant working that facilitates better living conditions, doesn’t dent urban economy much. The decline of densities in the urban realms will be loud and clear.Since the paucity of land will inhibit establishment of large number of ‘green field’ cities, retro-fitting existing ones will become de rigueur. The sustainable city or green building will no longer be mere avant-garde buzzwords for city administrators. Rather, substantial reconfiguration of urban masses and open spaces will have to be fast tracked. Numerous technologies for erecting vertical green buildings are already in place and can be further refined and made cost-effective. London architects Foster + Partners’ vision sees city space transformed, “With parking consolidated in empty plots nearby, the street regains a community focus, with cyclists and pedestrians prioritised and the area reclaimed for planting, seating and more efficient waste management”.It’s time then to reinvent the city.Rebuilding post-calamitiesFrequent epidemics were endemic to the old, filthy and dingy crowded London city. Soon after the bubonic plague in 1665-66 killed nearly 1,00,000 people, another catastrophe soon followed: the Great London Fire. Sir Christopher Wren prepared a new plan for old London as sought by the King. Similarly, Paris got rebuilt number of times due to calamities. In the middle of the 19th century, Voltaire, the great thinker, bemoaned of Paris “established in narrow streets, showing off their filthiness, spreading infection and causing continuing disorders”. However, when Napoléon III came to power, he tasked Georges Eugène Haussmann in 1853 to redevelop the decaying city. The Emperor instructed Haussmann to ‘aérer, unifier, et embellir Paris: to give it air and open space...to make it more beautiful’. Similarly, Chicago in America was rebuilt after the Great Chicago Fire of 1871. Daniel Burnham the visionary, master planner commissioned to reconfigure the city, had famously said, “Make no small plans; they have no magic to stir men’s blood.”In India, the earlier JNNURM scheme and the present much drum-beated ‘Smart City’ project by the current government were expected to create magical urban transformations, but these have remained mostly paper exercises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/time-to-reinvent-cities-105624
28-06-2020||Lt-Gen Baljit Singh (retd)||Enemy at the gates and a 910-km walk||Unbelievable as it may sound, but way back in 1957, our prudent mandarins in South Block had prescience of China’s impending military intrusions across the well-acknowledged boundary of Northeastern Ladakh. So, an audacious reconnaissance was conceived to assess the ramifications arising therefrom and Captain SL Tugnait was picked from among volunteers to lead the assignment.Ladakh and Karakorams showing Tugnait’s reconnaissance route.Serbjeet SinghWhen Tugnait walked out from Leh for Darbuk on his outward journey, he trudged across the very same place names that today are among proven PLA strongholds (Pangong Ridge South Top, Phobrang, Kongka la, Lingzithang, Aksai Chin plateau, Hazilangar and so on). And on the return journey, he passed by places (Karakoram Pass, Daulat Beg Oldie, Saser la, Khardung la) in whose vicinity the Indian armed forces have stood entrenched in counter-poise to checkmate the PLA from any further westwards mischief.The plucky Captain covered a hitherto unchartered route of some 910 km at mean elevation of 15,700 ft above sea level, crossing four among the world’s highest mountain passes and terminating at Leh about three months later! Bravo Tugnait for the kind of perseverance truly beyond the call of duty!Fundamental provocation for this incredible exploration arose from the emergence of the two sibling sovereign republics in 1947 and 1949 namely, India and China in that order. While India’s freedom movement was anchored by Mahatma Gandhi around the ideology of non-violence, China’s was the offshoot of a full-blown war against the Japanese invasion of mainland China in 1938, followed by another decade of bloody civil war during the PLA’s “Long March”.Admittedly, there was no formal unity of purpose between these two Asian nations during their struggles for national emancipation, yet there was a sense of unstated sympathy for each other’s goal. So much so that in 1938 Chinese General Zhu De made a formal request to Jawaharlal Nehru for a team of physicians and surgeons to manage their mounting battlefield casualties. The Congress party promptly dispatched a team of five volunteers led by Dr Kotnis and a respectable gift of Rs22,000 stacked during the All-India China Day Fund Raising drive while another donor wisely provided an ambulance.On disembarkation at Hankou port in Wuhan province, the Indian medicos were received personally by Mao Zedong, General Zhu De and other top leaders of the Communist Party. This bonhomie received further boost with an invitation for a visit by Nehru which may have sown the idea of Nehru’s latter days’ optimism in the spirit of “Hindi Chini Bhai Bhai!” and who could fault him but narrow-minded sceptics? For that matter PM Narendra Modi’s Wuhan outreach to China, 80 years later, is in the same league; both efforts were afloat on wings of optimism in India but, soon after, floundered by deceit of China.But this maiden ideal of peaceful coexistence was rudely jolted by China in 1954 when PLA besieged Lhasa with a garrison of about 4,000 combat hardened and motivated soldiers and commenced the process of building a road linking Xinjiang province to Lhasa. So, what for aeons had been a peaceful Indo-Tibet border would sadly become the most bitterly disputed Sino-Indian border that has remained on the boil to present times.The most worrisome for India was the alignment of the road to Lhasa (NH 219) as it cuts across Ladakh’s Aksai Chin plateau and thus unilaterally altered the border alignment of the northeastern segment of India’s Ladakh province. India had barely stemmed military hostilities ignited by Pakistan in J&K by January 1949 and here was NH 219 with portents of even bigger military challenges to India in the Ladakh region.Captain Tugnait, who retired as a Brigadier, on his part completed his mission successfully, yet his accomplishment lies all but forgotten except for an entry in the Register for MacGregor Memorial Medal, for 1958. It goes:“Captain S.L. Tugnait... Air OP Squadron, Regiment of Artillery. Valuable Military Recce in Northern Ladakh. Covered the route from Leh over the 21,000 ft Chang La (Sic. 17,590 ft) into the Shyok River Valley to Ponyvang Lake (Sic. Pangong Tso). From there to Quazi-Haji Langer-Quaratag Pass, and back by the Karakuram Pass to Daulat Beg Oldi - Sasar Kangri over the Sasar La into the Nubra Valley and back to Leh over the 19,600 ft Kharding La”.As may be imagined, Tugnait’s report remains off limits for public perusal but we may safely conclude that it led to (i) the positioning of an Indian Army brigade-sized force in Ladakh in 1959, subsequently upgraded to a division by 1962; and (ii) occupation of a chain of platoon-company outposts (armed with bolt action rifles and limited ammunition) starting from Daulat Beg Oldie all along the India-Tibet/China boundary eastwards to Longju in Siang Valley and Kibithu in the farthest corner of Lohit valley (Arunachal Pradesh). In the strict cartographic domain, this should have left no scope of misinterpretations pertaining to what both by authenticated cartography as also “by custom and usage” principle had always been India’s frontiers with her neighbours.It is almost impossible for any Indian citizen to truly “dream” up from the contours on cartographic map sheets, the barren and inhospitable terra firma in extreme, of Tugnait’s reconnaissance region or the logistical nightmare for sustaining such a military deployment against the adversary as an ongoing posture. Fortunately, there exists a three-dimensional panorama by Serbjeet Singh (an extraordinary cinematographer and painter of the Himalayas) which shows up both the magical and the maddening dimensions of the region as nothing else can and is reproduced by the kind courtesy of his son. As per a notation by Serbjeet on the lower margin of the painting, the framed original used to be in the Prime Minister’s Office.When I zoom in the precise area of reconnaissance route from the panorama, I am simply awed by Tugnait’s mental and physical endurance and his gutsy perseverance to cheerfully face extreme odds in the discharge of his duty. I am proud and humbled to have served the first two years of my career under him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/enemy-at-the-gates-and-a-910-km-walk-105625
28-06-2020||Pushpa Girimaji||Claiming insurance must make life easy, not difficult||Two years ago, my car got stolen, but was eventually found by the police and returned to me through a court order. The subsequent events made me feel that I would have been better off if the car had not been found. First of all, the insurance company took a very long time to approve the cost of repairs required on the car. They, in fact, appointed two surveyors and wasted considerable time. Second of all, the service centre promised to deliver the car after the repairs in a month, but took six months to complete the job and hand over the car. So, altogether, I was denied the use of my car for nine months after I got it back. I want to file a case against both the insurance company as well as the service centre for the delay as I had to travel by taxi during this time. Do I have a case here?Well, consumer courts have clearly held that inordinate delay in rendering a service constitutes ‘deficiency’ in service and consumers who suffer on account of such deficient service are entitled to compensation. In this case, both the insurance company and the workshop are guilty of rendering a poor service that caused you considerable suffering physically, mentally and financially. So you have every right to seek compensation for the loss caused to you.I must also mention that, in a number of cases, the apex consumer court has frowned on insurance companies that appointed a second surveyor or valuer to re-assess the cost for no apparent reason, except that it did not suit the interest of the insurer. In your case, I do not know why the second surveyor was appointed, but if it was done without any valid reason, obviously resulting in further delays, then you have another strong point against the insurance company.Similarly, the service centre or the workshop promised to hand over the car after completing the repairs in a month, but took six months to do so. This not only constitutes unfair trade practice, but also deficient service. So the service centre too has to compensate you for the delay in repairing the car.I am not sure about the quality of repair work done. If that was not satisfactory or if the workshop failed to do the job as required or as promised, you must include that too in your complaint and seek damages on that score too.Do you know of any case similar to mine that has come up before the consumer court? If yes, can you please elaborate on it?The apex consumer court looked at an almost identical case only recently. Here too the complaint was about the delay on part of the insurance company in approving the repairs and the delay on part of the service centre in giving the estimate and in completing the work — all adding up to 18 months of delay. The other complaint was that even though it was a ‘cashless policy’, the consumer had to pay Rs 1,04,835 as depreciation charges.Here, the lower consumer courts had held the insurance company and the service centre guilty of providing deficient service and asked them to pay 12 per cent interest on locked up value of IDV (Insured Declared Value) of Rs 4,25,000 beyond a period of six months for which the vehicle was retained by the workshop; pay Rs 25,000 towards mental and physical harassment caused to the complainant and Rs 10,000 towards costs. Both the insurance company and the workshop would be jointly and severally liable, the lower consumer courts had said.This was upheld by the National consumer Disputes Redressal Commission. However, on the question of depreciation charges, the insurance company argued that the vehicle was five years old at that time and as per the insurance policy, depreciation was to be applied on the basis of the chart given and this was strictly followed.The National Commission, after considering this issue, held that “when there was a clear provision in respect of depreciation to be charged, the complainant cannot raise any grievances in this regard unless it is proved by the complainant that depreciation has not been correctly applied”. Since no such argument had been advanced, there was no case for asking the insurer to reimburse that amount, the Commission held. (Jaspreeet Singh Bakshi Vs SBI General Insurance Company and another, Revision Petition No 605 of 2016, date of order: June 18, 2020)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/claiming-insurance-must-make-life-easy-not-difficult-105629
