29-11-2020||Jasvinder Kaur||How British brought knitting to Punjab||It is hard to believe that knitting, a favourite pastime of women in the subcontinent during winter, came to India only during the British Raj. Christian missionaries helped in spreading this skill as girls were taught knitting in schools. Gradually, it became popular among women and replaced spinning as more people starting wearing hand-knitted sweaters and socks.Cottoning on to woolIn the 19th century, people in Punjab were not in the habit of wearing sweaters, even when it was really cold in the winter. The wealthy preferred Pashmina shawls and the poor used woollen lois — for wrapping around oneself, as well as for bedding. Baden Powell (in 1872) writes, ‘It is a remarkable fact that in the plains during the cold weather natives do not like woollen goods, it is only the poorer class that resorts to kambal or blanket. Everyone who could afford it, much prefers wearing several thicknesses of cotton cloth and coats padded with cotton wool are universally worn.’Sir George Watt and Percy Brown also expressed similar thoughts in 1904 that, in general, cotton, rather than wool, was preferred throughout India. This has also been corroborated by other writers and gazetteers of the period. Hand-spun khaddar was thicker and warmer than mill-made cotton and women used it to stitch their suits. Men often used a khes as a wrap instead of a warm chaddar. This practice was common in Punjab even in the 1990s and might still be prevalent at certain places by the older generation.a stamp of Dewan Chand Atma Ram, a famous store in Shimla.History of knittingThe process of knitting is believed to have originated in Egypt and developed in the hands of a Christian sect known as the Egyptian Copts, famous for their skills. It spread with the expansion of Christianity, reaching as far as Peru in the 16th century.There are many theories attached with knitting and its spread. According to one theory, knitting was common in Italy and Spain before it reached England. Initially it started in Shetland Island in Scotland, before spreading to England in the 16th century. The story goes that the Spanish Armada owned by the Duke of Medina-Sidonia was wrecked at Fair Isles (part of Shetland Isles). The rescued sailors were the ones to teach knitting to Fair Isles’ natives. From there it slowly spread to England. Even today, Shetland wool is considered to be of superior quality and sweaters with a lot of patterns are called Fair Isle sweaters. These have patterns that are created by use of multiple colours.Fair Isle sweaters were, worn by Edward, Prince of Wales (later Edward VIII). He was the Captain of the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews, Fife. In 1922, for The British Open, he wore a soft-collared white shirt, a tie with a geometric pattern, a Fair Isle sweater and plus fours. He thus started not only the fashion of this Scottish knitting style, but was also responsible for popularising plus fours (baggy knickerbockers reaching below the knee, formerly worn by men for hunting and golf). These derive the name from the fact that plus fours are cut four inches below the knee. Although this style was specifically intended for golf, yet it became fashionable for informal daywear for men in the 1920s and was specifically identified with the Prince of Wales. Some of the maharajas of Punjab as well as wealthy persons also wore these casually.There is yet another theory where the Scots claim to have invented knitting. This is more so because the first ‘Knitting Guild’ founded in Paris, took for their patron saint, St Fiacre, the son of a Scottish King.’Spreading the skillSir George Watt and Percy Brown in their catalogue of the ‘Delhi Exhibition’ of 1903 observe that ‘knitting seems to have been unknown in India prior to the efforts of the missionaries’. It was taught in most female schools and girls initially learnt to knit socks or jorab. Knitting therefore came to be known as jorab-bunnana as it was the first article that most girls learnt to knit although they were not in the habit of wearing them.Malcom Lyall Darling (1934) writes about a school in Moga where every girl at the high school had to make a homemade garment for their annual government inspection. Darling observes that while most girls made items that were suited to village life, yet some girls made knitted socks though they rarely wore them.Socks get mentioned in books and gazetteers from the third quarter of the 19th century onwards and it was always said that people wore white socks. Baden Powell, describing the dress of the people of Lahore and Amritsar, mentions them as wearing white stockings along with embroidered shoes. It can be presumed that since the shoes were embroidered, they were of Indian style. William Crooke, writing at the beginning of the 20th century, describes an official —‘his long white stockings mark the ‘baboo’ as clearly as short deer-skin socks distinguish Afghan.’For a long time the socks worn in Europe were white and when these were introduced in India, most people wore only white socks. In Europe, white was the popular colour for socks though chemical dyes were introduced in 1860s. Although socks were available in India, not everyone wore them. Initially, it was only the wealthy and the western educated that used them.We find that whenever knitting is mentioned by writers, it is always in the context of making socks. John Webster mentions that a woman in 1884 learnt to knit socks and gloves from a teacher. Baden Powell (1872) lists jails and orphanages of Punjab engaged in knitting. He lists the Mission Orphan School in Ludhiana, the Amritsar Female Orphanage, and the Female Penitentiary, Lahore, where knitting was taught.A missionary practiceA. Latifi, author of ‘Industrial Punjab’ (1911), writes that ‘It is a matter for congratulation that women have taken to socks making in Ludhiana as well as Wazirabad’. Writing some decades later in 1929, Darling mentions that in Ambala the wife of a missionary would visit the villages around and teach women how to knit cotton and woollen socks.Knitting also spread to Punjab hills (now Himachal Pradesh). Missionaries have been credited with bringing knitting there as well. The Moravian Mission in Kyelang (Keylong), Lahaul, under Rev Heyde was established in 1854. Another place in Basahir (Simla district) was set up. They also set up schools at Peo (Reckong Peo) and Kyelang (Keylong) that had 10 girls and who learnt singing, sowing & knitting stockings, etc. The girls learnt how to knit gloves and socks. The mission popularised knitting among the locals, and slowly more and more girls took to it in the region. Knitted products in Lahaul even today have multi-coloured patterns, similar to the Fair Isle designs, which could possibly reflect the early influence of missionaries. The threads for the gloves and the socks were at one time handspun by the women from local wool. The colours used were grey, brown, black, or white with multi-coloured patterns.Rise of the machinesAlong with hand knitting, machine knitting was also introduced in India. As technology advanced in Europe, knitting frame developed in the late 16th century. Machine-knitted socks in the 18th century replaced those made of cloth. Earlier socks and stockings were made with cloth that had to be cut according to the shape and size of the leg. Machine-made knitted woollens were made for the first time at Sialkot. Ludhiana became a major centre of production in the early 20th century and by 1911, there were 150 machines for making socks and eight for vests in the city.In the cities of Punjab, wealthy men had started to wear sweaters before they did so in the villages. For women, sweaters came in much later. However, around the 1920s and 1930s, as knitting gained popularity, girls and women took to knitting even though they themselves might not have worn sweaters.Making it to magazinesKnitting magazines, books and pamphlets were available in local shops and women closely followed patterns provided in these. This enabled women to knit using European patterns and colours as even colour specifications were given. Some magazines like ‘The India Ladies Magazine’ gave patterns for knitting cardigans. As some magazines were expensive, many women copied the pattern and the instructions.Knitting needles and wool came from England initially and were advertised in the local newspapers like The Tribune for sale of knitting yarn and needles. Many local shops also had connections abroad and got their supplies from there and advertised about it in magazines and newspapers.Knitting was not as popular as crochet work primarily as not everyone wore sweaters. However, with time, the popularity of crochet work declined and in post-Independent Punjab, knitting became popular. Slowly, as more and more people took to wearing sweaters, knitting became a necessity as readymade sweaters were not readily available and even if they were, they were very expensive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/how-british-brought-knitting-to-punjab-177371
29-11-2020||Harleen Gurunay Majithia||A world of masks in Assam’s Majuli island||Throughout the world, masks have been used in rituals and festivities. While the West has its masquerade parties, India, too, has a unique cultural legacy of masks and mask making. Majuli island on the Brahmaputra river in Assam has carved a special place for itself among culture aficionados across the world, especially for its craft of mask-making.The island can be accessed by ferries via Jorhat city. The dock on the island gives it a barren and desolate look, but do not fall for this mirage because as you wheel inside, Majuli welcomes you with its greenery and offers you the colours, tastes, music, art and traditions of Assam and its tribal communities, especially if you visit it during the festive season around Dasehra and Diwali. Inside Majuli, the island can be best enjoyed on bicycles and bikes. The rustic thatched bamboo huts in traditional Mishing style on the riverside or in the fields create picturesque views. As you traverse through Majuli, the everyday agrarian life is worth observing. Homestays are popular on the island where freshly brewed rice beer and delicacies like porang apin (rice cooked in tora leaves) and pamnam (fish baked in banana leaves) offer new experiences to the palate.The island of Majuli is also the seat of neo-Vaishnavite culture of Assam that houses Satras or monasteries. These are said to have been established by Mahapurush Sankardeva in the late 15th century. Fine details on the decorative wood panels on some ancient Satras represent tribal art, folk culture and heritage of the Ahom kingdom. The Satras are important centres of traditional performing arts. Each Satra has a distinct identity and serves as a sanctorum to a different art form. For instance, the Auniati Satra stores ancient artefacts and is famous for traditional Mishing tribal dances and paalnaam, a congregational prayer. The Dakhinpat and Garamur Satras stage theatre performances raas leela and bhaonas, which make use of dramatic masks. The renowned among these is Samaguri Satra that has brought Majuli to the foreground for its art of mask-making with some of its remarkable folk creations also being exhibited in the Victoria & Albert Museum in London.Use of indigenous materialWhat differentiates these masks from other folk masks across the country is that these are made from indigenous material of the island and not Plaster of Paris, and without the use of synthetic colour. Special attention is paid to intricate details and technicality (newer kinds of masks have movable jaws, making dialogue delivery easier). The traditional art of making masks is passed down from father to son or from the guru or teacher at the Satra to the students.The technique involves making a three-dimensional bamboo framework onto which clay-dipped pieces of cloth are plastered. After drying it, a mix of clay and cowdung is layered on it. This helps to add detail and give depth to the mask. Jute fibres and water hyacinth are used for beard, moustaches and hair. Once the mask is complete, a kordhoni (bamboo file) is used to burnish the mask. And finally, drama is added to the masks with deft painting. The mask-makers of Majuli prefer using vegetable dyes and colours derived from hengul (red) and hentul (yellow) stones.Three different types of masks are made. The Mukha bhaona covers the face, Lotokoi, which is bigger in size, extends to the chest and Cho Mukha is a head and body mask. The masks are made exactly the way luminary Sankardeva described the characters in his Ankitya Natya from which bhaonas have emerged. These bamboo masks are light in weight and comfortable for the performers to wear. It takes approximately 10 to 15 days to make the mask.When you visit this Satra, faces of gods, goddesses, demons, fiends, ogres and all kinds of otherworldly characters with raised brows and flared nostrils from Indian mythology and folklore, as attendees either smiling or scoffing at you, will spice up your visit to the otherwise peaceful Majuli.Fact FileHow to reach: It is a 15-km-drive from the city of Jorhat to Nimati Ghat from where the island of Majuli can be accessed through ferries. If you’re in luck, you can catch a glimpse of the beautiful sunrise and sunset (although ferries generally start by 8 am and end by 4 pm; the timing varies according to season).Best time to travel: The island is open throughout the year but October and November are the best time to experience the island in its vibrancy and festivity.where to stay: There are many hotels and homestays here. The Satras also offer guesthouses to devotees and tourists.What else to do: Majuli is a birdwatcher’s delight. One can spot rare species of migratory birds, which arrive here in winter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/a-world-of-masks-in-assams-majuli-island-177376
29-11-2020||Pushpesh Pant||Prepare Lucknow’s boti kebab at home||Decades ago, on a field trip to research the recipes in Lucknow, accompanied by a dear departed friend and passionate foodie, we encountered the boti kebab. Such is the power of myth and mystique created around galawat ke kebab — Kakori, Tunde and Dora — that we kept chasing the Holy Grail and become sunblind to other riches, no less delicious, which were scattered on the streets at every step. To cut a long story short, there was this kid, barely out of his teens, who was imparting finishing touches to his stuff on a large flat tawa — the iron griddle used to turn out perfectly grilled tikkis — in the chowk. The aroma wafting was seductive and the moistened masala-draped cubes of meat looked most appetising. The two of us exchanged glances and the unasked question, “Why not?” led us to one of the most satisfying splurging. When we exchanged notes with our hosts, we were told that this kebab was seldom cooked at home. Like chaat, it was classified as a street-side snack, not very genteel. Some generously offered to let us sample home-cooked handi kebab that is a refined rendering of the same recipe. But we digress. Memories linger, and we kept yearning for an encore.Many years passed before we were most pleasantly surprised to find it on the dinner table at home. It hadn’t been ordered from a takeaway but beloved son Indrajit had lovingly prepared it — to chase away the lockdown blues. ‘Ask no questions, and you will be told no lies’ is the adage and we enjoyed every morsel of what was on the plate. However, he later let us on to the secret that one of his friends from a small kasba in Awadh had shared his family recipe with him. Relax and enjoy an exceptional kebab that can be made to perfection in the home kitchen. All it requires is a little patience and preparation — marinating and grinding your own aromatic whole spices masala.MethodWash and trim the meat. Cut into small bite-sized pieces. Remove the skin and grate the papaya. Whisk the curd and prepare a marinade by blending the grated papaya, garlic and ginger pastes, along with salt. Place the boti in this marinade in a bowl overnight (or at least for six hours). Dry roast lightly all whole spices, including coriander, cumin seeds, fennel seeds and chillies. Heat oil in a pan and stir-fry the onions till rich brown. Take off the stove and keep aside. Grind to a paste in a blender fried onions, dry roasted spices, nuts and poppy seeds. Grind in short pulses. If required, sprinkle a few drops of water. Heat ghee in a pan and put in the boti, along with the marinade. Stir-fry for about 15 minutes. Add the ground spice paste and continue to stir-fry on medium flame for another 15 minutes. When the fat separates sides, add gram flour mixed in 1/4 cup of water. Reduce flame to low and let the flour cook. Sprinkle kewra water. Cover and simmer for a minute. Switch off the stove. Garnish with chopped green chillies and fresh coriander or mint leaves, if you like.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/prepare-lucknows-boti-kebab-at-home-177377
29-11-2020||Pushpa Girimaji||Banks liable for sale deed loss||Ten years ago, I bought a flat with a home loan from a bank. Three months ago, I repaid the entire loan and asked the bank to return the sale deed, which it had kept as collateral. However, the bank denied ever having received the sale deed from me! I am worried because that’s the most important document of ownership. Please advise.The bank has probably lost the sale deed. Hence, it’s now trying to escape liability by saying that you never gave them the paper. Without collecting the sale deed, how could it have ever given you the loan in the first place? Besides, the bank always has to give the customer the list of documents submitted to it for obtaining the loan. I am sure the sale deed is also listed there. So send a copy of that to the bank as proof of their having taken the sale deed and ask them to return it to you.As per the minimum standards of banking practices, drawn up by the Banking Codes and Standards Board of India, the bank should return the sale deed and other documents collected from you, within 15 days of your repaying the loan. For any delay, the bank has to compensate you. In case of loss of paper, the bank has to also help you get duplicate papers, at its cost.Are there any recent orders of the consumer court that I can quote in my complaint?In State Bank of India vs Vallu Sowjanya (RP No 4550 of 2013, date of order October 21, 2020), the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission looked at a similar case. The complainant here had taken a loan of Rs3,50,000 to buy a house. After repayment of the loan, when she asked the bank to return the original sale deed, the bank denied having ever received them, forcing the consumer to go to the consumer court for relief.The bank’s argument was that the customer executed an agreement to deposit the original deed within 14 days, but it was never done. Usually they release the loan only after the sale deed/title deed is deposited, but in this case, it was done without it and later it was not followed up! The consumer, on the other hand, showed a copy of the agreement of mortgage specifically mentioning that mortgage was by deposit of sale deed. The consumer courts at the district and state level asked the bank to return the original deed, along with a compensation of Rs50,000 and costs of Rs10,000.The apex court modified this order saying that although the complainant had deposited the sale deed, it was apparent that the bank did not have it. The commission asked the bank to issue a certificate that the original deed was lost, pay the amounts awarded by the lower consumer commissions and additionally, pay Rs1 lakh to compensate the consumer for the decrease in the value of the property on account of the loss of original papers.In Sheel Sohal vs Axis Bank (CC No 1021 of 2016, order dated January 8, 2018), the commission awarded a compensation of Rs10 lakh, keeping in mind not only the erosion of the value of the property, but also the fact that it would become difficult for the owner to mortgage the property and take a loan without the original title documents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/banks-liable-for-sale-deed-loss-177378
29-11-2020||---||Walk to create awareness on heritage organised at Qila Androon in Patiala||Patiala, November 28The Patiala Foundation oraganised its sixth edition of annual heritage walk today at ‘Qila Androon’, which is part of the ‘Qila Mubarak’, a heritage fort under the iHERITAGE project.The walk began at 10 am from Baba Ala Burj. After paying obeisance at the Baba Alaji jyot, the walk continued through the chambers of Qila Androon and other related places within the premises.The chief functionary of the Patiala Foundation, Ravee Singh Ahluwalia, led the walk and took participants through the history of the Patiala dynasty.Encouraging participants to work towards the larger cause of heritage conservation, he stressed upon the need to create awareness about history and culture among the younger generation.The chief guest of the event was SSP (Vigilance) Mandeep Singh Sidhu while other participants included Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Harish Malhotra, traffic advisor (Punjab) Navdeep Asija and Patiala Foundation members, including SP Chand, Pawan Goyal, Rakesh Badhwar, Anmoljit Singh, Jaspreet Walia, Harpreet Sandhu, GS Sikand, Vikram Malhotra and Dr Nidhi.Foundation volunteers, including Harshdeep Singh, Bharpur Singh, Sukhdarshanpalbir Singh, Jaskirat Singh, Madhur Verma, Rishabh, Shubham, Lovish Balana, Muskan, Simranjeet Kaur, Gurpreet Kaur, Palak and Abhinandan Mittal, ensured that proper Covid-related protocol was followed at the event.Almost one-hour walk ended at the Durbar Hall. “We initiated iHERITAGE project under which work is being done for the recognition of heritage sites in Punjab. Besides, people are motivated to engage with their heritage under the project. Under this initiative, various engaging events have been conducted to create awareness about heritage and culture,” said Ahluwalia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/walk-to-create-awareness-on-heritage-organised-at-qila-androon-in-patiala-177423
