30-08-2020||Renu Sud Sinha||How Vikas Khanna's tweet led to 30 million meals||In another two days, Feed India Initiative will have completed five months of its tenacious journey of feeding millions in more than 135 cities across India during the pandemic. The man spearheading this campaign is New York-based Vikas Khanna, a Michelin-starred chef for the world, but a humble man at heart from ‘Guru ki Nagri’ Amritsar.Read also: ‘What he is doing comes from that space – langar sewa’The campaign has crossed the 30 million-meal (cooked and dry ration) mark, but food is not the only thing Vikas and his team of volunteers are providing. Also on the list are 400,000 slippers, 3 million sanitary pads and 2 million masks. While he’s been too busy to calculate the overall cost, “on a rough estimate, it should be around $10 million”, says Vikas. The campaign, however, has zero-administrative cost, as it is being managed by a team of 60 volunteers, in India and the US.From his house in Manhattan, he shares an interesting anecdote that led to the foundation of this vast effort. In March-end, he received a mail from an old-age home in India, seeking donation for its inmates, stuck during the lockdown. He immediately transferred some money, but the mail turned out to be a spam. However, it set him thinking about the plight of the less fortunate during the pandemic. Having been associated with such endeavours before, he was aware that most orphanages, old-age homes, and other such institutes run from month to month in terms of rations, donations, etc, and would be hugely affected by the pandemic. And that’s how the idea of Feed India came into being.Feed India, or Barkat as he calls it, started with a single tweet on April 1. Vikas asked his 2.3 million followers on Twitter to go to their neighbourhood orphanages, old-age homes, leprosy centres and check if the inmates needed ration or food.Soon, the messages grew faster than the Covid cases across India, and he and his volunteers were quick to respond.A basic kit of essentials, including hygiene essentials, was put together. Each bag consisted of ration items, essential supplies, sanitisers, sanitary napkins, detergent and sometimes even chocolate, along with slippers, water bottles, etc.From institutes of destitution, his campaign soon extended to migrants walking home, street vendors, Mumbai’s dabbawalas, boatmen and craftsmen in Varanasi, inmates of widow ashrams, people with disabilities, transgenders, sex workers, AIDS patients, anyone and everyone in need.As Vikas was managing everything from the US, there were some logistical issues — unscrupulous vendors, dishonest suppliers, vanishing supply trucks, payments that had to be paid twice. He almost gave up but his mother — the anchor who keeps him rooted, as he puts it — reminded him how having achieved his dream of becoming a top chef despite odds, he could not be scared of these little singes.He reached out to the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in mid-April. By then, the NDRF had already been working with the pandemic-affected in different states.But didn’t the NDRF find the proposal of a celebrity chef sitting across oceans a little farfetched? Says Satya Narayan Pradhan, Director-General of the NDRF, “His commitment, authenticity and straight-forwardness came across loud and clear. And this partnership has moved from strength to strength because of the synergy in sincerity from both sides.”Vikas has spent millions from his own funds to kickstart the campaign and keep it going. Collaborations, in both cash and kind, with brands came much later. India Gate rice management was the first to approach him in mid-April. Since then, there have more than 50 Indian and international collaborators, including Tata, Procter & Gamble, Paytm, Patanjali, etc. The latest on board is Crown Rice. It has committed 1 lakh kg of rice for Feed India’s Ganesh Chaturthi prasadam drive in Mumbai on September 1.Many individuals have also pitched in, including artist and architect Tarik Currimbhoy, Sandie Tillotson (NuSkin), Heather Ibrahim-Leathers (Global Fund for Widows), social entrepreneur Payal Tulsiyan, and of course, the man of the moment, Sonu Sood. The two Punjabi boys came together to help migrants reach home — Sonu was taking care of transportation and Vikas was providing them with meals on the way. For this initiative, Vikas had come up with an innovative plan. He reached out to Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited and converted at least 100 fuel stations on the highways of UP, MP and Maharashtra into kitchens from where the weary migrants could have a hot meal on the go.The one lesson from the pandemic, says Vikas, has been the “resilience of mankind and its solidarity”.With the end of the pandemic nowhere in sight, how long can he sustain Feed India? “I signed two book deals last week, and the proceeds will go into funding the drive. More brands are coming forward. I tweeted about it last week and there were 16 mails within 30 minutes.”On what makes him go on, he says, “My faith in my Guru, Guru Nanak Dev, and my promise to my mother that I will see it through. She didn’t raise a quitter.” She did not.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/how-vikas-khannas-tweet-led-to-30-million-meals-133564
30-08-2020||Neha Saini||‘What he is doing comes from that space – langar sewa’||For a Michelin star chef who has served the likes of Barack Obama, Dalai Lama, Queen Elizabeth, Vikas Khanna’s favourite food — the humble, home-cooked dal-chawal — is a reminder of the man’s modest lifestyle. “He can eat dal-chawal seven days a week. It’s his all-time favourite, ever since he was a child,” says his mother, Bindu Khanna (70), based in Amritsar.Read also: How Vikas Khanna's tweet led to 30 million meals According to Bindu, “Our backyard was host to several impromptu feasts as Vikas’ friends and neighborhood kids would gather around and he’d cook for them. Many times, a few of our neighbours would call him to taste a new recipe they tried at home. He was fondly called ‘pandat’ by one of our neighbours because he was a simple, sorted kid, ready to help everyone.”His elder brother Nishant, an educator, agrees. “As a kid, Vikas was always empathetic, feeding strays, birds and the needy. For many, what he is doing now might be a new concept but growing up in Amritsar, we always learnt to share our graces.”Not the brightest of kids in school, his mother recalls how Vikas would spend most of his time after school cooking, along with his beeji (grandmother). “Vikku,” as his mother fondly calls him, “was always sentimental and inclined towards creativity. He was different from other kids as he was always doing chores that people at that time did not deem fit for a boy. He learnt knitting from his grandmother and would make sweaters. He learnt sculpting and would do wooden sculptures. A wooden Ganesha that he made is still displayed at Salaam Bombay, an upscale restaurant in New York where he worked.” He was born to beat the odds, she says. “Even when he started Lawrence Garden Kitchens, his small catering business, from our home, many doubted his choice of career as it was not seen as a respectable line of work. When he told me about his decision to become a chef, I too was a bit taken aback. I asked him — “Kya tu abb bawarchi banega?”The first time, says his mother, her son’s culinary skills stunned her was when he cooked bhindi for her. “It was the best bhindi I had ever tasted, Vikas was seven or eight years old that time and I knew then that he would go places.”His passion for food and service came from his beeji. In his ancestral home, his room was close to beeji’s room and both of them would spend hours in the kitchen, where Vikas would watch her cook.Bindu says that he still misses his grandmother, who was one of the most influential persons in his life. ‘Beeji passed away in 2013, and two years later, his father passed away. Vikas still has not come to terms with his father’s death.”As for Vikas, his mother says that her son has always managed to surpass her expectations. “I still cannot believe what he has managed to achieve. He is still childlike, simple and ready to help anyone who comes to him.” Even with Feed India campaign, Bindu shares that Vikas is following his heart. “As a kid, he would often go to the Golden Temple to perform langar sewa. What he is doing with Feed India is something that comes from that space, with the belief that no one should remain hungry,” shares Nishant. One cannot get more Ambarsari than that!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/what-he-is-doing-comes-from-that-space-%E2%80%93-langar-sewa-133567
30-08-2020||Vandana Aggarwal||Grow your own microgreens||Once seen as a fancy add-on at expensive restaurants, micro-greens have gained popularity as a superfood that can be grown cost-effectively, with minimum supplies at home. Often confused with sprouts which are eaten once the seeds germinate, microgreens are the next step in plant growth. These are harvested after the germinated seeds develop tiny leaves and roots.Don’t fret if you live in a small flat with no garden. Microgreens need little space to grow and if you have a windowsill or balcony that catches a couple of hours of daily sunshine, you are good to go. Though some taste better than others, seeds of almost all edible plants can be grown as microgreens. It’s a good idea to start with familiar and easy-to-grow seeds.Choosing and preparing the seeds: Take about half a cup of larger seeds like green beans or dry peas. If using smaller seeds like mustard or fenugreek, two tablespoon’s are enough. Rinse gently and soak. Keep covered in a dark place for at least 24 hours, changing the water once in between.Three different mediums for growingGreen beans in a kettle: Green beans or moong is the most popular, the fastest and easiest to grow. Soak in a kettle to start with. After 24 hours, rinse and allow all the water to drain out of the spout. Cover and keep on the kitchen counter. Moong doesn’t require much sunshine. Rinse at least two or three times a day. Your microgreens will be ready within 3-4 days. They will be white and plump. Alternately if you grow these in soil or expose these to sunlight, these will be green but will take longer to mature.Mustard seeds on cloth: Mustard greens are small and delicate but have a distinctive wasabi flavour that adds a zing to your palate. Spread a cotton cloth in a sieve and gently transfer the soaked seeds onto the cloth. Spray with water to keep the cloth moist at all times. These seeds love partial sunlight and take five to seven days to grow. Harvest by gently pulling out plants to separate them from the cloth.Dried peas in a plastic tray: Use a fruit tray which has holes (for excess water to drain out) and half fill with potting mix. Spread the soaked peas in a single layer. Spray with water and press down with another plastic tray. Cover with a cloth to keep the light out and moisture in. Once sprouts emerge, keep the container in a sunny spot and continue watering at least twice a day. Harvest the shoots in about two weeks, by cutting just above the soil line.Microgreens taste best when fresh but can be safely refrigerated in a plastic bag for a couple of days. Use the tender and edible greens as a nutritious side dish, delicious and anti-oxidant addition to smoothies or a colourful topping to salads.Enjoy this fresh produce grown organically in your kitchen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/grow-your-own-microgreens-133578
30-08-2020||Jagvir Goyal||Expedite house construction, & how||Most house builders begin construction of the house with much energy and enthusiasm but by the time of completion, they often get exhausted. Yet the carpenters and painters seem to never finish their jobs while few others wait to install the pending fittings and give final touches to the house. Taking care of the following can help you expedite the construction:Enlist your preferencesOnce you hire the services of an architect, immediately finalise the house plans. Be clear about your preferences like the storeys of the house, provision of basement, a side passage, number of bedrooms, etc.Get the plans approvedOnce the house plans are finalised, get these approved from the local authority. Ask the architect to ensure that the plans comply with the building bye laws. Hiring the services of architects on approved panel list of the local body makes the task easy. Get permission for water supply and sewerage connections.Make estimate materialPrepare material estimates on the basis of plan and elevation of the house. Estimate the quantity of bricks, cement, steel, wood, sand and coarse aggregate (bajri). For rough estimation and cost involved of these six materials, thumb rules can be applied.Choose your suppliersGo for reputed brands of cement and steel. Choose a dealer supplying fresh lots of cement. Survey the brick kilns around, examine the ready lots and finalise your bricks supplier. For supply of steel, ensure that steel bars are IS marked. Go for straight bars instead of coils, which demand extra time and labour. Look for fresh, rust-free steel. Both sand and bajri are normally supplied by one dealer. Keep cross-checking the rates being charged. It pays dividends to timely engage suitable labour contractor to raise structure of the house.Focus on woodworkOnce the construction is started, buy the required quantity of wood, get it cut to major sizes and store it as per prescribed methods for air circulation among the cut pieces for natural seasoning. Choose wood carefully. Natural drying and seasoning of wood minimises chances of its warping after use. Carpenters are the last to leave the house. Get electric connection where carpenters can work independently to assemble door and window frames and shutters and later to shift them to site.Time-saving specificationsChoose floor tiles instead of marble to save time required for grinding and polishing of marble. Go for wood laminates to save time lost in wood polishing. PoP work for ceilings saves much time than required for false ceiling which needs fixing of GI hangers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/expedite-house-construction-how-133581
30-08-2020||Pooja Khanna Tyagi||Space savers for bathroom||If you have a small bathroom, it is essential to create a well-organised layout which has provision for the storage of toiletries and other essentials. Here are some features which can be incorporated within the decor of the bathroom to create a highly functional and aesthetically pleasing space:Mirror with cabinetThese units comprise a mirror unit with narrow storage. A great way to keep the clutter out of sight, the cabinets, also called medicine cabinet, can be used to store essential bathroom items, medicines and toiletries.Wet and dry zonesStrategically divide the bathroom into a wet and dry area with a shower curtain. You can also create a walk-in shower area with a frameless glass partition as it provides an unobstructed view. It also lets light pass and gives the bathroom a visually larger look.Floating vanityConsider a floating vanity which incorporates a cabinet below the sink as it clears the floors space and makes the bathroom appear bigger. If there is a space constraint, install a pedestal sink or corner sink.Wall-mounted commodeMake provision for a wall-mounted commode, instead of a floor-mounted one, as it takes lesser space and imparts a sleeker look.Sliding doorsIf the bathroom is tight on space, go for a sliding door or pocket door so that you can make use of precious floor space. Alternately you can open the bathroom swing door in the outward direction instead of opening it inwards.Door-mounted rodsIf there is no space to hang towel rods on the bathroom walls, install these on the back of the door but make sure that the depth of the towel rod is not more than that of the door knob. One can also screw a towel hook behind the door.Corner shelvesMake optimum use of the bathroom corners by installing corner shelves. These can be efficiently used for storing and displaying toiletries.Vertical storageMake maximum use of the vertical space by making provision for open or closed storage above the bathroom door so that it is out of sight and does not look imposing. Incorporate built-in storage within the bathroom niches and install sleek floating shelves on the walls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/space-savers-for-bathroom-133583
30-08-2020||Amarjeet Batth||When the winter comes||Once the monsoon recedes, humidity level goes down considerably in September and there’s a drop in the night temperature. This is the time to prepare the planting of winter annuals. Here’s how to go about it: The nursery beds are made 15-20 cm high and 60-90 cm wide under partial sunlight. The nursery medium is prepared by thoroughly mixing one part each of garden soil, river sand and leaf mould. Drench this with 0.2 per cent Bavistin to take care of soil-borne diseases. Depending on the seed size, sow these at a depth of 0.5-1 cm and cover. Maintain moisture levels but there should be no water logging. As the seeds germinate, uncover to do thinning and separation of lumps. When 3-4 leaves appear, reduce watering and expose them to sun for few days. In the evening hours, using a narrow blade, loosen the soil. Holding its leaves, gently pull the seedling with soil intact and plant into flowerbeds.For the flowerbeds: Prepare levelled, inch-deep well-drained flowerbeds in a sunny location. Clear the weeds and dig to expose in sun for a week. Mix 5 kg of farmyard manure and 500 gm DAP in 100 sq ft area (10’x 10’).The overall effectWhen mixing the annuals, keep in mind not only the colour but the foliage and texture also. Do not plant these in stiff rows but in clumps or groups. Petunia colour tones present an excellent monochromatic approach. For vertical effect, use larkspur, lupin or snap dragon. To generate mass effect, plant annuals in proportionate volume with synchronised flowering. These can be in a single colour or in harmony with complimenting texture. Some varieties that can be grown are acroclinum, African marigold, antirrhinum, brachycome, calendula, California poppy, China aster, cineraria, cosmos, dahlia, dimorphotheca, French marigold, gypsophila, kale, lupin, nasturtium, nemesia, sweet sultan, Sweet William, stock, salvia and wall flower. To add colour and softness in the rockery, plant Alyssum (sweet), Brachycome, phlox and nasturtium. Flowers like antirrhinum, alyssum, petunia, stock, sweet peas, sweet sultan and wall flower will fill the air with fragrance.Compact low-growing annual ties the flowerbed into a large identity. When planted along pathways, these soften the hardness and straight lines of the building. Sweet alyssum, ibris (candytuft), ice plant, brachycome, dianthus dwarf are some options.Fast-growing holly hock, larkspur, peas (using support) make excellent screening plants to demarcate or make temporary division or partition. Lady’s lace gives good effect when sown against herbaceous border.Bloom In the potsLow-growing annuals are the best for pots. As a basic consideration, a fully grown plant should be more than 1½ times the size of pot. Bellis perennis, brachycome, pansy, kale, dahlia, sweet William, carnation, pink, matricaria, gazania, lupin, ice plant, nemesia, petunia, salvia, cineraria, nasturtium and pansy are successful pot plants.Best suited for interiors are cut flowers like acroclinium, Lady’ lace, amobium alatum, antirrhinum, calendula, callistephus chinensis (Aster), centaurea, (corn flower), larkspur, dianthius caryophyllus (carnation), dianthius barbatus (sweet William), gerbera, gypsophila, helichrysum, iberis, mathhiola incana (stock), bells of Ireland with long and hard stem have long bloom.A colour at an eye level is best offered by low growing and trailing varieties of petunia, geranium, verbena and nasturtium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/when-the-winter-comes-133587
