31-08-2020||Ramesh Arora||Let’s do it the eco-friendly way||PESTICIDES are toxic chemicals applied to crops for killing insect pests, plant pathogens and weeds. Less than one per cent of the more than one million identified species of insects are ‘pests’. Rather, a large number of insect species provide essential ecosystem services as plant pollinators, nutrient recyclers, trash burners, natural enemies of pests, and act as food for birds, fishes, amphibians, reptiles and small mammals, as components of food chains and food webs. Without these services, agriculture, forests and even human civilisation as a whole will not survive for long. Therefore, the pesticides need to be applied with utmost caution to minimise their adverse impact on humans, non-target organisms and the environment.Rachel Carson, in her monumental book Silent Spring (1962), effectively focused the attention of the public, scientists and policy-makers on the consequences of the indiscriminate use of pesticides and prompted governments around the world to start regulating the use of pesticides.In India, the Insecticides Act, 1968, regulates the manufacture, import, sale, and use of pesticides. Under the Act, the Government of India has over the years banned the production and use of 40 pesticides. The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare constituted an expert committee headed by Anupam Varma in 2013 to review the use of 66 pesticides, which were already banned or restricted in other countries. Based on the committee’s recommendations, followed by the regulators’ decision and its own decision on the subject, the ministry issued a draft order on May 14, 2020, banning 27 pesticides in the country. Stakeholders were given 45 days (later extended by another 45 days) to file their response to the draft order.In view of the order, state agricultural universities (SAUs) are making efforts to replace the banned items with alternative pesticides in their recommendations for the farmers. This is not a desirable approach to integrated pest management (IPM). In Europe, when many chemical pesticides were banned by the European Food Safety Authority, most of these were replaced by the release of natural enemies for biological control of pests. In India also, there is a need to replace the banned chemical pesticides with non-chemical tactics, especially pest-resistant genotypes, cultural control practices and biological control, and shift crop protection steadily towards bio-intensive approaches. Ecosystem biodiversity in the form of inter-crops, trap crops, and plants in adjoining fields/non-cropped areas would help to keep populations of most pests at the sub-economic level. About 350 species of natural enemies (predators, entomopathogens) are commercially produced and utilised in crop management around the world. In India, only about a dozen such species are being mass-multiplied.There is unlikely to be an adverse impact of the banning of 27 pesticides on agricultural production because safer alternatives are available in the market. But agricultural universities need to be more stringent while recommending new pesticides for crop protection. Data on the impact of new chemicals on all non-target organisms, especially pollinators, natural enemies, secondary pests and microbiota, must be generated for informed decisions on new recommendations.In Punjab, the only significant challenge to replacing the banned pesticides appears to be herbicide pendimethalin, which is widely used as a pre-emergence treatment in direct-seeded rice and other crops. The cultural method of stale seed bed is useful and needs to be popularised among farmers as a component of integrated weed management (IWM). It helps to significantly lower the weed density in the field.The banning of the 27 pesticides presents a golden opportunity to agricultural universities, state departments of agriculture and the farming community to take the big leap required towards bio-intensive IPM for environmentally safe crop protection. This can be a win-win situation for farmers and consumers, besides the environment.The writer retired as Senior Entomologist, PAU, Ludhiana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/lets-do-it-the-eco-friendly-way-134072
31-08-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Pesticides : Viability of substitutes||THE Centre’s move to ban 27 widely used pesticides (12 insecticides, eight fungicides and seven herbicides) may have little immediate impact on agriculture and farmers. As of now, a draft order has been issued, banning the manufacturing and sale of these pesticides on the grounds of the risk they pose to humans and animals.These pesticides are used on almost all crops — paddy, wheat, maize, sugarcane and cotton, besides vegetables and fruits. A large number of countries have already banned these pesticides and the Union government is under pressure from environmentalists to ban these in India. The debate, however, now centres around the alternatives available to farmers, and also whether these alternatives are economically viable for farmers, already reeling under ever-increasing input costs and low price realisation for their produce. There are no alternatives available in the market for at least one-third of these pesticides. As an alternative to pesticides, Punjab has been promoting Integrated Pest Management (IPM) techniques to control pests.“Eh dawaiyan di varton saadi majboori hai... nahin tan sari fasal kharab ho jaoo. If the substitutes are available, and that too at a reasonable price, farmers will opt for the same. But from what we hear, the alternatives are almost double the cost of these pesticides proposed to be banned. Also, where is the guarantee that the substitutes are disease-resistant and will ensure that the yield of the crop remains as high as with the use of these 27 pesticides,” says farmer activist Randeep Singh of Sangrur district.Pesticide use is among the highest in Punjab, after Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. Though Punjab has a much smaller area, its pesticide usage accounts for almost eight per cent of the national figure. Almost 4,930 metric tonnes (MT) of chemical pesticides were used in the state in 2019-20, as per figures available from the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare. According to the Punjab Farmers and Farm Workers’ Commission, the state has seen a steady decline in the use of chemical pesticides. Punjab used 5,689 MT of chemical pesticides in 2014-15 and 5,543 MT in 2018-19.Ajay Vir Jakhar, chairman of the Commission, says that the draft agriculture policy for Punjab clearly defines that the pesticide usage is to be reduced by 10 per cent each year. “Through counselling and other agriculture extension activities, we are gaining success and cutting down on pesticide usage for the past three years. A ban will not make these 27 pesticides vanish from the markets as huge stockpiles are being created by manufacturers and dealers. The shift to safer and cheaper alternatives will take time as the agriculture research system is not geared for it and is only offering chemical alternatives,” he says.Baljit Singh, a farmer of Jatana Khurd in Mansa district, says the government should look at supplying the substitutes at reasonable prices through cooperative societies. “It will build trust and farmers will opt for the safer pesticides faster,” he says, adding that quality control and regular monitoring of the efficacy of substitutes would also help boost farmers’ confidence.Farmer activist Ramandeep Singh Mann feels that the ban on pesticides, without viable substitutes, could gravely impact the farm economy. “All substitutes should be thoroughly examined, researched and experimented with before the farmers are asked to shift to these. The shift has to be gradual, so a complete immediate ban may not be in the best interests of all stakeholders,” he says.Punjab’s pesticide usePesticide use is among the highest in Punjab, after Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. The state accounts for almost 8% of the national usage. Almost 4,930 metric tonnes (MT) of chemical pesticides were used in the state in 2019-20, down from 5,543 MT in 2018-19. The state’s target is to reduce usage by 10% every year.Send your feedback to infocus@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/pesticides-viability-of-substitutes-134073
