31-05-2020||Nonika Singh||Doorway to another world||Entertainment knows no border, no language and some non-English shows are proving it all over again. These shows have stormed the world of entertainment, and are conquering the audience the world over at a staggering speed, leaving both trade pundits and makers stunned. Coming from different parts of the world, such as Israel, South Korea, Spain and Germany, these shows have no common denominator.Crime thriller Money Heist, whose Spanish title La Casa de Papel means ‘the paper house’, maintains a rock solid stronghold on viewership ratings. Netflix’s biggest global hit, it is the most sought-after show and is expected to go from being Netflix’s most popular non-English show to simply the most popular. Such is its popularity that newborns are being named after its characters. Its humungous fan following includes the likes of Stephen King. Closer home, Ayushmann Khurrana is eager to slip into the shoes of the professor, whose fool-proof heist tactics have over 65 million households hooked.Ninety per cent of the audience of German sci-fi series Dark, a rather complex theme of time travel, is outside Germany. At one point, it was one of the top-ten trending in India — probably because the series centres around the inevitable hand of fate as well as how yesterday, today and tomorrow are inextricably linked. Emotions are universal and always touch a chord. What also works for these hugely successful series is cultural specificity. South Korean drama Kingdom, for instance, is a heady cocktail of history, horror and zombie fare. The screenwriter, Kim Eun Hee, on whose web-comic Kingdom of the Gods it is based, admits to having made it strictly with Korean sensibilities.Israeli show Fauda, the story of an undercover wing of Israeli Defence Forces on the trail of terror operatives, is quintessentially about the Israel-Palestine conflict. No one expected it to appeal to viewers across continents. Not only does it take its name from Arabic — fauda means chaos in Arabic — much of the series is in Arabic and Hebrew. Often pointed at as being pro-Israel and anti-Palestine, the language explains its huge reach in the Arab world. Fourth most popular show on Netflix in India, an adaptation focussing on India-Pakistan tension with Kashmir as the backdrop is in the making. The series is a portrayal of people caught in conflict zones. It humanises antagonists and depicts heroes with warts and all. Besides, the fact that Lior Raz, the protagonist, has served in the elite undercover counter-terrorism unit and has a personal tragic backstory adds to the realism.However, if this one is strikingly close to reality, Money Heist is on another tangent. Who could ever imagine the tale of robbers taking hostages and minting currency right within the mint of Spain to strike such a chord with the audience? Even though its subsequent seasons are caught in a loop, it still works, with one critic even dubbing it as the visual equivalent of a page turner. Time travel never had so many dimensions, so many realities, worlds, timelines and so many twists. Dark expects you to keep solving the puzzle, who is who in which time zone, you dare not blink for a second!Korean drama Kingdom could well be called the Korean equivalent of Game of Thrones. High on production values, along with Oscar-winner Parasite, it has taken Korean content to newer heights. Netflix attributes Kingdom’s immense popularity to technological innovations and the OTT’s ability to both dub and add subtitles. The series has been dubbed in 12 languages, including Chinese, German, French and English. Indeed, except Fauda whose makers wanted to keep it as authentic as possible and did not opt for dubbed versions, most of these series are available in English. The language here is not a handicap or moderator, only a doorway to another world, another vision which viewers are only too happy to embrace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/doorway-to-another-world-92410
31-05-2020||Shardul Bhardwaj||The runaway kid is still running||Is 400 Blows, directed by Francois Truffaut, turns 61, Udaan, directed by Vikramaditya Motwane, completes 10 years on July 16 since its release in 2010, the flight of the child from fetters of an iron-fisted and dogmatic prison remains tragically relevant. 400 Blows’ spiteful schoolmaster, who satisfies his self-esteem by brutally punishing 13-year-old Antoine Doinel (played by a young Jeanne Pierre Leaud), exists even today in Indian school systems and are celebrated as strict disciplinarians who make model citizens out of wayward kids. If nothing then 400 Blows is a masterful exploration of what and who that model citizen should be according to a post-war French society.It would not be difficult for you to remember one or perhaps many such disciplinarians from your school days. Questions, enquiry, independence of spirit and curiosity were and are anathema to the English-medium school system riddled with entitlement in India. A model citizen is supposed to be obedient to authority and should be, by extension, a budding submitter as a student. 400 Blows illustrates each act of defiance by a 13-year-old as a threat to the family, to the system and to the nation, all of which mean little to him and each punitive action aimed at caging him results in further defiance until he runs away from the reform school and finds himself looking at the sea.Incidentally, nine years after the release of 400 Blows, Paris was rocked by student protests of 1968. They had rejected the artificiality and oppressiveness of French society spurred by American consumerism. In India too, the protests against government meddling in institutions of higher education, communalisation and anti-CAA protests have seen high participation by university students. The seasoned disciplinarians of society whose agendas get frustrated by the voices of students generally resort to: “A student’s job is to study”.To study is to engage and engagement involves dialogue, where the teacher doesn’t teach but guides the student to think and articulate his/her own thought. Antoin from 400 Blows and Rohan from Udaan are not merely running away from a strict reform school and an abusive parent respectively, but a punitive system that does not respect them. These films which should have been relics of the past are becoming more relevant as we go on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/the-runaway-kid-is-still-running-92409
31-05-2020||Archana Sharma||Rare babool tree found||A RARE species of the babool tree called acacia eburnia has been found in Rajasthan after 68 years, said Dr Satish Sharma, an environmental scientist and retired Assistant Conservator of Forests. This species was first spotted there in 1951 by botanist KS Sankhala while he was carrying out a survey of northwest Rajasthan. However, after that year, the tree remained untraced anywhere in Rajasthan. For the past 68 years, there was no mention of these species anywhere in any of the researches or books, said Sharma.However, while working on the diversity of the acacia species in the Aravallis, he recently saw five trees of these species on the roadside in Dhar village, just 15 km from Udaipur city. Three of these were medium sized while two of these were small sized. The geographical location of the tree is different this time as earlier in 1951, it was found in the northwest region of the state which is a desert area with scanty rainfall, but now it was found in Southern Aravalli in Udaipur which is a high rainfall area with dense forests. Its reappearance in shows that it is not an extinct species. This tree is now full of flowers. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/rare-babool-tree-found-92408
31-05-2020||Subhash Rajta||Back to the wild||At first glance, this particularly steep hillock in the middle of nowhere will not catch your eye. Grassy and somewhat rocky too, and largely bereft of tree cover, it appears unremarkable, even on the second look. Despite the apparent ordinariness, there’s something very special about it – it’s the site of an ambitious project of the wildlife wing of Himachal Pradesh. In October last year, the department reintroduced bred-in-captivity Cheer Pheasants into the wild at this spot to augment the declining population of this endangered bird. Not only is it the first attempt of its kind in India, but also it could well become the first-ever successful experiment the world over.Already, the HP wildlife wing is considering the experiment a success. “Out of the 18 birds released past October — six adults and 12 young ones — 11 are still surviving,” informs Dr Savita, Chief Wildlife Warden, Himachal Pradesh.“As per international standards, even if 20 per cent survive for at least a year, the experiment is deemed successful. And in our case, the survival rate so far has been roughly 60 per cent,” she says, barely able to control her excitement.Her enthusiasm and optimism is understandable. The birds have been in the wild for eight months now, still four months short of the critical one year period. But having survived the initial months after release and the harsh winters, survival now should relatively be a walk in the park for these birds. And if the birds manage to breed and intermingle with the wild population, that would be an icing on the cake. “That would be a grand success,” says Dr Savita. The birds are already into the breeding season, but there’s no evidence yet of any breeding. “Unless we see the visuals of newborns with our adult birds in camera traps, we can’t say anything with certainty,” says Samakshi Tiwari, a research assistant, who has been tracking the progress of the birds at the site ever since their release.Long, arduous processReintroduction of any species into the wild requires painstaking efforts, and this experiment is no exception. The first step of the experiment, now so close to being successful, was taken about a decade back, with the establishment of a conservation breeding facility in Chail, about 50km from Shimla. Once the facility had enough healthy and behaviourally competent progenies who could survive in the wild, the next step was their pairing, which again required a lot of diligence. “Before the pairing, the demographic and genetic analysis was carried out to rule out inbreeding,” says Dr Savita. “Besides, they were regularly screened for diseases and infections prior to the release.” Even one diseased or infected bird could contaminate the entire population in the habitat, hence the utmost caution.Eventually, three pairs and their 12 chicks were chosen for a flight into the wild. The site chosen for their release was an unremarkable hillock in village Seri, not too far away from Chail. Throwing them straight into the deep end could have proved catastrophic, so soft-release was planned. For a month, the birds were kept in three enclosed pens at the release site to prepare them for the life out in the open. “Each pen mirrored their habitat with perches and bushes inside. Efforts were made to help them identify predators and rely on food available out there,” says DFO Rajesh Sharma.Out in the openA little over a month later, when it was felt the birds had learnt the ways of the jungle, they were allowed to move out to live the life they were actually supposed to. The adults were tagged with radio collars so their movement could be tracked. Unfortunately, a few birds succumbed in the pen while being trained for the life out in the open. Others, however, seem to have adapted well to the new surroundings — having survived for eight months in the midst of predators like raptors and foxes bears that out.“One bird has crossed over to the other side of the valley. It seems settled, so chances are it has found a partner among the wild birds,” says Tiwari. Another good sign for the experiment!For the experiment to have gone so well so far, local people, too, deserve credit. “They gave land to set up pens for soft release, do not send their cattle for grazing into the birds’ habitat and help in ensuring the birds are not hunted,” says Sanjeev Kumar, a part of the three-member team monitoring the birds at the site. In another four months, the village and the not-so-appealing hillock could become a prominent place on the wildlife map.Know cheer pheasantIt is a medium-sized bird, with male weighing 1250g-1800g and female 900g-1350g.A threatened species, the total population is estimated at 2,000-2,700 adults. The bird is found in India, Pakistan and Nepal.It prefers a habitat marked by tall grass, shrubs and stunted trees, at an altitude of 1500-3000m.The bird feeds on roots, tubers, berries and insects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/back-to-the-wild-92403
31-05-2020||Vibha Sharma||Fast and furious||On May 21, ‘super cyclone’ Amphan ended its journey as a ‘well marked low pressure area’, just the way it started before its devastating run towards the landmass across the Bay of Bengal. Armed with fury accumulated over the waters, Amphan barrelled along the north Odisha coast before slamming the West Bengal-Bangladesh coast, causing catastrophic losses. Also lost in the widespread destruction was a banyan tree in Howrah botanical garden, which had withstood numerous cyclone seasons in a lifetime spanning more than two centuries.So what turned Amphan into the first cyclone of 2020, and the first ‘super cyclone’ of the century? What elevated a ‘low pressure area’ into a menacing ‘super cyclone’? ‘Super cyclone’ is the highest category of tropical storms that start as ‘well-marked low pressure area’ and then pass through various stages — depression, cyclone /deep depression, severe cyclone, very severe cyclone, extremely severe cyclone — before turning into a devastating force that Amphan was. A rotating organised system of clouds and thunderstorms, low-level circulations originating over tropical or subtropical waters are called tropical storms/typhoons/hurricanes/tropical depressions, etc.Many factors contribute to their formation, intensity and route, including greenhouse warming simulations and regional variability. Cyclones in different ocean basins are also affected by natural variations in regional atmospheric patterns. Though global warming is not the only factor at play, stronger cyclones over the years have made accusations of the human fingerprint stronger.Climate change and tropical cyclonesExperts are linking increased activities in the Indian Ocean to global warming and abnormally warm sea surface temperatures (SSTs). “Global warming is making cyclones more powerful by heating up ocean/ sea surface waters. Unless we drastically reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, world’s coastal and river bank populations will face even stronger cyclones,” warns environmentalist Soumya Dutta.Just like a rocket is powered by hydrogen and oxygen, cyclones are powered by water vapours. Global warming means more water vapours and more fuel for cyclones. Warmer temperatures increase the atmosphere’s ability to hold water vapours and dump it as rain, and warmer SSTs increase the availability of energy to make the cyclones stronger. Global heating has already caused a rise of more than 250 per cent in such storms over the past 40 odd years, Dutta claims.Simon Wang, Professor of Climate at the Utah State University, says “abnormally warm” SSTs set several new records for cyclones in the Indian Ocean in 2019. “Was this an outlier year or a year that portends things to come? We don’t know yet. But we do know that the Indian Ocean is warming, and we know that warm ocean water is the first, and perhaps the key ingredient for the formation of tropical cyclones. So the system is primed for more storms,” he adds.Mahesh Palawat of Skymet, a private forecaster, highlights the role SSTs played in the case of Amphan. “SSTs were high and vertical wind shear was low — the two factors, among several others, contributed to Amphan gaining strength as it travelled across the Bay,” said Palawat.Some researchers have found poleward migration of storm tracks in eastern North Pacific, making conditions “less ideal for typhoons”. However, the general consensus is that tropical storms have become stronger in almost every region of the world, global warming being the major cause. Environmentalists are also linking global warming to the locust storm in India.Analysing the data gathered from 1979 to 2017, a recent study by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and the University of Wisconsin-Madison Cooperative Institute for Meteorological Satellite Studies (CIMSS) found that storms have become stronger on global and regional levels, which is consistent with the expectations of how they respond to a warming world. “It’s a good step forward and increases our confidence that global warming has made hurricanes stronger, but our results don’t tell us precisely how much of the trends are caused by human activities and how much may be just natural variability,” researchers were quoted as saying.Rising global temperaturesMeanwhile, reports also suggest that Siberia is in the throes of a heat wave “that would be considered warm even by the standards of those living outside the Arctic Circle”. Siberian warmth in May is not a one-off event; it has been a consistent feature since the last winter, say experts. Temperature departures from average have been noted across the world, pushing global average surface temperatures to record highs.And now the dangerous news — even during a low solar activity in the past year, large greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions have caused high global warming. So, what if and when the sun comes back to “average or normal” activity? Snow cover is disappearing, sea ice is melting, fires are raging, SSTs are high... It may just be the beginning, the 25th solar activity might have just started, says Dutta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/fast-and-furious-92400
31-05-2020||Pushpesh Pant||Season’s best friends are yours to savour||In happier times, it was possible to step out of the house any time of the day — from daybreak till late in the night — to fortify one’s arsenal against the scorching summer sun. Succulent cucumbers and sweet smelling melons could be stocked, with melons getting sweeter and cheaper as the mercury soared. And when the season’s first mangoes appeared, there was greater respite in the shape of the ice-cube laden mango shakes, lassi, kulfi, ice cream, etc. Everything cool brought such exquisite relief; rasgullas and rasamalai tempted one to step out of the house even on sultry nights. Cold drinks exerted a powerful multi-hued seduction.However, all this seems recollection of a distant past, fragments of fast-fading memories. Heatwave is once again knocking at our closed doors and we must keep our cool. And in times of pandemic, we will have to manage with whatever we have at hand. However, this cloud comes with a silver lining. This is the time to kick away the addiction to carbonated, sugar-laden, artificially flavoured, synthetic-tinted bottled drinks.Ancient ayurvedic texts tell us that the best way to cope with heat is to include ingredients with time-tested cooling properties to our diet. These thirst quenchers are spices and herbs supercharged by a little assistance from a pinch of sugar and salt. The traditional shikanji and jal-jeera prepared from spice mix pounded at home perform much better to protect you from heatstroke.One can make a single tea bag go a long way if making iced tea at home. A teaspoon of lemon juice and a few leaves of mint contribute to the bliss. If you are not running short of milk, you can treat yourself to a frothy cold coffee.Another beverage that deserves to be accorded one of the top slots is sattu ka sherbet. Ground parched gram or barley has, for generations, been the staple of the poorest of the poor in rural Bihar and eastern UP. Diluted with cold water and flavoured with salt, mint, fresh coriander and a little black rock salt, it makes a fantastic revitaliser. Thicken it a little and it gives you a light, nutritious breakfast.All of us are familiar with the ubiquitous garam masala, but how many have ever wondered about a thanda masala mixture? Well, there are spices that exude a cool aura and these must be utilised in summers: coriander powder, fresh coriander, green cardamom, mint — both fresh and dry, melon seeds and, yes, black peppercorns. These, along with soaked almonds and rose petals, power the thandai and beat the heat.It is not necessary to indulge in beverages alone. Try out new chutneys, many of which can be used as a main course dish at a pinch. The well-tempered coconut chutney in South Indian eateries is one such accompaniment. Hyderabadi tamatar ka kut or tonk from Bengal can easily save you the trouble of toiling in the blazing kitchen to rustle up a vegetable.Then there are scores of ‘cold’ dishes from the regional repertoire that can become integral parts of our summer menu necessarily constrained by limited supplies and restraints on going out. Aloo ka chokha, cold baigan ka bharta, aloo ki chaat, khilwan urad dal and so on. So conditioned we have become to eating our food hot even at the height of summer that we have almost forgotten delicacies that were served cold or at room temperature, like dahi ma bheenda, the Parsi classic, or doi begun from Orissa and Bengal...As a matter of fact, most seasonal squash vegetables with high water content, namely parwal, tori, tinda and lauki, can be enjoyed in a similar manner, particularly when slow cooked on dum. Just sprinkle a little thanda masala and experience the magic they work.Lest you get the impression that the summer delights are confined to the vegetable kingdom, just recall the range of cold cuts that make a meal in many European countries. A slice of salami plus a bit of cheese and sliced tomato can make an irresistible sandwich. A well-made shami kebab doesn’t require re-heating and who has heard of a hot-to-touch chicken chaat?Thayir sadam (curd rice), lemon and tomato rice are all presented not hot but at room temperature.There are countless raitas, pachadis and kachumbars that have long been neglected. All of these recipes can be prepared before the sun rises high in the sky and can be relished at leisure at lunch or dinner. We find a cold soup like gazpacho as filling as a more kojhambu with vegetables added to it.For those who have an incurable sweet tooth, we suggest try your hand at a cheesecake that doesn’t require baking and can be prepared with Marie biscuits and homemade curd cheese. If you can lay you hands on a forgotten bottle of vanilla essence and an egg or two, caramel custard is a good option too. Both are delightful when served chilled.Before we conclude, here is another suggestion: keep as far as possible the chromatic range of foods and beverages you consume and serve when the days feel like a furnace toward the cold blue end of the spectrum. Emerald or moss green, light pink and yellow all are known to douse the flames fast!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/seasons-best-friends-are-yours-to-savour-92397
31-05-2020||Pushpa Girimaji||When warranty not guaranteed||In the first week of May last year, I bought two split air conditioners for my home. As per the purchase conditions, I was entitled to a free service before the end of the year, which was the first week of May 2020. Because of the lockdown necessitated by Covid-19, I could not avail the free service offer. So I wrote to the company asking that the free service be done soon after the lockout is lifted. However, the company first said the free servicing period was over and I have to pay for the service or buy an ‘extended warranty’. When I protested, the company said they had a long list of customers requesting paid servicing and also those under ‘extended warranty’ and the company would take those on a priority basis soon after the lifting of the lockdown and would provide the free service only later. I feel this is very unfair. What do I do?I am really surprised at this kind of behaviour. Today, several companies are voluntarily extending the warranty, in view of the lockdown. I would expect all companies to follow suit because to deny the promised free service in these exceptional circumstances would be totally unfair and unjust.The immediate option for you would be to use the social media to put pressure on the company and also get together with other customers who may be facing a similar problem.So, first and foremost, go to the Facebook page of the company and put up your complaint there and see if the company reacts differently. You may well be joined by other customers in a similar situation and that should force the company to change its ways. If this fails, you will have to pay for the service and later, recover the cost as well as compensation through the consumer court.At the time of purchase too the company had asked me to buy the extended warranty, which it said would cover free servicing and replacement of parts for three years, beginning with the expiry of the one year warranty offered by the company for all parts. But I declined because it was costing Rs5,000 and I had already paid a steep price for the five-start rated air conditioner. Should I go for it now? The air conditioner had a guarantee of one year for all parts with certain exceptions and four years for the compressor.I would not advise you to go for the extended warranty because these air conditioners normally do not need any repair or replacement of parts, particularly in the first few years, except in rare cases of manufacturing defect.Your only cost would be the annual servicing, Rs300. Regular servicing and a voltage stabiliser (in case the power supply in your area is not of good quality and fluctuates often) should keep your air conditioner safe and in good working condition.Remember, extended warranty is basically a ploy on the part of the manufacturer to earn some extra profits because he is too well aware that the possibility of a customer utilising that warranty is relatively low. Besides, I do not know if you have seen the small print to know what the extended warranty really covers or does not cover.In fact, instead of spending Rs5,000 on the extended warranty, I would advise you to keep that money in your account in a separate fund, exclusively for the use of the air conditioner. If the machine gives some problem and you need to pay for it, you can utilise this money or else, it is a saving. Most likely, your only expenditure on the AC in the next three years will be the annual servicing, which would be Rs900 for three years. So why spend Rs5,000?I must also mention here a 2018 Stanford University (USA) study that pointed out that the strong demand for extended warranties and the high profits accruing to the companies from the sale of such warranties stem from consumer misconception about the failure rate or the failure probability of the product, rather than the sellers’ market power or the standard risk aversion. So “providing information to consumers about failure probabilities significantly reduces their willingness to pay for warranties…” the study titled ‘The Effect of Product Misperception on Economic Outcomes: Evidence from the Extended Warranty Market’ said.So, do not waste money on an extended warranty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/when-warranty-not-guaranteed-92395
31-05-2020||Shailaja Khanna||In penury, melody lost||The tradition of qawwali in India is around 600 years old. There are several families that have been faithfully carrying forward the tradition for generations. In North India, some of the oldest representatives of the art form still live in old Delhi and in these times of pandemic, many of them have been reduced to abject poverty. Abdul Majid (name changed) had to resort to selling bananas to raise money to feed his family. The possibility of no work for another six months has painted the portrait of a bleak future for musicians.Ustad Iqbal Ahmed Khan, head (khalifa) of the Delhi gharana, which also encompasses the qawwali tradition started by Amir Khusrau, says: “There is no sustained patronage to preserve the heritage of our country. Though institutions such as Sangeet Natak Akademi, Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts and Akashwani are trying to preserve and archive the traditions, none is looking after artistes financially. All western nations protect their classical arts, but India, which has the richest and perhaps oldest legacy, lags. We don’t realise that without our tradition, India will not be the India we know. The pandemic has only highlighted the fragility of our existence — the few stars amongst us have name and money; the bulk is barely making both ends meet.”Hard times for instrument makersIt is not only musicians who are out of work, the instrument makers are facing hard times too.Rikhi Ram Music shop in the Capital’s prestigious Connaught Place was opened in 1947 after Partition, when the original shop was abandoned in Lahore. It has been closed since mid-March. The shop has been the hub of activities and meeting point for musicians for decades. Even in the 1990s, it was a common sight to walk in and find a senior artiste like Ustad Nishat Khan waiting for his instrument to be tweaked. Ajay Rikhi Ram confesses that though most of his workforce has remained with him, two workers have left for Bihar and would probably find it hard to return to Delhi in the coming months. “Pending orders have been delayed and walk-in business affected, but my position is better than the 300 traders in musical instruments in Delhi-NCR alone who are facing massive losses,” says Ajay.Manish Sharma, who hails from Benaras, is a sitar maker in Mumbai where his clients include the famous Niladri Kumar. “For the last three months, I have been sitting idle at home, but the rentals for my house and my workshop have loomed ominously every month, causing huge stress,” he says.With most migrants back home, manufacturers of instruments are in a fix. Panchkula-based Harvinder Sharma, a senior sitarist, says artistes are feeling the pinch too. “I can fix the jawari of my sitar, but my students can’t. Replacing tabla skins requires a skilled artisan,” he says.Uncertainty looms over festivalsThe oldest classical music festival in India, Harivallabh Sangeet Samaroh has been held in Jalandhar consecutively for the last 144 years of its existence, running even during World War II and Partition. Its president, Purnima Beri, says, “We will take a final call on whether we will hold a proper festival in a few months as things are too uncertain for now. However, we will mark the anniversary of Baba Harivallabh. As prominent organisers, we are constantly being approached by musicians in need and the committee has been trying to respond to each of them.”Bureaucrat-turned-vocalist Kashish Mittal says concert cancellation and disruption of teaching classes have affected all musicians, young or old.“Pracheen Kala Kendra’s week-long festival at Chandigarh in March was cancelled, but even their monthly baithaks and those of other organisations such as Durga Das Foundation and Triveni Kala Sangam have been cancelled and will probably remain so for another few months.” He expects the entire winter music season to be subdued. “But on the plus side, musicians have come together, the online platform has developed reaching out to many new listeners... It’s nice to think these will remain as archival records for years to come,” he points.In Himachal Pradesh, things are in an equally sorry state. The state government had to cancel its annual classical three-day dance festival which gives platform to three locally trained dancers and has become an eagerly awaited event. The traditional regional melas in May and June have been cancelled disappointing the naati groups. The annual Shimla festival in June, held on the Ridge every year, has also been cancelled.Shoring up supportOne can only hope that the Ministry of Culture at the Centre and the state departments of culture act fast and work out some relief measures for the artistes. Some state governments are already including artistes in their welfare schemes. At the Central level too, existing budgets can be allocated differently.Noted danseuse and Padma Shri awardee Ananda Shankar Jayant suggests institutions like Sangeet Natak Akademi to use budgets allocated for festivals for artiste welfare instead. Financial aid would be more welcome than online festivals, which are numerous right now. However, reaching out to all artistes will be a problem as there are so many who are not registered with All India Radio and these “invisible” artistes are thus virtually non-existent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/in-penury-melody-lost-92392
31-05-2020||Indervir Grewal||When India ruled world hockey||The world of Indian hockey is a world of legends. Starved of success and glory for decades, the Indian hockey fan cannot help looking back into the past to get that feeling of pride and joy. In Balbir Singh Senior, India lost one of its biggest sports legends. But even in death, Balbir Senior reminded the country of Indian hockey’s proudest era.The recent retelling of Balbir Senior’s hat-trick of Olympics gold medals took the Indian fan back to that time when the country was unbeatable in hockey.Eight-time Olympics gold medallists, India last won the title in 1980. Seven of the gold medals came from 1928 to 1964, including six in a row.A star risesIf it was Dhyan Chand who was the epitome of India’s dominance before Independence, Balbir Senior became the face of Independent India’s initial successes at the world stage. In the 1948 London Olympics, Balbir Senior scored two goals in the final against Great Britain to help India win its first gold as an independent nation.At the 1952 Helsinki Olympics, Balbir Senior was probably at his peak. He scored three goals in India’s 3-1 semifinal win over Great Britain, before scoring a record five goals against the Netherlands in the 6-1 win in the final. He still holds the record for most goals by an individual in an Olympics final.Four years later in Melbourne, Balbir Senior captained India to a “golden hat-trick”. It was not India’s first hat-trick of titles. India had won three straight titles from 1928 to 1936. And for his role in India’s first Olympics success, Dhyan Chand is considered the father of Indian hockey.But with the 1956 triumph, Balbir Senior secured his legacy as independent India’s original golden boy. His goal-scoring statistics still leave everyone in awe. If it was Dhyan Chand’s wizardry — it is said that such was his control over the ball that the opponents suspected that he had a magnet in his stick — that captured the nation’s imagination, Balbir Senior became famous for his goal-scoring ability. It is said when Balbir Senior got the ball in the striking circle, there was only one outcome.The many greatsHowever, Balbir Senior was not the only star of his time. KD Singh ‘Babu’ was considered as the next Dhyan Chand. It is said KD Singh could dribble past whole defences and make the most accurate of passes, all while being in full stride. KD Singh, who won gold at the 1948 and 1952 Olympics, is as great a legend as Balbir Senior.These players belonged to an era that seems so distant now that it is not possible to imagine them just as players. Whenever there is talk about India’s former greats, it is accompanied by a sense of idolisation.Very few, if any, are alive who would have seen Dhyan Chand or Balbir Senior or KD Singh play at their peak. Fewer would remember what they saw. What is remembered is their statistics. All three of them were multiple Olympics medal winners and also prolific goal-scorers. That was one of the reasons why they stood out from the rest.But it is not that they were the only multiple medallists. Udham Singh (gold in 1952, 1956, 1964 and silver in 1960) and Leslie Claudius (gold in 1948-56 and silver in 1960) were four-time Olympics medallists. They are the only two Indian players to win four Olympics medals.In fact, Udham Singh was also considered a great goal-scorer. Claudius, captain in 1960, was one of the best mid-fielders. It is said that he considered himself to be a utility player, a jack of all trades. Incidentally, the same is said of Udham Singh. Then there was Randhir Singh Gentle who also won the triple in 1948, 1952 and 1956. Gentle even captained the team when Balbir Senior was absent due to an injury during the 1956 Games. But he will be remembered most as the scorer of the winning goal against Pakistan in the 1956 final. Among others who won two gold after Independence were Keshav Dutt (1948, 1952) Haripal Kaushik (1956, 1964) Grahanandan Singh (1948, 1952).None of these players, though, could capture the imagination of the Indian fan as Dhyan Chand or Balbir Senior or KD Singh did. But even if many of the names have been forgotten over time, most of these great names played their part in inspiring generations of hockey players.GamechangersThe modern game of hockey was brought to India by the British. Initially hockey became popular in major cities such as Bombay, Calcutta, Madras and Lahore, and around Army cantonments. “It was a very popular game in the British army because of its team-building characteristics,” said Colonel (retd.) Balbir Singh, part of the team that won bronze at the 1968 Olympics.“Initially, the army played a big role in spreading the game to the villages. Hockey also became a way to recruit people into the army,” added Col Balbir, one of the many Balbirs who followed Balbir Senior into the Indian team.When India won their first Olympics gold medal in 1928, the sport caught the nation’s fancy. Two more gold medals in a row gave the people a reason to feel proud and great. The hat-trick made Dhyan Chand a household name. But it was probably the next three consecutive gold medals that helped ingrain the game into the country’s DNA.Nation’s prideThe time after Independence and Partition was filled with uncertainty. But when the Indian team won three gold medals from 1948 to 1956, it became a symbol of Independent India’s bright future. “As our National Anthem was being played and the Tricolour was going up, I felt that I too was flying with the flag,” Balbir Senior had later recalled of the 1948 victory.By the time India won their seventh gold medal in 1964, hockey was “running in the blood” of the nation. And India had new idols like Charanjit Singh and Prithipal Singh, who both won gold in 1964. Prithipal, who also won silver in 1960 and bronze in 1968, became the most popular face of the new lot. Prithipal was known as the ‘king of the short corner’, and it is said that such was the power in his shot that facing him in a penalty corner situation was like facing death.To the current generation of players and fans, though, Dhyan Chand, Balbir Senior, KD Singh, Leslie Claudius or Udham Singh are probably just names that represent great achievements and unbelievable records. Hockey has travelled so far that it would be impossible for the current generation to even relate to the game or the achievements of the golden era. However, the role those hockey greats played in the journey of game in India — building up the confidence of a nation that had just emerged from the shackles of colonialism — can never be forgotten.Hall of FameUdham Singh and Leslie Claudius share the record for most medals in hockey in the Olympics — 3 gold and 1 silver each. Balbir Singh Sr, R Francis and Randhir Singh Gentle won 3 gold each, a feat Dhyan Chand and Richard Allen had achieved before Independence. Haripal Kaushik, Keshav Dutt and KD Singh were among players who won 2 gold each. Prithipal Singh won 3 medals, one of each hueLearning from the legends“Hockey was so popular in some states that it felt like the sport ran in people’s blood,” said RS Bal, who played for the Indian Navy for almost 10 years in the 1960s and 1970s.“As children we did not get to see the India players, but we heard and read about the gold medals and about the greats such as Balbir Senior, Leslie Claudius, Prithipal Singh. Even though we never saw them play, they were inspirational to so many of us,” added Bal, who grew up in a small village in Amritsar district.Then there were those who got to meet their idols. Ajit Pal Singh, captain of the 1975 World Cup-winning team, remembers watching Udham Singh train at the village grounds in Sansarpur. “To watch an Olympics gold medallist train was a big source of inspiration,” said Ajit Pal Singh.And for people like Ajit Pal Singh and Col Balbir, observing the greats was the primary source of learning. “There was no specialised coaching, no academies,” Col Balbir said. “Everyone came to play in the village grounds. The retired players used to teach us. We used to learn by watching the senior players train, and usually there was an India player visiting on leave,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/when-india-ruled-world-hockey-92386
