03-01-2021||North East||Assam Congress promises cash benefit ||The Opposition Congress in poll-bound Assam has promised Rs 7,500 a month to each BPL and needy family if it comes to power in 2021, a move seen by most as the party’s counter to the BJP-led state government’s monthly dole of Rs 803 to over 19 lakh disadvantaged families. Apart from the direct transfer of Rs 7,500 per month, the state Congress has also promised a job to each family, either in the government sector or the private, free power up to 120 units a month, up from the 30 units being doled out by the BJP-led present government. The party also promised to waive loans availed by marginal farmers. Loans dished out by microfinance companies will also be waived, especially those availed by women. Assam PCC chief Ripun Bora announced all these schemes during the customary New Year interaction at the state party headquarters here on Friday, including the monthly payout under  the Nyuntam Aay Yojana (NYAY). The NYAY was first announced by the Congress in the run up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, which the ruling BJP won convincingly. However, under the nationwide scheme, the amount was Rs 6,000 a month. Bora said if the Congress returns to power, a poor family will be getting Rs 7,500 in their bank accounts under the state government’s minimum income guarantee scheme to help the poor and the needy. “All these schemes are aimed at helping the poor, the youth, farmers and women. We will spell out the details in our manifesto,” Bora said. Assam goes to the polls later this year. The BJP already enjoys an edge in the game of doling out largesse with the BJP-led state government launching the Orunodoi scheme that will see over 19 lakh households getting Rs 830 a month. The beneficiaries include families with widows, unmarried women, divyang, divorcees and poor families not having ration card for free rice. Congress insiders said the party is working on “practical and doable” economic and political solutions to all problems faced by the people of the state, something that will be reflected in its manifesto. He also said the party will take NYAY to the people because it could be a game-changer if properly implemented. “It was and is a good scheme, but we didn’t get enough time to take it to the people in 2019. However, there is already some awareness about the scheme. Rahul Gandhi had flagged the issue during one of his poll rallies in Guwahati. We are keeping the faith in NYAY,” an insider said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-28
03-01-2021||North East||Wildfire engulfs 200 acres in Manipur||Over 200 acres of forestland on Mount Iso in Manipur have been reduced to ashes in the wildfire raging in the Dzukou Valley along the Manipur-Nagaland border since December 29, while joint operations by the Centre, state agencies and local volunteers to contain the blaze was scaled up manifold on Saturday. Dzukou Valley covers Senapati (Manipur) and Kohima (Nagaland) districts. It is called Dzuko Valley in Manipur and is a popular tourist and trekking destination known for its beautiful flowers and crystal-clear streams. The Manipur chief minister’s office on Saturday said efforts to extinguish the wildfire in the hill ranges of Dzuko Valley in Senapati district continued for the fourth day. After a thorough analysis of the landscape on Friday by a combined team of Senapati police, fire service and local volunteers, a stretch of 500 metres was cleared between the third and second mountain ranges of Mt Iso. “The team successfully prevented spread of the fire towards the eastern side by using sand and fire extinguisher. However, the inferno still continued on the southern and western side and approximately more than 200 acres of Mount Iso range had already been reduced to cinders,” the statement said. The fire on the Nagaland side was “under” control and it could be contained in another two days as operations to check the spread has been scaled up manifold in both states. Johnny Ruangmei, officer on special duty, Nagaland State Disaster Management Authority, told The Telegraph on Saturday that four IAF choppers sprayed eight tonnes of water on the affected spots. A senior NDRF official said as many as seven teams are engaged in the operations with government personnel and local volunteers, including making over 3km of firelines to check the spread of the blaze. Ruangmei said IAF choppers lifted the water from Dimapur for spraying in the valley and made six sorties during the day. IAF official Ratnakar Singh said the “Bambi bucket” or spraying water operation will continue on Sunday. Three drones were also used on Saturday to ascertain the spread of the fire and the damage. “We will be able to know the damage only after getting the pictures which could not be transferred today because there is no mobile network in the affected areas and satellite phone is also not working,” Ruangmei said. An NDRF official said the fire reportedly started from the Nagaland side on December 29, around 1.5km from the Manipur border. The NDRF has deployed three teams in Nagaland and four in Manipur, totalling around 280 personnel. Manipur public health engineering minister Losii Dikho, currently camping at Mao, around 14km from the valley, to supervise the operation, chaired another round of review meeting with the representatives of Senapati district administration, police, NDRF, SDRF and fire services officials and decided that a base camp would be set up at the eastern side of Mt Iso to conduct the operations. About 100 personnel from Nagaland are camping in the affected areas. A Manipur forest department official said steep terrain has hampered the containment of the wildfire which has destroyed bamboo shrubs in the upper slopes and is gradually spreading to thick forests located on the lower slopes because of strong winds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-28
