04-01-2021||North East||Scooters, financial aid for girls in Assam||The Assam government will give scooters and financial incentives to girl students to ensure that they attend classes regularly, Education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. The state government was currently distributing 22,000 two-wheelers to Class 12 girl students who passed in the first division from the state board under the Pragyan Bharti Scheme, he said at Sivasagar on Sunday. The state government will incur an expenditure of Rs 144.30 crore for the purpose. The state government will provide scooters to all girl students who passed in the first division from the state board even if the number crosses a lakh, he said. Scooters will also be provided to all girl students who passed Class 12 examination in the first division in 2018 and 2019. Financial incentives will also be provided to all girl students from school to post-graduate level and the scheme would be launched by the end of this month. He said that girl school students would be given Rs 100 daily for each day so that they attend school while an amount of Rs 1,500 and Rs 2,000 will be given to undergraduate and postgraduate students respectively. The minister further said that they had plans to launch this scheme last year but it was delayed due to the spread of Covid-19. The minster is on a visit to distribute scooters also participated in a cycle rally on Monday. Meanwhile, attendance in schools, which reopened on January one after being closed for nearly 10 months due to Covid-19, was much higher on Monday than the first two days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-28
04-01-2021||North East||Trifed plan to boost sales of NE products ||The Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (Trifed) will collaborate with the ministry of development of north eastern region (DoNER) and India Post to increase the sale of traditional tribal products from the region by four-fold in both national and international markets. The aim of the collaborative marketing and logistic intervention is to “create a brand” for products from the region, increase awareness of the brand across the globe and provide national and international market access, a move which will also result in “enhancing” tribal entrepreneurship in the northeast, thereby increasing incomes and generating livelihood for the tribal communities, an official release from the ministry of tribal affairs said. The collaboration aligns with the ‘Act East’ policy of theCentre to “promote” economic, strategic and cultural relations with the vast Asia-Pacific region at different levels, enhancing income generation of tribal suppliers and contribute effectively to the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan and the Vocal for Local, Buy Tribal initiative. Under the administrative control of ministry of tribal affairs, the Trifed was set up in 1987 with the objective of promoting tribal art & craft, handloom and setting up of tribal community-owned minor forest produce Van Dhan Vikas Kendras for tribal artisans. The planned interventions include the identification of suppliers and weaving clusters; sourcing of products, training and development of tribal resources, procurement and aggregation of tribal products and transportation and distribution of the selected products to Tribes India outlets and end customers. DoNER will work on these activities through its agencies and Trifed will use its extensive network of outlets and its e-commerce platforms for the marketing and branding in domestic and international markets, the release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-28
04-01-2021||North East||Base camps to cut fire-fighting trek time  ||The Dzukou Valley fire is “almost” under control on the Nagaland side but “somewhat” under control on the Manipur side six days after it started but those involved in the fire-fighting operations are not lowering their guard with the NDRF-SDRF setting up base camps close to the affected sites to add more manhours at ground zero by cutting down on trekking time. The picturesque valley is located on the border of Nagaland (Kohima district) and Manipur (Senapati district) and is a popular trekking destinations for both domestic and international tourists. The fire reportedly started on December 29 on the Nagaland side and spread to the neighbouring Manipur. Johnny Ruangmei, OSD, Nagaland SDMA, said after an aerial assessment with a team of the Indian Air Force that the fire has been controlled by “80 to 90 per cent” on the Nagaland side due to the collective effort of personnel from both the Central and state governments and local volunteers. “The operation may continue tomorrow to douse some of the minor fires on the hillocks. The Dzukou Valley portion is safe as witnessed from the aerial survey,” Ruangmei said. A Manipur forest department official told The Telegraph that forest and fire department personnel have been able to somewhat contain the fire on the western side of mount Iso but fire is still raging on the inaccessible southern side where the IAF is continuing its Bambi bucket operation, that is pouring water on the affected areas. A senior NDRF official told this newspaper that they are setting up camps on both sides of the valley so that they can easily reach the affected site. While the affected sites can be reached swiftly from the Nagaland side compared to the Manipur side because of very steep slopes. “Some 20 camps have been set for NDRF, SDRF and police personnel on the foothills of Mt Iso, some 3km from the affected site. Setting up the camps on the foothills will help us add more manhours in actual operation. We are now having to spend significant amount of time trekking to the spots. “Moreover, it helps to stay close when there is no mobile connectivity,” the official said, adding this is the first time they are involved in fire-fighting operations in the northeast. About 15 SDRF personnel are camping near the affected site under Kohima district. In the ongoing effort to douse the wildfire, the Indian Army and Assam Rifles are providing all possible assistance to the NDRF teams in terms of accomodation, tentage and logistics resources so that they can execute their task effectively, an official said. The Indian Army is also providing its aviation  base for launch of Bambi bucket operations and coordinating ground support, air traffic control,  air space management  as well as other logistics support to Indian Air Force, thereby augmenting the air-effort. Senior Army officials also had a meeting with the state administration for better synergy in the ongoing efforts. As many as four IAF choppers and seven teams of the NDRF are working on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-28
