07-01-2021||North East||Winds worsen Dzukou valley wildfire||Strong winds worsened the Dzukou Valley wildfire on Wednesday forcing Nagaland and Manipur governments to change strategies to effectively combat the blaze and check irreparable damage to the popular trekking and tourist destination located along the inter-state border. The fire started on December 29 on the Nagaland side before spreading to Manipur. Officials from both sides, including National Disaster Response Force, Indian Air Force and government, told The Telegraph that fire-fighting teams are taking the help of volunteers familiar with the lay of the land to find alternative trekking routes to the affected areas bypassing the steep terrain. This has become imperative because some of the affected areas are inaccessible. If alternative routes are not found, the fire will keep spreading to newer areas. Nagaland has also requested the IAF to deploy four more choppers for the fire-fighting operations in addition to the four already deployed. Its request for three additional NDRF teams has been accepted, taking the total number of teams deployed to 10 — four in Manipur and six in Nagaland. “We need more choppers for ferrying men and equipment besides Bambi bucket (pouring water on affected areas) operations. The situation turned worse with the fire spreading towards the western range falling under Peren district on Wednesday,” said Johnny Ruangmei, officer on special duty, Nagaland State Disaster Management Authority. After Manipur, Nagaland too has deployed 300 personnel at the camp so that they cut down on trekking time to reach the affected areas. The IAF choppers on Wednesday dropped NDRF personnel, food and equipment to the base camps set up on the top to check the fire from spreading to the valley. Kohima deputy commissioner Mohammed Ali Shihab A. on Wednesday deployed three officers to assist the Jakhama subdivisional officer (civil) for fighting the wildfire and shall be stationed at the base camp, Dzukou Valley, for coordinating with the various teams engaged in the fire-fighting process. About 3,310kg of fire-fighting equipment and NDRF personnel were airlifted to Dzukou Valley from Jakhama on Wednesday by IAF helicopters. Operations to assist fire-fighting will continue on Thursday, IAF official Ratnakar Singh said. An aerial survey along with a drone survey will be carried out on Thursday for rational deployment of fire-fighting teams in the affected areas to cut fire-lines to check the spread. “Rational deployment for effective results. Mapping of vulnerable and affected areas is a must for an effective outcome,” Ruangmei said. A senior Nagaland forest official said the operation will start at 5.30am on Thursday because as the day progresses the wind not only gets strong but also blows in different directions, hindering operations. “Since the fire has intensified, our efforts too have to be intensified,” a senior Nagaland forest department official said. Chief ministers of both states have already conducted aerial surveys, hailing the efforts of the fire-fighting teams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-27
07-01-2021||North East||Assam vaccine dry run from tomorrow||Assam will carry out a dry run for Covid-19 vaccination in the state’s remaining 30 districts from Friday to iron out any apparent loose ends in the delivery system before the actual rollout of the vaccine later this month. Officials associated with the drive said the dry run was necessary to test the preparedness in all districts so that there are no last-minute hitches during the actual vaccination drive. Assam has recorded over 216,381 Covid-19 cases and 1,057 deaths. The officials pointed out that the dry run had been conducted successfully in “well-manned, well-equipped and well-managed” centres in Nalbari, Sonitpur and Kamrup (metro) districts. “Once we go deep, we will learn about the overall preparedness level or the challenges which we may have missed during the dry run so that it could be promptly fixed,” an official said. He said it should not be seen only as a drive by the health department and that only a collective and synchronised effort will help reach the last man in the line. Some of the challenges identified during the dry run include Internet connectivity, access to the centre, absenteeism on the assigned day, power back-up and additional temporary infrastructure. Above all, the administration will also have to factor in elections and floods and plan accordingly so there is no drop in momentum once gathered after the launch. Vaccination will be restricted to primary health centres which on an average could serve up to 20,000 people and will be within a 5-km radius. “There are Internet issues in the interior areas. The service providers have to be roped in so that data can be uploaded in real time. Otherwise two-three hours will be lost in moving from one place to another to upload details of patients. Another challenge is the Assembly elections followed by the annual floods. We have to plan for all these things. During the dry run we felt the need for a  bigger observation area because one may have to wait for at least 30 minutes after getting the jab. There may be more people inside than in the waiting area,” an official said. Another official said these were interesting challenges which could be easily surmounted with collective effort, especially with the support and proactive role of the district administration, transport department, police, panchayats, local volunteers and the media. “A publicity blitzkrieg too has to be launched so that people adhere to deadlines, feel motivated enough to get to the transport. Schools and colleges too have to be targeted so that students, their parents and neighbours come to the vaccination centre on the assigned day. A huge role will have to be played by the deputy commissioners, considered the eyes and ears of the government. During the vaccination drive, they will also have to serve as the government’s hands and legs,” the official said. According to officials, it will take almost two months to inoculate nearly 3 lakh Covid warriors, including doctors. Arrangements are likely to be made at 2,000 centres across the state with five persons manning each centre vaccinating 100 people a day. “We will also have to involve private hospitals and centres in the vaccination drive so that we can complete the process within stipulated deadlines,” another official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-27
