12-01-2021||North East||Assam’s Laika villagers firm on relief||The death of 24-year-old Kusmita Morang on Friday has only steeled the resolve of villagers from Laika in Tinsukia district of Assam and Dodhia in adjoining Dibrugarh district who are protesting and living in makeshift camps near the Tinsukia deputy commissioner’s office since December 22 last year seeking permanent rehabilitation. Kusmita, one of the protesters, who suffered a miscarriage on Wednesday, passed away on Friday. Two protesters have died so far while another was shifted to Dibrugarh Medical College and Hospital on Friday. There are 14 others, including children, who are unwell, said a representative of the protesters, most suffering from cold and fever. Around 1,480 families from three villages under Laika and four from Dodhia have been affected after the forest reserves under which they fall were converted into the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park in 1999. They were settled by the state government in these villages, dominated by the Mising community, after the massive 1950 earthquake. Now they cannot build anything “permanent” because they live in a national park. Government schemes too have “stopped” reaching the villages because of strict environmental laws. Their rehabilitation has been hampered because of alleged dilly-dallying by the government. The affected people said that the forest department should have rehabilitated them before declaring Dibru-Saikhowa a national park. Many have started comparing the protest in Tinsukia with the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws as far as resolve and intensity are concerned, reflected in the reaction to the deaths. “We have already lost two of our own. They were part of the protest. We are not going anywhere till we are properly rehabilitated. We have nowhere to go. We cannot return to our villages because we have no future. We also understand the importance of a national park,” said Mintu Morang, chief convener of the Laika-Dodhia Rehabilitation Committee He further said: “If we have to die protesting, so be it. We have made this clear to the administration. Our fight for rehabilitation started 21 years ago. We will continue for some more. For us, it is now or never.” Rebati Pao, the first protester who died on December 30 last year, was in her fifties, he said. The protesters are staying put in the cold despite chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, after a meeting with representatives of the seven villages falling under the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, directing the forest department to “permanently rehabilitate” the affected families by January 31. The number of protesters has come down from around 3,000 to 1,200 because of the rotation system employed by the villagers so that they can continue the agitation for a longer duration. Their villages are 22km away from the protest site. The camps are being run by donation from well-wishers and local organisations. The district administration too is extending help after the talks with the chief minister. The protesters are also firm in their resolve because twice in the past, in July 2017 and in December 2019, their rehabilitation was allegedly scuttled at the last moment. Morung said the survey ordered by the chief minister to find suitable plots for their rehabilitation is over but they had reservations about the plots in Lakhimpur because the area is flood-prone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-26
12-01-2021||North East||Akhil Gogoi to head Raijor Dal||Akhil Gogoi, who has been in jail since his arrest on December 12, 2019, at the peak of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act movement in Assam, will lead the recently floated Raijor Dal as its first president. The regional party named Akhil its president in the wee hours of Saturday at its first executive meeting held in Moran in Sivasagar district. Akhil, 44, appeared to be the unanimous choice for the post because he was the founding member of the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, was also the brain behind Raijor Dal and one of the most recognisable faces in contemporary state politics, a senior participant told The Telegraph. One of the participants said that Akhil is likely to contest the polls from behind bars from Sivasagar district. Several members said the government was afraid of Akhil because of his fearlessness and growing popularity, a reason for “somehow” keeping him in jail till at least the elections. The National Investigation Agency court here had on Thursday rejected Akhil’s bail plea for his alleged links with Maoists. Senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had later said that Akhil was in jail because of his Maoist links and not because of his involvement in the anti-CAA protests. Akhil has been a vocal critic of the state government, often criticising its plans and policies. The 90-member executive committee of Raijor Dal also named KMSS president Bhasco de Saikia, K.C. Phukan and Jitul Deka as the working presidents, and nine general secretaries, including Kamal Kumar Medhi and Hussain Mohammad Shahjahan. The other highlight of the three-day convention was the presence of Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) general secretary Chittaranjan Basumatary at the final-day open session on Saturday, fuelling speculations about a tie-up between the two regional outfits, formed around the same time last year, to take on the ruling BJP in the Assembly polls this year. The AJP is led by former All Assam Students Union general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi, who has said that the doors for alliance with regional parties are always open. Akhil being named as president and the presence of a senior AJP leader were the two high points of the convention which also discussed its roadmap, party sources said. Akhil’s mother and family were present at the open session. One of the Raijor Dal advisers, educationist Sitanath Lahkar, said the BJP rule in the state has made it difficult for one to survive with personal liberty and rights. “They invoke Xankardeb but they don’t believe in his teachings of secularism and equality. The party (BJP) has to be defeated for the harm it has caused to the social fabric of Assam and personal liberty of individuals,” Lahkar said. He had also suggested a few slogans for the party to be used during the polls, one of which — “Bol Bogorao” (lets displace or unseat) — has found traction on social media. The presence of both Raijor Dal (people’s party) and the AJP is likely to hit the regional Asom Gana Parishad most. The AGP is an ally of the BJP in the state. Both the Raijor Dal and the AJP have also made it clear about having no truck with either the BJP, the Congress or the AIUDF. Their poll plank will be an inclusive, developed and self-sufficient Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-26
12-01-2021||North East||Assam poultry ban not to affect Bihu   ||Assam can cope with the bird flu-triggered temporary ban on poultry for about six weeks but anything beyond that could severely impact the booming sector that was just about recovering after being hit by the Covid pandemic. The state government had on Friday imposed the temporary ban as a preventive measure to check the possible outbreak of bird flu in the state. Neighbouring states have also stepped up vigil. The ban came just days ahead of one of the state’s most popular festivals (Bhogali Bihu or Magh Bihu) of which feasting is an integral part, sparking off apprehension about possible shortage and price hike of poultry. Both Assam Livestock & Poultry Corporation Limited (ALPCL) chairman Manoj Saikia and All Assam Poultry Farmers & Traders Association president Dr Mridul Borah in separate conversation with The Telegraph that the state is self-sufficient in chicken, a must during the Bhogali Bihu feast, for about six weeks. “We are self-sufficient for six weeks. Price line will not be affected. Moreover, there is no ban on import of feed or eggs. So we have nothing to worry. The ban was imposed to save local farmers who have already suffered due to Covid-19 and also save the poultry business in the Northeast because everything imported has to pass through Assam, through the two check gates in Kokrajhar and Dhubri districts,” Saikia said. Assam produces 60 lakh kg of chicken meat a week against a requirement of 58 lakh kg. Besides domestic consumption, it also exports to Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Meghalaya and Manipur. On the other hand, it  imports about 60 tonne chicken a day from outside, most of which goes to other states in the region. APF&TA president Borah said there is nothing to worry about availability of chicken for six weeks, no ban on consumption of chicken and other fowl because there is “no infection from bird to human” and prices will remain stable. “Cause of concern would have been a ban on import of eggs and feed but luckily these have been allowed. Our members have been alerted to remain vigilant against possible outbreak,” Borah said. Assam requirement of egg is 53 lakh a day but it produces only two lakh a day, a huge shortfall. According to Borah, the poultry sector suffered an average loss of Rs 100 crore a month during the pandemic. “If bird flu strikes us, this average loss will mount to Rs 150 crore a month due to rise in input cost during Covid-19, an amount which will not only aversely impact the sector but will force many to fold up. We just hope these precautionary measures yield the desired results,” Borah said. Around 35,000 families from Assam are involved in the poultry sector, mostly in farming. Officials said the veterinary department will be holding a meeting with the health department to take stock of the emerging situation and jointly announce steps to tackle the same, including removing any confusion related to the ban. “This is a welcome step, removing confusion over consumption and what is banned. For example, there is no harm in consumption since no case has been reported in the state, that there is no ban on import of eggs and feeds. Ban leads to panic sale which is not good,” a poultry farmer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-27
12-01-2021||North East||Nadda vows to protect Assam culture ||BJP national president J.P. Nadda on Monday said the ruling party was, is and will remain committed to protecting Assam’s culture, language and identity but remained silent on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, just like Union home minister Amit Shah during his poll-oriented visit to the state in December last year. Addressing a massive Vijay Sankalpa Samabesh at the Police Parade Ground in Silchar town in Cachar district, Nadda said: “ It is our responsibility... The BJP has always given due importance to the protection of Assam’s culture, language and identity. It is also working for the development of the state by ensuring the interests of all communities.” Asserting it was the saffron party which had stood by the Assam Movement against illegal foreigners, Nadda said: “ It was Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji who raised the issue (Assam Movement from 1979 to 1985) both within Parliament and outside. He made it a national issue. The BJP stood by Assam.” He also harped on the speedy development that has taken place under the Narendra Modi regime and also the accords signed for peace in the Northeast, including the Bodo and the Bru accords. Though Nadda talked about preserving culture and identity, he was silent on the CAA, which makes it easier for non-Muslims from neighbouring Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan to acquire Indian citizenship. Those opposed to the CAA say that the law is anti-Assam and is a threat to the very culture and identity the ruling party vows to protect.  On December 26 last year, home minister Shah, while launching the campaign for the 2021 Assembly polls in Guwahati, also harped on the development issues and targeted the Opposition but had also steered clear of the CAA, which is widely opposed in the state, except in most of Barak Valley. Shah too had asserted on protecting and preserving the language, literature, culture and heritage of Assam while dwelling on the development of Batadrava Than, the birthplace of saint-reformer Srimanta Xankardeb, and naamghars (community prayer halls) as these were an integral part of the state’s culture. The CAA was passed by Parliament in December 2019 but rules for its implementation have not yet been framed. Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal said on Monday that the ruling BJP will ensure the security of the Hindu Bengalis living in the state, now and forever. “Let there be no doubt (about the security of Hindu Bengalis) since it was the party’s commitment,” Sonowal said. But he too did not mention about the CAA which most believe will help regularise those who have illegally entered India till 2014. Barak Valley, comprising three districts in south Assam, is dominated by a Bengali-speaking population. While Hindus enjoy clear majority in Cachar district, Hailakandi and Karimganj are Muslim-majority but with significant Hindu population. It has 15 Assembly seats, of which the BJP had won eight in 2016 and wants to win all this time. Nadda, while highlighting the achievements of the BJP in his around 30-minute speech, said: “One should remember the development that has taken place under the BJP-led government... We have also given land pattas (documents), improved law and order and stopped trafficking. I am sure the party will retain power because of the all-round development taking place under the BJP-led government. Given the enthusiasm of the people, I am sure it will be BJP Plus (BJP and allies), 100 Plus (over 100 seats).” The BJP president also said they had granted Scheduled Tribe status to six communities — Chutia, Koch-Rajbongshi, Matak, Moran, Tai-Ahom and Adivasi/tea tribes — without affecting the existing communities enjoying ST status. But representatives of two communities — Tai Ahom and tea tribes — said they were unaware of any such development. “ It is news to us. We will have to check. We had sent a letter seeking to know whether the group of ministers submitted any report to the Centre to expedite the process in October as assured by them. We are yet to receive a reply,” chief spokesperson of the Tai Ahom Yuba Parishad, Gunakanta Gogoi, told this newspaper. Rupesh Gowala, a tea community leader, too said he was unaware of such decisions till now. Nadda flew to Guwahati from Silchar and held back to back meetings in connection with the ensuing polls. The Assembly polls are due in Assam around April. The BJP had unseated the Congress in 2016 convincingly and has since won every election, enjoying an edge over its rivals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-27
