13-01-2021||North East||Sarma clears air on Nadda claim on ST status||A day after BJP president J.P. Nadda’s categorical assertion at a public rally in Silchar that the Narendra Modi government has granted Scheduled Tribe status to six communities in Assam left the aspiring groups seething, senior cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday said the state government will soon submit its report to the Centre on the issue. The six communities demanding ST status for over two decades are Koch-Rajbongshi, Chutia, Moran, Tai Ahom, Matak and tea tribes. Nadda’s statement on Monday led the six groups to raise the pitch for expediting the process for granting them ST status while they criticised the “misleading” claim by a senior leader like Nadda, leading to discussion on social media. Senior advocate Nilay Dutta virtually summed up the mood of the groups in a tweet: “Surprised. This was not known to me. When was the Act or Ordinance passed? @CMOfficeAssam @sarbanandsonwal @himantabiswa. Is it a fact? Or a big faux-pas by @JPNadda. He was reading from written notes. Who gave him the briefing?” Sarma on Tuesday tried to clear the air over Nadda’s assertion after representatives of the six groups made their displeasure public as they were unaware of any such development. These groups are politically influential, comprising about 1 crore of the state’s 3.2 crore population. “Our national president has only reiterated our commitment to accord ST status to the six communities without affecting the interest of the existing groups. We will soon send our report to the Centre so that it can be taken up in Parliament to expedite the process. ST status is the right of these groups and the BJP supports their demand,” Sarma told reporters here, adding the issue should not be politicised. The BJP had promised ST status to the six groups before the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. During the peak of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act movement in Assam, the Centre ordered the formation of a group of ministers after it introduced The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) in Rajya Sabha on January 9 last year proposing ST status to the six communities. Dispur formed the group of ministers headed by Sarma in January 2020 to suggest measures to ensure ST status to the new groups without affecting the interests of the existing groups. The group had said that they will submit its report in October last year but it is still a work in progress from all possible indications. All Tai Ahom Yuba Parishad chief spokesperson Gunakanta Gogoi, All Koch Rajbongshi Students’ Union general secretary Gakul Barman and All Moran Students Union chief Naba Moran told The Telegraph that they were unaware of any such development but both the state and central governments should now expedite the process as they have waited for too long. Condemning Nadda’s claim, Moran said the “misleading” statement was made for “political gains” which should be avoided at all costs. Barman said nothing has happened so far but the government should now “display its sincerity” by introducing the bill for the ST status in Parliament session starting January 19. Gogoi, on the other hand, said the ST issue has become a political football, kicked from the Centre to the state and vice-versa. “But if the BJP-led government doesn’t take a concrete decision by January 26, we will give a fitting reply in the Assembly polls later this year,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-26
13-01-2021||North East||Gauhati HC stays order on Debabrata Saikia||Gauhati High Court on Tuesday stayed the operation of a January 1 Assam Legislative Assembly Secretariat notification derecognising state Congress Legislature Party leader Debabrata Saikia as the leader of the Opposition in the House. The stay was based on the ground that the Congress was the largest recognised party in the House having the greatest numerical strength in the Opposition. The Congress has 20 MLAs in the 126-member House. Additionally, there was no material to indicate that Saikia was not the CLP leader as on day. The court also issued notices returnable within two weeks to the secretary and principal secretary of the Assam Legislative Assembly, along with the chief secretary, Assam. Saikia, a two-time MLA from Nazira constituency, on Tuesday evening shared details of the case through a press release on Tuesday. Appearing for Saikia in Writ Petition (C) No. 182/2021, advocate Satyen  Sarma, a former additional advocate general of Assam, submitted that an MLA holding the position of Leader of the Opposition needs to fulfil two requirements under Rule 2(1)(p) of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Assam Legislative Assembly and Section 2 of The Salary and Allowances of the Leader of the Opposition in the Assam Legislative Assembly Act, 1978. First, one has to be the leader of the largest recognised party, i.e. the party having the greatest numerical strength in the Opposition. Secondly, the MLA concerned has to be recognised as the leader of the largest recognised Opposition party by the Speaker. As such, Satyen Sarma contended that since Saikia fulfilled both of these requirements and since the notification under challenge did not withdraw his recognition for non-fulfilment of these requirements, he is still legally entitled to remain the Leader of the Opposition. Sarma was assisted by advocates Jayanta Deka, Tarun Krishna Bhuyan, Sanjeeb Kumar Deka and Angaj Gautam. Justice Achintya Malla Bujor Barua in his order noted that the Congress is indeed the largest recognised party in the Opposition in the House as of today since its MLAs have the greatest numerical strength in the Opposition. Additionally, there was no material to indicate that Saikia is not the Leader of the INC Legislature Party as of today. Further, the Judge noted that the issue of the Congress MLAs not forming one-sixth of the total members of the House is unrelated to recognition of Saikia as Leader of the Opposition as per the relevant Act and Rules. “In such a scenario, the court was of the preliminary view that the notification under challenge was ‘unsustainable’ under law and the facts of the case. Therefore, in view of Sarma having made out a prima facie case in favour of  Saikia, and considering the ‘balance of convenience and irreparable injury’ which may be otherwise caused to Saikia, the honourable court was pleased to stay the operation of the Notification,” the press release said. The January 1 notification withdrawing Saikia's status had said, "The present strength of the Indian National Congress Legislature Party, Assam Legislative Assembly, is not equal to the quorum fixed to constitute a sitting of the House that is one-sixth of the total number of Members of the House as required... therefore, the Hon'ble Speaker, Assam Legislative Assembly, has been pleased to withdraw the recognition of Debabrata Saikia, MLA, as Leader of the Opposition, with effect from January 1, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-26
