20-01-2021||North East||Cong targets  BJP on crime against women ||Senior Congress women leaders from Assam on Monday said the growing crime against women only reflected the “failure” of the BJP-led Centre’s Beti Bachao Beti Padhao campaign in the state. Citing the recent National Crime Records Bureau and recent incidents of rape and murder of women, a press meet jointly addressed by PCC media department chairman Bobbeeta Sharma, Assam Mahila Congress president and MLA Nandita Das, general secretary Bismita Gogoi and secretary Juri Bordoloi highlighted how the “alarming increase” of crime against women in the past few years has made the situation unsafe for its women citizens. They said that the BJP-led government keeps on harping on the beti padhao beti bachao campaign, launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015, but then NCRB statistics suggest it has not yielded the desired result. The BBBP is a scheme aimed at ensuring overall welfare and safety of the girl-child. “Assam has topped the states where crime against women is the highest. A girl is dragged out of her home, raped and killed; her aunt killed inside their home in Tingkhang constituency under Dibrugarh district on January 12. The culprits have not yet been apprehended. A house is considered to be the safest place for everyone. But what did we see? That today under this government even the four walls of one’s house is not safe for a woman in Assam. This is not a isolated case. What happened to the beti padhao beti bachao campaign, its efficacy?” Sharma asked. She also highlighted the gang-rape and murder of a minor school girl in Gohpur under Biswanath district in February 2020 where all the accused were let off on bail. The women leaders said the NCRB statistics reveal that crime against women in Assam is constantly rising, almost three times the national average. Incidents of registered violence against women was 20,869 in 2016 which increased to 23,082 in 2017 and to 27,728 in 2018. Assam also recorded 66 instances of rape and murder — the highest joint figure for the two categories in the country in 2018. Assam also topped the list for cyber crimes against women in 2018 with 295 cases. In 2019 Assam again reported the highest rate of crime against women at 177.8 per lakh population, thus being top of the chart for three consecutive years, they said. Das said rise in crime against women proves the government and its agencies have failed to instil fear among the perpetrators of such crimes. “There is thus an urgent need to take quick action and to keep the public updated on the follow up actions of the incidents so that women feel secure that they are being protected by the state and have confidence in the protectors of law,” she said. Das, Gogoi and Bordoloi also raised the failure of the campaign in the state. Sharma asked: “How did the situation change after 2016 so drastically? Obviously because the people of Assam trusted the BJP to safeguard and protect their dignity by voting them to power but they have failed miserably to give this protection as the statistics reveal.” Das said that they will increase the number of women police personnel, deploy more women police personnel at every police station. “This will be in our poll manifesto.. We will also ensure chargesheet are properly filed so justice is delivered to the victims and their families,” Das said. When contacted, BJP chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami, “Rise in crime is a reflection of the society we live in. It is unfair to blame the government for everything. The government is doing everything to empower our women folk. The Orunodoi monthly financial scheme and scootys for girl-student are part of this process. We will do everything possible to nab the culprits but we all have to contribute our mite as a society.” Assam goes to the polls later this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-25
20-01-2021||North East||Congress ties up with 5 parties in Assam||The Congress on Tuesday evening announced the formation of a six-party grand alliance in an attempt to oust the “divisive” ruling BJP in the Assam Assembly elections this year. The announcement of the Congress-led alliance comprising the AIUDF, CPM, CPI, CPI(M-L) and the Anchalik Gana Morcha was made in the presence of senior AICC leaders tasked to oversee and guide the state unit in what is going to be a challenging electoral contest. The Congress (20) and AIUDF (14)are the only parties with legislators in the 126-member House. The Congress had won 26 seats in 2016. The development was along expected lines because the Congress had started work on stitching a grand alliance last year, triggered by the passage of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in December 2019, which is considered anti-Assam. The alliance announcement was made by PCC chief Ripun Bora at a hotel here where representatives of all the parties, senior AICC leaders and the media were present. Hours earlier, an Election Commission team led by Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora met political parties at the same venue in connection with the Assembly polls. Bora said the doors are open to include more secular parties in the alliance so that the Opposition votes do not get divided. Those backing the grand alliance assert it could prove to be a tougher nut for the BJP to crack. The BJP-AGP-BPF alliance had a vote share of 41.9 per cent in 2016, while the Congress and the AIUDF garnered vote shares of 31 and 13 per cent respectively. “Together (Cong and AIUDF), we have over 44 per cent vote share and now the Left votes will also get added. The margin of defeat was very less in over 30 seats last time when we had no alliance and at the peak of the Modi wave. Mathematically there are good reasons to be hopeful. We won seven seats in Upper Assam last time. It cannot get worse than that. But now the faction-ridden state leadership has to play its part and select winnable candidates with a good image,” a Congress insider said. Opposition from within the Assam PCC, especially leaders from Upper Assam, against any direct pre-poll tie-up with the AIUDF, had delayed the announcement of the grand alliance by about three months. This section fears an adverse impact of an alliance with the AIUDF on the Congress’s prospects in Upper Assam where the AIUDF is seen as a party supporting the cause of illegal Bangladeshi migrants. There was so much opposition that the state leadership left the issue to be decided by the central leadership. Congress insiders said before the announcement, AICC general secretary in-charge of Assam, Jitendra Singh, and four secretaries had not only taken the views of state leaders on the pre-poll alliance with the AIUDF and other organisational issues but also toured the state extensively to gather feedback from the ground. While there was reservation about a direct alliance with the AIUDF, most were in favour of a grand alliance. The decision took a formal shape after the arrival of AICC appointed observers — Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Mukul Wasnik and Shakeel Ahmed Khan — on Monday. All of them were present during the announcement. PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma told The Telegraph that the Congress-led alliance of the six parties has taken a formal shape and a common minimum programme will be worked out in due course. Asked whether there is still reservation about an alliance with the AIUDF, she said it was a grand alliance and not with one single party. “All of them have decided to come together with one common goal, that is to oust the divisive and anti-Assam BJP. There is no pre-condition. This is something the people of Assam also want,” Sharma said. The ruling BJP-led alliance said there was nothing to be surprised or worry about the grand alliance because the Congress and the AIUDF always had a tacit understanding. “In the 2014 general elections, they had a secret understanding but we got seven of the 14 seats. In 2019, they had an half-open alliance but we got nine seats. Going by past results, in 2021 Assembly polls, we will surely achieve our target of 100-plus seats, because of this unholy alliance between the Congress and the AIUDF,” BJP chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami said. The BJP has been attacking the proposed alliance between the two parties even though the Congress has been insisting that it was a grand alliance to unite the anti-BJP votes. Political observers say that if the grand alliance chooses its candidates properly and comes up with an appealing electoral narrative it can give a good fight. However, it is still going to be a tough ask against a well-entrenched BJP and after factoring in the proposed alliance between the two newly floated regional outfits — Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad. Poll panel visit Earlier, a full-fledged Election Commission team met representatives of political parties here in connection with the Assembly polls. Aminul Islam of the AIUDF said they have sought a two-three phase polls but before Bihu in April, allow doubtful voters to exercise their franchise since they are not pronounced guilty and proper CCTV surveillance at polling centres. The BJP has sought three-phase polls, two before Bihu, besides announcement of the Covid-19 protocol to be followed and new polling stations since 5.5 lakh new voters will be added this time. Niran Borah of the Congress said that they have requested for free and fair polls, appointment of senior, strict and neutral observers, adequate security and proper surveillance in remote polling centres and in counting centres to check malpractices. The announcement of the grand alliance is set to add to the political heat which will soar further with the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah on January 23 and 24 respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-26
20-01-2021||North East||Sedition charge on portal editors off ||Two editors of a web portal, The Frontier Manipur, booked on charges of charges of sedition and helping unlawful organisation on Sunday were not only released on Monday but all charges against them were also dropped. Singjamei police in Manipur’s Imphal West district had registered a suo motu case against the portal’s editor-in-chief, Sadokpam Dhiren, executive editor Aribam Paojel Chaoba, and M. Joy Luwang for an article, “Revolutionary Journey in a Mess”. The article, written by Luwang and published on the portal on January 8, was a criticism of the state’s armed groups and had also issued a call to “work with togetherness” to streamline the “revolution”. The police said the article “openly endorsed revolutionary ideologies and activities and expressed shock and dismay at the deteriorating character of the armed revolutionary leaders of Manipur” and lead to the registration of the case against the editors who have admitted to publishing it but denied knowledge about the author. The FIR says the accused attempted to bring hatred/contempt/disaffection against the government and of hatching a criminal conspiracy and being a sympathiser of unlawful organisation. The were booked under Sections 124A (sedition), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 505(b) (incitement) and 34 (common intent) of the IPC, and Section 39 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, which deals with furthering the activity of a terrorist organisation. Dhiren and Chaoba’s lawyer, Chongtham Victor, had on Sunday night said they have been arrested and were to be produced in court on Monday. But he refused to comment on the matter on Monday. Sources familiar with the case told The Telegraph that the “intervention” of the All Manipur Working Journalists Union seeking the release of the duo, the “leniency” shown by chief minister N. Biren Singh and a “clarification” issued by the editors resulted in their release. by noon.  The Editors Guild Of India too had issued a statement seeking their release and withdrawal of the cases that pose a threat to free expression, and to democracy itself. “Senior journalists approached the chief minister. Both sides explained their positions and concerns and the chief minister ordered their unconditional release. The editors too offered a formal clarification admitting that publishing the article without verifying the source was an oversight on their part and such mistakes will not pass their scrutiny in the future,” a source said. Imphal West superintendent of police K. Meghachandra Singh told this newspaper that all charges against the duo have been dropped but the investigation against Luwang will continue. “They were released around noon on PR (personal recognizance) bond. The matter was amicably resolved after the intervention of senior journalists and the government,” he said. Asked whether the police can release persons arrested on charges like sedition and under the UAPA, Singh said: “ We had filed the FIR on our own. It was not reported by anyone. Sometimes prima facie there may be many things but on close examination we find something different. They were detained for 24 hours. Our investigation against Luwang, the author of the article, will continue.” According to Singh, the case was registered against the editors and Luwang because the article was alarming. “It has the potential to create unrest, pose a serious threat to rebels who have joined the mainstream, was against the state and had urged the civil society to help, correct and streamline the movement led by the revolutionaries,” Singh said. Associate editor Kishorechandra Wangkhem is also a part of the portal’s editorial team but was not questioned. He was earlier booked for sedition and was released on bail last month. The web portal was launched last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-26
