21-01-2021||North East||Healthcare device by IIT Guwahati scholars||Two research scholars from IIT Guwahati have gained entry to the global Charm Health Innovation Challenge for “developing” a device capable of “remotely” carrying out primary health check-up, a solution which could help reach a large rural population. Mitali Basak and Shirsendu Mitra teamed up and participated in the competition under the category of “Student Innovators” and submitted an idea of a benchtop digital setup integrated with an algorithm to record initial screening parameters like body temperature, pulse rate, eye and tongue analysis of a patient remotely, the institute has said. Further, a robust algorithm along with cloud interfacing is expected to enable the device to “store” large volumes of health data for future benefit. Charm Health Innovation challenge is a platform for innovators and entrepreneurs to showcase their innovative technological solutions and new business models of healthcare, AI (artificial intelligence)-assisted patient care and remote monitoring incorporating AI/VR (virtual reality) and NLP (natural language processing), wearables and devices. The challenge is organised by two California- based organisations — Charm Health and iValley. “A situation like Covid demands human interactions to be as minimal as possible. In view of this, the current innovation serves a potential tool for healthcare management remotely, taking care of physical as well as social distancing norms. The device developed by the scholars is capable of remotely doing primary health check-up,” the IIT said. Basak, a third-year PhD scholar, Centre for Nanotechnology, IIT Guwahati, along with Mitra, former PhD scholar, department of chemical engineering, IIT Guwahati (presently an early career fellow at IIT Gandhinagar), are working on the prototype which is expected to be ready within the next four months. This innovation challenge includes a cash prize of $2,500 for the two top winners. The winners of this challenge will be decided after the submission of a prototype based on the proposed innovation. Apart from this, once the winning innovation is fully developed, its commercialisation will be taken forward by the organisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-25
21-01-2021||North East||Abducted duo in Arunachal Pradesh appeal for safe release||In videos purportedly released by their captors, two employees of a private oil company who were kidnapped by suspected militants on December 21 from Arunachal Pradesh, have pleaded with their respective state governments — Assam and Bihar — to secure their safe release. Pranab Kumar Gogoi, 51, from Assam and Ram Kumar, 31, from Bihar, were kidnapped by a joint group of suspected Ulfa (I) and NSCN (K) militants from Diyun in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh. The kidnappers had reportedly sought Rs 20 crore for the release of the duo but the amount was subsequently scaled down to Rs 18 crore, officials said. The videos, which were released to a section of private TV channels a day before the duo completes a month in captivity, follow a warning issued by Ulfa (I) on January 12 that Kumar could be harmed if the company fails to pay the amount for “exploiting” the natural resources of Assam and the Northeast. In one of the videos, Kumar urges Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar to take up the matter with his Assam counterpart Sarbananda Sonowal for his safe return. Hailing from Khagaria district, Kumar says in Hindi that he was a victim of conflict between his company and the militant outfits and he is in the custody of the NSCN (K) and Ulfa (I) for a month. The NSCN (K) is said to be active in the Changlang area. In the other video, Gogoi, who hails from Upper Assam’s Sivasagar district, makes a similar appeal to Sonowal in Assamese. He also appeals to his employers to secure his release. Gogoi is a drilling superintendent while Kumar works as a radio operator with Quippo Oil and Gas Infrastructure Limited, one of the “country’s leading and fastest growing drilling services contractors”. Quippo has its corporate office in Gurgaon and has been engaged by Oil India Limited for drilling activities in the Kharsang area of Changlang district. Changlang is one of the remotest and underdeveloped districts of Arunachal Pradesh bordering Myanmar and Assam. It was in the news recently for the arson that took place under Vijaynagar circle on December 11. Changlang deputy commissioner Devansh Yadav said they had information about the kidnapped duo till the second week of January, apprehending they may have crossed the border. “We have also heard about the videos. Our people are working on the ground to secure their release,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-25
