22-01-2021||North East||Assam Congress flags ‘unfulfilled’ promises ahead of Modi visit||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Assam on Saturday, the Opposition Congress on Thursday flagged the “unfulfilled” promises made by him and his government to the people of the state in the run-up to the 2014 general and 2016 Assembly elections. PCC president Ripun Bora told The Telegraph that they have nothing against Modi’s visit to distribute land pattas (documents) at Jerenga Pathar in Sivasagar district to the landless people but the Opposition party wanted to remind him and his government of many promises and decisions made in the form of 24 questions. Bora “hoped” that these issues will find mention in Modi’s address at the rally. “We welcome him but we also want to know what has he given Assam and its people? His government has only deprived and neglected Assam and sold its assets. We want to remind him of his unfulfilled promises, commitments and the wrong decisions of the BJP-led government which have adversely affected Assam. We have identified 24 questions/issues which have hurt Assam’s interests and he will now come and make some more promises. He should tell us which areas/sectors of Assam have benefited from the BJP-led government,” he said. The “unfulfilled” promises or decisions of the Modi government, Bora said, included his promise to deport all illegal Bangladeshis by May 2014, implementing the 1985 Assam Accord in toto, according Scheduled Tribes status to six communities of the state within a year, updating the National Register of Citizens, dredging of the Brahmaputra to ease the flood and erosion problems and the bridge over the river in Majuli, the revival of the two paper mills and jobs for 25 lakh youths. The decisions included “ending” the North East Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy (NEIPP), 2007, changing the 90:10 (Centre and state) ratio of funding pattern and Backward Regions Grant Fund, choking the flow of funds impacting overall development and “selling” the Gopinath Bordoloi airport and 27 oil fields. “Instead of giving anything to Assam, your government has only sold our assets after claiming that the Congress has done nothing. You have deprived us, fooled us and looted us. We also want to know how many illegal Bangladeshis have been deported. Forget packing off illegal Bangladeshis or implementing the Assam Accord, they have instead imposed the Citizenship (Amendment) Act which not only violates the March 24, 1971, cut-off year for detecting and deporting illegal foreigners but also affects the state’s social fabric. The NRC update too remains incomplete. This has been done only to keep the influx issue alive for political gains, that too by a government which swears by protecting the jati (community), mati (land), bheti (hearth) of the Assamese people,” Bora said. The PCC president repeatedly stressed on the words Assam and the people of Assam, seen by many as an attempt to convey to the masses that the Congress has in mind the best interests of the state, not the ruling BJP which has lined up a sustained and aggressive campaign for the Assembly polls to be held in April-May. Modi’s visit follows that of Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J.P. Nadda. Shah will again visit the state on January 24 and address two rallies. Bora raised the issue of growing unemployment, pointing out that the Prime Minister will not understand the pain of parents with unemployed wards since he has no children of his own. PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma said the government’s demonetisation move and the abrupt coronavirus-induced lockdowns aggravated the unemployment situation. “The hopes and expectations of the people of Assam have been shattered by the BJP-led government,” she said. BJP chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami dismissed the charges, asserting that the ruling party was committed to protecting the jati, mati and bheti of Assam but it may take some time because of the problems inherited from the erstwhile Congress regime. “They have not done as much as we have on the implementation of the Assam Accord. We have reformed the Assam Public Service Commission, the backbone of the state administration. hey are talking about privatisation but privatisation doesn’t mean selling. They have conveniently forgotten the privatisation of Delhi and Mumbai airports! We have already awarded 1 lakh land pattas and will award over 1 lakh during Modiji’s visit. How many land pattas have they given to the landless?” Goswami asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-25
