29-01-2021||North East||Arunachal police plea to Ulfa to release abducted 2||Arunachal Pradesh police on Thursday appealed to the proscribed Ulfa (Independent) to release the two employees of a private oil company kidnapped from the frontier state “unharmed” because it has “nothing” to do with the outfit or its demands. The appeal by director-general of police R.P. Upadhyaya was made after Ulfa (I) gave a February 16 deadline to the company to secure the release of its employees — Pranab Kumar Gogoi, 51, from Assam and Ram Kumar, 31, from Bihar — failing which they threatened to take “necessary action” against Kumar. The outfit, whose stated goal is “sovereignty” for Assam, has reportedly sought Rs 20 crore for the duo’s release. They were kidnapped by a joint group of suspected Ulfa (I) and NSCN (K) rebels on December 21 from Diyun in Changlang, one of the remotest and underdeveloped districts of Arunachal Pradesh bordering Myanmar and Assam. Upadhyaya told The Telegraph that he has also heard about the outfit’s deadline. “Our request to the organisation is to release both the employees as a goodwill gesture,” he said. He also said that it was their request to the Ulfa (I) “not to disturb” anyone from Arunachal Pradesh — either natives or those working in the frontier state. “Arunachal has nothing to do with Ulfa (I) or its demands. Their demands are known to the Assam government. Therefore, release the kidnapped duo and also don’t force the company to pay ransom as a goodwill gesture,” Upadhaya said. Gogoi, a drilling superintendent, and Kumar, a radio operator, are employees of the Quippo Oil and Gas Infrastructure Limited, one of the “country’s leading and fastest growing drilling services contractors”. Quippo has its corporate office in Gurgaon and has been engaged by Oil India Limited for drilling activities in the Kharsang area of Changlang district. The outfit had on January 12 also warned that Kumar may face harm if the company failed to pay the amount for “exploiting” the natural resources of Assam and the Northeast. Kumar hails from Khagaria district in Bihar. This was followed by videos purportedly released by the outfit on January 20 where the two employees pleaded with their respective state governments — Assam and Bihar — to secure their safe release. The videos showed Kumar urging Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar in Hindi to take up the matter with his Assam counterpart Sarbananda Sonowal for his safe return. He said he was a “victim of conflict” between his company and the militant outfits and he has been in the custody of NSCN and Ulfa (I) for a month. The NSCN (K) is said to be active in the Changlang area. In a separate video, Gogoi, who hails from Upper Assam’s Sivasagar district, made a similar appeal to Sonowal in Assamese. He also appealed to his employers and the company to secure his release. Changlang deputy commissioner Devansh Yadav told this newspaper on Thursday that efforts were on to secure the safe release of the duo and he was “hopeful of a breakthrough” soon. Changlang is one of the three districts where the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act was extended for another six months on October 1, giving the forces ample powers to carry out counter-insurgency operations in such “disturbed” areas. A senior Assam government official said Sonowal has taken up the issue with the Arunachal Pradesh government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-24
29-01-2021||North East||Arunachal protest against China||The All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU) on Thursday staged statewide protests against China’s “illegitimate” claim over the frontier state and the BJP-led central government’s “lethargic and half-hearted” approach against Beijing’s alleged “expansionist” policy. The hour-long sit-in was the second protest held by the leading student organisation of the state since January 21 following reports of China establishing a village in Upper Subansiri district, a claim dismissed by both the Centre and the state government, saying the area has been in possession of the neighbouring country since 1959. The sit-in was mainly aimed at “rejecting” Chinese claims over the frontier state and “conveying” the sentiments of the people towards the Centre’s “half-hearted” handling of the situation. Arunachal Pradesh shares a 1,080km-long porous and disputed border with China which considers the state a part of South Tibet. Altogether 12 Arunachal districts border China. Upper Subansiri was one of the affected districts in the 1962 Indo-China war which the neighbouring country won, exposing many chinks in India’s military preparedness. The protesters on Thursday sought a “strong and pragmatic” government response to China’s claim so as to allay and assuage the feelings of the people of Arunachal who are “staunch nationalists and patriotic”. The protesters also displayed placards articulating their concerns and angst such as “Speak up Indian government”, “Speak up Arunachal government”, “Arunachal is not Tibet”, “China your claim is illegitimate” and “China stop illegally occupying our land”, among others. AAPSU general secretary Tobom Dai told The Telegraph after the sit-in in Itanagar: “It’s a tragedy we have to protest now and then to tell the government that we are an integral part of India. You don’t need a war to defend the country; give major impetus to development of roadways, infrastructure, telecommunications connectivity... everything else will fall into place.” According to Dai, apart from strengthening the military apparatus in Arunachal Pradesh, the Centre should give a major thrust to development activities to bring it at par with developments taking place on the Chinese side. “Blame game needs to be stopped on such sensitive national issues. We just need a strong stand from the current central government. You just can’t keep harping on the wrong done by the past governments and pass on the responsibility,” Dai said. The BJP-led government blames the erstwhile Congress regimes for the border issues with China. During the January 21 protest, the AAPSU had also exhorted the Centre to take appropriate counter-measures to address the Chinese claim over the state. They had even burnt the effigy of Chinese President Xi Jinping. The North East Students’ Organisation expressed solidarity with the AAPSU protest. Neso adviser Samujjal Bhattacharjya expressed his “strong resentment” against the Centre’s “inaction” on the Chinese village development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-25
