07-09-2020||When Russia licensed its coronavirus vaccine for local use last month||So far, so good||The third phase of trials will involve 40,000 volunteers, and until it is completed and the results are made available, making a judgement would be unfeasible. Russia has already received international requests for one billion doses, but countries which have expressed interest, including India, are unlikely to start mass administration until they are assured that it is safe and effective. Sputnik-V is yet to pass the credibility test. According to the World Health Organisation, nine vaccine candidates are in late-stage trials and there is growing confidence that at least one will be successful before long. Putting a definitive date as to when a vaccine can enter the market, however, remains a difficult proposition.Much larger, long-term randomised trials are required than performed in the case of Sputnik-V for scientists to gauge and declare with finality the effectiveness of a vaccine. Every effort, Russian and those by others, needs to be supported and appreciated. But the pandemic is not a dated commodity. It is here to stay. Tackling it requires a sustained fight; a certified safe-to-use vaccine would mark a big step forward, but what one must not lose sight of is what scientists have been proclaiming all through: mass adoption of a new way of life, with the prescribed precautions being followed as a rule.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/so-far-so-good-137590
07-09-2020||Jolted into action following the receipt of around 150 complaints of irregularities in private educational institutions in Himachal Pradesh in just three weeks||Detecting fake degrees||Already, the panel’s hands are full as it tries to prevent the messy situation from spinning out of control. The alarming scandals tainting some of the 17 private universities that have come up in Himachal Pradesh in the past decade point to them being nothing more than cheating shops set up to make a quick buck by conning gullible youth. Following the recommendations of the University Grants Commission (UGC) last August, the state police are investigating the charges against Solan-based Manav Bharti University (MBU), which is accused of having sold over five lakh degrees for huge amounts of money, and APG Shimla University, which allegedly sold 15,000 degrees. Even as the MBU chairman is behind bars since June, the authorities need to complete the probe at the earliest. It is essential to prevent the job market from being inundated with unqualified youth.Incidentally, neighbouring Haryana is beset by the horrifying probability of as many as 500 of its 2,000 extension lecturers having obtained PhD degrees from private universities from outside the state without fully adhering to UGC norms. Under the scanner are the alleged flouting of rules related to course guide, research thesis and seminars. The new online system must be effectively implemented to stem the rot and enable a progressive socio-economic ecosystem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/detecting-fake-degrees-137577
