08-09-2020||Seldom does the death of a religious leader make headlines across India. The death of Edneer Mutt chief Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalvaru on Sunday was a notable exception. More than his service in the field of religion||Kesavananda Bharati||Article 19(1)(f) of the Constitution, as it stood before being repealed by the 44th Constitutional Amendment in 1978, guaranteed fundamental right to property to citizens. As various states attempted to implement land reform laws, they faced a barrage of litigation, forcing the Nehru government to create, in 1951, the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution that protected laws placed under it from judicial review. During Indira Gandhi’s rule, Parliament passed the 24th Amendment, enabling it to dilute fundamental rights through amendments to the Constitution, and 25th Amendment that restricted property rights and compensation in case the state took over private property. Further, the 29th Amendment placed land reform laws and amendments to these laws under the Ninth Schedule.The monk had assailed the amendments, contending that these violated his fundamental right to religion and freedom to manage religious affairs of his denomination and manage its property. After 68 days of marathon hearing before a 13-judge Bench, the Supreme Court delivered a 7-6 split verdict on April 24, 1973. Bharati lost, but the historic verdict made him immortal in the annals of India’s constitutional history. While upholding Parliament’s power to amend the Constitution — including fundamental rights, the court ruled that it can’t amend the ‘basic structure’ of the Constitution. The ruling has since served as a bulwark against attempts by the political class to undermine constitutional values.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/kesavananda-bharati-138124
08-09-2020||It is arguably the best time for the Congress to corner the BJP-led Union government. The country’s economy is in free fall||Congress at crossroads||Ahead of Parliament’s monsoon session, the Congress’ strategy group will meet today to prepare a plan to confront the government on the floor of the House. Leaders of the Congress and other opposition parties are likely to put their heads together later in the week to finalise a joint floor strategy. Ironically, despite being in a state of drift, the Grand Old Party is expected to lead the charge against the BJP.The Congress’ attempt to seize the initiative on the JEE-NEET issue was defeated, with the Supreme Court dismissing a review petition filed by six non-BJP-ruled state governments against its own order allowing the Centre to hold the two premier entrance tests. But the Central government finds itself on a sticky wicket over its failure to compensate the states for the shortfall in GST collection. Having so much ammo, all that the Opposition needs is a strong, vocal party at the forefront. The onus is on the Congress to set its own house in order. For a start, it should announce the schedule for the much-delayed organisational revamp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/congress-at-crossroads-137847
