09-09-2020||The chilling incident of a heartless grandma allegedly drowning her ‘unwanted’ infant granddaughter — the third in the family — in a septic tank in a Gurugram village yet again highlights the persistent prevalence of the social evil that refuses to die down. In the face of the continual preference for a male child caused by a mindset culturally conditioned to consider girls as a liability||Beti bachao||This worrisome reversal of the trend belies the state government’s tall claims of the much-hyped Beti Bachao Beti Padhao campaign. Such efforts as well as crackdowns on illegal sex determination tests and female foeticide by the Haryana health department (in the state and the ‘safer’ Punjab, UP or Rajasthan) alone are not enough to change the situation on the ground. To shape an awakening, they must be bolstered by progressive reforms that stem forth from the bowels of society, including the influential khaps and the general public. The key lies in educating the people about the benefits of bringing girls into the world and bringing them up as equal to their brothers regarding access to nutrition, health and education. Not only will gender parity ensure that brides are not in short supply for the men, but also mean that well-educated and empowered women contribute their might to the development of the family and to state-building.The Economic Survey of 2018, which had a pink-coloured cover to signify the relation of economy with gender issues, revealed that the craze for sons stubbornly persists — most so in Punjab and Haryana. And, notably, an increase in wealth too fails to suppress this rage. Even as there has been a perceptible improvement in the status of women over the years, the path towards welcoming the girl child sadly remains a long and uphill one.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/beti-bachao-138411
09-09-2020||India||Covid epicentre||The healthcare system has been under severe strain in recent months, but there is no option to simply wait for the virus to run its course. ‘Every life matters’ was the government’s slogan when a nationwide lockdown was enforced in late March. Now, with the pandemic wreaking havoc during the unlocking process, the same dictum has become even more pertinent. The authorities need to ensure optimum use of the existing infrastructure; if there is a shortfall, it should be overcome at the earliest. It’s an irony that the country’s ‘largest’ Covid care centre, a 10,100-bed facility at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre, will be shut down from September 15 due to lack of patients.Amid the worsening situation, a potent vaccine can prove to be a life-saver. With the Russian Health Ministry announcing on Tuesday that the first batch of the Sputnik-V vaccine has been produced for civilian circulation, India can hope to utilise the all-important shot in the near future, once its long-term safety and effectiveness have been established. The country’s own research on the vaccine should not lose momentum. The Covid peak is still elusive, but India ought to be well prepared for the worst.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-epicentre-138446
