12-09-2020||On Thursday||Indian diplomacy at work||While continuing to be at its friendly best with Japan, India was quite firm and forthright during the talks between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow. Jaishankar made it clear that an urgent resolution of the LAC standoff was in the interests of both countries. China found itself cornered as it failed to give a credible explanation for the enormous troop buildup at the border. It goes to India’s credit that China has agreed on a five-point roadmap — a throwback of sorts to the well-intentioned but shortlived Panchsheel treaty — that includes early disengagement of troops and other appropriate actions to de-escalate tensions in eastern Ladakh. The proof of the pudding, of course, is in the eating. All eyes will be on China to see whether it walks the talk in the coming weeks and months or simply returns to its perfidious ways.There is no gainsaying that Indian diplomacy has been making rapid strides towards building rather than burning bridges in consonance with the country’s resolve to ensure peace in the region. India stands to gain heft in the international arena with its two-pronged strategy of bolstering ties with allies and making hostile neighbours see reason. These are good tidings as India prepares to occupy a place at the UN Security Council high table from January next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/indian-diplomacy-at-work-140095
12-09-2020||With the Indian economy yet to recover from the slowdown induced by the Covid-19 pandemic||Waiving interest on interest||Growth had been affected even before the onset of the pandemic, attributed mainly to demonetisation and the rolling out of GST. That it took time to streamline meant hardships for the business class and the common people alike. The gains from the moratorium announced by the RBI also need to be assessed. Asking now for interest on deferred payment will mean a failure to have read the fine print, a setback for those who availed it amid this crisis.Earlier, there had been a run on some private sector banks and the RBI had to intervene. Public sector banks also have NPAs on account of bad loans which affect profitability. The recent merger of banks was undertaken for recapitalisation. But infusing funds also means an increase in deficit which leads to more borrowings. The health of the financial institutions is vital for the economy, but equally important is protecting the lender and the borrower in these circumstances while acting against the wilful defaulters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/waiving-interest-on-interest-140091
