16-09-2020||Parliament without Question Hour is a mere debating society||Death without data||Or else, the government would not have dared to vacuously respond in writing that it does not have data on deaths of migrant labour due to the lockdown. The reverse migration of honest, hard-working labourers, often on foot, from cities to villages was a story of their rectitude and also one of untold suffering inflicted by a government decision, which only has a parallel in the Partition of 1947. Deaths were reported by the Railway Protection Force and by the media, as in the case of sleeping workers getting mowed down on a railway track or deaths by suicide of penniless breadwinners. But the labour ministry has no data. Nor does it have any on job losses during the lockdown. The World Bank had pointed at the loss of livelihood for 40 million migrants in April. The Centre for Monitoring of Indian Economy has assessed the loss of 21 million salaried jobs, which are difficult to regain.Meanwhile, at the opening of the monsoon session, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reminded parliamentarians that they have a special responsibility to support the country’s brave soldiers. Sure, they do; but the government has a greater responsibility to explain why 20 soldiers, including their Commanding Officer, were killed in Ladakh. Let there be answers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/death-without-data-141712
16-09-2020||Political parties in India are well aware that the farming community is too important a vote bank to be trifled with. The ruling party at the Centre is no exception. The BJP-led NDA government has come up with a series of measures in the past six years to financially support farmers and boost their income. Modi Sarkar has even expanded the Direct Benefit Transfer scheme||Furore over farm Bills||Agriculture is a State subject. The Centre is constitutionally bound to consult the states and develop consensus before going ahead with any legislation that impacts farmers. Due process has apparently been bypassed in the instant case, leading to accusations from the Opposition of legislative overreach and an assault on federalism. The Modi government has repeatedly stated that the new laws are not aimed at tinkering with or doing away with the Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime, but the trust deficit persists. Assured procurement of wheat and paddy at the MSP has played a key role in making India food-surplus, even as farmers are contending with diminishing returns amid rising input costs and limited options to sell their harvest. The move to empower them by enabling barrier-free trade makes sense, provided they don’t have to settle for unremunerative prices.If the Centre’s initiative is indeed well-intentioned, it should go all out to convince various stakeholders of the potential benefits. A national debate is the need of the hour to dispel apprehensions about the Bills, particularly the dreaded corporatisation of agriculture. The feedback ought to be utilised to make changes or improvements in the laws. Ignoring farmers’ concerns can be politically suicidal as well as economically disastrous. It’s hoped that better sense will prevail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/furore-over-farm-bills-141709
