21-09-2020||Recognising the agony of hospitalised Covid-19 patients — at times||Visiting hours opened||This easing of the strict norm is also a relief for the patients’ relatives who have been till now forbidden from rendering care to their ailing parents, siblings or children. The cases of the unfortunate ones who lose the battle to the disease are especially heart-rending as they breathe their last without the family by their side. The onus is now on the family members to adhere to the proper procedure in donning the protective gear and not become carriers of the infection.This bold attempt to normalise life to a pre-coronavirus stage is the latest in the series of relaxations of the rules that were put in place with little warning in late March in a bid to contain the spread of the virus. India’s lockdown has been one of the strictest in the world. But, unfortunately, notwithstanding all measures, Covid-19 rages on. As unlocking was finally phased in to revive the economy, the back of which was broken during this period, the focus has gradually shifted to learning to live with the disease — with precautions in place. Hopefully, other states will follow suit and open the doors to their Covid-19 facilities to the kin of those admitted, even as the health authorities strive to keep the fatalities down.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/visiting-hours-opened-144189
21-09-2020||IN a show of austerity||MPs take a pay cut||Members of Parliament are public representatives and they have to be responsive to the crisis affecting their constituents. Employees, both in the government and private sectors, have been affected severely with salaries getting curtailed; and hence the measure should hopefully sensitise the ministers and MPs about their problems. Public service has never been about making money and most MPs depend on alternative sources of income, but the same can hardly be said about the staff of the departments they have been heading who mostly fall in the fixed income group. The one-year cut is also expected to underline the crisis in public and private finances for the elected representatives when it comes to dealing with funds.There has been a demand for the restoration of MPLAD funds. But for this, the MPs should first ensure that their commitment to parliamentary traditions, practices and decorum is above board. They need to ensure adequate participation in House proceedings and set standards through non-partisan conduct. A thriving democracy depends not just on the voters but also those whom they elect. There is no denying that the efforts of the government have been directed towards meeting the unprecedented crisis created by the coronavirus which has required immense resources. Himachal Pradesh has restored the local area development fund for its MLAs. A similar measure for the MPs will first need some convincing that the step is being taken only in public interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/mps-take-a-pay-cut-144188
