23-09-2020||That Covid-19 has disrupted education in an unprecedented way is illustrated by the fact that schools reopened after a gap of six months on Monday to a lukewarm response. Attendance was mostly thin as regular classes are yet to resume and the students allowed initially have been limited to those appearing for the board exams||Empty classrooms||Schools will also have to contend with the prospect of utilising their infrastructure like transport used to ferry children and incurring expenditure on taking measures meant to make the institutions safer. As fresh guidelines from the government are awaited for the future course of action, an encouraging feature, as suggested by the initial reports, has been the enthusiasm among the students in schools located in the rural areas. Imparting education has always been a challenging task in the country and the pandemic has made it tougher. An abiding concern for the educationists has been to increase access through enrolment and by checking the school dropout rate, for which a scheme like the mid-day meal was launched. With offline classes getting restricted, how the crisis impacts all this remains to be seen. The switchover to online education has also come with its share of problems. Not every child has a smartphone and at many places, Internet connectivity is not adequate.With colleges remaining shut and exam as well as admission schedules getting affected, education in the country appears to be in complete disarray. As the UN has emphasised, getting students safely back to the classroom must be a top priority as we confront a generational catastrophe that could waste untold human potential.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/empty-classrooms-145249
23-09-2020||ON March 24||Fighting the pandemic||Decisions that impact the lives of billions require scrutiny and fixing of accountability, yet dealing with a once-in-a-century pandemic is a tough call. While most question the severity of the shutdown, some fail to comprehend the urgency to unlock trade and business activity. There are calls in some quarters for testing on a mass scale, and then there are those who would rather have only the symptomatic tested. Those less cautious seem reckless, the ones more cautious insane. The period since the first shutdown has shown which activities are the safest and which strategies work best. The government’s focus, too, has shifted from the number of infections to the recoveries. Ensuring a fall in the fatality rate is the new goalpost.These six months have been stressful and demoralising. The worst is far from over. Sticking to the precaution and take-care-of-yourself regimen is the most dependable prescription. The global endeavour to get the virus under control has shown the limits of human intervention, and the perils of excesses. The vaccine will come sooner or later, the vaccination will take longer. The pandemic will be conquered one day. But all the misery and loss would have been futile if no lessons are learnt. The biggest one is fixing the healthcare system. No amount of money poured into that sector is enough.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fighting-the-pandemic-145189
