25-09-2020||The twists and turns in the investigations into the case of death||Stink of witch-hunt||With three top agencies probing the matter, the case has acquired a tri-dimensional form — the CBI looking into the death, the Enforcement Directorate delving into the charge of money-siphoning, and the Narcotics Control Bureau swooping down on the drugs angle. The spotlight is on SSR’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, who has been demonised as the suspect, and along with her brother, is among the nearly a score persons arrested for interrogation. With allusions to mental health issues, nepotism and rivalry in Bollywood and its high-profile drug-laced parties, as also Bihar-Maharashtra-Centre politics, the case has been unfolding like a soap opera. It is the drugs issue that has gained limelight of late, with celebrities like Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shradha Kapoor coming under the scanner. However, the investigations point to another demise: that of fair play in the quest for justice, as the probe agencies seem to succumb to the dictates of their political masters.The murky developments reignite the need to stem the rot. The call for police reforms and making investigation agencies autonomous must get louder. It has also revived the voices favouring the decriminalising of the recreational use of non-synthetic intoxicants like cannabis, marijuana, charas and bhang. Notably, they were legally consumed in India, with a moderate use of hemp drugs attended by no evil results, until 1985 when the stringent NDPS Act was passed, banning all narcotic drugs. The reforms would be a fitting finale to a popular star’s bowing out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/stink-of-witch-hunt-145990
25-09-2020||The much-touted Atmanirbharta in the defence sector is a bridge too far||Far from self-reliant||Transfer of technology, facilitation of FDI, reduction in imports and liberal funding of R&D projects are the imperatives for giving a fillip to ‘Make in India’ on the defence front. Last month, the government had announced a phased embargo on the import of 101 weapon systems in an initiative to encourage the domestic industry. Many more such steps are needed to come anywhere near self-sufficiency. For the record, India is the third largest military spender in the world (after the US and China) and the second biggest arms importer (after Saudi Arabia).The strategic partnership model, which provides for a long-term tie-up of Indian entities with global Original Equipment Manufacturers to set up domestic manufacturing infrastructure and supply chains, needs to offer attractive incentives to woo the world’s best vendors. In October last year, French engine manufacturer Safran had told Defence Minister Rajnath Singh that India’s tax ‘terrorism’ was holding up the company’s plans to make big investments. Let there be an enabling environment for foreign investors, but hold them accountable if they renege on their promises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/far-from-self-reliant-145991
