29-09-2020||The Shiromani Akali Dal’s decision to part ways with the Bharatiya Janata Party over the farm reform legislations has set Punjab’s politics adrift in choppy waters. For the Akalis||Trust deficit||Coalition dharma has for long been considered the Congress’ weak spot; now, the BJP is being questioned for its commitment to the craft that it mastered and showcased. First the Shiv Sena, then the SAD, the oldest partners have deserted the NDA ship. Resplendent in its over-arching presence, the BJP does not seem much perturbed, but allowing dismantling of a platform for contesting ideas only suppresses voices that confident rulers should not be wary of listening to, and gaining from. In the absence of a collaborative arrangement, the polity is the loser.Even as the farmers’ agitation gains momentum, the President has been quick in according assent to the Bills. The Prime Minister, in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’, has given no indication of any rethink or reshaping of the legislations. The haste shown to push these through, without any convincing attempt to address the concerns or try to evolve a broad consensus on the need and efficacy of change, is unlikely to result in any quick resolution. The sight of farmers, the intended beneficiaries, protesting on the streets and railway tracks only widens the trust deficit. That helps no one’s cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/trust-deficit-148100
29-09-2020||UNDER fire from the Supreme Court over the years||Curbing farm fires||Likewise, on the basis of crop residue-burning instances last year, Haryana’s Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department has identified red, orange and green zones and the state is ready with a multi-crore-rupee plan to aid small farmers in getting access to agricultural implements. No doubt, with wide-scale awareness campaigns, punitive measures as also amenities provided, farmers of the northwest region are coming around to the advantages of adopting scientific methods of disposal, but the cost factor remains the major hurdle to making a perceptible difference on the ground.Though, as per the Economic Survey of 2019-20, various efforts led to a ‘significant reduction’ last winter in the total number of farm fires recorded, they have not been effective enough. Serious concerns continue to be raised about the rising air pollution, with the lethal particulates-laden hazy cover extending up to the National Capital Region. They continue to trigger various health issues as people in the affected areas gasp for clean air, their respiratory systems compromised. With its attendant lung issues, the Covid-19 pandemic this time necessitates a stricter vigil and action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/curbing-farm-fires-148069
