01-05-2021||Today's||A quest to balance State, society, market||On April 24, one more life came to a premature end. Civil society lost yet another leader. Prem Kumar Varma died in Delhi at the age of 65. He was the founder and secretary of Samta, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) in Bihar’s Khagaria district. Everyone knew him simply as Premji.Premji could have had two more decades to thrive and work on his crusades against man-made flooding, and the injustices that continue towards the Musahar community. It was not to be.Like many others, Premji began his civic engagement as a socialist student leader influenced by the teachings of Ram Manohar Lohia. Later, in the 1970s, he became a follower of the Gandhian socialist Jayaprakash Narayan, with others such as Bihar’s chief minister Nitish Kumar. Their goal was social transformation through “Sampoorna Kranti” or Total Revolution, but many landed in jail for their pains.Those were difficult but heady days for India’s civil society, as the clouds of authoritarianism were gathering before the Emergency in 1975. Many groups were able to band together to defend democracy, constitutional rule and justice. It was hard and dangerous work. But it has served as the foundation for much of the expansion of civil society movements in the country, headed by a host of idealistic leaders with an inclusive vision and a mission of equity and justice.Premji went on to establish Samta with the goal of a more egalitarian society. He focused on the most socially and economically marginalised Musahar community of Bihar, working on issues of human rights, flood relief and rehabilitation, safe drinking water, sanitation and livelihoods. Samta joined the water security collaborative, Megh Pyne Abhiyan, that my foundation, Arghyam, was privileged to support. For half-a-century, no matter the setbacks, he persevered in the mission for social change and justice.On a memorable visit in 2007, when we travelled together in Bihar on a field visit, Premji explained to me his theory about why things were so lopsided in the world. “Earlier”, he said, and I am paraphrasing here, “even when there were kings and emperors, people’s lives revolved around their communities – the samaaj. But ironically, post monarchy, the sarkaar began to get very powerful around the world and claimed a mandate for people’s welfare and began to act on behalf of the samaaj. And then later, the corporations of the bazaar began to go global and acquire even more power than the State. So samaaj, which used to be the apex formation, was slowly replaced by the power of the State and then the power of the market. Now, samaaj is at the bottom and we are struggling to make the State and the market responsive to us as citizens.”His words had a profound impact on me, and I began to chew on the idea and read more of history to develop the theory further. I became convinced that the work of this century is to restore the balance between samaaj, bazaar, and sarkaar. I dedicated my philanthropy to keep active citizens and society at the centre, so that markets and the State are more accountable to the larger public interest.A heartfelt thank you, Premji, for starting me on this journey.There are many Premjis in this country, who are totally immersed in the struggle to consolidate constitutional values in society. Sometimes, they risk life and limb in the pursuit of societal transformation.The passing on of such leaders may not be understood for the social tragedy it is, for some time to come. As various factors, including the constrictive policies of the State, force many small organisations to fold up, samaaj will feel the impact over time. Even the smallest NGOs go where the State and market often cannot or will not. They give voice to people. They shine a light on issues which can be tackled to prevent a future cascade. They make a good society more possible.In the memory of such social sector professionals and volunteers, we have to rededicate ourselves to the work of supporting and sustaining a resilient samaaj. What better time than this current moment?Rohini Nilekani is chairperson, ArghyamThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-quest-to-balance-state-society-market-101619882454185.html
01-05-2021||Today's||In Covid times, caring for pregnant women||As the second wave of Covid-19 rages across the country, many vulnerable groups will fall through the cracks as a beleaguered health system tries to cope with the volume of cases.Among these are pregnant women who may or may not be Covid positive. The silver lining is that, so far, there is no conclusive evidence that pregnant women are at any higher risk of complications from Covid infection than anyone else. But there are several issues that pregnant women have to contend with in these trying times.The pandemic has impacted reproductive health not just through infection but as a result of changing health priorities. Covid-related studies conducted in both India and China suggest that pregnant women and new mothers are more likely to suffer from mental stress and trauma than others.This is due to various factors. One, at a time when they need mental and physical support, the constraints imposed by the pandemic lead them to be isolated for fear of infection. There is also the trauma of deaths and infections in their families, which adds to their anxieties about their yet-to-be-born children or, in the case of new mothers, about their infants.Many pregnant women in India cannot go for check-ups as there is no transport to take them to health centres, especially in remote areas. Many opt not to go for check-ups due to fear of getting infected in clinics.The grassroots health workers who would, in normal times, keep a check on pregnant women and their progress have now been largely pressed into service for Covid-related activities. Many public health centres are shut down and, with them, the availability of supplements for pregnant women has shrunk. In the case of mothers with newborn babies, immunisation in infancy, vital against so many communicable diseases, has been compromised.Given this dire situation, state governments have to give the care of pregnant women greater attention.The first step must be enhancing antenatal care through telemedicine wherever possible. There have been reports of pregnant women not being able to access proper care at medical facilities to give birth, forcing them to opt for home births, supervised by untrained persons putting both mother and baby at great risk. This can lead to a rise in maternal and infant mortality.Pregnancy is a particularly vulnerable time for a woman, both emotionally and physically. What India needs to do is to factor in the special needs of pregnant women within the existing system. Take an example. In the United Kingdom, women in some areas were taught to monitor their own blood pressure at home, something vital in pregnancy. While it may not be possible to supply pregnant women with blood pressure measuring machines in India, it would be useful if grassroots health care workers were to do this and keep a record which can be sent on to clinics for study by a doctor. This can prevent so many complications which arise during pregnancy, which if treated in time, are completely manageable. Nutrition for the pregnant and lactating mother is another issue of concern as in patriarchal societies like India, women’s needs are not always a priority within the family structure. Supplements such as iron and folic acid must be made available regularly for distribution to homes through the primary health care system. None of these are likely to be a significant drain on resources but if incorporated systematically into the health care system, it will be hugely beneficial to pregnant women during the pandemic and in the future.lalita.panicker@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-covid-times-caring-for-pregnant-women-101619882273916.html
01-05-2021||Today's||The second wave will change us, forever||The first wave of the virus taught me to live with myself. I used to find being alone unsettling. I would joke that I don’t like my own company but the truth is it was comforting to have others around. Last year changed that. The prospect of long quiet evenings on my own no longer unnerve me. I have found comfort in books, solace in music, distraction in films and, yes, I am not afraid of my thoughts. I can let my mind wander and I am happy to follow where it leads me.The second wave is teaching a very different lesson. This time I am not the only pupil. All of us are. It’s teaching us to live with fear. No, that’s too strong a term. With foreboding. With the fact that things could go terribly wrong, horribly quickly, and we don’t know when that might happen.That thought lurks at the back of my mind. I don’t focus on it. I’m an optimist. But I know it’s there. And that’s an awareness I did not have earlier. Now I’m finding ways of adjusting my life around it.Most of the time, I do so humorously. Actually, tongue-in-cheek. When someone admonishes me for not keeping in touch, my prompt response is tinged with black humour. “Yes, you can never tell if this is the last call!” Most of the time, it prompts an embarrassed laugh. But there’s a grim truth behind the joke. You’ll only know if it’s an accurate prediction when it turns out to have been one. The past tense is telling.Last year, I caught the virus but it didn’t worry me. This year feels very different. First, there are a lot more people I know and care for who are afflicted. Some are not having an easy time. A few may not make it. I don’t want to think that far but I can’t stop myself. So, this year, the virus is an intimation of mortality. It feels far more real and, perhaps, a lot closer than the heart attacks and strokes 60-year-olds are only passingly aware of.I guess what I’m really saying — and it’s taken me a while to realise it — is that we’re learning to live with the possibility of dying. Not just me. I’m pretty sure that’s true of many of us. So far it’s been a distant, if not just a theoretical, prospect. One that we all know we must eventually face. But, suddenly, that day seems uncomfortably closer. Who knows how far off it actually is? Who really knows?And yet, and yet, and yet — we’ve all found a way to continue despite this dreadful foreboding. We’re not just living, we’re finding new ways of enjoying life. The spectre that haunts us has created a new determination, a fresh sense of resolve, a single-minded focus. Consequently, each of us has found his or her own way to get through this. We’ve adapted our lives to survive, found alternative types of entertainment and learnt to cherish the little joys we once, thoughtlessly, took for granted. But we’ve also done one other thing, possibly without realising it. We’ve adjusted our ambitions. We’ve learnt to be happy with less.Of two things, I am now very confident. We will emerge at the other end. We will overcome. Sadly, not everyone. Some we love deeply will fall. That’s a sad reality we cannot deny. But when we join hands again, hug and kiss, laugh and argue, we will be different people. The experience we’re going through and the fear we’re living with will have changed us. That’s another outcome we have to accept.In the last century, when the Spanish Flu ended, the relief and joy the world felt found expression in the roaring 20s. My hunch is history won’t repeat itself. Television and social media have effectively ensured that. We’ll celebrate, no doubt, but it will be hard to forget what happened.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-second-wave-will-change-us-forever-101619881673932.html
01-05-2021||Today's||Covid: It will get worse before it gets better||There are four factors why the second wave has hit India with such intensity. First, the variants. The B.1.1.7, the one from the United Kingdom (UK), is present in parts of northern India. B.1.617, sometimes known as the “double mutant”, is pervasive in many places across India. We don’t know how much more contagious B.1.617 is, but we do know that B.1.1.7 is very, very contagious. India should have seen this coming because variants were causing massive spikes in cases between December 2020 and February 2021 in the UK, Israel and Europe. It stood to reason that this global problem was going to come to India. The second is the fact that in late-February and early March, infection numbers were rising quickly. And certainly by mid- to late-March, the rise was extremely obvious to anyone paying attention. And yet, through all of March, there was little to no action by the government. This was a collective and shocking policy failure.Three, there was no adhering to basic public health guidelines — there were massive rallies and the Kumbh mela (one of the most disastrous super-spreading events), with no mask-wearing. Family and friends in India told me that India had beaten Covid-19. But how could India have beaten it, when no one in the world had beaten it? There was a broader mindset that, somehow, India was special and different from the rest of humanity. This was, of course, not possible.And fourth, there is some evidence (though I don’t know how substantial it is) that the virus spreads more efficiently when humidity levels get lower. February-March months tend to be lower humidity months in some parts of India. This may have contributed, but is unlikely to have been a major factor.India must now urgently and effectively do four sets of things. First, we have to stop the spread of the infections. What we are seeing now are deaths from infections that happened two to three weeks ago. And if you see how much that infection number has increased, the number of people who are going to get very sick and need hospital and oxygen support will grow in the coming weeks. Stopping the spread requires three strategies. One, stop the indoor gathering of people who are not part of the same household. That is not the same as a full lockdown. But what we need are significant public health restrictions — closing all indoor restaurants, shopping malls, offices. I would do this nationwide. There must, of course, be no crowds, no large events, no large gatherings.Two, we have very good data now that shows wearing masks is critical. And the quality of the mask matters. We should be doing a much better job at getting high-quality masks out to the population. This does not require N95 masks, but even high-quality surgical masks can be very helpful. India must have a national mask policy that says that the moment you leave your home, you must wear a mask.Three, scale up testing. You need to test people very early in the disease course when people have the mildest of symptoms, ideally before they even develop symptoms. This is because most of the spread of the virus happens early. Aggressive testing needs to take place in communities that have had outbreaks, so that infected people can be identified and isolated. India requires three to five times more testing than present levels. If this is not possible, then, at least, double it. Second, the government needs to do a better job of taking care of the ill. That means setting up field hospitals, increasing oxygen supply and medicines. In the next four to six weeks, we will see a flood of patients arriving at hospitals. If it’s bad now, it’s going to get worse. A lot of effort has to go into taking care of those people and saving as many lives as possible. Here it is critical to follow scientific guidelines and not use baseless treatments such as Ivermectin. International protocols developed with top Indian doctors must be followed for how to care for sick people.Third, focus on vaccination, which is going to take us out of this, although the benefit of the vaccinations will take some time. In terms of supplies, the Serum Institute of India (SII) is making around 75 million does a month. This is not enough. India has a legacy of vaccine-delivery programmes, but we need more supply. The problem is raw materials, which are in short supply everywhere in the world. This is not a problem of the United States (US) stopping exports. There is a global shortage of supplies because everyone in the world is trying to make vaccines. So, the Indian government needs to work with SII to make more raw materials available. That’s going to take weeks and a lot of work. We should not invest too much hope in vaccines in the short-run; but they are critically important in the medium- to long-run.In terms of priority, older people and health care workers must be given precedence and until those groups are widely vaccinated, I would not necessarily open it to everybody. I also worry about issues around costs, which may put the poor at the back of the line. Look at what Europe, the US or Israel has done — the central government procures vaccines (it is not the states or the private sector) and has a national programme that is free for everyone, and prioritises high-risk groups. This has worked. I find what is happening now in India very confusing. Indian vaccines must be centrally purchased, given to states for free, and given out equitably so that every state gets its fair share.Fourth, genome sequencing is critically important — we have to track what is happening with these variants, where they are spreading, and where the disease is going next. If you do not do genomic sequencing, you are basically fighting a war without intelligence. The UK is the gold standard for genomic sequencing; it does about five to 10% of all infections; in the US, it’s about 2%. India does far less than 1%. India needs to increase genomic surveillance as much as tenfold. There are US and UK companies ready to ship genomic sequencing supplies to India today. But the Indian government must want it and be ready to use them.The Joe Biden administration has stepped up. In my conversations with the administration, I have said that the $100 million aid is good but it needs to do more. Of course, India must want more help. I believe that the Biden administration will do more if India asks. India and the US are friends and allies and at a time of need, one friend can come to the help of the other.May is going to be horrible in India. June is going to be hard. If we take the steps outlined here, we are going to see real progress in June, and, by July, things may be meaningfully better. But if we do these things in a half-hearted manner now, the nightmare that India is living through now will last longer.India needs a 21st-century health care system. Currently, it has a 19th-century one with small pockets of excellence. As we get out of this crisis, I hope India will prioritise its public health and health care system. Fighting an enemy such as Covid with poor policymaking and an outdated health system is costing too many lives.Ashish K Jha is the dean of the Brown University School of Public HealthThe views expressed are personal(As told to Kumkum Dasgupta)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covidit-will-get-worse-before-it-gets-better-101619880773941.html
01-05-2021||Today's||Soli was a champion of free speech and wore many hats||My mind goes back to our golden days at the Government Law College, Mumbai some 70 years ago. Soli was one year junior to me. I remember, in the moot Parliament organised in our college, I was the Defence Minister and Soli was the Leader of the Opposition. Anil Divan was the Prime Minister, Fali Nariman the Speaker, and Ashok Desai a member. Our moot Parliament held two sessions and passed the Anti-Black Marketing Bill, which shows the vision and rectitude of the students of our college. And what a great coincidence! We found ourselves on opposite side in Court many a times, but would always end the day with a drink at the bar together.There is a strange coincidence in our lives: five of us – Soli, Anil, Fali, Ashok, and I – moved to Delhi more or less at the same time and we stayed here for nearly half a century. We all remained the best of friends. Our friendship survived more than 71 years and we share the common cause of justice.Soli was a champion of free speech and I remember his powerful and convincing argument in the Public Interest Litigation filed by my granddaughter Shreya in the Supreme Court, challenging the validity of Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, which punished a person for posting on the internet. He argued the case before the bench of justices J. Chelameswar and Rohinton Nariman. Shreya won the landmark case for free speech and expression. This case was one of the many leading cases Soli argued on freedom of expression guaranteed under Article 19(1) (a) of our Constitution.During his illustrious career, Soli served as the Solicitor General for India and Attorney General for India. In the United Nations, he served as Special Rapporteur to the UN Human Rights Commission and as a member of the UN Sub Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities. I have also served the United Nations in different capacities.In 2002, the country’s second highest civilian honour, Padma Vibhushan, was conferred on Soli for his contribution to the continued service of justice including his vociferous defence of the freedom of expression and protection of human rights.As the President of the India International Centre (IIC), he guided the institution in its activities for a long time, particularly in the areas of culture and education, introduction of cuisines from different parts of the country and world. Under him, IIC opened its doors to younger members. I remember Soli would go to IIC everyday for lunch after the morning session, and return to Supreme Court for the afternoon matters.Soli was a man of many passions. He was a great lover of music, particularly jazz music. He introduced the jazz festival in Delhi. Soli could always be spotted at the Jazz festival singing and dancing with the musicians.Soli reached great heights in his life and career but above all he was a very affectionate and generous human being. Whenever I pass by the beautiful Lotus Temple in Delhi, I am reminded of his wife, Zena, who’s dedication to Soli is inspirational. A champion of human rights, non-violence in her own right, having been instrumental in the setting of the Baha’i faith in India.Soli leaves behind his daughter, Zia, a well-known corporate lawyer, founder and partner at AZB & Partners, one of the leading law firms in India. Jehangir is a reputed doctor. Hormazd is the editor of India’s leading automobile magazine, Autocar India. And his many grandchildren.I last met Soli at his 91st birthday celebrations at his beloved IIC on 9th March, 2021 when he also released his memoirs “Down Memory Lane”. After Soli spoke, he invited me to speak. He was surrounded with love and joy of his friends and family. It would have been the last time for many of us to have met Soli.It came as a shock to learn of his passing due to Covid yesterday. To me, Soli will always be 91 not out.Soli will be remembered in our memories, through Zena, Zia, Jehangir, Hormazd, his grandchildren, and in the many battles he fought and won for us.(Murlidhar C Bhandare is a senior advocate, former governor and Member of Parliament)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/soli-was-a-champion-of-free-speech-and-wore-many-hats-101619810636790.html
