03-05-2021||Today's||Covid-19: As the State fails, society rises||“I can’t do it… Everyone is dying… I don’t have medicines… It’s reaching saturation… I’m not able to eat… I can’t wear a PPE kit while running from here to there… Now I am running around wearing a gown.”These are the anguished words of a young doctor in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a well-known Delhi hospital while speaking to her family members.Notwithstanding the Panglossian view of those in high places, the reality is that the pandemic is spinning out of control. India, till recently, thought it had beaten the virus but has now been crushed by its renewed onslaught. Witnessing our plight, even our smaller neighbours are now offering help.When the political powers fail so drastically, society starts fighting hard for its survival. And, faced with this disaster, many people have decided to confront the situation head-on. These are the people whose names may not be recorded by history but future generations will own them a huge debt of gratitude. Let me introduce you to some of them.Mithilesh Singh of Lakhimpur Kheri lost his young son to the pandemic. It was a terrible blow, but it did not break Singh. Instead, he decided to save the children infected with the virus in the neighbourhood. Although the government has failed to deliver oxygen to every patient, Singh keeps the information about how much oxygen is available at all times and his mission is to make sure it reaches wherever it is required.You must have heard about how some hospitals and rogue medical personnel are selling medicines in the black market. A well-known neurosurgeon from Ghaziabad was arrested last week on charges of illegally selling remdesivir. He and his accomplices were raking in at least ₹36 lakh every day from this. Did he not stop to think of how he was violating all the tenets of his profession? But, one bad apple does not mean the whole barrel is spoilt — for there have been so many selfless acts by doctors and medical personnel during this pandemic.The phone numbers of seven doctors from Haldwani have been circulating on almost all WhatsApp groups in the area. These doctors arrange for medical support for critical Covid-19 patients. They are in possession of all the details about the availability of oxygen, beds and medicines. This group of enthusiastic doctors has saved about 100 lives so far. Not just this, if required, they make sure food reaches patients at their homes. Almost half of them have not gone home for a year now. That is dedication.Religious organisations have also chipped in. A gurudwara in Ghaziabad has started an oxygen-langar. If you come by car, oxygen will be supplied in the vehicle. Others can avail of oxygen on the premises of the gurudwara. The story of the Jama Masjid of Secunderabad in Bulandshahr district is somewhat different. When the imam felt the situation was worsening, he requested the administration to build a Covid-19 hospital on a vacant area on the premises of the masjid. There are many such places of worship that have pitched in to help. Will those who divide in the name of religion learn some lesson from them?The horror visited on us by the virus has had a terrible impact on school and college students. A recent study by Aligarh Muslim University found that the lockdown last year had a deep and negative impact on the psyche of 44% of the students surveyed. Most have become victims of anxiety. In such a situation, the question is, how can we save our younger generation?Instead of looking for a theoretical answer to this question, a retired State Bank of India additional general manager, BB Sharma, decided to do something about it. He went from one residential area to another and started teaching children. Children now know him as the “car-waale masterji”. Today, he is teaching online so that social distancing norms can be followed.Last year, during the lockdown, we saw how a large number of people started leaving the cities for their homes in villages. They were treated with cruelty in their own villages. This time, the villagers have learnt a lesson. Now resources are being mobilised to fight the disease with the necessary protocols in place. The villagers of Rampur, Lakshmipur, Tighara and Gola of Pipiganj in Gorakhpur district have set up a quarantine centre on their own. People who come from outside first spend 14 days in this centre before going home. All expenses are shared among the villagers.When there is so much tragedy and desperation all around, these examples should encourage all of us to do our bit. The characters in these stories are like those little lamps which know that they can’t illuminate the earth but still have the courage to fight the dark and fearful night. Let us honour these people who have gone beyond the call of duty to lend a helping hand to the needy in these trying times.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid19as-the-state-fails-society-rises-101620052757563.html
03-05-2021||Today's||In India’s Covid-19 challenge, China’s hopes and anxieties||The second wave of Covid-19 in India has been among the biggest international stories being covered across the Chinese media. The coverage reflects a sense of anxiety and opportunity.In terms of the former, there is concern about the spread of the so-called double mutant, or B.1.617 strain of the virus across the region and into China. A fresh wave of domestic outbreaks would be deeply damaging for the Communist Party, which declared victory against the virus last year, and would take a toll on China’s economic recovery. Likewise, a massive public health crisis across the Indian subcontinent, at the minimum, would hurt Chinese commercial interests and investments. At worst, it could result in a humanitarian catastrophe with the potential to stoke socio-political instability along China’s periphery.At the same time, the situation in India presents opportunities for Beijing. At the bare minimum, there is a commercial opportunity, given the shortage of emergency supplies, equipment and therapeutics. But, at a deeper level, there are geopolitical opportunities. This is reflected in the Chinese media’s critical coverage of the delayed response by the Joe Biden administration, the emphasis on China’s manufacturing prowess and its centrality to key supply chains, and foreign minister Wang Yi’s summit with his South Asian counterparts, which focused on health supplies and vaccines.Both these elements of concern and opportunity are driving the substantial outreach by Beijing towards New Delhi over the past two weeks. The first statement of solidarity from the Chinese side came in the form of a comment by the foreign ministry’s Wang Wenbin on April 22. The following day, Wang’s colleague Zhao Lijian added that China was “ready to provide support and help according to India’s need”. Since then, there has been a concerted effort by Beijing to indicate its willingness to aid the Indian government.During the summit meeting with foreign ministers from South Asia, Wang Yi made it a point to talk about the invitation to India and express solidarity, again offering to assist as per India’s needs. He repeated this in a subsequent letter to his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar. This was followed by President Xi Jinping writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, expressing sympathies and pledging support. Soon after, Wang called Jaishankar, promising to speed up production of medical supplies, facilitate customs clearance and transportation of goods and organise exchanges between experts on both sides.In addition, the Chinese embassy in Delhi has been prompt to highlight data about supplies, which are commercial deliveries, being flown from China, and respond to concerns about freight air routes being disrupted. This was evident in the case of Sichuan Airlines suspending flights to India and then retracting the decision, as it was when actor Sonu Sood highlighted consignments from China being blocked.Chinese public diplomacy indicates that there is a desire to play a greater role in supporting the Indian side to deal with the second wave. The outreach, in fact, suggests that the Chinese leadership would be willing to do much more than just facilitate commercial deals. The repeated emphasis on supporting India as per its needs in official comments indicates that Beijing would like to offer support at the government level. This, if agreed, would flow faster than commercial deliveries.It is not altruism but interests that animate States, and this willingness by Beijing is driven by self-interest. These range from containing the virus’ threat away from its borders to reshaping perceptions and making deeper inroads into the Indian subcontinent.None of this should be of primary concern to policymakers today. With the daily caseload in the country hitting record numbers, the crisis India faces is not likely to abate in the near-term. The longer it takes to address the immediate challenges, the higher will be the individual, social, economic and reputational costs, diminishing India’s national power in the long-term. Therefore, any supplies that help in augmenting capacity should be welcomed, irrespective of where they come from. This is in India’s strategic interests.Manoj Kewalramani is fellow, China Studies, at the Takshashila Institution The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-india-s-covid-19-challenge-china-s-hopes-and-anxieties-101620052747521.html
03-05-2021||Today's||Vaccines: Prepare for the worst case||There is an ongoing debate in India around vaccine prices. Should vaccines be provided free or should they be minimally priced, ensuring only a normal profit? Alternatively, should vaccine producers be allowed to earn more than normal profits by fixing high prices? A number of views have emerged on these questions.There are actually two different issues here. The first — how much should citizens pay to get themselves vaccinated? The second — how much should vaccine producers charge for the vaccines? It is useful to adopt a two-pronged approach to address these issues separately.Let’s start with the first, the amount citizens should have to pay to get vaccinated. Here, three factors are important to note.First, the majority of Indians have very low income levels, making it difficult for them to afford two paid shots of a vaccine. Second, a policy of vaccination can have a massive impact on controlling the pandemic, reviving economic growth and boosting tax revenue for the government. Third, even if the governments — either the Centre or states — have to pay the higher prices that vaccines manufacturers are now asking for, the total cost to them will be a small part of their budgeted annual expenditures.Clearly, it makes complete sense to provide vaccines for free, with the governments — either the Centre or states, but preferably the former — picking up the tab. The more contentious part of the debate is about the price that vaccine producers should get from the government. In particular, there is concern about whether high prices that help the producers make super-normal profits are justified in the middle of an enormous humanitarian crisis. It is relevant to note here that the transactions are between governments — Centre or states — and the private sector. This means that a price ensuring super-normal profits is equivalent to covering the costs of production, plus an additional subsidy from the government. So the question is, are there grounds for providing such a subsidy to vaccine producers?To answer this, it is important here to start with a clear description of our policy objectives at this point. The biggest lesson from the devastating second wave in India, and from countries such as Brazil that are already experiencing a third wave, is that we need to plan for possible worst-case scenarios. This is what India did not do in 2020, for which it is paying a price.What could such scenarios be? First, while the science is not yet fully clear on this, there are reports that immunity from the current vaccinations may last only for a limited period, perhaps less than a year. This means we may need to be vaccinated more than once a year, for multiple years. Given that the adult Indian population is close to a billion, for two initial shots of the vaccine, followed by perhaps one or two additional shots later on in the year, we will need about three to four billion shots per year.If, with newer mutations of the virus, our younger population — those below 18 years — also become vulnerable and science suggests that they can be vaccinated, we will need close to five billion or more vaccines per year. Can this policy objective be fulfilled without the government subsidising producers? Given the current capacity of vaccine makers, and their current plans to scale up based on support from the government, this objective cannot be fulfilled without additional capacity, over and above that which is planned for now. And remember, at the moment, the support is only in terms of advance supplier credit against deliveries and not grants. Will vaccine producers create this additional capacity without any subsidisation? We cannot be sure. And under the current circumstances, we need to be sure. So the only way to do this is through a subsidy regime that supports capacity creation. Of course, the producers may just take the subsidy but not deliver on capacity creation. To prevent this, the government will need to maintain pressure on producers to ensure that the subsidy is indeed used productively. This can be done in two ways. First, the governments should agree to price contracts — including the subsidies — for a specific period, with the possibility of renegotiation after that. These renegotiations should be based on the fulfilment of additional capacity creation.Second, the central government should also additionally create capacity in public sector firms that specialise in vaccine production. This will take some time but help keep the private sector firms competitive.There have been suggestions that an alternative way by which capacity creation can be ensured is through the government providing additional grants to vaccine makers. Is this a better option than higher prices? Actually, it is not a different option at all. As long as the money is paid by the government to the producers, whether through a higher price or through a grant, the implication is the same.It is subsidisation of vaccine production by the government. Thus, whether through a grant or through a higher price, the government will have to subsidise vaccine producers, in order to make sure that we do not allow a crushing third wave of the pandemic in India. India can’t afford to make more mistakes and must do all it can to protect citizens through a smart vaccine policy.Sabyasachi Kar is RBI chair professor, National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP)The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/vaccines-prepare-for-the-worst-case-101620051967387.html
03-05-2021||Today's||From the south, expect stronger opposition to the central government||With its resounding success, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala has overcome the four-decade-old phenomenon of no ruling party returning to office in the state, which, in turn, had led to a system of rotational power-sharing between the Left and the Congress. The credit for this remarkable success should be attributed to the strong leadership of Pinarayi Vijayan and the cadre- based organisational strength of the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPM).The Left government’s focused management of the Kerala floods and the Covid-19 crisis also led to a vote for stability and continuity.The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) failed to meet popular expectations. Its state leaders appeared tired or reluctant or both, often mired in internal factional battles. The presence of Rahul Gandhi as a parliamentarian from the state, and as an active campaigner, was not enough to provide confidence to voters that the party could deliver. Its social alliance frayed, and it could not capitalise on its 2019 (Lok Sabha) success in the state. The Kerala election was also marked by the growing vote share and the expanding political space of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — because of its socio-religious agenda and communal articulation of politics in a state that is home to two large minorities, Muslims and Christians. Given the overall decline of the Congress at the national level, coupled with the absence of a strong state leadership, there is a possibility of a more direct Left-BJP battle in the future.The core message from Kerala is that quality of leadership, cadre strength, political conviction, and the nature of governance are important factors that influence voter choices. Voters are willing to accord priority to competent performance and good governance, and reward incumbents for it, irrespective of past electoral patterns.In Tamil Nadu, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led alliance will return to power after a decade. This victory is particularly significant for the party, for it is the first state election since DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi passed away. The DMK-led alliance won 38 out of 39 seats in the parliamentary elections in 2019, and success in the assembly polls has firmly established MK Stalin’s leadership credentials. The son has, finally, risen.But there is another dimension to the choice in Tamil Nadu — it is consistent with the tradition of issue-based politics and advocacy of the rights of the state vis-à-vis the Centre. At a time when Delhi is seen as overbearing and encroaching on federal rights, this message acquires significance. The DMK’s success also reaffirms the role and influence of multiculturalism in national politics at a time when the ideas of secular, multicultural and plural India are under an organised challenge.But while both pre-poll analysts and exit poll results predicted a landslide for the DMK and its allies, this did not happen. There is a message in the moderate electoral success of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)-led alliance — voters have acknowledged its performance in managing the Covid-19 crisis and implementing welfare measures during this difficult period.The AIADMK has also seen both a crisis of leadership since the death of J Jayalalithaa, and a degree of fragmentation, including the formation of TTV Dhinakaran’s Amma Makkal Munnetra Katchi and VK Sasikala’s challenge, before she decided to sit out this election. But the AIADMK’s performance means that the outgoing chief minister, E Palaniswami’s claim of leadership remains strong, especially in coalition with the BJP. It also means that there is a potential for strong opposition in the state legislature that Stalin cannot ignore.At the national level, the success of the DMK in Tamil Nadu and the LDF in Kerala (and of the Trinamool in West Bengal) provides a ray of hope for the Opposition — at a time when the Congress is still reeling under a crisis of leadership. The results may also mark the beginning of the shift in the axis of Indian politics, with enhanced coordination of opposition parties across the country.Ramu Manivannan is professor and head of the department of politics and public administration, University of Madras The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-the-south-expect-stronger-opposition-to-the-central-government-101619972527258.html
