05-05-2021||Today's||Of India-Pakistan ties and third-party mediation||In the midst of the mismanagement of Covid-19 by the central government, and India’s decision to accept foreign aid after 17 years, a development that has slipped under the radar is the choice to accept third-party mediation qua Pakistan — a first post-1972.In a recent off-the-record interaction with journalists, Pakistani army chief General QJ Bajwa apparently opined that India’s national security adviser Ajit Doval and Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) chief Lieutenant General Faiz Hameed had ostensibly held confabulations in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), leading up to the February 25 ceasefire. What was, however, glossed over was the exact role of the UAE in midwifing this interaction?That role was revealed earlier by the UAE’s ambassador to the United States (US), Yousef Al Otaiba. He avowed that the UAE is indeed mediating between India and Pakistan to help them reach a “healthy and functional relationship”. He further went on to state that India and Pakistan may not become the best of friends but at least “we” want to get it to a level where it is functional and operational and “they” (India and Pakistan) are speaking to each other and there are lines of communication and that’s “our” goal.Notwithstanding the dripping condescension of a marriage counsellor trying to patch up a rather prickly relationship, Otaiba’s revelations may perhaps be inaugurating a new chapter in the Indo-Pakistani dynamic — direct and overt mediation by a third country.The India-Pakistan relationship, or the absence of it, has gone through many hoops of overt mediation and backchannel dialogue in the past seven decades. Between January 1, 1948, when India took Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) to the United Nations (UN) and the Simla Agreement on July 2, 1972, whereby both nations agreed to settle all outstanding disputes bilaterally, there were a series of attempts to mediate both under the auspices of the UN and bilaterally by the great powers. Various UN resolutions, efforts by Adlai Stevenson in 1953 and the Soviet Union-brokered Tashkent agreement after the Indo-Pakistan war in 1965 all bear eloquent testimony to these failed and some partly successful efforts.However, post-Simla, India has stoutly resisted any attempt by any other nation to intervene or mediate overtly in the Indo-Pakistani imbroglio.Undoubtedly, there have been various discreet attempts after that too. Both the United States (US) and even the Soviet Union reached out to India and Pakistan respectively to lower heightened tensions in the wake of Operation Brass Tacks in 1986-1987. There was the Robert Gates Mission in 1990 when ratcheting up of tensions between India and Pakistan over the unrest in Kashmir and Pakistan’s nuclear sabre-rattling impelled the then US deputy national security adviser to make a dash to the subcontinent. On July 4, 1999, Nawaz Sharif made an emergency sprint to Washington DC to get President Bill Clinton to intervene in the Kargil War but Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee resolutely refused to join him in DC and stayed put in Delhi, making it clear that Pakistani withdrawal was the first step.During Operation Parakram in 2001 again, presumably, at the behest of the US, Lieutenant General Kapil Vij was relieved of the command of the Ambala-based 2nd Strike Core because American satellites picked up the forward deployment of his armoured assets almost to strike positions. During the second peak of Operation Parakram, post the Kaluchak terrorist outrage, US deputy secretary of state Richard Armitage and defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld played peacemaker between India and Pakistan.Similarly, during the 26/11 terrorist outrage in 2008 and the air raid on Balakot in 2019, there was an enormous amount of backchannel manoeuvring by many friendly nations, described by various actors in their accounts, most recently by one of Donald Trump’s many national security advisers, John Bolton.Then, there were the backchannel bilateral conversations. One of the less documented but perhaps the most productive dialogue was between RK Mishra and Pakistan’s former foreign secretary Niaz Naik in 1998 and 1999. The parleys suffered because of the Kargil conflict. However, the most sustained backchannel between the two countries was between ambassador Satinder Lambah and his Pakistani counterpart Tariq Aziz during the tenure of the United Progressive Alliance. Lambah is circumspect even today about what transpired during this process.It is also widely speculated that there was another backchannel active from 2018 onwards between a former deputy director-general of the ISI and a now-retired senior officer of the cabinet secretariat that dovetailed into more high-level interactions at an institutional level between India and Pakistan. The common thread that runs through all these attempts from 1972 onwards was that they were quiet and discreet parleys aimed at influencing key decision-makers in both countries — either to act or not act in a particular manner, during or in the aftermath of a crisis. The backchannels were also purely bilateral affairs unlike the Oslo process between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organisation (PLO) that was actively midwifed by the foreign ministry of Norway. Presuming that both India and Pakistan do believe that such third-party mediation would help in arriving at a modus vivendi between the two nuclear-armed neighbours, there is an obvious question — does the UAE have the heft to guarantee that the arrangements arrived at are adhered too, which, from India’s perspective, is primarily the cessation of all cross-border terrorism by Pakistan? If India and Pakistan are now wanting to cross the Rubicon of third-party mediation, should they not find an arbitrator with greater heft?Manish Tewari is a Member of Parliament, former Union minister, and a lawyerThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/of-india-pakistan-ties-and-third-party-mediation-101620236858359.html
05-05-2021||Today's||The MSME sector needs help. First, smoothen financial flows||According to the 2020-21 annual report of the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises, India’s 63 million micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) contributed to 30% of the GDP. MSMEs also employ more than 100 million workers. These numbers underline the importance of MSMEs in generating jobs — especially when the pandemic has affected the sector significantly.One of the challenges facing MSMEs in India is related to finance. CRISIL’s small and medium enterprises (SME) tracker shows that the problem has been getting worse, given the fact that the gap between the available and required working capital has been widening since 2015.The sector’s finance-related problems are due to three main factors — the absence of viable credit providers, absence of credit products and schemes such as micro-insurance that help enterprises tide over episodic downturns, and delayed payments leading to a persistent crunch in working capital. The research undertaken by the finance taskforce at the Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship has looked at the problems of delayed payments.To measure the extent of the problem, we used the Prowess IQ database which includes over 51,000 companies and is the largest available dynamic corporate sector database in India. We categorised enterprises following the existing definitions of annual revenue of less than ₹5, 50 and 250 crore, respectively. About 12,000 companies met the criteria of having reported their annual revenue and sales.The MSME Act of 2006 mandates that payments be completed in 45 days. Our calculations show that in 2019 the average number of days it takes for enterprises to receive cash for the credit sale are 176, 112 and 81 days for micro, small and medium enterprises, respectively. The problem of delayed payments increases as firm size decreases. The outstanding receivables beyond 45 days, among these 12,000 enterprises, were: ₹90 lakh for enterprises in the micro category, ₹7 crores for those which fell in the small category and ₹34 crore for those in the medium category. The actual extent of the problem is much bigger as not all MSMEs are included in the Prowess database. Even if one were to assume that 10% of India’s MSMEs were facing the problem of delayed payments, extrapolation would give a sum of ₹15 lakh crore. A recent report calculates that unlocking this amount as working capital is equal to an increase in the GDP by 0.42%.The quantum and duration of delay are the two key factors that determine whether a transaction will yield its originally promised profit margin. Delayed payments entail four kinds of costs for firms — costs in retrieving payments in the form of personnel, time and effort; interest forgone beyond the prescribed period; business forgone due to working capital crunch; and losses due to non-reconciliation. The first two cost-heads squeeze earnings, while the latter two erode capital.Given that in the present scenario of the pandemic, small enterprises are bogged down by both demand- and supply-side challenges, concerted efforts at easing cash flow and faster payment cycles are a much-needed policy intervention to ensure their survival.While the government has taken steps such as setting up the online Receivables Discounting System (TReDS) and MSME Samadhan, they have not been very effective. Since its launch, Samadhan has registered a little over 75,000 cases. Only about 10,000 MSMEs and over 1,300 buyers are registered on TReDS. The Udhyam portal which automates the eligibility of enterprise to raise invoices on TReDS has itself seen only about 2.6 million registrations. Given these particularities, and limited applicability of solutions the way ahead seems to be more than just a technocratic fix. Power asymmetries between enterprises of different sizes, corporations and public sector units need to be neutralised towards making it viable for micro and small suppliers of products and services to do business. Easing the cash flow woes of small businesses is vital not just for their growth but their survival.Kinjal Sampat leads research, monitoring and evaluation at the Global Alliance for Mass EntrepreneurshipThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-msme-sector-needs-help-first-smoothen-financial-flows-101620235598300.html
05-05-2021||Today's||Lessons for India from the Ebola epidemic||The West African Ebola epidemic, which infected 28,616 and killed 11,310 in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea between 2014 and 2016, may seem at first like a localised, regional public health emergency compared to the global Covid-19 pandemic. Yet, at a time when the second wave is crushing India, at both the micro- and macro-level, there are lessons to be learnt from the Ebola crisis.First, like Ebola, Covid-19 must be treated as a caregiver’s disease. In his book, Fevers, Feuds and Diamonds: Ebola and the Ravages of History, globally renowned infectious diseases doctor and anthropologist Paul Farmer, who was involved on the ground in Ebola treatment in West Africa, makes the crucial point that thousands contracted Ebola while caring for the sick and dead. Recognising Covid-19 as a caregiver’s disease is important not only to validate the efforts (and vulnerabilities) of doctors, nurses and paramedical caregivers but also to recognise small, everyday acts of caregiving in the home, hospital, clinic and cremation grounds.Beyond vaccination, the Indian State must develop a concrete plan to address the challenge of frontline workers burning out. The risk of an acute shortage of key frontline workers in future is extremely real. We must further ask, are acts of caregiving in cremation grounds, graveyards and mortuaries — most often by those who belong to lower caste and class backgrounds — even recognised by the State? Are there any forms of insurance the government has created for these invisible frontline workers (and their families) who perform caregiving’s very last gesture? Caregivers must be treated as seriously as the afflicted, for viruses such as Ebola and Sars-CoV-2 blur the boundaries between caregivers and patients.Second, efforts directed at the containment of the virus must be prefigured by capacity-building to care for the afflicted. Announcing lockdowns and enforcing these only through coercion is not a solution in itself.Also Read | WHO sees Ebola risk as ‘very high’ for Guinea’s neighboursAs Farmer discusses in the case of Ebola, public health and biomedicine are foremostly part of the State’s social contract. Without ensuring safe and effective caregiving is in place, the policy of containment has its limits. Such a “control-over-care paradigm”, as Ebola has shown us all too well, not only endangers the lives of the afflicted but also leads to resentment against the State that may take the form of mistrust, resisting contact-tracing, vaccination and containment.Third, on the face of it, the current crisis in India is the result of severe burdens on secondary- and tertiary-care hospitals, and the State’s failure to address their basic needs — oxygen, beds, equipment, medicines and vaccines. This mirrors the Ebola crisis in West Africa’s clinical desert, which lacked the basic staff, material, space and systems of care. Independent Ebola treatment units in West Africa were set up through community mobilisation and sustained over two years in the absence of secondary or tertiary medicine.The Indian State, too, must develop forms of care that de-centre tertiary hospitals whose limits are being exposed in horrifying scenes of people dying outside hospitals, in parking lots, streets and pavements — not so much because of Sars-CoV-2 but the absence of basic medical infrastructure. A focus on community care facilities such as oxygen-hubs, portable prefabricated health units and testing-treatment wards at the meso-level prevent overburdening hospitals and ensure triage before tertiary systems collapse.Fourth, we can’t neglect the social determinants of health in a viral pandemic. In India’s current second wave, infections and the failure of medical systems are impacting the middle- and upper-middle classes. This is different from the first wave in 2020, in which the first to be debilitated were migrant workers, informal labourers, the poor and the social and economically disadvantaged. We must ask ourselves — why did the State, media, citizens (including netizens) and medical systems fail to recognise and respond to the full-blown crisis of the intervening period? What does the present moment reveal about how our notions of crisis and care are determined by class and caste? A serious commitment to public health cannot start after the most vulnerable have suffered.Fifth, viruses always track weaknesses in society and invade their cracks and fissures. As Farmer said in an interview, “There is a confusion at the beginning of epidemics that a novel pathogen is going to be some sort of ‘great leveller’. This is almost never the case.” To understand and stymie the movement of viruses, we must understand our social systems more effectively and sensitively.Also Read | NHRC asks Centre, states to maintain Covid-19 dashboardsIn the case of Ebola, Farmer traces historical reasons such as colonialism and post-colonial civil wars, ethnic strife and exploitative structural adjustment programmes resulting in West Africa’s “clinical desert”. In the Indian context, the State’s longitudinal lack of attention to health is exacerbated by divisions of caste, class, gender and ethnicity, which have summarily prevented public health from taking shape as a social or governmental priority.It is common for the responsibility of ailing health systems to be shifted onto the afflicted. Alongside scientists and virologists, whose efforts are important, the Indian government must involve social scientists, community volunteers and those who routinely track society at a granular level, in its disaster preparedness. Not just Ebola, the record of global pandemics such as AIDS too reveal the need to identify vulnerable groups to address their distinctive needs, and remedy existing chasms of care.Learning from Ebola, we must remind ourselves that a good system that responds to viral threats is not an emergency system but an everyday system that responds to emergencies.Nikhil Pandhi is a doctoral candidate in medical and cultural anthropology at Princeton University. He ethnographically researches the socio-cultural determinants of health in India.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/lessons-for-india-from-the-ebola-epidemic-101620217055295.html
05-05-2021||Today's||Decoding women’s representation in the 2021 state elections||Reports, anecdotal accounts, and now the results suggest that women played a crucial role in shaping the electoral outcomes in the four states and one Union Territory that went to the polls this year. In West Bengal, they may have cemented the All India Trinamool Congress’s (TMC) victory by massively voting for Mamata Banerjee’s candidates. These elections also took place in five states where the gender gap in participation and voting had closed way before these elections. In West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, it closed in 2011. In Puducherry, women have been outvoting men since 1985 and in Kerala and Assam, there was never a gap between men and women in the first place. How did these five states and their main parties fare in terms of women representation in this election and in the past? The quick answer to that question is not so well. Overall, women constituted only 10.4% of all candidates, and only 8.5% of all members of the legislative assembly (MLAs). West Bengal is the only state where the ratio of women MLA is superior to that of women candidates, thanks to the TMC’s decision to field 48 women out of its 288 candidates (16.7%). This is more than any other parties across the five states, but much less than the 41% of women candidates it fielded in the 2019 general elections. See Chart 1: Share of women candidates and MLAs If we exclude local parties and independent candidates, the ratio of women candidates among major parties increases to 13.5%. The credit is mostly due to state-based parties, who gave 14.4% of their tickets to women candidates, against 11% for the national parties. But even among them, there are important variations. In Tamil Nadu, there is a marked difference between the two Dravidian parties. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) fielded 11 women (5.9%) against 17 for the All India Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) (8.9%). Only 12 women were elected in an assembly of 234 — six from the DMK, three from the AIADMK, two from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and 1 one from the Congress. Small parties such as the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam or the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam have done comparatively better, with 9.7% and 11.7% of women candidates, respectively. In West Bengal, 33 of the 40 women elected ran on a TMC ticket, and seven on a BJP ticket. 19 women legislators have been elected. Also Read | PM Modi calls Bengal Governor, BJP goes to SC on post-poll clashesIn Assam, only six women were elected in an assembly of 126. Three women were elected on a BJP ticket, against two on a Congress ticket and one on an Assam Gana Parishad (AGP) ticket. In Kerala, 10 of the 11 women MLAs are communists — eight from the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M) and two from the Communist Party of India (CPI). The only other woman elected, KK Rema, was elected on a local party ticket, which was a part of the United Democratic Front (UDF). In Puducherry, the lone woman MLA, ChandiraPriyanga, was elected on an All India NR Congress ticket. The BJP’s women nominations were highest in Tamil Nadu (15%) and in Kerala (13.9%). Two of the three BJP women candidates were elected in Tamil Nadu while none of the 16 BJP women it fielded in Kerala (out of 115 candidates) were elected. In Bengal, 38 women ran on a BJP ticket (13.1%) and only 7 did in Assam (7.5%). See Chart 2: State-wise party-wise representation of women 19 of the 40 women elected in West Bengal have been elected for the first time while four and 14 of them are serving a second and a third term respectively. In the four other states, the majority of women elected are first-time MLAs. 30 of the 70 women elected across these five states ran for the first time. 30 of the 48 women who ran as incumbent MLAs were re-elected, which is a high strike rate (63%), practically at the same level as their male counterparts (65%). Of the 21 TMC incumbent women MLAs, only four were not re-elected. An examination of trends over time shows that West Bengal is the only state where women representation has consistently increased since the late 1990s. Women representation in Tamil Nadu and Assam has gone down. Kerala registers one of the lowest rate of women representation in its state assembly in India. This year’s improvement, from 5.7% to 7.9%, is nominal. There are only three more women in the assembly than in 2016. See Chart 3: Share of women MLAs in states since 1991 What lessons can be drawn from these descriptive statistics? We see first that parties and governments that cater to women’s interests, notably through general social and welfare policies, tend to be rewarded with the support of women voters. But the progressiveness that can be seen in governance does not necessarily translate into inclusion in the domain of politics. Far from it. Communists have historically marginalised women within their ranks, even though this year, the CPI (M) in Kerala broke with that tradition, by nominating 13% of women candidates. The DMK remains a male-dominated universe in which few women are given career opportunities. The AIADMK used to do better when it was led by Jayalalithaa. But her demise and the subsequent eviction of VK Sasikala by the party establishment has led to a male take-over of the party. Also Read | PM Modi expresses concern over law and order situation in Bengal: DhankharIn Assam, women were better represented under the Congress governments of Tarun Gogoi. The Asom Gana Parishad and other state-based parties never created much space for women representation within its ranks, nor has the BJP today. The question of women representation is yet another indicator of the divorce that exists between electoral politics, a domain that remains dominated by men, and governance, where considerations of gender equity are possible. One should not deduct however that the latter would not gain from an improvement of the former. Under Mamata Banerjee, the Trinamool is leading the way in terms of women inclusion in politics. Genuine women inclusion translates into more women taking part in political activities, campaigning and mobilisation, and to more women attending rallies and campaign events. The contrast in the gender composition of the BJP and TMC’s attendance was particularly striking. One can only hope that other parties will follow the lead. Avishek Jha is an Affiliate Researcher at the Trivedi Centre for Political Data and a PhD Candidate in Geography at the University of Melbourne. Gilles Verniers is Assistant Professor of Political Science at Ashoka University, Co-Director of the Trivedi Centre for Political Data, and Visiting Senior fellow at the Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi. Pulari Bhaskar, Priavi Joshi, interns at TCPD, contributed to the data. Views are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/decoding-women-s-representation-in-the-2021-state-elections-101620193101986.html
05-05-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | The King of Dinosaurs||Children love dinosaurs, of which the most revered is Tyrannosaurus rex. This is for good reason. With its gigantic gait and bone-crushing teeth, T. rex invokes a sense of fear and awe. As the king of dinosaurs, it was an apex predator — the largest strictly meat-eating land animal that is known to have ever existed. T. rex roamed across North America for over two million years until a huge asteroid hit the earth 66 million years ago. I must confess that like other children, I went through an extended dinosaur phase in my childhood. Back then, T. rex was depicted as a dull-coloured dinosaur with lizard-like scales. At the time, this image of dinosaurs was also etched into the public psyche by Hollywood movies such as Jurassic Park. However, scientific evidence accumulated over the past few years indicates much of what we knew back then might be incorrect. All tyrannosaurs, including T. rex, belong to a class of two-legged meat-eating dinosaurs known as theropods. From some remarkable fossils found in China over the past three decades, we know much more about theropods. These exquisite fossils have details of soft tissue, and so they provide a unique window in dinosaur life and evolution. Quite stunningly, we have strong evidence that theropods had feathers. Also Read | Centre notifies revised eco zone around Thane flamingo sanctuaryIn a landmark article published in Nature in 2004, Xu Xing of the Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology in Beijing and his colleagues described an early tyrannosaur the size of a dog that lived in the early Cretaceous period nearly 130 million years. They named it Dilong paradoxus, and noted that it had fluffy primitive feathers called protofeathers. Eight years later, in another blockbuster article in Nature, Xing and his team highlighted the discovery of fossilised remains of a tyrannosaur, which they named Yutyrannus huali. It was an incredible discovery of a gigantic dinosaur with feathers — one that must rank as one of the greatest scientific discoveries of the previous decade. As a class of dinosaurs, tyrannosaurs weren’t always behemoths. Paleontologists now believe tyrannosaurs started small, but over millions of years gave rise to fearsome predators such as T. rex. T. rex became extinct at the end of the Cretaceous. But when someone says all dinosaurs are extinct, it rankles me. You see, not all dinosaurs are dead. As I type, flying dinosaurs known as birds chirp away outside my window. Yes, modern birds are descended from theropods. And not just that; they are theropods themselves, in the same way that we are apes. I urge you to remember that the feathered chicken is a distant relative of the mighty T. rex.That said, extinct theropods such as tyrannosaurs didn’t use their feathers for flying. Their downy feathers were likely for show or insulation. But early feathers of theropods did give way to the more complex ones that birds use today.Since then, scientists have made discoveries that indicate that feathers, hair, and scales all originated in a single ancestral reptile that lived around 300 million years ago. Birds tend to mature quickly. Previously, paleontologists that studied tyrannosaurs thought they grew slowly and lived long. The consensus now seems to be that even in the manner of growth, they were like modern birds. Tyrannosaurs matured within three decades. As Steve Brusatte writes in his excellent book, The Rise and Fall of the Dinosaurs, T. rex was “the James Dean of dinosaurs: it lived fast and died young.” At the peak of its growth, a juvenile probably put on over two kilograms of weight a day.Also Read | Xi vows focus on emission cuts, end energy-inefficient projectsResearchers have also been looking at modern birds to guess what colour the feathers of dinosaurs might have been. Feathers of birds (and other theropods) contain coloured sacs called melanosomes. By comparing the kinds of melanosomes in living birds with those in fossil specimens of an extinct theropod called Sinosauropteryx, they concluded in an article in Nature that it was covered in reddish-brown feathers. Who said dinosaurs had to be dull and grey?We know about dinosaurs from their fossils. But can we extrapolate from fossils just how many T. rex ever existed?Charles Marshall at University of California at Berkeley and his team attempted to answer this question in an article published in Science on April 16. They used the concept that there are few very large modern animals compared to small ones. Marshall and his team plugged in numbers for the likely size and weight of T. rex and came up with a range that varied from around 1,300 to 328,000 adults in North America at one time (with a likely number being 20,000). That’s around 3,800 in an area the size of California. How does the number of T. rex relate to fossils we have found? If every plant or animal that ever lived had been fossilised, the earth would be covered in mountains of fossils. Clearly, that’s not the case. But just how rare are they?Since T. rex were on the planet for about two million years, that gives us an estimate of around 2.5 billion of them in total. Given that we have found only a few dozen complete fossilised skeletons of this predator, we can confidently say that T. rex fossils are exceedingly rare.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From Fiction. This is the first of his weekly column, to be published every Wednesday, on science, placing scientific discoveries and news in context to give it meaning and understand the world around us These are his personal views.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scientifically-speaking-the-king-of-dinosaurs-101620185841237.html
