07-05-2021||Today's||The EU stands with India in times of need||On Saturday, the leaders of the 27 European Union (EU) member-states, the president of the European Council, and I will meet virtually with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It illustrates the importance that the EU attaches to its partnership with India, and demonstrates our solidarity with the Indian people as they fight the coronavirus.Coronavirus has swept the planet in unrelenting waves. Europe has been hit hard and today, we witness a deterioration of the situation in India. My heart goes out to all who have lost loved ones, and my thoughts are with the heroic frontline workers.The EU has long been a reliable partner for India, and we are proving this once again. As soon as India requested support, the EU and its member states came together to help. We activated our EU civil protection mechanism in one of its biggest-ever response operations. This is what friends do in times of need.The European Commission is coordinating and co-financing the delivery of urgently needed medical equipment such as oxygen cylinders, concentrators and plants, ventilators and antiviral drugs provided by 16 EU member-states. We are working with the Indian authorities to make sure that these critical items are distributed quickly to the hospitals in need, saving lives. The EU has more shipments in the pipeline for the coming days. This “Team Europe” assistance is altogether worth over €100 million. In addition, the European Commission has announced an immediate initial €2.2 million contribution to the World Health Organization, for additional testing and patient care capacity in India. Our message is clear — we are with you in your time of need.Important as this support may be, we need to look beyond the current emergency. Building global health preparedness and resilience is at the heart of today’s EU-India Leaders Meeting. Defeating the coronavirus through global cooperation and solidarity remains our common priority. We share the commitment to work together to ensure a better, safer, sustainable and inclusive recovery.A first step is universal, safe, equitable and affordable access to coronavirus vaccines, diagnostics and treatments. The EU substantially contributes to the world’s vaccines production and to the COVAX Facility, and let me recognise and praise India’s efforts to produce and distribute vaccines to over 90 countries through “Vaccine Maitri”. But it will take more to “build back better” in the wake of the pandemic. We need to jointly take on the formidable challenge of climate change and biodiversity loss. At our leaders’ meeting, I hope that we will agree to cooperate more closely with India on all aspects of the green and digital transformations. We also need to exploit the untapped potential of EU-India trade, and I am confident that we can overcome barriers that existed in the past. Last, the EU and India are key partners in strengthening the rules-based international order and working towards a safer, more prosperous and democratic world. The leaders’ meeting will boost our cooperation in all these areas.Out of this pandemic, we need to forge stronger global solidarity, beyond our determination to beat the coronavirus. EU and India are like-minded partners. We must work together to shape the global agenda.Ursula von der Leyen is president of the European CommissionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-eu-stands-with-india-in-times-of-need-101620398820410.html
07-05-2021||Today's||How women are shaping political fortunes in India||The results of the recently concluded assembly elections have reaffirmed a phenomenon that has been increasingly discussed across the past few electoral seasons — the importance of women as a voting bloc in India.From West Bengal to Kerala, commentators have attributed the Trinamool Congress’s and the Left Democratic Front’s victory to the high turnout among women. The political recognition of women’s power was also evident during the campaign, with most parties making promises to introduce or increase social welfare measures for them. The success of such poll promises has also been noted in Assam.This tradition of offering direct benefits to women is not new. Leaders have been known to promise programmes that appeal to women, including, but not limited to, scholarships for girls, reservations for women in government jobs, better safety, subsidised water and electricity, a prohibition on alcohol sale and free bus rides.There is a calculated math behind these. When India became independent, the Constituent Assembly agreed on the principle of universal suffrage. However, when electoral poll officers came calling to make independent India’s first electoral rolls, many women chose to be registered as the wife or daughter of someone. Sukumar Sen, the then chief election commissioner, noticed this gap and asked for a cleaning of the electoral rolls, so that women’s rights for suffrage could be identified as distinct from their families, and they could cast their independent ballot. Even so, the participation of women in voting remained limited. In the 1962 Lok Sabha elections, for example, only 47% of women came out to vote as opposed to 62% of men.By 2014, this difference had reduced to a mere 1.5 percentage points, with some states such as Bihar and Odisha recording a higher female turnout on voting day than men. By 2019, women’s turnout across India exceeded that of men, largely on account of states such as Assam, Bihar, Odisha, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal where women outvoted men. In West Bengal, in this assembly election, the percentage of women voters crossed the 49% mark, while in Tamil Nadu, more women voted than men.Interestingly, more women step out to vote in rural areas. Electoral participation among rural women has risen by nearly 13 percentage points between 1971 and 2014, in contrast to a slight dip in urban female turnout.But here is the more fascinating fact. Not only are women stepping out more to vote, their voting preferences are no longer in line with those of their families or communities. Back in the 1990s, gender often intersected with other social markers such as caste or class. There was no significant difference in this trend, even in states where female political leaders were present.This has changed. For one, younger women are joining the voter base. They are more educated than their mothers (on average) and do not usually follow the collective decisions of their village or social group to vote for a given candidate or party. In a survey carried out by Lokniti-Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS) in February 2019, on 5,000 first-time young female voters (between the ages of 18-22), a little more than three out of five women said they would vote without being influenced by their families, 68% believed that women should participate in politics just like men, and 65% rejected the idea that men make better political leaders than women.Second, many women voters now believe that their vote matters in electing a new government. Praveen Rai of CSDS analysed voter-behaviour data and found that the perception that their vote matters is a significant predictor for women actually stepping out to vote. Apart from this, “interest in politics” is also an important predictor of women’s degree of participation in voting. This rising interest, more so in rural areas, has been attributed by many studies to the increasing presence of women leaders, who currently comprise nearly half the panchayat leadership positions in India. While they may have risen to such positions due to reservations, such leaders serve as role models for many women.Finally, changes in the way the ballot is cast may have also strengthened women’s positions. They may have earlier lost out due to ghost paper ballots that were cast in their names. Frauds that took advantage of the fact that women voters would not traverse long distances or stand in queues are less likely now.Political parties are taking cognisance of this changing trend. They recognise that women now vote for parties or candidates who they believe are likely to address issues that concern them.Politics aside, for feminists, what is more heartening to see are the shifts recorded in female voter turnout over time, even in traditionally backward states. This, as economists, Mudit Kapoor and Shamika Ravi argue, represents a silent movement towards women’s self-empowerment, one of the rare domains in which we see gender equality in India, more so out of women’s own volition and account, without any effort as such to push for it.Having witnessed the role female voters have played in this round of assembly elections, one thing has become clear. They are a voting bloc in their own right, a far cry from the late 19th century, when philosophers such as James Mill argued that women need not have separate voting rights because their interests were in line with their families. This ignites hope that women’s concerns as distinct from men, especially in the light of one of the worst crises in India’s history, might be taken up by political parties.Soumya Kapoor Mehta is the head of the Initiative for What Works to Advance Women and Girls in the Economy (IWWAGE), an initiative of LEAD at Krea UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-women-are-shaping-political-fortunes-in-india-101620398460498.html
07-05-2021||Today's||Year after Gogra trespass, PLA dragging feet over restoring status quo ante||On May 17-18, 2020, Chinese troops of the South Xinjiang military district transgressed into areas of Kugrang nullah, a tributary of the Chang Chemo river, near patrolling point 15, north of Hot Springs, patrolling point 17 A Gogra and north of Pangong Tso.It is quite evident that the military move had sanction from the Central Military Commission (CMC) headed by President Xi Jinping, as a deliberate and calculated attempt was made to unilaterally change the status quo on the ground with Western Theatre Commander tasked to impose the 1959 line on 1597 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in East Ladakh. The 1959 line runs through Kongka La, general area Kugrang river, and finger four of the north bank of the saltwater lake and the Galwan Valley. The 1959 line was categorically rejected by India at that time only.Nearly a year after the transgression at Kugrang and after 11 rounds of military dialogue, the military situation along the 3,488 km LAC is largely stable with China heavily investing in the construction of aircraft hangers to guard against Indian airstrikes and dramatically increasing connectivity to its last posts on the border through optical fibre cables, high tech camera and surveillance radars. The only fully disengagement and de-escalation completed between two sides is at the Galwan river and that too after the Indian Army refused to allow PLA to cross the patrolling point 14, resulting in bloody clashes that led to casualties on both sides.While the PLA has taken the first disengagement steps north and south of Pangong Tso due to Indian counter-move on August 29-30, 2020, the military commanders of the two sides are now trying to restore the status quo ante in the Gogra-Hot Springs area. The process despite interventions at the level of State Councillor and foreign minister has been very laborious with Xi Jinping wanting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to resume business as usual without resolving the fundamental friction between the two countries.To add to Indian discomfort is a raging pandemic with origins in Wuhan in November 2019. While authoritarian, single-party China has been able to enforce large-scale covid protocol compliance through strong-arm tactics on the citizens, India is hampered by the fact that it is a raucous, multi-party democracy with elections, religious festivals and protests going on side by side with vaccination. It is quite evident that China will make the fastest economic recovery out of the pandemic, while India will be economically scorched if discipline is not enforced by the rule of law with elections and protests being put on the back-burner.Although President Xi did write a letter of support to PM Modi on the resurgent pandemic, the missive made no mention that the two sides will restore peace and tranquillity on the LAC. “It was like a letter written by an Emperor, who likes to talk and hear about good things,” said a former foreign secretary, as President Xi chose to ignore the fundamental problem afflicting a relationship with huge potential.State Councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi has held several rounds of dialogues with external affairs minister S Jaishankar and with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval as Special Representative on boundary issues but the Chinese refuse to recognise that there can be no serious relationship with the Modi government till such time status quo ante is restored and 1993/1996 peace and tranquillity agreements implemented. PM Modi and his military advisors are not comfortable in carrying out an economic relationship on a separate track with Beijing while Indian soldiers are deployed in all readiness at the LAC with PLA increased activity across Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh border. It is more than clear that the time for parallel diplomacy as practised during the previous regimes is over, with India in no mood to allow PLA to change the ground situation unilaterally. The Chinese posture towards India in nuclear supplier group, terrorism emanating from Pakistan and increased maritime activity in the Persian Gulf and on the eastern board of Africa are all under notice and New Delhi is no longer squeamish about being a prominent member of QUAD as its agenda is far beyond than challenging China.“As of now, there is no 12th round of military talks on the horizon but the Chinese have been supportive in the Indian fight against Covid after External Affairs Minister Jaishankar spoke to State Councillor Wang Yi. Beijing has taken the action India requested including allowing cargo flights to Spice and Indigo and reinstating some of their own flights for transporting essential Covid related supplies,” said a diplomat.While the Chinese privately communicate that status quo ante will be restored in East Ladakh, Beijing’s public posture lacks trust and is viewed with suspicion on Raisina Hill. China broke trust at Kugrang and Pangong Tso last May, the onus is now on paramount leader Xi to restore it. India is ready to play either way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/year-after-gogra-trespass-pla-dragging-feet-over-restoring-status-quo-ante-101620364563687.html
