08-05-2021||Today's||The present and future of Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee’s political victory in the West Bengal elections is remarkably impressive. Here was a chief minister (CM) who successfully defied two-term anti-incumbency — and while there have been other CMs who have successfully returned to power for a third time (Narendra Modi is a prime example), Banerjee was facing the most formidable challenger in India’s political theatre. She had suffered a setback in the Lok Sabha elections of 2019, and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), with its well-oiled machine and drive, was out to wrest power. Yet, Banerjee succeeded through a mix of four elements — sub-nationalism, politics of welfare and gender, minority consolidation, and robust organisational strength. The Bengal win has now prompted observers to suggest that Banerjee may well be the glue of possible opposition unity against Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2024, and that there is a Bengal model to be deployed to challenge the BJP’s might. Many, dissatisfied with the centralising impulses of the central government, are banking on this hope. But as Banerjee contemplates the possibilities of 2024, she has to make a set of choices. And it is these choices which will determine her political future, the political future of Bengal, and potentially the future of national politics.The fundamental question for Banerjee is this — does she want to remain focused on Bengal and are her aspirations limited to retaining power in Kolkata’s Nabanna, or does she want to build a national alternative, assume leadership of such an alternative, and, therefore, aim straight for Delhi’s 7, Lok Kalyan Marg? If Banerjee decides to focus only on her state — and there are precedents of CMs who have done so despite electoral success; her neighbour Naveen Patnaik is an example — she will have to focus on a set of priorities. In terms of policy, this involves battling the second wave of Covid-19; tackling the economic distress that will only grow due to the pandemic; restoring a degree of communal harmony in a state that has been battered by the most polarising election campaign in recent history; and working with the Centre on a range of issues, particularly state finances. In terms of politics, this involves dealing with a strong and belligerent opposition in the assembly, and pushing back against the rise of the BJP (for there will be elections again, from the local to the national, where the BJP will remain a formidable force). And ideally, Banerjee should focus on creating a new political culture where Trinamool Congress (TMC) cadres are not engaged in the kind of coercion and violence that was visible during and after the election results — she may have won this time, but the reason that the BJP grew was because of resentment against local TMC units. Unfortunately, politicians often see this form of organisational strength as a source of power, and whether she lets her democratic instinct prevail over undemocratic (and unacceptable) short cuts is to be seen. Taking the state route will give Banerjee an opportunity to consolidate power in Bengal, sort out her internal line of succession (her nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, is already the second-most powerful person in the party and is widely seen as the heir apparent, in a sign that yet another Indian party is falling to the seduction of dynastic politics), establish a bigger presence in Parliament in 2024 with a sole focus on championing Bengal’s interests, and return to power — yet again — in 2026. The disadvantage is that she will remain just another CM — a powerful CM of a powerful state — but a CM nonetheless, and the one thing Indian politicians can’t be faulted for is lack of ambition. It also means less political and policy space within the state, for the national hegemon will constantly be on the lookout to weaken Banerjee. And so, for Banerjee, while continuing to use this period to consolidate her local strength, there is an equally tempting alternative. If she calculates that state politics and national politics cannot be divorced; that there is a political possibility of challenging the BJP (the national political mood is undergoing a shift, given the Centre’s mismanagement of Covid-19, though its electoral implications are less than clear); and that there is a leadership vacuum and only she has the stature among all regional leaders to emerge as a candidate of an alternative front to take on Modi, Banerjee may well take the plunge. But this brings its own set of political challenges and choices. For one, Banerjee will need an entirely new vocabulary and what worked in Bengal will not work nationally. Take all the four elements of her success. She can’t play the Bengali sub-nationalism card while seeking votes from the rest of country (remember how Modi switched from the Gujarati asmita narrative as his national ambitions grew). She cannot depend on welfare — for nationally, the BJP is now seen as a party of welfare and her state-level achievements are not enough to ignite excitement nationally. Minority consolidation is a tricky route — you rely on that and run the risk of majoritarian consolidation, which the BJP is adept at exploiting. And in any case, minority votes will be fragmented across non-BJP forces, depending on who is strong in which region. And the TMC does not have the organisational strength elsewhere in the country (remember, Modi had both the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and BJP machinery to help him catapult from the state to the national stage). This means that all that Banerjee can realistically aim for is a stellar performance in her own state in 2024. This also means she will have to rely on friendly and aligned parties in the rest of the country. This brings its own set of two choices. One, Banerjee and the Congress have to decide on their relationship. Rahul Gandhi was happy to sit out the Bengal election, knowing well that the Congress had little chance and his politics was better served by a BJP defeat, irrespective of who was the victor. This will, however, not happen nationally. Remember, the Congress still commands the votes of over 120 million Indians — it will not give way to another party easily. For Banerjee, to reconcile her leadership ambitions with the Congress’s sense of self won’t be easy. The second is working with other regional forces. Some leaders may support her ambitions — Arvind Kejriwal is an example. Some leaders will work with Banerjee, but have their own ambitions — for instance, Sharad Pawar. And then there will be others who would rather live with a BJP government at the Centre than allow some of their other competitors to have a chance at power if they don’t get the crown. All of this will shape the question of leadership within the opposition in the run-up to the 2024 battle.But either way, the Bengal election has opened up possibilities. Banerjee’s political choices and how she navigates the national and the local will be a significant variable in national politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-present-and-future-of-mamata-banerjee-101620479353195.html
08-05-2021||Today's||Soli Sorabjee: The bridge-builder||I remember Soli Sorabjee’s birthday as if it was yesterday. It was his 91st, but this one was special. Last year, because of the pandemic, he couldn’t celebrate his 90th. In 2021, he was determined to make up. Soli was seated in the centre of the room. He had on a beige jacket and a beaming smile. When I went up to wish him, he did what he always does, pull my leg and laugh at my response.“I’ve been watching your interviews and you’re going to get yourself into trouble with the government”. He grinned from ear to ear. In fact, his eyes twinkled. “But don’t worry. I’ve told you I’ll get you out of jail. So carry on making life difficult for them!”Soli thought of me as a pugilist rather than a journalist. He knew I enjoy tripping up people. I think he liked seeing them fall! He never actually said so but he would often call to comment on the denouement and chortle.However, there was an occasion when initially I was certain Soli was out to arrange an incident in his own drawing room. It was June 2019, the year before the pandemic. He invited me to dinner and asked me to come early. “I’d like a little word before the others come,” he said and laughed.Soli made me sit beside him when I arrived. “I’ve got two of your best friends coming this evening”. The look in his eyes seemed to suggest mischief. “Can you guess who they are?”I couldn’t and he wouldn’t tell me either. But I didn’t have long to wait. Soon, law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and textiles minister Smriti Irani walked in. Frankly, this wasn’t what I expected. I could tell the two ministers were equally taken back. There weren’t many others. Three, maybe four. So it didn’t take them long to register my presence. When they did, their smiles froze. Meanwhile, I glanced at Soli. He was, of course, grinning, He was enjoying the situation he had so artfully, if secretively, crafted.Actually, it turned out to be a rather pleasant evening. The ministers and I were on our best behaviour. Initially, we didn’t speak to each other but when we sat down for dinner, the atmosphere relaxed. Soli kept a scrumptious table and the delicious flavours of his food must have relaxed the mood.Soli waited for the evening to end before saying anything but then he whispered: “Did you enjoy meeting your friends?” I assumed this was his normal teasing. It took a couple of phone calls in the days that followed to realise he was, in fact, trying to repair relations between the government and me. He was creating an opportunity where that might happen.“I thought you were committed to getting me out of jail,” I ribbed when he explained his strategy. “Have you changed your mind?” “Not at all”, he said. “But I thought it might be better if you don’t go there to start with!”The subject didn’t come up again till Soli’s comments on his birthday. Both he and I knew there was little prospect of this or any other government sending me to jail. But it’s comforting to be told by one of the country’s foremost lawyers he’d bail me out. In fact, Soli said it so often I suspect — no, I’m sure — there was a message in the humour. He wasn’t the sort who repeated his jokes again and again. The Soli I will always remember was a steadfast champion of human rights who would not hesitate to tell governments they are wrong. But he never did it hurtfully. Yet, his politeness revealed a steely resolve far stronger than any message conveyed with belligerence and shrillness. Perhaps that also explains the dinner in 2019. It might just have been his way of warning people Karan is a friend.Thank you, Soli. I never said that properly whilst you were alive.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold Story The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/soli-sorabjee-the-bridgebuilder-101620479289624.html
08-05-2021||Today's||Poll results show the power of federalism||In my last column, I warned that the results of the West Bengal elections could further undermine India’s federalism and take the country one step closer to becoming a one-party democracy. Mamata Banerjee’s sweeping victory has shown that even an election-winning machine as well-resourced and as successful nationally as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) could not resist Bengali federalism. The results also show that federalism could be the way for the Opposition to challenge the BJP nationally.The BJP charged into Bengal promising that it would guarantee the right to shout Jai Shri Ram, a right Bengalis already had and didn’t particularly want to exercise. Their deity is the goddess Durga. Their language, of which they are proud, is Bengali, yet the BJP built its campaign around Hindi-speaking outsiders. Bengalis were not swayed by the fact that the star speakers were the prime minister (PM), the home minister and the BJP president. Bengalis barely starred in the campaign. Aggressive Hindutva thwarted the BJP’s efforts to divide the Muslim vote. And women were shocked at the way even the PM derided Banerjee.For the BJP, the lesson of the election — taken with the results from Kerala and Tamil Nadu — is that India, by its nature, is a federal nation. Its nationalism has to rejoice in its diversity rather than try to bind the nation together in an unnatural uniformity. The Congress’s failure to recognise India’s federal nature is the main reason for its humiliating position. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the party leader in the Lok Sabha, and the man who had the misfortune to head the Congress campaign in Bengal, has asked, “We have been decimated by Mamata Banerjee regionally and by Modiji nationally, so where do we go now?” If, as is all too likely, the party reacts to this disaster in the same manner as it has reacted to disasters since 2014, it will once again go nowhere.For 50 years, the Congress has suffered from a top-down structure which denies its state leaders the freedom to put down their own roots and establish their independence. The structure has been made even more stifling by the absolutism of the Nehru-Gandhi family. The answer to Chowdhury’s question is that the Congress should go on to become a federal party with strong, independent-minded chief ministers. If that were to happen, then there might be a great homecoming of former Congressmen and women who left the party after falling out with the Gandhis. Is it beyond the bounds of possibility that this homecoming could include former Congress leader, Mamata Banerjee? Her triumph has revived talk of a national opposition front. The Janata Party was a hurriedly cobbled together union of six parties which defeated Indira Gandhi. Although the party collapsed amid unseemly brawling over leadership, the Janata government had its achievements. The administration, derailed by the arbitrary interference of Sanjay Gandhi, was put back on the rails and legislation was passed to ensure that there could never be another Emergency of the same nature. The mistake the Janata leaders made was to merge six separate parties into one party. If they had formed a federation, it might well have been flexible enough to survive its full term.If opposition parties now formed a federation, there would be rivalries over the leadership. But if there was agreement that the PM was only to be the first among equals, and would not have the exalted status of that office, it would be easier for leaders of different parties to work together. So where does Banerjee go now? She has said her top priority is the pandemic, and that is as it should be. If she does get involved in national politics, she should never neglect her roots, or forget that a large number of Bengalis did vote for the BJP.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/poll-results-show-the-power-of-federalism-101620479232556.html
08-05-2021||Today's||The story of Sikhism, suffering and service||This year marks the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji, the ninth Sikh Guru, whose supreme sacrifice for the rights of adherents of another faith has no parallel in history. Indeed, for many, he was the initiator of the idea of human rights and the right of people to follow their own religious beliefs.During his life, he displayed exemplary courage as a warrior along with the art of skilled negotiations, helping iron out differences among warring rajas in North India and Assam. He was also an avid follower of music, composing ragas and bani for the Guru Granth Sahib, the holy book of the Sikhs. Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji was martyred on November 11, 1675, in Delhi’s Chandni Chowk, on the orders of Aurangzeb. Gurudwara Sis Ganj stands at that spot.Immediately after the martyrdom, a huge storm engulfed the area, allowing an ardent disciple to take his body to his home near Raisina village, in what is today New Delhi, and cremate it by burning his own house. Gurudwara Rakab Ganj stands at that site today. The head was spirited to Anandpur Sahib by another disciple and cremated with honours by his son, who thereafter became the 10th Guru taking the name, Guru Gobind Singh Ji. He also decreed that after him, Sikhs would only follow the Guru Granth Sahib as their Guru.Gurudwara Rakab Ganj is just a stone’s throw from another historic Sikh gurudwara in Delhi — Gurudwara Bangla Sahib and, in today’s time of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is worth recalling its connection with the alleviation of suffering.Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji was the youngest son of the sixth Sikh Guru, Guru Hargobind Ji. The Guruship, however, passed from Guru Hargobind Ji to his grandson, Guru Har Rai Ji, who initiated the concept of Miri and Piri (temporal power and spiritual authority — symbolised by the two swords) in Sikhism and built the Akal Takht at the Durbar Sahib complex (Golden Temple) in Amritsar.On the demise of Guru Har Rai Ji, the Guruship passed to his younger son, Guru Harkrishen Ji, who was only five years old at that time. A possible reason was that the elder son of Guru Har Rai Ji had betrayed the faith to the Mughal emperor and was excommunicated.Guru Harkrishen Ji, the eighth Sikh Guru, was invited to Delhi by the Mughal court a few years later and stayed at the bungla (bungalow) of Raja Jai Singh. This is where Gurudwara Bangla Sahib stands today. During his sojourn in Delhi in 1664, the city saw a tremendous outbreak of smallpox and cholera with death all around. At the tender age of seven, Guru Harkrishen Ji, setting aside prevalent prejudices in society, stepped out and offered solace and comfort to all and allowed everyone to use the well in his bungalow to draw water. He contracted smallpox and died even before he could attain the age of eight, laying the foundation of service (sewa) by the Sikhs. Even today, thousands visit Gurudwara Bangla Sahib daily and carry home the Amrit as a cure for disease and suffering in their families. On his death bed, Guru Harkrishen Ji intimated that the next Guru would be found in the village of Baba Bakala in Punjab. And it turned out to be Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji, the youngest son of Guru Har Gobind ji, who was, in fact, in terms of the family relationship, the grandfather of Guru Harkrishen Ji. The tradition of sewa, now ingrained in the Sikh faith, has been visible with the Sikh community doing everything within its capabilities in providing langar (hot food sewa) to all, without discrimination, through the pandemic. And this beautiful Sikh tradition has also been carried forward by the Sikh community all over the world. In Delhi, now, with its dire need for oxygen, gurudwaras have stepped up to even provide oxygen langars — helping thousands daily. Many have wondered how it is the Sikh community which is often the first to mobilise to serve in times of need — the answer lies in the nature of the faith and the teachings of the Gurus. And in Delhi, this history of service goes back close to four centuries. Manjeev Singh Puri is a retired ambassador The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-story-of-sikhism-suffering-and-service-101620479169083.html
