09-05-2021||Today's||The second wave and the Indian State||In an influential paper published over a decade ago, the economist Lant Pritchett described India as a “flailing State” — in which the head, that is the elite institutions at the national level (and, in some cases, state level) remained sound and functional but was no longer reliably connected to its own limbs.Pritchett turned to India’s public health system to illustrate his argument. When you talked to the top tiers of India’s government, he said, you get an elaborate story of facilities, human resources, health services and programmes. But travel to any part of India, particularly in the north, Pritchett noted, and it became clear that this description of India’s “health system” was, in fact, a complete fiction.As the horror and suffering of the second wave of Covid-19 unfold, one thing is clear. In the short decade between when Pritchett first posited the idea of the flailing State and today, India has transitioned to a failed State. The “fiction” of India’s health system is now exposed. And as hapless citizens struggle to find oxygen, basic medicines, hospital beds, the once sound and functional “head”, or more specifically the national government, is no longer visible. Indeed, it has abdicated from all responsibility, from leadership and governance.The flailing State, in Pritchett’s formulation, was capable of undertaking “thin”, logistical, tasks. Tasks where goals are clear, outputs visible and command-and-control actions could be deployed. After all, India managed to conduct large-scale elections, vaccination programmes (the irony is inescapable), even handled natural disaster relief with relative competence.Yet, when it comes to Covid-19 management, the Centre has failed to perform even these logistical tasks — oxygen supply, availability and access to basic medicines, treatment protocols, data systems, vaccinations. The political leadership, from the prime minister (PM) downwards, is completely absent and the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) — whose “brain power”, as Pritchett saw it, could capably formulate excellent policies — is drafting botched-up and confused policy. It is extraordinary that oxygen supply chains and aid distribution cannot be streamlined weeks after hospitals and state governments sounded alarm bells. Of course, when all else fails, we are reminded that health is, after all, a state subject.Ironically, it is the erstwhile uncontrollable limbs, now left to their own devices, that have proven far more resilient. We hear tales of leadership and innovation in the occasional district, of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s war-room, of states and local governments with relatively better health infrastructure managing the pandemic with competence, and, most of all, of frontline workers who are battling the pandemic with remarkable courage despite personal risks. Yet, none of these sporadic tales adds up to a national plan or a coordinated response to a pandemic by the Centre and states. Instead, central and state governments have locked themselves in a bitter political war with Twitter as their battleground. In the next few months, as Covid-19 travels through small towns and rural India, the country is likely to confront even greater suffering. There is still time — and, indeed, there is a moral obligation — for the Indian State to course correct. The prescriptions are well known. Even the Supreme Court seems to have greater clarity on the actions that the government needs to take.We need a hospital policy; a human resource policy; transparent, publicly available, evidence-based data on oxygen requirement, allocation and supply processes; war-rooms at every level of administration to help citizens find beds, oxygen, medicines and tele-consultation (no one should have to go through the daily horrors experienced by the citizens of Delhi in their battle with Covid-19). We need to resource primary health centres and wellness centres with medicines, oxygen and capacity to triage patients to reduce stress on hospitals. We need enhanced surveillance capacity, transparent and accurate data on every aspect of the disease. But for all this to happen, there is one crucial missing piece that falls squarely within the domain of the central government — inter-state cooperation and coordination.India’s Covid-19 response has failed because it ignored a fundamental first principle of good governance — the principle of subsidiarity, which means that the central authority performs only those functions that cannot be performed at the local level and no other. At the start of the pandemic, decision-making was overly centralised. Now, when it comes to tasks where the Centre needs to play a role — procurement of vaccines, supply chain management and allocation of oxygen, human resource and treatment protocols, ensuring resources move to areas experiencing surges — states have been told health is a state subject. Rather than a coordinated response, states are at war with the Centre and each other.Battling Covid-19 requires political maturity. This cannot be done in an institutional vacuum. One option is to set up an inter-state council within the National Disaster Management Authority, comprising the PM, chief ministers, senior ministers and bureaucrats from both states and the Centre. Institutionalised coordination will send the right signals to the limbs of the once flailing State. But this requires political leadership and trust. It’s not too late. But soon it will be.Yamini Aiyar is president and chief executive, Centre for Policy ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-second-wave-and-the-indian-state-101620579557130.html
09-05-2021||Today's||Democrats, Republicans and the cracks on India in the US||The Democratic administration of United States (US) President Joe Biden and Democrats on Capitol Hill, home to the US Congress, have rallied to India’s help as it battles its worst public health crisis in recent memory. But the Republicans have been conspicuous by their relative silence and absence.They do not, of course, have the authority and resources of the White House to match the Biden administration’s assistance worth $100 million. But barring a few honourable exceptions, they have signalled a disturbing indifference by not even lending their voice to the outpouring of sympathy and support for India. Michael McCaul, the top Republican on the House foreign relations committee, commended the Biden administration for its assistance. And Senators John Cornyn, a Republican who co-heads the India Caucus, and Rob Portman joined Mark Warner, a Democrat who co-chairs the India Caucus, to urge the Biden administration to do more for India.The silence of the rest of the Republicans, especially former president Donald Trump, is notable. At Trump’s request, India withdrew an export ban on essential drugs to release a massive consignment of hydroxychloroquine, which was accorded magical powers by the former American president of curing Covid-19. The Biden administration has attributed its assistance to India to this gesture. “At the beginning of the pandemic, when our hospital beds were stretched, India sent assistance,” Vice-President Kamala Harris said on Friday, echoing the President and other senior members of the administration. “And today, we are determined to help India in its hour of need.”Trump may have returned the favour with 200 ventilators that he sent to India later. But he has not had anything to say or do now. Unlike other former presidents, Trump has not decided to retire into the shadows, which makes his silence even more conspicuous. He is firing off statements every day, bitter about his defeat and characteristically abusive of critics and effusive in his support of allies.It also turns out that Trump had blocked the World Trade Organization (WTO) from accepting a joint proposal from India and South Africa — moved in October, when he was still in office — to grant temporary waiver of intellectual property rights to Covid-19 vaccines and therapeutics so that they could be available to everyone. Trump led a group comprising the European Union, the United Kingdom, France, Japan, Switzerland and others to oppose the move.That same WTO proposal struck a chord, however, with the Democrats. Around 110 members of the House of Representatives and 10 members of the Senate — all Democrats, of course — pressed Biden publicly through letters and privately through meetings with his aides to get behind the India-South Africa proposal. And he did so eventually, though it’s not known yet if the President needed to be pushed at all. For the US, which is a strong advocate of protection of intellectual property rights, to actually agree to any change, albeit under the aegis of a WTO waiver, is a major departure.And guess where the Republicans were on this issue? On the other side, a group of them, led by staunch Trump loyalists, including Congressman Jim Jordan, urged the Biden administration to continue to block the waiver proposal. So, has Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 that infected and killed millions of people, also claimed the bipartisan support India has enjoyed for years in the US?Not really. While the relationship has the bipartisan backing of both the Democrats and Republicans, it has also got partisan pushback from the two parties on issues that matter to them. For instance, the Republicans don’t care much about the climate crisis. The Democrats, on the other hand, regard climate as one of their top issues. President Barack Obama had pushed India really hard, therefore, to get to the Paris Agreement. Or take another issue. While the Trump administration said the nullification of Kashmir’s special status is an “internal matter” of India, the Biden campaign made a disapproving note of it in its campaign vision. Many Indians feared that if elected, Biden would follow up on it. He hasn’t, not yet, at least.But even as the relationship will go through its ebbs and flows, what is clear is that, this time around, it is the Democrats who have shown more sensitivity to India’s suffering.yashwant.raj@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/democrats-republicans-and-the-cracks-on-india-in-the-us-101620579556050.html
09-05-2021||Today's||Changing social behaviour is key in the Covid-19 fight||It is now common knowledge that large gatherings of people serve as super-spreaders of the deadly coronavirus. So I was amazed to see, on television last Wednesday, footage of women embarking on the kalash yatra to perform a jalabhishek ceremony in Navapura village in Sanand, Gujarat. Two days later, there was footage of thousands of people gathering in Kutch to pay homage to a Muslim preacher. This was happening even as the number of those infected across the country had crossed 400,000 in a single day. Since Navapura had no positive cases over the preceding two weeks, the jalabhishek was organised to give thanks to the presiding deity in the local temple, Baliya Devi, and to seek further protection from the virus. When the footage went viral, the police swung into action and put many of the organisers behind bars. In the Kutch case, it is not clear whether the police have acted at all.In the Kumbh mela at Haridwar earlier, the police offered protection to the gathering, despite dire warning from several medical experts that this sort of mass event was fraught with danger. A significant number of those who attended the Kumbh mela tested positive on return to their homes. It would be reasonable to assume that they have spread the disease far and wide and added to an already dire situation.Simply put, we have to listen to the warnings of medical experts and scientists. That we did not is now there for all to see — in our hospitals turning away patients for lack of beds, in people dying for want of oxygen and live-saving drugs, in crematoriums and burial grounds running out of space. If this does not prompt us to rethink our social behaviour, nothing will.You may recall that last year, British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, warned his country that it was in the grip of a terrible disease, that many would fall ill and many would lose their loved ones. No Indian leader has had the courage to say it like it is. Instead, they allowed large religious gatherings to go ahead, and held election rallies with no safety protocols in place. The virus is now rampaging through areas where these events took place.No political party has taken this situation as seriously as it should have. There is no point apportioning blame on any one political formation, but surely all of them should have come out of their ivory towers and warned their followers of the dangers of risky behaviour.But, let us not lose heart. The current crisis is bound to bring about a change in political and social behaviour, going forward. Our leaders will be forced to heed public demands sooner rather than later. And the public is asking for accountability and decisive governance now. Even the mighty Indira Gandhi paid the price for not heeding the voice of the people when she lost power after her ill-thought-out Emergency.After her fall, when the leaders of the then Janata Party began to act in a high-handed manner, they were shown the door in a few short years. Today, the emergence of strong regional parties has changed the political landscape considerably.Several leaders have gained prominence in national and regional parties. There is the Trinamool Congress’s Mamata Banerjee, the Shiv Sena’s Uddhav Thackeray, the Nationalist Congress Party’s Sharad Pawar, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s MK Stalin, the Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav, Akalis, Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s Pinarayi Vijayan, to name a few. In the Congress, there are tall leaders such Amarinder Singh in Punjab and BS Yeddyurappa in the Bharatiya Janata Party who can deal with their respective party leaderships on their own terms.When regional voices are strong, federalism is strengthened. Today, when concerns are being raised about the uneven distribution of oxygen, vaccines and life-saving drugs, the ruling party is being forced to change the system and cede more space to the states. I predict that you will see a huge difference in Centre-state relations within a year. Last year, the central government implemented a unilateral lockdown. This time around, the National Democratic Alliance has had no option but to allow the states to implement lockdowns when and as they see fit.If the states and Centre work to coordinate their efforts in advocating changes in social behaviour and support each other in implementing the necessary protocols to fight the virus, among these being the speedy distribution of medicines, vaccines and medical equipment, I think we will be on a more positive and constructive path in the battle against Covid-19 and the other challenges which lie ahead.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief of HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/changing-social-behaviour-is-key-in-the-covid-19-fight-101620579554927.html
