10-05-2021||Today's||Climate crisis: Be the Indian elephant||The global financial crisis of 2008 endorsed Nassim Taleb’s theory of black swans, high-impact events, the rarity of which makes it difficult to calculate their probability. People tend to ignore the signs until it is too late. Later, Michele Wucker published The Gray Rhino, arguing that many obvious and highly probable threats (grey rhinos) are also disregarded. What do these metaphors teach us about how we respond to the pandemic — and the climate crisis?As a once-in-a-century occurrence, the Covid-19 pandemic was indeed a black swan. Of course, it is prudent to invest in public health infrastructure. But it is hard to predict the onset or origins of a pandemic of this scale. Over the past year, however, this black swan has metamorphosed into a grey rhino, with second and third waves in many countries, overwhelming health systems, administrative capacity and community resilience. It is no longer unpredictable or low-probability. The appropriate response should be to prepare for the worst, even as we hope for the best.Also Read | Centre spotlights efforts to boost oxygen availabilityThe pandemic offers four lessons that could inform how we prepare for the climate crisis. First, political borders cannot stop planetary risks. The origins of the virus may have been in China, but no country is immune. Climate risks are no different. Their nature varies by geography: Drier conditions in Southeast Asia and South America, wetter days and more flooding in northern and eastern Europe, more intense hurricanes in the Caribbean and cyclones in South Asia. The systemic risks transcend boundaries — increasing transboundary water stress, falling farm yields in one region impacting food prices elsewhere, spread of vector-borne diseases, or human security concerns, resulting in environmental refugees.Second, like the pandemic, climate shocks come not at once, but in waves. The probability of climate risks increases with time. A failure of the monsoons in one year compounds when rainfall is below normal for three or four years in a row. Severe heat stress can swamp hospital infrastructure. But it can also undermine electricity grid stability, causing far worse damage to economic activity.Third, some are more vulnerable than others. Daily wage earners, migrant workers, industrial labour and people with co-morbidities have suffered the most during the pandemic. Vulnerability is a function of exposure to hazards and one’s capacity to adapt. Resilience, by converse, draws on income and wealth, social safety nets, administrative efficiency, and access to timely warnings. In the case of the climate crisis, vulnerability extends beyond communities to large infrastructure.Fourth, the more dynamic your economy, the more you have to lose. The need to restore economic activity demands that there is also a readiness to respond to pandemic aftershocks. Ignoring the risks can jeopardise economic recovery. Similarly, the climate crisis will impact the world’s engines of growth badly. As Swiss Re estimated recently, the global economy will be 11-14% smaller by mid-century than if there had been no warming at all. Fast-growing Asia should be particularly worried — Gross Domestic Product will be 14.9-20.4% lower. Factoring in the increased the severity of unknown unknowns, 2.6°C of warming by 2050 could make India’s economy 27% smaller than in the no-warming scenario.Also Read | Arvind Kejriwal explains how Delhi is preparing for next wave of Covid-19These lessons must translate into action. First, create a Climate Risk Commission with statutory authority to analyse and report on climate risks on a periodic basis. Like the finance commission, it must consult with not just climate experts but also state governments, academia, industry, the media and civil society. The commission’s report should be tabled and debated in Parliament.Second, prepare for climate shocks with decentralised capacity. The national and state disaster management agencies are a start. Similar structures are needed at district levels. Decentralised infrastructure, from distributed power sources, distributed water storage, revamped primary health centres (using off-grid power), or nature-based solutions to reduce coastal floods can greatly boost community resilience.Third, assess critical vulnerabilities for hard infrastructure. This is not limited to reducing physical losses to power plants, bridges, airports, or telecom infrastructure. India must understand financial risks. The Reserve Bank of India should demand regular reporting of climate risks in the lending portfolios of banks. The Securities and Exchange Board of India must mandate the same from listed companies. There is a need to assess risks to legacy investments in coal, ongoing investments in natural gas, and exposure to supply chain risks for critical minerals needed for low-carbon technologies.Finally, India needs a restructured economy, which values and monetises the preservation of natural capital, invests in sectors that are both low-carbon and employment-intensive, and creates an ecosystem to stimulate innovation (batteries, green hydrogen, carbon sequestration, regenerative agriculture, sustainable freight and transport, among others).The tragedy of the pandemic will be aggravated if we do not heed its lessons. Not every crisis needs be a black swan, if we analyse data and anticipate risks. It is worse to ignore the known dangers of grey rhinos. As the climate crisis unfolds, perhaps what is needed is not a swan or a rhino but an Indian elephant, whose long memory can remind us of times when we were unprepared.Arunabha Ghosh is CEO, Council on Energy, Environment and Water The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/climate-crisis-be-the-indian-elephant-101620652579039.html
10-05-2021||Today's||A new chapter for the TRIPS waiver proposal||October 2 has considerable salience for India. Harnessing Mahatma Gandhi’s global appeal, Indian diplomacy, at times, signals global initiatives linked to his date of birth.In 2007, at India’s behest, the United Nations (UN) designated October 2 as International Day of Non-Violence. On October 2, 2016, India deposited its instrument of ratification of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. Last year, on October 2, India paired with South Africa and submitted to the World Trade Organization (WTO) a proposal for a waiver so that, while responding to the pandemic, members do not have to implement, apply and enforce certain provisions of the Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) Agreement.The idea was that a short-term waiver would allow countries to ramp up the production of medical products, including vaccines, therapeutics and equipment required to treat Covid-19. The hope was that it would result in “fair, equitable and affordable access” and, thereby, save lives. The proposal gathered the co-sponsorship of 60 states and the support of more than 100 states, besides a large swathe of civil society across the globe. However, it was only after the Joe Biden administration expressed support, on May 5, 2021, for waiving intellectual property rights for Covid-19 vaccines that the prospects of the initiative have brightened.Also Read | Pope Francis backs waivers on intellectual property rights for vaccinesRewind to October 2, 2020. The Covid-19 pandemic had then been raging for more than eight months, and 38 million people had been infected. A million lives were already lost. Most economies were in dire straits. Despite the pandemic endangering lives and livelihoods, vaccine nationalism was reigning. Although WTO requirements stipulate an outcome in 90 days, the waiver proposal did not even move to text-based negotiations — the normal format of serious multilateral consideration.The European Union (EU), United Kingdom (UK), Canada, Japan and Switzerland, including, of course the Donald Trump administration, as well as Brazil and Singapore, were staunchly opposed to the proposal. They argued that available tools such as voluntary licensing or the COVAX initiative and existing TRIPS “flexibilities” such as compulsory licensing were adequate to address the issue, and that intellectual property rights were not an impediment to increased production of medical requirements. Instead, they cited constraints such as export restrictions and limited availability of raw materials, as well as, a paucity of manufacturing capacities as having a more adverse impact than patent protections on the world’s ability to increase vaccine production. They pointed out that if and when such issues were addressed, the complex technological processes were not amenable to easy replication without considerable hand-holding.Fast forward to May. The death toll from Covid-19 exceeds three million. The number of infected has gone beyond 150 million. Existing tools have not proved adequate in containing the virus in many geographies. In less than five months of 2021, 1.4 million people have died, while during the whole of 2020 there were 1.8 million deaths. This year, the virus is projected to wreak more havoc than last year.Also Read | Canadian MPs ask Trudeau to drop opposition to TRIPS waiverAll this was happening while the Biden administration was considering how to effectuate a pre-election commitment, which candidate Biden said was “the humane thing in the world to do”. Burgeoning grassroots advocacy ensured support among Democratic members of Congress. However, the conventional wisdom was that the United States (US) would not take a position opposed by its powerful pharmaceuticals lobby.It was the devastating second wave of Covid-19 in India that was a factor in bringing the subject back on the global agenda. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a telephone conversation with Biden on April 26, was among the few who were reported to have raised it at the highest level, even as the US inter-departmental process was underway. According to reliable reports, influential members of the Biden administration were opposed. However, the argument that seems to have prevailed was that it was a low-risk option to meet a popular election commitment and also to secure a diplomatic gain for the Biden administration, which had come under fire for not exporting more vaccines and failing to respond quickly enough to the unfolding crisis in India.The US decision has provided a second wind to the waiver proposal. A revised submission by India and South Africa, accommodating some concerns, is on the cards. For example, the US is willing to waive patents on vaccines, while the initial proposal included much more. Countries such as Brazil and New Zealand have shifted to support the US as has the Gates Foundation. The UK, Canada and Japan, who usually follow the US lead, are quiet. The EU, remains skeptical and willing only to “discuss” proposals as influential European leaders remain opposed.There is still a long way ahead. The time frame for the start, let alone the end, of the negotiations is uncertain. Given the consensual nature of any outcome, it may leave much to be desired. An outcome, if any, will not come in time to address the current situation. However, public health is now a primary long-term concern for India.We need to leverage diplomatic ties to enhance health infrastructure beyond obtaining relief supplies. India has the potential to absorb health-related international opportunities for the benefit of its people and to offer them as global public goods also. Hence, as we did with the EU, pursuing a revitalised waiver proposal with greater zest than before with Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa (BRICS), Quad and G20 makes sense, even if we fall short. On this, the majority of 164 members of the WTO and global public opinion are on our side. Translating such goodwill into an internationally acceptable agreement is the challenge ahead not only for Indian diplomacy but also for the multilateral system which needs to demonstrate the ability to facilitate delivery of global public goods.Syed Akbaruddin is a retired diplomatThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-new-chapter-for-the-trips-waiver-proposal-101620651498686.html
10-05-2021||Today's||Covid-19: For the BJP sangathan, it is time to deliver on seva||As India grappled with the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership had a message for its party functionaries and the estimated 180 million-strong cadre — seva hi sangathan (organisation means service). The message to the party machinery was clear — step out and step up in helping those in need. Targets were set for the party to feed people, distribute masks and sanitisers, and offer whatever help was required.State units of the party, even where the BJP is not in power, competed with each other as they set about distributing food, medicines and essentials to those in need, especially the vulnerable who were left to fend for themselves during the lockdown. Videos and photographs were produced as evidence of the help that ordinary people were accorded by the party.Addressing party workers in June last year, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi referred to the relief work being carried out by the party workers as the biggest “seva yajna”, act of service, in history and also called for documenting this work in all Indian languages.This seva was not entirely altruistic. The work done by a political party during a crisis has a significant impact on its electoral fortunes. For instance, in Bihar, which went to the polls during the pandemic and accounts for the highest percentage of migrant workers, relief work was redoubled. It was used as a balm to placate anger at the apathy that met hundreds of thousands as they undertook a treacherous journey back home on foot, or by paying exorbitant fares to private vehicle-owners during the lockdown between March 25 and May 31 last year.Also Read | PM Modi congratulates new Assam CM Himanta Biswa SarmaThe seva, the BJP claimed, was an endorsement of its unwavering commitment to antodaya — the concept of welfare of the last person in the queue that is at the heart of the party’s ideology. The BJP’s response has been starkly different during the ongoing second wave. Though state leaders have been asked to ensure their booths are Covid-19-free and set up helplines, only a few ministers and youth wing leaders are visible and vocal in facilitating help to people distraught by the lack of essential health services, oxygen and even facilities for last rites. The party behemoth is largely missing from the frontlines.There are no leaders showing up at hospitals; people in rural areas complain that their calls for help are going largely unheeded. It is no surprise then, that in some instances, BJP leaders have been booed in public. With families of BJP workers being affected too, the anger against the government’s failure in mitigating the crisis is mounting. A section of party leaders are, instead, criticising those who have put out complaints about the lack of medical care on social media. They view these complaints as a conspiracy to tarnish the image of the Union government. And their response to any criticism of public policy is acerbic and aggressive. It is pertinent to remember that the PM himself urged his party colleagues to remain unfazed if people came to them with memorandums, complaints, demands and suggestions.Also Read | In Bengal, the story of BJP, TMC and the Dalit and tribal voteInstead of preparing for the second wave, which scientist warned about, the party leadership invested more time first in contesting the assembly polls, particularly in West Bengal, displaying reluctance to call off rallies even as the cases multiplied, and now over the post-poll attacks against its cadre allegedly by the Trinamool Congress. Violence cannot be condoned, but when large parts of the country are being ravaged by the pandemic, made worse by systemic deficiencies, the continued discourse about West Bengal is disconcerting.Social media is flooded with pleas for help. At a time like this, to concentrate on organising pan-India protests against the violence in Bengal or to focus on the government’s image-building could well be read as misplaced priorities. The state has a mechanism to deal with law and order issues; the party can put pressure on the government to prevent the violence from escalating, but it does no one a favour by organising protests in the midst of a pandemic. For the BJP, it is time to revisit the idea of seva hi sangathan.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid19-for-the-bjp-sangathan-it-is-time-to-deliver-on-seva-101620651019215.html
