11-05-2021||Today's||Stop posturing; start vaccinating||A big powerful man had the best view of the lions at a crowded zoo. Another man kept nudging him for a better view. Exasperated, the big man picked him up and dropped him into the lion enclosure. There, he said, you now have the closest view. The policy to increase demand for vaccines by opening vaccination up to adults below 45 years, allowing states to compete, and firms to price, in a situation of vaccine supply shortage, seems born out of such pique.States are irresponsible in demanding vaccination for all, when the total supply is not even three million doses a day. The Centre is reckless in agreeing to the demand and callous in designing a new “liberalised” scheme to replace a more reasonable previous policy.Any vaccine policy must increase supply as quickly as possible; procure at the least expensive cost, while enabling medium-term planning; and distribute to most effectively save lives now and in the future. The current version does none of these.First, we are buying vaccines like monthly groceries. The finance minister said that Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech will get an advance of ₹3,000 crore and ₹1,567 crore respectively. Instead, they are being paid about half that to supply 160 million doses at ₹157 a jab, a month’s supply if the target is five million a day, and for less than two months even at April’s lower usage. The implicit rationale is that the Centre will only help vaccinate the 45-plus population, with the rest of the supply presumably met from other firms.Vaccinating the rest is the task of the states.Will manufacturers invest in increasing supply, without clear future orders? Sputnik V has been approved and a few million initial doses will be imported, but, apparently, though six manufacturers reportedly stand ready to deliver, orders are awaited. Janssen and Novavax are not yet approved. Both have identified Indian manufacturing partners and one hopes they will not be deterred by the current need to negotiate with multiple states, rather than one national government. Covaxin supply too can be increased by outsourcing to other firms, especially since intellectual property rights are shared with the Indian Council of Medical Research.We must stop shadowboxing. In no other federal country are sub-national governments competing to buy vaccines. The Centre should negotiate a single price for each vaccine, with a delivery schedule, contingent on regulatory approval. Large national orders will provide the reassurance needed for investment to the various manufacturers and reliability of supply for our vaccination demand of one-and-a-half billion doses. This will allow firms to plan to meet our other international commitments, especially to COVAX, where our default in supply has left most developing nations hanging on to nothing, precipitating a Chinese turn.Second, on pricing. The new policy appears designed to punish the states. In the relatively sensible “pre-liberalisation” policy, the vaccine cost was borne by the Centre, for which it has budgeted ₹35,000 crore, and the vaccination cost was largely borne by the state, with an important private supplement. Daily press releases of “free vaccines” to states, like a kind of dole, are offensive to this spirit of federal cost-sharing.Under the new policy, the Centre procures only half the supply. A quarter is for states, shared as per central quota, and a quarter for the private sector, which is paying twice, or thrice (in Covaxin’s case) the price. If SII and Bharat Biotech behave like normal private firms, they will first meet the entire demand of the private sector at the higher price and then offer the remaining supply, if any, to the states. For the right to vaccinate younger people, states will now get less vaccine and pay more for it.This is chillingly stated in the health minister’s blog. The “private… route will empower a large number of people to get themselves quickly vaccinated… those who can afford to get them at the private… rates shall go ahead.” Shared idealism indeed. Michael Sandel’s market society writ large. Or is it Deng Xiaoping — some people get rich first? All this so the states can vaccinate the 18-44 age group, which accounted for 12% of the vaccinations in the first week of May. Why is this tail wagging the dog?Third, if the Centre negotiates price and quantities with vaccine-makers, supply can be transparently allocated using current metrics, ie a state’s population of 45-plus; possibly adding urbanisation, since the virus favours dense urban areas, though the second surge is not sparing villages; and current caseload — leveraging the first dose’s protection to save as many lives as possible. There can be a little extra incentive supply for states that vaccinate more, while a small share can be flexible for state-specific demands. Similar flexibility already exists in the National Health Mission. If states can agree on tax-sharing, they can agree on vaccine-sharing too. A predictable supply will allow states to plan better and take vaccines closer and faster to the people – rather than passively wait for them. Some version of such a substantially and radically modified policy — a more transparent and flexible version of what was being pursued “pre-liberalisation” — can even lead to a fully vaccinated population by year-end, and even exports if manufacturers invest in starting production early.So, will the Centre and states continue to keep posturing or will they sit down to make a sensible policy? In the past, such bickering usually affected only livelihoods. This time, it affects lives – of Indians, and of people around the world.Partha Mukhopadhyay is a senior fellow, Centre for Policy ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/stop-posturing-start-vaccinating-101620745347806.html
11-05-2021||Today's||India’s real foreign policy crisis is domestic||From January to March, “Vaccine Maitri”. In late-April, an appeal to the world for help as India struggles to manage its most serious crisis since Independence. New Delhi’s international position may have never turned more dramatically. But here is the key question — what is the larger impact of the unfolding disaster on foreign policy?The assistance offered by nations across the globe, including neighbours such as Bhutan and Bangladesh, is heartening. A non-interventionist posture coupled with constant diplomatic outreach to countries across the world is paying off. As is the policy of cultivating diaspora relations.India has accepted aid after 16 years. External affairs minister S Jaishankar would like it to be described as friendship. This semantic quibble is understandable as the establishment seeks to recast reality for domestic consumption. But there is absolutely no shame in seeking aid in distress. India has helped other nations in need and now they are reciprocating. Some assistance is motivated by expected future gains, but no community is altruistic. The international community is no exception.Also Read | World’s largest cargo plane, carrying Covid aid from UK, lands at IGI airportThe initial American hesitation in lending assistance led critics at home to warn New Delhi of over-reliance on Washington. While the United States (US) has come through substantially, the hesitation, coming against the backdrop of other points of friction, reveals some real limits to the relationship. Agreements outside of a broadly common China strategy will take work. Further, “the spirit of the Quad” was celebrated in March. It didn’t prevent Australia from banning the return travel from India of about 9,000 of its own citizens, mostly of Indian origin.Meanwhile, New Delhi has kept up its global game. Relations with the United Kingdom and Russia have been upgraded. A landmark summit meeting with the European Union saw a decision to resume negotiations for a free-trade agreement stalled since 2013.China’s control over the pandemic means that it is not tied down at home. Its top leader has offered cooperation and support. But Beijing’s efforts to move South Asia within its geopolitical orbit continue. It recently convened a virtual conference of the region’s foreign ministers on vaccine cooperation. It also remains advantageously placed in eastern Ladakh. Overall, China enjoys a favourable balance in the bilateral set-up. Its gestures of solidarity notwithstanding, New Delhi must remain watchful.There is also the issue of international reputation. As trustee of India’s international image and standing, New Delhi continues to fare poorly. There is now a set international narrative about the decline of India’s democracy, its majoritarian public culture and increasing bad governance. New Delhi feels agitated, but its actions often only strengthen a siege mentality. The deepening reputational damage is also depleting national resources needed for effective external relations, but the real issue here is a question for India’s polarised citizenry — will it buy into the siege mentality or will it reflect and ask tough questions of the executive.India’s core challenges to effective foreign policy have always come from within, and here we see damage.Also Read | Armed forces spearhead India’s Covid response as crisis deepensFirst, there is the flawed governance of the pandemic. The executive prematurely declared success in tackling the challenge and abandoned its role on pandemic-appropriate public behaviour. As the scale of infections grows, lives of people within the country are lost while of those outside endangered. Because of the size of its population, currently at about 18% of humanity, the pandemic tsunami has turned us into a source of global anxiety.The executive’s approach hasn’t helped. It has sought to weave an acceptable narrative rather than accept responsibility. You can’t fix what you don’t accept is broken. Our governance is marked by centralisation of authority and federalisation of responsibility. This approach has many vices; delay and chaos are the smallest of them. The larger the number of infected bodies, the higher the probability of mutation. This makes the world anxious because new strains may impact vaccine effectiveness. True, ours is not the only national population body among whom the virus may mutate for the worse. But as Dr Ashish Jha of Brown University has conjectured, in the Kumbh Mela, we may have organised “the biggest super spreader event in the history of this pandemic”. All this is bad governance. It has rendered the body politic incohesive and weak.Second, under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths and under-testing mean that even approximately accurate figures of the scale of the crisis may never be known. This feeds into the larger problem of data credibility and transparency that has marred public policy in recent years. External stakeholders have expressed concern over unreliable fiscal, unemployment and internal migration figures because they weaken policy. Dodgy pandemic numbers mar national and global public health action, which needs credible data to determine disease dynamics. Both the Centre and the states owe this to their people as well as the world.Finally, the catastrophe has unfolded on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s watch. His domestic standing may remain unscathed, but as controversies going back the past couple of years pile up, his position among foreign leaders of consequence diminishes. Nations compete for relative gains in international politics, and a weakened leader is more attractive than one who is weak from the start.A combination of restrictions in the flow of information and censorship means that we may never know how this factor would impact Indian interests, but impact it very likely will.Atul Mishra teaches international relations at Shiv Nadar University The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-real-foreign-policy-crisis-is-domestic-101620734606472.html
