12-05-2021||Today's||For the PM, it is time to course-correct||Sometimes, not winning an election can teach us much more than winning one. For the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), especially Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the outcome of West Bengal assembly elections may actually present a great learning opportunity, if not occasion for course-correction.First of all, the West Bengal hustings are not a debacle for the ruling party at the Centre, as many of its critics have made out. Raising your tally from three seats in the 2016 elections to 77 seats in 2021 is a huge advance. Not only is the BJP, for the first time in its history, the principal opposition party in Bengal, there is every likelihood of it forming the government in the next elections in 2026.As to Mamata Banerjee of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), she has proved that she not only has guts but staying power too. By returning as chief minister for the third time, Banerjee not only succeeded in overcoming anti-incumbency and an adversary with greater money power and might, but also, defeating an electoral machine led by the most formidable political duo in recent memory, Modi and Amit Shah.It was a closely contested election. Contrary to the initial post-election analysis, the polls were a three-cornered contest, not a straight fight between the TMC and the BJP. What has been observed is that the BJP does best when there is a direct confrontation between it and another party. Else, its potential, mostly Hindu, vote-bank gets splintered. That is what happened in West Bengal. Straight contests work best for the BJP. Such is the logic of its electoral appeal.Also Read | Enable the Covid-19 task force to take decisionsIt is a truth that needs to be accepted that polarisation, especially on religious lines, does benefit the BJP. However, what these elections have proven beyond doubt is that this alone is not enough. I am not speaking of the BJP’s usual pitch to voters on development, prosperity, better governance and delivery of State schemes to the last person, lesser corruption, and so on. These are, no doubt important, and will continue to matter.What I am suggesting, instead, is that a more general connect with the people was lacking, whether on linguistic, social, or cultural lines, the sense of belonging to a region and representing its aspirations. In other words, grounds for identification beyond the religious — this is where the BJP needed to fare better. The transfer of votes, if at all, happened usually in favour of the TMC, not the BJP. A significant number of those who wanted to vote for the Congress or the Communist Party of India-Marxist continued to support these parties, even if they knew that these did not have a chance to win. They did not feel persuaded to switch to the BJP.Why? Because the inherent regional and emotional appeal of Banerjee’s Ma, Maati, Maanush, though coined for the 2009 and 2011 elections and not used this time, still worked. Banerjee’s supporters, including the Muslims, still voted en bloc for her.Finally, the second surge of the pandemic intervened in the last stages of the eight-phase election. The BJP redirected its energies to combating the virus instead of winning the battle for Bengal. Vital momentum was lost. The almost universal criticism of the country’s leadership in handling the pandemic, much of it especially targeting Modi, might have also punctured the aura of invincibility that the BJP enjoyed.Modi’s image has certainly taken a beating. It is, therefore, time to introspect and, if necessary, course-correct. How? For instance, to show more humanity and humility. Especially during a national crisis, it does not help a leader if he appears aloof, isolated, extraordinary, exceptional — or impervious to advice, and above criticism. Is a makeover in order to make Modi more people-friendly and responsive to good counsel?As Mahatma Gandhi quipped about our rulers ensconced in the Viceregal Lodge, Shimla, which he first visited on March 12, 1921, “He is no king who maintains a distance, the height of five hundred floors between him and the subjects”.Also Read | Covid-19: Pay attention to rural IndiaAdmitting one’s errors, in this case underestimating Covid-19’s second surge, does not make one a worse or weaker leader. On the contrary, it shows a vulnerable, more down-to-earth, indeed, a more dharmic head of government who is not afraid to take responsibility. Modi has projected himself as an upholder of rajdharma, a just and judicious ruler, dedicated to working for the welfare of the people, irrespective of personal power or profit.But in his photos and public appearances, he stands alone, like a lonely Colossus, far removed from the toiling, suffering, and now ailing masses. The massive human tragedy, not just loss of lives and livelihood, but the enforced impoverishment of hundreds of millions of hardworking but now terribly disadvantaged poor needs the healing and helping hand of a national leadership that is kinder, compassionate, and caring. In addition to vaccinations, oxygen, and medicines, the people also need the balm of gentleness and genuine concern. The sage-like Modi, with his flowing white locks and beard, should not appear too detached or out of touch with the people who voted him to power and still believe in his leadership. He has to lift them up and symbolically hold them closer to his very broad chest so that they can weep on his shoulders.There is no doubt that India will recover from this catastrophe and emerge stronger. But Modi should not miss this chance to show that he really cares. Indeed, he did precisely that during the Bhuj earthquake of 2001, which actually became the basis of his dizzying ascent to power. It is time to recall the lessons learnt then because they might actually serve him better now. Else, as a labourer on our grounds remarked to me, “Six years of goodwill will be lost in six months.”Makarand R Paranjape is director, Indian Institute of Advanced Study, ShimlaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-the-pm-it-is-time-to-coursecorrect-101620821742347.html
12-05-2021||Today's||Enable the Covid-19 task force to take decisions||Last week, a harried Supreme Court (SC), faced with a clutch of petitions and high court (HC) orders on the handling of the pandemic, announced a National Task Force (NTF) to lay down the broad policy for the allocation of medical oxygen to the states in a week, and submit the broad contours of a national plan in six months to fight Covid-19 in the present and the future.The 12-member task force, comprising domain experts, inspires confidence. However, its advisory nature will leave the decisions again in the hands of the central bureaucracy, which is in the eye of the storm. Citizens want a professional, unbiased body to take decisions for which NTF — in its current form, or with additions of other experts as the need arises — is suitable. And, therefore, for a range of reasons, what is needed is for SC to award NTF with wide-ranging powers on a range of policy issues related to Covid-19 to enable it to take decisions.For one, quick decisions — possible through a body such as NTF — are the need of the hour. Take an example. In March 2020, 11 empowered committees were set up under secretaries of the Government of India (GoI) to combat the Covid-19 surge. Yet, out of 133 oxygen plants proposed to be installed, only 33 came up, and the committees could do nothing. In November, a parliamentary standing committee voiced concern over the shortage of oxygen supply, intensive care unit beds and other facilities. And still, when the second wave hit with full force in March, we were unprepared. Now, take the fight between Delhi and the Centre over the oxygen quota, where it is the judiciary which took the decision of allocating 700 MT oxygen per day to Delhi. These may be different issues — installing capacity and determining distribution. But compare the sense of urgency now with the complacency of the past year, and it reveals what quick court-monitored decisions and commitment can do.Also Read | Covid-19: Pay attention to rural IndiaTwo, there have been individual and local level successes, especially on oxygen supply. Some states such as Kerala, Odisha and Chhattisgarh managed to maintain their oxygen reserve and even help other states. A young collector of Nandurbar set up three oxygen plants in his district and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation commissioner is being applauded for his sheer tenacity and ingenuity in fighting Covid-19.But individual acts are not enough, and a central body has to take a host of decisions in fighting the menace on a daily basis. For instance, the next fortnight will remain crucial for oxygen supplies and allocation, and it is important for NTF to do this on a daily basis than sit down and deliberate over a policy. There are daily imponderables to be considered which may not be covered by a policy — which can wait to be evolved in more peaceful times. There is already a committee, under a secretary to GOI, looking after oxygen allocation. The secretary can present the status report every day to NTF and take orders. States will be satisfied and concentrate on their efforts too, rather than bickering over central policy and directions.Three, this expert panel can also assume a more active role in framing India’s vaccine policy (which, remember, is also a subject of judicial hearing at the moment). Given the rupture in federal relations on the question of vaccines, let the distribution of all vaccines be decided by NTF, involving a dynamic bottom-up and top-down approach. Let the onus be on NTF to strategise the systematic vaccination of the population, on the basis of existing and perceived severity of the disease, for various demographic segments, in various geographies.Also Watch | Dr. Naresh Trehan explains why new vaccination policy is not good for IndiaFour, NTF is equipped to offer medical expertise, given that a lot of confusion persists over protocols regarding Covid-19. On the one hand are statements of doctors and experts, cautioning citizens to use therapies such as remdesivir, tocilizumab, and plasma sparingly and in only specific circumstances, if at all. On the other hand, doctors are freely prescribing these to patients in home isolation. NTF needs to look into it this urgently and issue a national advisory. Through regular media briefings, NTF can also alert the public about the progress in genome-sequencing and what we know about the variants.Five, foreign medical supplies, in the form of aid, are arriving regularly, and a GOI committee is looking into distribution of these as per norms. Lest it gets embroiled into another controversy over delays and bias in allocation, let NTF take up distribution after hearing the committee on a daily basis.NTF should be the focal point of all Covid-19-related decisions for the next six months. It has the competence and unbiased image to take quick decisions on important pending matters. A host of committees already exist to back up NTF with all the information and wherewithal required for implementing its decisions. In a virtual world, two short meetings a day can decide on all urgent matters.Critics may label empowering NTF as an instance of judicial overreach and undermining the authority of the elected executive. However, SC has set up empowered bodies before, such as the one for clearing encroachments in Delhi. A calamity calls for extraordinary measures and the SC’s decision will not only dissipate Centre-state wrangling but also complement their efforts, since NTF would rely largely on government data and resources for taking unbiased, professional decisions.Yashovardhan Azad is a former IPS officer, who served as Central Information Commissioner and Special Director, Intelligence BureauThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/enable-the-covid-task-force-to-take-decisions-101620820363322.html
12-05-2021||Today's||Can India and the EU operationalise their natural partnership?||It has been a long road from the first European Union (EU)-India Summit in 2000 to the virtual India-EU leaders meeting in 2021, which saw Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi interacting with the 27 EU leaders as well as presidents of the European Council and the European Commission last week. The optics could not have been better. This was a special privilege accorded to the Indian PM to underline a new sense of urgency in the EU to get its India policy right. From New Delhi’s perspective, this is also an inflection point in the way it is thinking about its foreign policy priorities; a renewed momentum in India-EU ties is the need of the hour.The most significant outcome of the summit was that after eight years and several rounds of talks spanning six years, India and the EU have decided to resume negotiations for a comprehensive trade agreement. These talks were suspended in 2013 after the two sides failed to bridge their differences on some key issues such as tariff reductions, patent protection, data security and the right of Indian professionals to work in Europe.Today’s changed circumstances provide the two sides with a new set of opportunities to move forward on this long-stalled agenda. The EU wants to pivot away from China. It recently signed a Comprehensive Agreement on Investment with China, which has drawn a lot of flak and its ratification has now been suspended because of diplomatic tensions. The European Parliament remains overwhelmingly opposed to this deal after China imposed sanctions on some of its members, in response to the EU imposing sanctions against China for its treatment of the Uyghur Muslim minority in the Xinjiang region.Also Read | Modi calls off UK visit for G7 Summit as pandemic ragesIndia wants to showcase its commitment to open trade at a time of renewed focus on developing a domestic manufacturing base. With the EU being India’s largest trading partner and the second-largest export destination, the economic logic of strong India-EU economic relations is self-evident. The two sides have also agreed to commence talks for a standalone investment protection pact and an accord on geographical indications.The virtual summit saw India and the EU launching an ambitious “connectivity partnership” in digital, energy, transport, and people-to-people sectors, enabling the two to pursue sustainable joint projects in regions spanning from Africa, Central Asia to the wider Indo-Pacific. At the multilateral level, climate cooperation was the focal area.Given the current situation, health cooperation assumed a new salience. Contrary to the partisan debate in India on vaccine diplomacy, EU member-states stood in solidarity with New Delhi. French President Emmanuel Macron asserted that India does not need to be “lectured from anyone” on vaccine supplies. EU member-states have rallied to support India by sending critical medical supplies in the last few weeks in recognition for the role India had played in helping others over the last year. As the two sides commit themselves to working together on global health, the need to focus on resilient medical supply chains is all the more evident. India, of course, has been pushing for the EU’s support on a TRIPS waiver for vaccine patents to which the EU remains non-committal so far.Also Read | EU launches conference to debate its future with citizensThe India-EU summit has given new energy to a relationship that, for all its trappings, has struggled to capture the imagination of top-level decision-makers either in New Delhi or in Brussels. But as strategic realities evolve rapidly in an era defined by Covid-19 and its aftermath, India and the EU have a new opening to re-evaluate the fundamentals of their engagement.The EU is being forced to reckon with the geopolitical implications of its foreign policy imperatives and India is looking for substantive partnerships with like-minded nations to bring stability to the Indo-Pacific theatre. With its India and Indo-Pacific strategies, Brussels is making its changing priorities clear and with a robust outreach to Europe, New Delhi is also signalling that it is willing to take the plunge. Whether the two “natural partners” can make the most of this unique synergy remains to be seen.Harsh V Pant is professor, King’s College, London, and director of studies, Observer Research Foundation, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/can-india-and-the-eu-operationalise-their-natural-partnership-101620816581821.html
12-05-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | All that we know about the B.1.617 variant||As the second wave of Covid rages on, we now know that cases of B.1.617 (which was previously called “the double mutant variant” because of two concerning changes in the spike protein) are increasing. Another variant which is increasing is B.1.1.7, which was first identified in the United Kingdom.B.1.1.7 spreads more efficiently than earlier types of the coronavirus and is now the dominant form of SARS-CoV-2 in many countries. B.1.1.7 also likely causes more severe disease. However, it is not considered an “immune escape” variant because reinfections are uncommon; vaccines still work, albeit with reduced antibody recognition.Two other mutants, B.1351 (which was identified in South Africa) and P.1 (which was identified in Brazil) are concerning. They spread rapidly. The spike protein in these two variants is not recognised as well by current neutralising antibodies. They have been referred to as “immune escape” variants because reinfections are common and vaccines are less effective against them.Right now, there is reason to believe that B.1.617 is more infectious that the ancestral virus identified in Wuhan, and roughly similar to that of the B.1.1.7 variant. This assumption is based on the increase in cases in India and elsewhere, and the recent elevation of a particular type of this virus to a “variant of concern”.Also Read | Foreign aid for Covid-19 swiftly cleared for states, says CentreAlong with data on spread, we also have some initial results on how well the modified spike of B.1.617 infects cells. A preliminary study by Markus Hoffmann and colleagues (posted to the preprint server, bioRxiv) used a different virus covered with coronavirus spikes from B.1.617 to test for viral entry into cells. Viruses with the mutated spike can enter two kinds of cells more effectively than the viral spike of the original virus. But further studies are needed to corroborate these early results.Early work by scientist Pragya Yadav and team indicates that B.1.617 might be causing more severe disease, at least in lab animals. Certainly, it would fit with reports from doctors on the frontline. Entire families are getting sick in the second wave. Many, including those who are young and have no comorbidities, are succumbing. But whether this is because more people in general have been infected or because of actual biological changes in the variant is yet to be determined.None of this is good news. The not-so-bad news is that B.1.617 does not seem to evade the immune responses of polyclonal antibodies that attack different parts of the virus as much as originally feared, or indeed as much as the B.1.351 variant. In B.1.351, the changes to the spike can evade many times more antibodies raised after earlier infection or vaccination, causing a drastic reduction in vaccine-induced protection.In the past few days, new studies have shown antibodies found in sera of people who have been infected before, or have been vaccinated, can block the B.1.617 variant from entering cells. Very preliminary data is available for all major vaccine classes, namely, Pfizer’s mRNA vaccine (after one or two doses), AstraZeneca/Covisheld’s viral vectored vaccines after two doses, and Covaxin’s inactivated virus vaccine after two doses.Also Read | India’s active Covid-19 caseload declines for 2nd consecutive day: 10 pointsIn one study, scientists did show that antibody recognition was reduced in half in B.1.617 compared to the original strain. In case of vaccination, two groups found fewer neutralising antibodies with B.1.617 after two doses of the Pfizer vaccine compared to the original virus. But even with such a drop, protection was not completely lost because these vaccines are excellent in stimulating a large number of antibodies. They still had enough of a buffer to cope with this variant, at least in the laboratory.Some people in India have suffered from severe and critical Covid-19 even after being fully vaccinated. There are some heartbreaking stories, but we still don’t know how frequently this is happening and under what circumstances. The laboratory data we have so far indicates some vaccine protection, so this is likely rare. In the coming days, we will have more information on how well these observations correlate with effectiveness in the real world.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From Fiction. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scientifically-speaking-all-that-we-know-about-the-b-1-617-variant-101620815431585.html
12-05-2021||Today's||Requiem for the jumbo jet||For decades, the venerable Boeing 747, popularly known as the jumbo jet, dominated the skies of the world. Air India was one of the first international airlines to get these in 1971. It still has four of them, mostly for VVIP flights.Most airlines have retired them or announced plans to do so in a few years. British Airways had announced its fleet of 25 will be retired by 2024, but the current situation in the airline industry has hastened plans to do so. Qantas sent its last Boeing 747 to the “boneyard” of aircraft in Mojave Desert, United States.The term jumbo, though almost synonymous with the Boeing 747, also meant any wide-bodied jet. The Airbus A380, a much bigger aircraft, called the super jumbo may also be on its way out.The 747s were the biggest aircraft when they were launched. Most international airlines had versions that could carry about 360 passengers, though some Japanese versions could carry up to 660 passengers. The largest of these once carried almost 1087 passengers to Israel in an evacuation of Ethiopian Jews. Boeing also made freighter versions for carrying cargo and a Combi that would also carry more cargo and lesser number of passengers. Air India also used these aircraft on routes where passenger demand was less and there was more cargo demand. More than 1500 Boeing 747’s were manufactured since their introduction in 1968.Also Read | US urges citizens to return home from India through available flightsThe first passenger jets, the de Havilland Comets, were introduced by BOAC (predecessor of British Airways) way back in 1952. They were unfortunately subject to many accidents, due to metal fatigue, and withdrawn. The development of the Boeing 707 in 1958 truly introduced the Jet era. In 1960, Air India was the first airline in Asia to get these and also became the world’s first all jet airline. Air India placed an order for the Boeing 747s in 1967 and received the first one in April 1971. Air India had designed its own interiors of these aircraft as well as made the famous “jharokhas” for the windows of these. Air India introduced its new Palace in the Sky livery and branding, when it got its first Boeing 747, Emperor Ashoka in 1971.Pan American World Airways, sadly now defunct, felt the need for bigger aircraft than the Boeing 707 and worked with Boeing for designing these. Boeing had to work on many new systems. The baggage and cargo were loaded in containers. Bigger and more fuel-efficient engines were designed to make it more cost effective to operate. The 747 was a double decker aircraft, with a lounge cum bar for first class passengers. In those days, the business or club class had not been introduced. Eventually, the business class was introduced and was located on the upper deck, so the lounge cum bar was removed.The first Boeing 747 was launched by the then American First Lady, Pat Nixon, on January 15, 1970 in Washington, DC and entered international service on January 22, 1970 on Pan American’s New York-London route. Air India also introduced Boeing 747s on the New York route in 1971. In fact, for quite some time, there were only four carriers — Air India, BOAC, Pan American, TWA — on this route with daily service. Full page advertisements of Air India for these could be frequently seen in The New York Times in the 1970’s and 1980s. An era has ended.Speedy Dutt, an aviation geek, inventor and mathematician, worked with Air India for many decades. It was his last wish to see this piece, written in 2020, appear in the Hindustan Times, where his late wife Prabha Dutt once served as chief of bureau. He died from Covid on April 27, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/requiem-for-the-jumbo-jet-101620736406839.html
