22-05-2021||Today's||The 2022 battle for Lucknow begins||India’s politicians have shifted focus from the east and the south to the north. Even as the country battles the devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections, both political activity and political competition have intensified in states going to polls early next year. And nowhere is this battle most intense, and arguably most crucial for the future of Indian politics and democracy, than in the state of Uttar Pradesh (UP). With 80 Lok Sabha seats; 403 assembly seats; a population of over 200 million; some of the most dismal health and education indicators in the country; high degrees of unemployment and massive outmigration for work, the future of India’s political trajectory, aspirations to meet sustainable development goals, and nature of economic growth rests substantially on what happens in and to UP.With elections scheduled for only February-March next year — and nine months is an eternity in Indian politics — it would be foolish to attempt predicting possible outcomes in the state. But there are two ways to examine the state of political play in UP at this moment, as parties begin strategising, carving out political and social coalitions, and investing in their messaging to gear up for the polls.The first way to assess UP’s political dynamic is using the conventional framework for understanding the state. Within this analytical scheme, five factors will play a crucial role — leadership, caste, religion, organisation, and alliances. On leadership, Yogi Adityanath — he was appointed chief minister (CM) after the 2017 elections, as opposed to being projected as the face before the polls — has, over the past four years, established his own personal brand in the state. This brand rests, in turn, on two elements. The first is maintaining a strongman Hindutva leader image — from “anti-Romeo” squads to legislation against interfaith marriages; from cow protection as one of the State’s top political objectives to a pattern of persecution of dissent; from the focus on the Ram Temple at Ayodhya to presiding over a power structure that has barely any Muslim presence in a state with over 40 million Muslims, Yogi Adityanath clearly believes that the mandate of 2017 was for the Hinduisation of UP’s polity, and thinks of this as a politically appealing platform. But alongside this, the second element of this image is projecting himself as a modern CM — from investment summits to advertising any global report (even when it may not be an endorsement), from claiming success over improved law and order (even when these claims may not stand up to factual scrutiny and there has been a valorisation of extra-judicial methods, including encounters) to projecting himself as a “clean” no-nonsense administrator. Whether this leadership model has the sanction of UP’s citizens is a key question for 2022. Challenging him will be the Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Akhilesh Yadav — whose tenure does evoke a degree of nostalgia for his focus on infrastructure and initiatives, but who remains handicapped by his Yadav-centric party and seeming unwillingness to put in the hard grind required of politics; Mayawati — whose vote base is shrinking with every election, and who is seen as having a behind-the-scenes understanding with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP); and Priyanka Gandhi — who is in charge of the UP Congress but has neither shifted to Lucknow nor has been declared as the party’s CM face nor has been able to build the organisational might required to take on the BJP. And then there will be the identity-related questions that will determine UP’s electoral dynamic. The BJP’s ability to maintain its multi-caste alliance will be on test here — at a time when there are tensions between Brahmins and Thakurs among its upper caste base (with the CM’s Thakur identity seen as dictating its governance priorities); between upper castes and those belonging to other backward classes (OBCs) over power-sharing; between upper castes (particularly Thakurs) and Dalits and OBCs and Dalits; within OBCs on the question of sub-categorisation; and between the government and Jats, especially of western UP, over farm laws. The Opposition’s ability to go beyond its traditional vote base will also be on test here. Will the SP manage to go beyond its Yadav-Muslim base and win support of other segments? Does the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) still enjoy the absolute support of its Jatav base, and can it expand this to include other Dalit sub-castes as well as those from other social groups? Does the Congress have any core base left at all? All of this is also, of course, tied to the question of religious polarisation. The BJP’s strategy of consolidating Hindu castes (barring Yadavs and Jatavs) has yielded dividends in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, besides the 2017 state polls. Has this Hindu consolidation deepened, or have fractures begun to emerge? On the other side, all opposition parties have relied on Muslim consolidation — but the Muslim vote has either got fragmented, or been insufficient to propel any of them to power. The fourth conventional factor is organisational and financial strength — where the BJP is miles ahead. And the fifth is alliances. To consolidate the anti-BJP vote, the SP and Congress tied up in 2017 — with the latter dragging the former down with it. In 2019, the SP and BSP collaborated — but neither did neat vote transfers happen nor was their collective social coalition enough. A wide opposition alliance may consolidate anti-BJP votes but also runs the risk of being seen as catering to Muslims, which then allows the BJP to consolidate Hindus. All these factors will remain relevant in the polls next year. But there is a second framework to examine the UP political landscape — as India’s first major post-Covid-19 election. To be sure, there have been elections in Bihar, Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry — but this was, for most part, before the staggering scale of the suffering inflicted by the second wave of Covid-19 infections. UP is a key battleground of the current Covid-19 war. Anecdotal reports and independent assessments clearly suggest that the health system in the state has collapsed, even as the virus has spread across rural areas. Testing is hard. Hospital admissions are harder. Basic medical support in terms of oxygen support and drugs hasn’t reached the poor, especially in rural areas. Official figures do not capture the scale of either the cases or the deaths — now symbolised by bodies floating on the Ganga. The return of migrants from India’s urban centres has added to economic distress. All of this has meant that despite a somewhat stifled political environment, political space in UP is opening up. There are more voices criticising the government, both at the state and central level, and questioning the CM. There also appears to be, in parts, an erosion of trust in Prime Minister Narendra Modi.And that is why both the management of Covid-19 and the pace of vaccination in UP will be big political variables that may well intersect and alter the older categories of politics of the state. As politicians turn towards the battle for Lucknow, the themes and messages of the campaign, and the salience of the public health crisis, will probably give as much insight into the quality of Indian democracy as the outcome itself. letters@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-2022-battle-for-lucknow-begins-101621694401608.html
22-05-2021||Today's||The wise words of Manmohan Singh||Just before he lost power, Manmohan Singh said history would be kind to him. I’m sure it will, but it’s too early for such history to be written. However, what the good doctor did not know is that in just seven years, things would so drastically change we would reflect on his views, not just with fondness and nostalgia, but as the hallmark of a wisdom we’ve sadly forgotten.This struck me when my friend, Seema Chishti, sent me a link to an interview Singh gave the BBC in 1999. His glory days as finance minister were over. He was now the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha. No one could have imagined he might one day become prime minister. This was, therefore, an interregnum. It was also a time when he spoke out honestly, boldly and said what we needed to hear. Watching that interview was like rediscovering Singh.Listen to the things he said. They won’t just appeal to your heart and mind. They answer a deeper need. They fill the void that surrounds us. First, on what our politics has been reduced to.“Politics has ceased to be a vehicle of purposeful social change. It has become a ticket for power. Power for the sake of power. Not power as an instrument of doing something good for society.” And he placed the blame squarely on our leaders. “Many politicians practice a very divisive politics for narrow sectarian reasons. It may be good politics for the moment but it can be a sort of disaster for our country.”So what do we need? “I do believe we need a new type of politics. A politics of frankness, a politics which tells people things straight as they are. We cannot fool our people … I do believe for the last 50 years, politicians have been taking our people for a ride and I feel there is a great danger if the gap between what politicians say, promise and do grows the way it has been growing.”At the heart of this new politics, he saw new leadership. “Leadership is the crux of the matter. Leaders have to be leaders. They have to be pace-setters, not people who follow what is momentarily in the popular mind, look at the opinion polls every day and adjust their thinking to that. Without a measure of strong conviction Indian leadership cannot deliver the goods.”And, he bluntly added, we need new thinking. “We need a change in the mindset of all those who make critical ruling decisions of our national life, be it in politics, economics or social engineering. We need a big change in thinking at all levels but more so in those who are our leaders.”So what does this mean for politicians? “Politicians in our country do not adjust their thinking to the changing needs of our time. Our politicians feel whatever they learn in their childhood is adequate stock for them to pronounce on everything in the world. I think there’s contempt for knowledge. Unless our politicians value knowledge they cannot be purposeful instruments of social change.”But what if none of this happens? Indeed, what if things get worse? Well, Dr. Singh did not mince his words.“We should not assume there is a divine destiny which will ensure India continues to flourish and prosper, howsoever we mismanage our affairs. Great nations like the Soviet Union have perished and disappeared from the surface of the earth. If the Indian polity is not well managed we ought to realize a similar danger could overtake us too … I am not saying this is on the cards right away or it’s inevitable but if we continue to mismanage our economy, if we continue to divide our country on the basis of religion, caste and other sectarian issues, I think there is a great danger of that sort of thing happening. It’s a serious danger.” Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-wise-words-of-manmohan-singh-101621691458385.html
22-05-2021||Today's||Restoring the spirit of cooperative federalism||Recently, two prominent Indians commented on the handling of the coronavirus pandemic in different ways. Taken together, they seem to sum up where we have reached in the debate on this crisis, and point to the direction in which we should travel now.First, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief, Mohan Bhagwat has said, “Following the first wave, we all lowered our guard — people, government, administration alike.” He added that this is no time for a blame-game. The sarsanghchalak is close to the seat of power in the government — so at last a prominent person, identified with the government, has admitted that it must share the blame for what has gone wrong. This is surely a significant moment, suggesting that now is the time to stop arguing over where we have gone wrong, and who has been at fault in order to concentrate on preparing for a possible third Covid-19 wave. The sarsanghchalak said we have to be prepared for that wave “like the rock against which waves crash only to recede into the ocean”.The containment of the virus is, now, to a considerable extent, in the hands of chief ministers as well. The central government has to play a role in holding them together. So Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have to carry all the chief ministers with him if India is to stand united like a rock, and practise cooperative federalism in letter and spirit. This means the prime minister and chief ministers must listen to each other. Modi is a highly skilled communicator. He can galvanise the crowds at rallies, speak like a statesman when addressing the nation, and use the unique intimacy that can be conveyed by radio to broadcast his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programmes. But how good a listener is he?That brings me to the second intervention. After the prime minister telephoned Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren to enquire about conditions in the state, Soren complained, “He only spoke his mind. It would have been better if he’d talked and listened about the work.” At the end of the week, West Bengal’s chief minister Mamata Banerjee had a similar complaint following the prime minister’s meeting with district authorities.That criticism does confirm an impression the prime minister gives of being someone who prefers to talk rather than listen. He is known to have listened to very few people before taking two of the most crucial decisions of his time in office — demonetisation and the imposition of the national lockdown. It is, of course, just as important for chief ministers to listen to the prime minister. They must also listen to their people, rather than imposing draconian restrictions and threatening arrests as has been the case in Uttar Pradesh. If the prime minister and chief ministers are to be cooperative federalists, electoral defeats will have to be taken with good grace by the central government. In Bengal, the unprecedented provision of armed central paramilitary police for every Bharatiya Janata Party legislator; the arrest of four Trinamool Congress leaders while two former party leaders, now with the Bharatiya Janata Party, accused in the same case, are left untouched; and the bias of Bengal governor, Jagdeep Dhankhar, does not signal cooperative federalism. In Delhi, where the BJP faced a humiliating defeat, the home ministry chose April 27, the height of the oxygen and beds crisis, to bring into effect the legislation which undermines the elected government of the city.Cooperative federalism is a great idea, and is the need of the hour. Unfortunately, it is easier said than done.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/restoring-the-spirit-of-cooperative-federalism-101621690980362.html
22-05-2021||Today's||On Covid, why the Centre needs a communication strategy||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi is universally acknowledged as a communicator par-excellence. But ever since he came to power in 2014, the government’s communication strategy has been a subject of intense discussion and drawn polarised responses.The government’s disdain towards large sections of Indian mainstream media, which several of the ruling party’s leaders sees as associated with the old Congress “ecosystem” and disparagingly refer to as “Lutyens’ Media”, is well-known. This was, further, manifest in the government dispensing with the conventional post of a media adviser in the Prime Minister’s Office and discontinuing the practice of taking journalists as part of the PM’s entourage on official foreign visits. PM Modi has also not held a single press conference, so far, in his seven-year tenure.The impression conveyed was that Mr Modi believed that he had been elected as PM despite mainstream media, which he saw as having carried out a sustained campaign against him for a good 12 years since the Gujarat Riots of 2002 (incidentally, the Opposition disagrees and blames the same media for enabling Modi’s rise, in a classic instance of how the same situation can be perceived so differently by opposing sides). PM Modi preferred to communicate directly with citizens, going over the heads of mainstream journalists via social media, radio or digital vehicles such as My Gov India and the Narendra Modi App. A substantial part of his messaging was also reserved for political speeches, which given our system of perennial elections, offered ample occasions.If election results and popularity polls were indices, PM Modi’s media strategy has worked just fine. Though there may have been disenchantment among some affluent sections of society — traders, businessmen, intelligentsia — his core constituency swelled as the 2019 general elections proved. There was a loss of sheen in his international image, because of a set of domestic initiatives which were inadequately understood outside, and because of the tendency to tar all right-wing leaders with the same brush as Donald Trump, especially during Covid management. But India’s stature had risen substantially on the global stage for PM Modi to worry about this. With international institutions and economists projecting double digit economic growth, India appeared to have weathered the Covid-19 storm better than many had predicted. So, it all seemed hunky-dory till the second tidal wave of Covid-19 arrived and in no time engulfed the nation.Also Read | How different regions are faring in Covid-19 vaccinationWhile no one could have foretold the scale and ferocity of the second wave, the government was caught totally unprepared. In 2020, the virus arrived in India later than in the West. That gave us time to get our act together, though it was far from anything close to what was necessary. However, India fared better than many other countries on one front -- that was communication.The PM led this effort from the front -- addressing the nation and building morale through various creative means (albeit mocked by his critics) such as the Janata curfew and applauding the work of corona warriors. There were daily briefings by the government. The Arogya Setu App, though not fool-proof, was rolled out to trace infections. Transparent dashboards were created to track the spread of the disease, recoveries and deaths and resources were mobilised — hospital beds, doctors and health care workers. The National Disaster Management Act was invoked and a nationwide lockdown was imposed.Despite severe dislocations and disruptions, there was continuous central monitoring and advisories were issued from the home ministry based on real time feedback on the situation across the country. The nation went into a war mode even as it was dealing with a serious face-off with China on the northern frontiers.Cut to 2021, and it is a different world altogether. There is a veritable carnage across cities and the countryside that does not bear repetition. Scenes of death and devastation are being relentlessly beamed on national and international media. There is not a family which has not been touched by the virus in one form or the other. Almost every Indian has lost someone in their circle. Along with the smell of funeral pyres, public angst is blowing in the wind. The government is at the receiving end of the most mordant criticism it has faced since its formation. Some are already calling this the worst year in independent India’s history.Also Read | Covid-19 death tolls are likely a ‘significant undercount’, says WHORumours fly thick and fast in any crisis. It is often difficult to sift fact from fiction. If the problem is localised, it may be possible to isolate information flow. But, when the country is ablaze, remaining silent is not an option, especially in this digital age when news travels at the speed of light. No one understands this better than PM Modi. Therefore, his relative silence at this juncture is mystifying.The PM has been interacting with chief ministers and officials, with the latest ones being the conference with district magistrates on Thursday, and his interaction with frontline workers in Varanasi on Friday, where he expressed his deep sorrow for the losses during this wave. But this lacks the direct connect with citizens that the PM is so skilled at. His de-facto second-in command home minister Amit Shah has barely been seen or heard in public, at least not since the West Bengal campaign when both were at the forefront.Yet, it is not as if the government is immune to criticism. Its sensitivity is reflected in the reactions of prickly bureaucrats and haranguing party spokespersons. There is some defence of the government put out by peripheral spin doctors and those who still repose faith in the leadership of Narendra Modi. But, they are neither cogent nor effective. By all accounts, the Modi government appears to be losing the war of narratives.In every crisis — small or big, be it in a family, organisation or government — there will be those descending to fish in troubled waters. Some of them may be pure mercenaries, while others are simply opportunists. In corporate crises, agents are often planted by competitors or may come from internal and external stakeholders unhappy with the management. In the same way, when it comes to the government, there could be the opposition or external forces working to undermine its efforts. This is part of the game and has to be dealt with professionally. There is little point in raising conspiracy theories and living in denial.Also Read | Cyber attacks on critical infrastructure: Is India ready?The primary responsibility of leaders during a crisis is to instil confidence among the people. The bridge between the two Cs — of crisis and confidence — is the third C, communication. Effective communication itself is built on a set of 3 Cs — it has to be continuous, consistent and credible. This is a full time job and cannot be left to a motley set of amateurs. Becoming reactive and petulant is half the game lost. It may be difficult to modify public opinion but it is possible to moderate it.Thus, instead of writing angry rejoinders to foreign newspaper editors, our embassies and consulates would do well to reach out to important members of the media and influencers to put the official position in perspective. This can be done by the press officers at our foreign missions or even with the help of expert media relations agencies.A similar approach needs to be followed at home. It would be naive to believe that everyone will come around to support the government’s stand. But even if one manages to get across a point sideways, it can create the bandwidth for addressing the real issues. Media training of bureaucrats and ministers is a good place to start - but not if it creates an impression that something insidious is afoot publicly. Influence has to be earned, not demanded.The government needs to have a communication strategy not for its own survival but for the protection of its citizens from untoward distraction and sabotage in a national calamity. There is no reason to be apologetic about “perception management”. Wrong perceptions cannot only bring down organisations and governments but also harm citizens, whose fate is intrinsically linked to tragedy, by derailing the rescue efforts.Therefore, the Prime Minister must speak up in the interest of the close to 1.4 billion Indians who have reposed their faith in him, and give them a realistic view of how we got here, where we are now and what lies ahead. This will serve both the regime and citizens well.Sandip Ghose is a political observer and commentator on current affairs. He tweets @sandipghose The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/on-covid-why-the-centre-needs-a-communication-strategy-101621589749848.html
