23-05-2021||Today's||From the 19th century, the story of a dissenting judge and colonialism||At a time when courage has become rare, one has to look up to those who stood for dissent in the colonial era. Syed Mahmood, son of the great social reformer of 19th century India, Sir Syed Ahmed Khan, was the perhaps first judge to espouse the cause of judicial freedom. He was born on May 24 in 1850. Mahmood made history during his six-year stint as a judge of the Allahabad High Court (HC) from 1887 to 1893, which was the highest position a “native” could hold in the British Government of India. He was the first Indian Muslim and the first north Indian to be appointed to any HC in India, besides being the first non-European member of the Allahabad Bar. From the age of 32 in 1882, he officiated as a judge of Allahabad HC thrice, before eventually becoming permanent in 1887.As a judge, Mahmood stood out for demonstrating judicial integrity through dissent. Even while he was still only a temporary judge of the Allahabad HC, he wrote dissenting judgments with vigour and fearlessness, and put humanity at the centre of his judicial universe, a digression from the purely legalistic approach of earlier judges.In his famous dissenting judgment in Queen Empress vs Phopi, he recognised “fair trial” as an essential part of the criminal justice system, in defiance of the then colonial law, to protect the rights of the accused in situations where they were neither present in person before the court nor represented by a lawyer. Similarly, in Queen Empress vs Babulal, his dissent put checks on torture of prisoners for extraction of confessions under the colonial evidence law.Thereafter, the chief justice of Allahabad HC, Sir John Edge, stopped assigning Mahmood criminal cases. Eventually, this hostility with Chief Justice Edge culminated in Mahmood’s resignation from judgeship in 1893. As a truly independent judge, he simply could not accept judgeship being dependant on the frowns and smiles of the British. Sir Syed, his father, saw it as a spiteful act of “Englishmen robbing Indian civil servants of their self-respect”, but was proud his son had the courage to stand up to the British. Tej Bahadur Sapru, a prominent Indian freedom fighter who helped in drafting the Indian Constitution, termed the episode a “public calamity”.Imagine those days of the last quarter of the 19th century when Justice Mahmood was the only Indian among British judges. As an Indian judge of standing in colonial India, he perhaps exemplified the burden of double consciousness — having to think of as an Indian judge in British India. As a son of India with a judicial aptitude far ahead of his time, many of his dissents were later accepted by the courts, and continue to be the law of the land. He was quoted by the Supreme Court (SC) of India in the Shayara Bano judgment abolishing the practice of triple talaq; and recently, in 2020, SC in Raghunath vs Radha Mohan, quoted with approval his judgment on the Muslim law of pre-emption.While Mahmood is most reputed for his metier in Muslim law, his judicial scholarship sparkled in other areas of law as well, leavened by his vintage quest for a reason to confront orthodoxy and dogma. His pronouncements on Hindu Law not only widened the grounds for Hindu widows for claiming maintenance, but were also useful in drawing the legislative framework of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 — the modern codified Hindu law governing marriage and divorce.The enduring light of Mahmood shines from the intellectual integrity he never let go of in moments of conflict. To the Indian legal fraternity, he will inspire us to learn deeply, think clearly and most crucially, never be afraid, when it is time to speak.Mohammad Nasir is an assistant professor of law at Aligarh Muslim UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-the-19th-century-the-story-of-a-dissenting-judge-and-colonialism-101621781044662.html
23-05-2021||Today's||Covid-19: When citizens protect the right to life||The right to life laid down in the Constitution seems in grave danger today with the coronavirus pandemic raging across the country. Our elected representatives, who are duty-bound to uphold this right, have been found severely wanting in this regard. However, in many places, citizens have come together at significant cost to their lives and livelihoods to lend a helping hand to those in need.Ramnagar village in Kanpur, with a population of 5,000, has seen five Covid-19-related deaths, with 50 cases being reported. The government’s overstretched health care system, which is hardly enough for the metros, was not likely to be of much help to this little village. But people did not give up. They collected money and created a corona relief bank. They secured basic necessities such as oximeters, thermometers and medicines. Isolation facilities were set up and the entire village sanitised. Ramnagar is now free of Covid-19.In 11 villages in Hapur in western Uttar Pradesh, people were quick to impose their own lockdown as soon as the second wave took hold. No one has left these villages for weeks and no one has been allowed in. As a result, these villages have been protected from the vicious second wave. These could be models for other rural areas, but it is unlikely that any political initiative will be forthcoming.Let us look at another heartwarming story of mutual cooperation. When Harendra Gangwar, a teacher from Bareilly, died of Covid-19, it was found that he was not entitled to the state pension scheme. Yet, ₹19 lakh was deposited in his account, thanks to the efforts of a self-care team. This team has been formed by those teachers who are not beneficiaries of the government pension scheme. Members of this team across the state contribute ₹100 each in the case of the death of a colleague. There are more than 45,000 members in this group. The government ought to be making every effort to promote such groups.Another inspiring story is that of Ashu and Akash, two friends from Roorkee. Neither of them were eligible for any welfare schemes either from social institutions or the government. Their families were in precarious financial situations already, made worse by the onslaught of the pandemic. Akash is studying for his bachelor’s degree and has to pay the fees to continue his course. To raise money for this, he started selling vegetables on an e-rickshaw portal with his friend, Ashu. Now, both can fulfil their immediate needs.There are thousands of young people who, despite being victims of adversity, do not want to make the rounds of government offices or charitable institutions pleading for help in cash or kind. They have confronted challenges and moved on with their lives, on their own. There are many women who have taken up the responsibility of feeding orphan children in their neighbourhoods. The tradition of Panna Dhai (a 16th-century nursemaid to Maharana Sangram Singh’s son Uday Singh II) has not been forgotten.On May 3, I had written in this column about how people are overcoming their own grief over the loss of loved ones and are collecting medicines for those in need. Such people have been and are the bedrock of Indian society and civilisation. This time of distress has been a learning experience for many Indians even as they face so much trial and tribulation. Job parameters are changing, businesses are reinventing themselves, social relationships are transforming and even last rites are taking new shape. In Varanasi, Christians renounced their centuries-old customs when they came to Manikarnika and Harishchand ghats with the bodies of their relatives to be cremated. Their ashes are being buried in cemeteries. Similarly, some people from Braj are immersing the ashes of the departed in the Yamuna itself, eschewing the practice of conducting this ritual in the Ganga in Haridwar or Prayagraj. This was never the tradition in this area. The virus is forcing many changes in traditional beliefs and customs.Today, in the midst of hopelessness and despair, these examples fill us with renewed hope that some good may come out of this terrible time. Society may put aside its differences and pull together to confront crises as the villagers I mentioned did. People may accept adapting traditions and customs when required. People may put aside personal considerations to help others in greater need.But our political class seems to have learnt no lessons from all this. They are busy hurling accusations at each other and playing futile games of one-upmanship. They should sit back and contemplate on what they were elected for — to uphold people’s constitutional rights. This is a task at which they have failed on all counts.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid19-when-citizens-protect-the-right-to-life-101621781043598.html
