24-05-2021||Today's||Expanding Quad to encompass public-private partnership||External affairs minister S Jaishankar’s ongoing visit to the United States (US) is focused on how the two countries can work to find solutions to global issues, with the pandemic and vaccines topping the list. That message — coming ahead of the G-7 summit in June and an expected in-person summit meeting of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad) later this year — acknowledges how US-India cooperation in response to Covid-19 provides a template for regional cooperation in the Indo-Pacific and beyond.The evolution of Quad reinforces a broader reality as the world confronts the coronavirus pandemic. While the revival of the arrangement, termed Quad 2.0, is motivated by geopolitical and defence imperatives in the Indo-Pacific, it has natural roots as a template for structured cooperation in non-military domains, including humanitarian assistance and disaster relief that can and should run parallel to and strengthen the wider geopolitical agenda. This soft power element harks back to Quad’s origins as a response to the Asian tsunami in 2004.Recent Covid-19-focused bilateral cooperation between the US and India further testifies to the importance of this humanitarian aspect. When the US was encountering a spike of Covid-19 infections in 2020, India pitched in by providing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks and disposables as well as mobilising the production of hydroxychloroquine by Indian drug manufacturers. This support was deeply appreciated by Americans and the US government. In a back-to-the-future moment in Quad, India is now facing a tsunami-level challenge from a second wave and the US has responded in kind, mobilising aid. The US government, American companies and the Indian-American community have coordinated efforts and provided oxygen tanks, oxygen generators, drugs and disposables as well as technical support.A defining feature of this two-way collaboration is the contribution from corporations and industry associations in both countries to support their respective government initiatives. The sense of responsible business playing a core role in international humanitarian and disaster relief – that is compassionate and rises to the needs of the moment – will define the new corporate social responsibility paradigm and should be sustained by a more structured public-private partnership.The experience of regional cooperation during the 2004 tsunami became the cornerstone of geopolitical interactions among the four democracies in the Indo-Pacific. Later, it also evolved as a keystone building block of trust enabling a strengthened US-India defence partnership. Deepened trust resulted in new annual military exercises, trade and technology initiatives that would not have been possible just years earlier.This new level of public-private coordination is a win-win strategy for all stakeholders in the US-India relationship. It also provides apt balance to the heretofore more dominant defence and trade narratives. This effort should be extended to Quad. Doing so will benefit all the four democracies with enhanced capacity, shared best practices, advanced research and shared experience for an immediate response to any emergency that requires humanitarian aid and disaster management.Such cooperation should then be expanded as needed to support countries in need across the Indo-Pacific. Covid-19 vaccine and drug development and production, already embedded in the Quad agenda, is an obvious starting place for a private-public partnership incorporating the US, India and others.Building on the momentum of Jaishankar’s visit this week, the time is right to take this US-India relationship innovation regional, particularly elevating the private-public level cooperation to Quad. Stakeholders should shape the evolving agenda as momentum builds for the first-ever Quad in-person summit. Key members of the private sectors of the Quad countries should be invited to join a discussion with the leaders and prepare for the summit with their government counterparts.Ernie Bower is president & CEO of BowerGroupAsia. Ratan Shrivastava is managing director of BowerGroupAsia IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/expanding-quad-to-encompass-public-private-partnership-101621867807926.html
24-05-2021||Today's||In seven years, how Modi has changed India||Interim assessments are naturally tentative and heavily defined by their context. A report card of Jawaharlal Nehru would have differed had it been written in 1959 — when he was at the pinnacle of his power and popularity — or 1963 — after India stood humiliated in the war with China. Even present-day assessments of Nehru vary according to the political and other preferences of the authors. Since the past is intertwined with the perspective of the present, there will never be any finality in history — and certainly not India’s history.Ever since he assumed charge in May 2014, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi has been enveloped in controversies. These had less to do with specific measures of his government than with his permanent estrangement from the class of Indians who saw themselves as the certifying authorities of correctness. Since he became chief minister of Gujarat in 2001, Modi was labelled a “polarising” figure and his journey to national politics was viciously challenged by an entrenched ecosystem that saw itself as the custodians of an established consensus.Also Read | Export boom aids businesses, not farmersYet, paradoxically, the rising tide of shrillness against Modi for being the proverbial outlander resulted in him being enthusiastically embraced by those Indians who saw him as the agent of real change, a change that would unsettle a self-serving consensus centred on privilege, entitlement, cronyism, inefficiency and low national self-esteem. This polarisation has persisted all through the seven years of his premiership, and is guaranteed to endure even after he enters the history books. Polarisation has become a self-fulfilling prophecy and has coloured every judgment of his public life.In the case of Modi, however, there is a common thread running through the divided perceptions of his ongoing term. He was twice endorsed by voters because he promised change. His opponents feared and loathed him not because they doubted his sincerity, but because they imagined the new order would be unpalatable. Consequently, any assessment of Modi must go beyond specific policies of his government, regardless of their electoral impact. For Modi, the key question is — how much has India changed in seven years?Also Read | Over 800k migrants left Delhi after lockdown announced: GovtOn the face of it, the country displays outward continuity. Yet, it is striking that most of Modi’s critics — particularly those located in the Left-liberal bubble overseas —invariably preface their indictment of India’s public life or governance with the label “Modi’s India”. This gratuitous tag indicates a belief that India has changed unrecognisably and for the worse. The recent explosion of nostalgia over Delhi’s post-Lutyens embellishments is a prime example of this phenomenon, as were the fulminations over telling Pakistan that bilateral friendship minus good conduct was not India’s obligation.India, it would seem, has indeed changed under Modi — not unrecognisably, but substantially. Perhaps the biggest change is the marginalisation of those associated with the ancien regime. In today’s India, those who matter are rarely the inheritors — the post-Independence aristocracy of politicians, civil servants and fixers with the right lineage and cultivated connections. They have been replaced by a new dispensation — people with less outward polish and whose cultural assumptions are, for the want of a better expression, more vernacular. They are less cosmopolitan and assertively nationalistic. They are not squeamish about being Hindu but are equally at ease with technology and science. This is the new India that define the landscape of “Modi’s India” and make up the social foundations on which the thrust on efficient delivery, entrepreneurship and competitive markets are based.The second big change is the receding tide of corruption. When Modi assumed charge, political corruption had touched dizzy heights. The fear was that the scale of corruption would march in tune with new wealth creation and distort public life hideously. Modi hasn’t ended corruption, but through example, he has purified decision-making at the top and used technology to ensure that entitlements to the poor don’t suffer transmission losses. The success rate is still patchy and there is still miles to go, but at least India has at least begun rolling back corruption. It is political will that has made the difference.The third big change heralded by the Modi government, particularly in his second term, is in forging an alternative nationalistic consensus. Before Modi, India’s politics was guided by the assumption that whatever the colour of the government, the yardstick of acceptability would be guided by the Nehruvian consensus. With the triple talaq legislation, the abrogation of Article 370 and the changes to the Citizenship Act, Modi converted facets of the BJP manifesto into state policy.The rights and wrongs of each move may well be debated, but what was striking was their audacity. Along with the Supreme Court sanction for the Ram temple in Ayodhya, Modi successfully forged a bond between the government and those who felt that there was an alternative idea of India. The alienation between the government and its ideological base that so troubled Atal Behari Vajpayee has disappeared, a reason why the Modi regime has demonstrated amazing internal coherence. It may also explain why, despite all the ups and downs of politics, the energy and vibrancy of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) remains unaffected. Modi has made the larger parivar a stakeholder in his government and in a state of permanent anticipation of the time India can be fully recast.In seven years, Modi has changed many of the assumptions that have governed public life. However, it is still work in progress. To endure, Modi’s India will have to define the new heights to scale in 2024.Swapan Dasgupta is a BJP leader, former Rajya Sabha MP, and author and commentatorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-seven-years-how-modi-has-changed-india-101621861207480.html
24-05-2021||Today's||Vaccination a globally integrated enterprise: CLs are not a quick-fix solution||Many presume that vaccines produced by the Serum Institute of India (SII) are “Indian vaccines” by default. Covishield, the mainstay of India’s vaccination programme used in more than 85% of India’s inoculations, is the result of a mutually beneficial international collaboration. At least half of the doses SII produces are paid for by other countries and global platforms, but manufactured in India. The deadly second wave created an unforeseen emergency and disrupted India’s role as a global supplier of vaccines.A recent analysis of company filings by the top four global vaccine manufacturers found that 90% all the vaccines produced in 2021 Q1 in the United States (US) and Europe were administered on populations within North America and Europe. Even in Q2, the situation is going to be the same. This brings to the front the importance of creating and expanding vaccine production capacity in the developing world.India’s restriction of vaccine exports was not the first; countries such as the United Kingdom (UK) and the US had virtual bans on vaccine exports, and by invoking the Defense Production Act, the latter has also been hoarding vaccine components and raw materials. Such supply chain disruptions across the world have both created vaccine shortages as well as impacted the ability of other countries to produce vaccines.The joint proposal for global patent waivers introduced in October 2020 before the World Trade Organisation (WTO) by South Africa and India is getting a push back from European Union (EU), despite a conditional support from the US. A delay in reaching a consensus seems inevitable, and in parallel, there is demand from civil society to invoke Compulsory Licenses (CLs) to allow Indian companies to produce Covid-19 vaccines.Also Read | Moderna, Pfizer said they’ll deal only with Centre, not states: Delhi govtA limited global supply of vaccines is mopped up by richer countries, forcing the global health leadership to warn that the world is on the brink of a “catastrophic moral failure”, which needs to be addressed fast. However, given the urgent need, decisions to not enforce intellectual property (IP) rights, CLs at the country level, or a global patent waiver on vaccines may have only a limited success. In the current situation, a looming threat of waivers or CLs in key markets may be more useful than actual waivers and CLs per se, to force the hand of innovator companies to get into voluntary licensing agreements with developing country manufacturers and actively share technology and know-how.As opposed to drugs, whose reverse engineering has been successfully done by many Indian generic manufacturers for decades, vaccines are much more complex biological products, where process information and technology transfer are key. Yet another roadblock linked to technology transfer will be that of a complex supply chain. Reportedly, Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine alone is made out of 280 components, sourced from 86 suppliers across 19 countries. A CL of a vaccine would mean potentially a mapping of all the patents involved with these components and licensing them, which creates a mighty barrier.For example, Moderna had announced in October 2020 that it will not sue any company across the world that manufactures its vaccine. Seven months have passed but no company has tried manufacturing the sought after vaccine. This means that in the case of vaccines, any promise of legal protection of manufacturers may have limited meaning unless active collaborations, voluntary technology transfer and knowledge sharing are involved. In view of the complex interdependencies, the immediate answer may not really be in adversarial actions which may not change the ground situation, but in ensuring — by strong acts of persuasion — voluntary action by the companies that goes beyond “not suing”.Vaccines from Oxford-AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson (J&J), Novavax and Gamaleya Research Institute (Sputnik-V) have voluntary arrangements already in place with Indian companies, involving licenses and technology transfer. However, even with an active collaboration and sharing of know-how, this is a time consuming process. Sputnik-V production is to start in India only by August 2021. The Indian made J&J may take even longer. Even after the technology transfer is initiated, it is reported that the Indian company Biological E will take up to five months to start production.Also Read | Plea on ex gratia for Covid victims: SC seeks Centre’s replyThe limitations of CLs in the short and medium run, despite its being a somewhat popular solution among commentators for the Covid-19 vaccine problem, can be further examined through the case of Bharat Biotech (BB) voluntarily allowing three public sector companies — Indian Immunologicals Ltd (IIL), Bharat Immunologicals & Biologicals Corporation (BIBCOL) and Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation (HPC) — to manufacture Covaxin. Despite active technology transfer and knowledge sharing, IIL and BIBCOL will start production only by August-September, and HPC has sought a year to start production.To manufacture a range of vaccines in the coming months, Indian companies will need hundreds of components from dozens of companies spread across the world. This complex network of manufacturing partnerships cannot be wished away. Restoring India’s role as a global supplier of vaccines is key in ensuring functioning supply chains. Autarky or one-sided, heavy-handed action may not yield results immediately to defeat a pandemic. India’s international cooperation has not been a one way street — the country has given to the world and also gained from it.While the world works towards a waiver that brings in predictability and security to manufacturers in the developing world, voluntary licenses will have to be granted, supported by active technology transfer as well as capacity expansion, multiplying the global output of Covid-19 vaccines many times over in the quickest possible time.Oommen C Kurian is senior fellow, health initiative, Observer Research FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/vaccination-a-globally-integrated-enterprise-cls-are-not-a-quick-fix-solution-101621854547402.html
24-05-2021||Today's||Quad and an opportunity to define India’s economic statecraft||In the last week of April, India, Japan and Australia formally launched the Supply Chain Resilience Initiative (SCRI) to build resilient supply chains in the Indo-Pacific region to reduce their dependence on China. This development comes against the backdrop of the Joe Biden administration, in its first 100 days, expanding the scope of the Quad grouping from a limited conventional security grouping to one with an economic dimension through multiple trade, aid and supply chain initiatives.In the month of March, President Biden hosted the first-ever Quad summit with leaders of Japan, Australia and India, committing to provide one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccine to South East Asia. The salient feature of that commitment was the division of roles — India will manufacture, Japan will finance, the United States (US) will provide the technology and Australia will assist with the logistics. This division of roles sets a template for future economic cooperation among the Quad nations and one for India to define its economic statecraft in the region.The shifting patterns of aid Economic statecraft is the use of economic means such as foreign aid, trade and commerce to attain foreign policy objectives. Since India’s independence from British rule, India has been the recipient of such foreign aid and trade privileges. While it continues to be a recipient of those aid and privileges, the size and scale of aid received has significantly dropped over the past 20 years (despite the current, enhanced level of dependence due to the second wave of the pandemic) and India has evolved into a conferrer of aid and medical supplies.Furthermore, it is no longer a mere spectator of world affairs but an active participant, if not a leading voice on issues of global concern – pandemics, climate, terrorism, and cyber security. As the second most populous nation in the world with a talented labour pool, India can leverage the Quad security grouping to address its national security threats, in particular China by using tools of economic statecraft.Also Read | In its hour of need, Quad members stand with IndiaChina’s exponential rise and its use of its own economic statecraft to win friends in India’s neighbourhood have the potential to morph into a perennial national security threat. From the shores of Hambantota to the hills of Papua, China has successfully used its state owned enterprises (SOE) and development banks to grant aid, loans and provide infrastructure to countries of South and South East Asia as part of its flagship trillion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).To give credit where it is due, India has responded proactively by building its own connectivity programmes through its East and Northeast states with initiatives such as the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) and through maritime infrastructure initiatives such as the Sagar Mala project to enhance India’s logistics capabilities.However, as with any government project in India, the pace, scale and execution of these initiatives have been the major impediments to mounting any form of significant challenge to the China led Initiative. In order to rise up to the challenge of taking on China’s SOEs , the Indian government should engage its vibrant private sector.Quad and Indian industry Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been a vocal proponent for supporting India’s enthusiastic private sector leaders. And in the past few weeks, India’s industrialists have proved that they can address the government’s deficiencies and step in during a time of crisis by converting their industrial oxygen into supplies for the ones in need. India’s vaccine behemoths have a role not just in inoculating the Indian population but also serving foreign policy objectives by manufacturing for over 70 countries, including the ones in South East Asia part of the Quad Initiative.Also Read | Quad an exclusive ‘clique’, working against China: Foreign ministryIn the past, India and Japan have worked together on projects in Sri Lanka, on development initiatives in India’s Northeast, and the US has played a vital role in creating a coalition of nations to address China’s overtures in the Indo Pacific region. The Gujarat-based Adani group is involved in the port project in Sri Lanka, and is building the container terminal along the Yangon river in Myanmar. The New Delhi-based GMR has been working on infrastructure projects in Nepal, Indonesia and the Philippines and Tata Group is engaged in several energy and infrastructure projects in Vietnam. While it is not new for the Quad nations to partner on infrastructure projects in the Indo-Pacific, a concerted effort on a much larger scale with the Indian private sector will prove to be an effective strategy in countering China’s foray into these markets.Zaibatsu or Chaebols and not Soviet Era OligopoliesOver the course of 30 years, East Asian economies of Japan, South Korea and Taiwan have successfully leveraged aid and their private enterprises to attain foreign policy goals. While the model could be emulated by India, the Modi administration in particular would have to tread the path carefully with it already being accused by its critics of favouring few conglomerates such as Adani Group and Reliance Industries. To avoid further criticism, the government should select companies that do not have highly leveraged balance sheets and create a consortium of India’s Navratnas or best managed companies such as the Chennai-based Larson & Tubro (L&T), Tata Power and Wipro, to name a few.Also Read | Chinese firm’s Covid-19 drug claims draw scientists’ skepticismIndia shaping its economic statecraft using the Quad security grouping and its private sector will first, revive and sustain Indian infrastructure companies by providing the much needed capital infusion to take on greenfield projects that are capital-intensive and also reduce their risk exposure through public-private partnerships with the Quad nations. Second, it will integrate India into the Asian trade architecture without having to commit to a China centered trade bloc such as the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership. And third, it will pose a formidable challenge to China’s Belt and Road Initiative acts of economic coercion in the Indo-Pacific region.The Biden administration’s measures in its first hundred days in office have set the stage for India to capitalise on its geo-economic and geopolitical comparative advantages in the Indo-Pacific region. There may not be a more opportune time and a more strategically favourable region than the Indo-Pacific to shape its economic statecraft.Akhil Ramesh is a Fellow at the Pacific Forum, USThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/quad-and-an-opportunity-to-define-india-s-economic-statecraft-101621847526913.html
24-05-2021||Today's||In Kathmandu, a threat to democracy||Nepal’s President Bidya Devi Bhandari’s decision to dissolve the lower House of Parliament, on the advice of the Cabinet headed by Prime Minister (PM) K P Oli, is a subversion of constitutional governance, and will push the country into further turmoil and potential conflict. Coming as it does on top of a virulent pandemic that Nepal is struggling to cope with, it does not augur well for future stability.The situation has come full circle from the time the president dissolved the House in December 2020 after Oli lost majority support, following dissensions within his party, a decision that was ruled ultra vires of the constitution by a Constitutional Bench of the Supreme Court (SC). However, another ruling of the court, on a separate matter, nullified the merger that had formed the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) and established the pre-merger status quo.Accordingly, the NCP stood dissolved and the erstwhile Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist Leninist) or UML, and NCP (Maoist Centre) were restored. The bulk of the opposition to Oli had come from the Maoists, led by former PM Prachanda, and a faction of the UML, headed by another former PM Madhav Kumar Nepal. Restoration of the pre-merger situation implied that the opposition to Oli within the UML was limited to the rebel faction, which comprised a mere fifth of the total number of party Members of Parliament (MPs).Oli was, however, unable to secure the confidence of the restored House. The opposition parties, the Nepali Congress (NC) and the NCP (Maoist Centre), voted against him, and others belonging to the Madhav Nepal faction of the UML and a faction of the Terai-based Janata Samajwadi Party (JSP) absented themselves/remained neutral during the vote. Though Oli lost the confidence vote, the opposition parties, the NC and the NCP (Maoist Centre) were unable to muster the requisite numbers to form a government immediately, since the JSP was divided.Faced with this impasse, the president again appointed Oli, in his capacity as the leader of the single-largest party in Parliament, as PM, in accordance with the constitution. In no democratic country would a PM who has just lost confidence be reappointed and again asked to prove his majority within 30 days, a sure signal for horse-trading and corruption.Instead of seeking a fresh vote of confidence, Oli now recommended to the president that another provision of the constitution be invoked to identify a member of the House who could gain majority support and form a government. He did so without resigning his post. Even without a legal vacancy, the search for a new PM was instituted.Despite having only a deadline of 21 hours, the opposition — which included the NC led by Sher Bahadur Deuba, MKN faction of the UML, Prachanda-led Maoists, and a faction of the JSP led by Upendra Yadav and Baburam Bhattarai — mustered 149 signatures, a comfortable majority, with Deuba staking claim for leadership. But in another twist, Oli, who had asked the president to explore government formation just the preceding day, staked claim and said he had the support of 153 MPs, but neither were they physically present nor did he present all their signatures. But this included those JSP MPs who had outlined their preference for Deuba. Both lists had some overlapping names.Instead of judging the claims on merit and inviting Deuba, the President decided to reject both applications and, on the advice of the Cabinet, dissolved the House late during the night of May 21. Fresh elections have now been scheduled for November 2021. All executive power is concentrated in the hands of the PM and the president without parliamentary accountability.Given the raging pandemic, there is a big question mark on whether elections will be held as scheduled. If they are, the situation would hopefully revert to normal. But this is unlikely, for the opposition parties have already announced a political and legal battle against the Bhandari-Oli unconstitutional move, and may not be willing to participate in elections presided over by the current PM. Nepal is also likely to witness public protests, especially after the pandemic is brought under control. If elections are not held, Nepal will be staring at yet another constitutional crisis. While petitions challenging the dissolution will be heard by SC, it is not clear when and what the judgment of the court will be.India has always supported multiparty democracy and progressive change in Nepal. The perception today is that India is backing an autocratic and unpopular regime. This is partly due to the fact that a series of high-level visits have taken place between the two countries. Nepali observers are also linking the surprising support extended by a faction of the JSP, led by Mahant Thakur and Rajendra Mahato, to their erstwhile bête noire, KP Oli, who symbolised opposition to Madhesi demands during the drafting of the Constitution in 2015, to Indian influence, particularly since this faction has traditionally been close to India.Durable political stability in Nepal is in India’s interest. Instability will only render Nepal vulnerable to inimical external influences. Already, the goodwill generated by supplying the first tranche of Covid-19 vaccines to Nepal has dissipated as India is now seen as reneging on its commitment to supply additional doses. China is stepping into the breach.India must publicly articulate its position in support of constitutional governance. India should supply the contracted dose of vaccines to Nepal, a neighbouring country that shares open borders with India with free movement of people. Finally, we should engage fully with all political actors in Nepal, including those in opposition to Oli and not be seen to be partisan.Ranjit Rae is a retired diplomat who served as ambassador to NepalThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-kathmandu-a-threat-to-democracy-101621781046854.html
