25-05-2021||Today's||In Nepal’s political theatre, Delhi risks eroding strategic gains by backing Oli||A fresh political crisis is brewing in Nepal. President Bidhya Bhandari has dissolved the Parliament and called for fresh elections on the recommendation of Prime Minister K.P. Oli, but not without the drama that is part and parcel of Nepali politics.Both Oli and the opposition, under Nepali Congress leader Sher Bahadur Deuba, had claimed to possess sufficient numbers to form a government, but the President regarded both claims as insufficient. This was despite the fact that Deuba’s claim — with the support of 149 parliamentarians, which makes for a comfortable majority — seemed more credible. It was also despite the fact that Oli had lost the trust vote in Parliament earlier; the PM himself had asked the President to explore alternative government formation methods; the Madhav Kumar Nepal–Jhalanath Khanal factions of his own party, the Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist Leninist), were unwilling to back him; and elections had been on his mind since December, when he dissolved the Parliament only for it to be reinstated via a Supreme Court order.The President’s complicity in overlooking constitutional processes is now under scrutiny, and will be examined by the Supreme Court. But what is certain is that everything, in terms of the outcome so far, is going Oli’s way in Nepal — and to have his way, he is willing to deploy all means, whether constitutional or unconstitutional.Also Read | In Kathmandu, a threat to democracyAs the political drama intensifies in Kathmandu, the spotlight is once again on Delhi’s role in the current crisis.The drivers of Delhi’s policyOver the past year, India has shrugged off the ghosts of Oli’s anti-Indian nationalism, intensified its engagement with the Nepal government led by him, and played realpolitik that favours its interests. This was primarily based on the diplomatic assessment that India’s interests lay in deepening the State-to-State relationship, and for better or worse, Oli led the Nepali State.But by now appearing to advise Madhesi leaders Mahant Thakur and Rajendra Mahato to remain neutral, Delhi has more than hinted that it is backing Oli in the current power struggle. It is also instructive that Delhi has not yet issued a statement on the entire episode, including the contested decision to go in for elections – striking only because India has in the past regularly commented on internal Nepali political affairs. The perception in Kathmandu’s political circles is that from engaging with the PM, Delhi is now investing in sustaining him in power.This, in turn, appears to be based on Delhi’s assessment that Oli has emerged as a leader who drives the narrative in Nepal. If it antagonises him, Oli may once again pick up the anti-Indian nationalism drive that brought him to power in the 2018 elections. None of the opposition leaders – Deuba or Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ or Madhav Nepal or Baburam Bhattarai (all former PMs with whom Delhi has done business) – seem to inspire any confidence in South Block anymore.By betting on Oli, Delhi seems to believe it will weaken the Nepali Communists and diminish China’s influence in the country. Its position also stems from an unease with the current Parliament, where communists collectively constitute over two-thirds of the House — the end of this Parliament and fresh elections seem to be a mutually shared objective. There are also unconfirmed reports that elements within India’s polity are happy to undermine the current constitution, a document at the heart of the 2015 “unofficial” blockade.Decoding Oli’s motivations Oli’s anti-Indian vitriolic during the 2015 blockade surprised many Indian diplomats who had until then, in the words of one former official, regarded him as ‘the Nepali politician [who] had worked most consistently towards strengthening ties with India”.It was under Oli that Nepal grew closer to China. Ties became comfortable enough that a fraternal relationship was established between the Chinese Communist Party and the then-unified Nepal Communist Party (NCP), which even imported “Xi Jinping Thought” to train its cadre. As India-Nepal relations took a nosedive in May 2020 over the Kalapani dispute, Oli upped the ante by publishing a new political map that showed the contested territory as part of Nepal.But fissures within the NCP saw Oli break ranks with both Prachanda and Beijing, allowing India to regain its foothold in Nepali politics. The whispers in Kathmandu grew louder: after the meetings with high-ranking Indian dignitaries, Oli was said to have “managed” Delhi. Just as Delhi was driven by a set of factors, Oli appears to have assessed that keeping Delhi in good humour would provide him a domestic political insurance, help neutralise the hostility of Madhesi parties, and remove impediments as he expanded control over Nepal’s institutions.Now, with a call for elections amid a devastating second wave of the pandemic, it’s either Oli’s way or the highway in Nepal. Even as the rest of the Opposition gears up for a political and legal battle against him, Oli has promised the Thakur-Mahato faction a power-sharing deal, brought in an amendment to citizenship laws via an ordinance, and assured amnesty to Tharu and Madhesi cadres charged with violence during the 2015 anti-constitution protests.What India learnt from 2015A shift in India’s Nepal policy had been visible in the years after 2015. After the blockade drastically reduced its influence on the Nepali establishment and created a wave of anti-Indian backlash, Delhi visibly withdrew from Kathmandu’s political affairs and began focusing on its aid and infrastructure projects intended to expand connectivity and people-to-people relations.One such project was the 69km-long Amlekhganj-Motihari oil pipeline, inaugurated in September 2019, significant also because one of the most visible symbols of the 2015 blockade was the fuel shortage in Nepal, while the resultant deal between Nepal and China eroded India’s monopoly over fuel supply. A second pipeline, a 50-km-long pipeline between Siliguri to Charali in Jhapa, Oli’s constituency, is in the works.Similarly, despite the overwhelming attention paid to the proposed Tibet-Nepal railway, the almost 200-km-long broad-gauge line between Kathmandu and Raxaul is moving ahead at a much quicker pace, with India shouldering the costs of the detailed project report (DPR). Again, the contrast with Beijing is visible. The DPR for the Gyirong-Kathmandu railway was expected to cost over ₹20 billion, and Nepal had expected China to pay for it. India has also provided ₹500 crore as grant to upgrade the Hulaki Rajmarg in the plains of Nepal.Delhi has also assisted towards earthquake reconstruction while pushing forward soft diplomacy tools such as the Sampark Alumni Network for Nepalis who’ve studied in India.India’s “vaccine diplomacy” allowed Nepal to be one of the first countries in the world to vaccinate its people. India has also sent across oxygen during this current wave.India’s decision to export vaccines has been severely criticised within the country, but by doing so, India sent a message of goodwill to citizens in the South Asian neighbourhood in a time of great need. The current wave of the pandemic also showed how intricately India and Nepal are connected despite the state of political affairs. Delhi must prioritise Nepal’s needs Delhi’s as soon as vaccine exports can be resumed.Back to the political quagmireOne remarkable fact is that India’s development and connectivity projects had been ongoing despite a slowdown in relations brought about by the blockade and the 2020 Kalapani dispute respectively.By supporting Oli, however, Delhi once again finds itself being drawn into the quagmire that is Nepali politics. If Delhi believes China’s influence in day-to-day affairs has been reduced with its moves, it must know China may be willing to decouple its economic and other engagements in Nepal from its political influence, as seen in the recent awarding of construction contracts to Chinese firms, including by the Nepal Army, an institution traditionally perceived to be close to India. A China-Nepal Friendship Industrial Park in Oli’s constituency is in the works, too. Although the supply of vaccines from China has hit a roadblock, China will not let go of the gains it has already made in Nepal.By backing Oli in the current mess, Delhi is once again the wild card in Nepali politics. Oli is deeply unpopular; his mishandling of the pandemic has brought about a fresh wave of criticism against him. Had the two Madhesi leaders not decided to remain neutral, Oli may well have been out of power. If Delhi believes Oli will be more amenable to Madhesi demands and interests from hereon, it must remember that the 2015 constitution is Oli’s baby. Oli has also shown he is willing to disregard federalism and the devolution of power as had been envisioned in the new republic.Now, Delhi risks returning to the turbulent days of the post-conflict period. Between 2009-2011, it put its weight behind an anti-Maoist alliance to not allow Prachanda to become prime minister. The move antagonised Nepalis across the board with its interventionist approach, emphasising the anti-Indianism that is a hallmark of Nepali politics. By now putting its weight behind a pro-Oli arrangement and antagonising almost the entire spectrum of Nepal’s polity and civil society, Delhi risks repeating its historical mistake.Amish Raj Mulmi is the author of All Roads Lead North: Nepal’s Turn to China and a Kathmandu-based political commentator and editorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-nepal-s-political-theatre-delhi-risks-eroding-its-strategic-gains-by-backing-oli-101621938430791.html
25-05-2021||Today's||For rural India, it is the golden hour||As it plays out, rural India will possibly be the final theatre in this round of the world’s war against the coronavirus. How we deal with it in rural India has huge implications for India’s health indicators, workforce, economic growth, Anganwadi-deprived children’s future – and the country’s politics.For a virus that has caused devastation across much of the world, conquering rural India could be easy pickings. What can defeat it is the vaccine – whenever it is available in adequate numbers – and something else we aren’t currently working on – tackling massive vaccine hesitancy, village after village, state after state.We might have lost a lot of time on a lot of things, but this is the golden hour for rural India.When the Covid vaccine reaches the villages in large numbers, would hundreds of millions of people be waiting to take the jab, even if free, and protect themselves? Not at all.I live in a village, and the kind of reports we are receiving – whether through the insights of our community resource persons in every state and across districts, or through direct messages from rural citizens to me – are a frightening clamour. Village after village is reporting large-scale prevalence of Covid symptoms, and an exceptionally higher number of deaths compared to past years. Vaccines, testing, reporting – all are in short supply.But, despite the health scare, most people say they will not get the vaccine – and the reasons range from “we don’t need it” to “it will kill us” to “so and so fell ill or died after taking it” to “it is a conspiracy” to many other farcical reasons.Also Read | In seven years, how Modi has changed IndiaAnd this is when adults have to get themselves vaccinated. Wait till it’s the turn of the children. It is clear that India is headed for an extremely tough challenge.Here is what we need urgently to fix the vaccine hesitancy – an unprecedented rural communication campaign. Talking to rural India impactfully and with innovation through all the means available. Convincing them about the vaccine.We need everything from street munaadi (announcements) to radio storytelling, folk songs to nautanki and local art forms, two-minute video films that can be shared on social media and WhatsApp featuring rural influencers, and lots else. Also, all the knowledge and diktat does not have to come top-down. Local community leaders, and rural influencers, can guide authorities on how to best get the communication across on getting tested and vaccinated.In my experience, Indian media planners and information department officials in governments often get the definition of an “inflluencer” wrong in a rural context. They spend thousands of crore of rupees targeting the wrong audiences.So who is the person to whom communication should be targeted at in this emergency, who can become aware and further make many more people aware? The most effective rural influencers aren’t village headpersons because Pradhans and Sarpanches are often seen as corrupt or hustlers. The best rural influencers are, according to me, the students from Class 9 to Class 12 and after, who know how to use Youtube or Facebook or Whatsapp and are very aware. It is this band of tens of millions of youth that could help target vaccine hesitancy and they are the ones who the communication has to be addressed to.Can good rural communication by governments save lives? Of course it can. India has done it earlier and can do it again.Also Read | Road to 2022: In UP, the pandemic has changed public discourse, political agendaThe first example is India’s huge effort to eradicate polio. In 2009, India had 60% of the world’s polio cases. India has not had a single case of polio since 2011, was declared polio-free in 2014 and strict surveillance since has prevented its return. India did it with the world’s biggest vaccination campaign against the wild polio virus (WPV), done against the backdrop of an almost non-existent public health system that is hardly any better today.There was then very strong opposition to the vaccine, especially among many sections of the Muslim community. A multi-level communication strategy and a massive social mobilisation campaign were at the heart of that success – achieved despite severe odds. Imagine how many polio-affected children India would have had if health workers and officials had not worked relentlessly at the time on the vaccination programme. It saved millions of childhoods.The second example is from my home state of Uttar Pradesh, where, until a few years ago, more than 600 children died every year due to Japanese Encephalitis and later Acute Encephalitis Syndrome (AES). “Operation Dastak”, a door-to-door campaign over the past three years to ensure immunisation of all under-15 children and a mass village-level communication campaign, has shown extraordinary success. Encephalitis cases are down by 85%, government officials say.India has to draw on successes like these as it stares at a new vaccination crisis. Despite its vast challenges, our frontline health workers and a political resolve have in the past helped overcome these obstacles.We are back in that moment. We are in the golden hour, and the clock is ticking.Neelesh Misra is an audio storyteller and the founder of Gaon ConnectionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-rural-india-it-is-the-golden-hour-101621935430477.html
25-05-2021||Today's||In the Israel-Hamas conflict, the victory of cynicism||The adage “In war, truth is the first casualty” is apt for the 11-day Israel-Hamas conflict that ended last Friday. The doublespeak of its protagonists – from fighting terrorism to resisting the occupation, from right to security to the right to freedom – cynically conceals their ulterior motives which either triggered the conflict or prolonged it.​In retrospect, the breakout of the conflict on May 10 seems presaged by its prevailing context. The strongest impetus for the hostilities were the two elections — for the Israeli Knesset held on March 23 and Palestinian parliamentary and presidential elections after 15 years, but postponed on April 30 by President Mahmoud Abbas citing Israeli obstacles. Further, it was the end of the holy month of Ramadan – during which young Palestinians frequently confront Jewish hardliners and Israeli police over access to the holy al-Aqsa mosque complex. It was the verdict day (also postponed) for the controversial court case to evict several Palestinian families from Sheikh Jarrah in East Jerusalem by the Jewish settlers. It was also on the eve of May 11, when Israelis celebrate Jerusalem Day and preceded the May 15 anniversary of Israel’s founding in 1948 – marked by Palestinians as Naqba (“catastrophe”) day.Also Read | UN urges ‘political process’ amid Gaza reconstruction​Against this emotively charged backdrop, let us weigh in the various players – both groups and individuals.For Israel’s Prime Minister Benyamin Netanyahu, the fourth Israeli polls in two years were a disappointment as he failed, again, to put together a majority coalition. It was also an existential issue for him as losing the job would also take away his legal immunity – opening him to a possible jail sentence in a long-pending anti-corruption trial that finally began last month. Thus, donning the mantle of defender of Israel and its citizens by going on the offensive against the rocket-firing Gazans did no disservice to his political and personal objectives. Israel’s military, too, wanted a free hand to “degrade” the asymmetric capabilities of Gaza-based Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad (PIJ). Moreover, the regional geopolitical context was conducive to Israel as the few remaining backers of Hamas and PIJ, were either preoccupied or enfeebled or both.The situation on the Palestine side was even more complex.The Palestine Authority (PA) has been in suspended animation: although it was able to scupper the Donald Trump Administration’s “deal of the century” last year, there was nothing to replace it. Apart from this political limbo, PA had to contend with two other setbacks — intensified Israeli settlement activity in West Bank and four Arab countries normalising ties with Israel, jeopardising the “Palestinian Cause” for a two-state solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict.Meanwhile, a call for PA elections after 15 years has revived the dormant contest between, the mainstream and moderate al-Fatah, ruling West Bank, and the radical Hamas, ruling Gaza Strip. The two ruling factions are mostly mutually exclusive, both territorially and in their political orientation. Al-Fatah has gradually lost its cohesion and popularity since the death of its iconic founder and PA President Yasir Arafat in 2004. It is currently riven by dissidence against the leadership of 85-year old President Mahmoud Abbas. Thus, the coming elections offered Hamas an opportunity to launch an electoral campaign of sort for the West Bank by launching a salvo of its Qassam rockets from Gaza to Jerusalem on May 10. Although the gambit provoked a conflagration with Israel, it figured that the potential political gains outweighed the costs.Among the players outside the immediate theatre of conflict, Egypt and the United States (US) are the most important. The military regime of Egypt – the only country with a land border with Gaza – has no love lost for Hamas which was closely allied to Muslim Brotherhood it ousted. While it did not mind Hamas being pummelled, it also had to be seen as not letting the Gazans down. So, Egypt rendered some humanitarian assistance and mediated a ceasefire between Hamas and Israel.The US labels Hamas as a terrorist organisation. While the Joe Biden administration had initially kept its distance from PM Netanyahu, it leveraged the hostilities to ingratiate itself to Israel and the pro-Israel domestic lobby in the US, by supplying weapons and ammunition and maintaining frequent and closer contacts “to de-escalate the conflict.” It also stone-walled any anti-Israel moves at the UN Security Council giving the Jewish state’s military the time to “sanitise” Gaza. Similarly, it leveraged the crisis to re-engage links with some influential Arab leaders whom it had hitherto kept at arms distance.The humanitarian tragedy in Gaza has embarrassed some moderate Arab regimes, particularly those which had recently signed the Abraham Accords. Though tactically put on the defensive, their respective overtures towards Israel were based on the pursuance of their respective national interests and are unlikely to be reversed. Israel’s normalisation with other Arab and Muslim countries might, however, be put on hold for better optics.To rationalise the ceasefire, a new wheel of cynical calculus has to be spun. On its part, Hamas is certain to claim having won the war by merely surviving it. Having defanged Hamas and PIJ, their martyrdom status is not in Israel’s interest: it would only lead to the preponderance of the hardliners in Ramallah within al-Fatah, or with a Hamas takeover. Cynically speaking, the current Palestinian dispensation, sans Hamas’s offensive capability, serves Israeli – and most other stakeholders’s — strategic interests. And so just as cynical calculations led to the conflict, a cynical synergy in objectives has led to its end, for now.Mahesh Sachdev is a retired Indian ambassador with expertise in West Asia and President of Eco-Diplomacy and Strategies, a Delhi-based consultancyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-the-israel-hamas-conflict-the-victory-of-cynicism-101621928830548.html
25-05-2021||Today's||A tale of two infections||The life-threatening infection, mucormycosis, informally referred to as the black fungus, is currently raging as a part of the aggressive second wave of Covid-19. Epidemiological data suggests an estimated global prevalence of 140 cases per million population, of which over 40% is contributed by India. The fungal order responsible for causing it is Mucorales, the third most common pathogenic fungal infection following Candidiasis and Aspergillosis. The mucorales like others (yeasts, moulds, mushrooms) are ubiquitously distributed fungi that exist in decaying organic matter, damp places, soil, plants, water, air and animals.At greatest risk are people with uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, blood cancer, and those with organ transplantation or receiving regular immunosuppressive drugs and/or steroids. Hyperglycemia (high sugars), especially in the presence of elevated available serum iron and diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA), is the most common factor. The inability of a compromised host immune system to suppress Mucorales germination precipitates infection, which, upon widespread dissemination, is virtually impossible to resolve.Also Read | When the pandemic hits the highest peakThe hallmark of mucormycosis is the invasion of blood vessels by Mucorales spores that germinate and invade host cells causing tissue necrosis (death), which becomes visible only at very late stages of infection. More often than not, diagnosis is delayed. The high mortality rates (45-60%) associated with mucormycosis are reflective not only of the aggressive nature of the infection, but also of the dysregulated innate immune response seen in Covid-19 as well as the cytokine storm observed in the more severe disease with eventual immune exhaustion.A recent publication by Soliman and others from the University of California Los Angeles in Nature Microbiology (March 2021) has demonstrated that high mortality of the condition is attributed to the release of a preformed toxin (new venom), named Mucoricin, which could also be the promising therapeutic target.The widespread reports of mucormycosis point to multiple factors, of which high prevalence of diabetes mellitus — over 80 million known cases in India and several that remain unreported or undetected — is of utmost importance. Of the over 8,500 reported cases of mucormycosis in India, over 90% are in people who are either known diabetics or have new onset (Covid or steroid related) diabetes mellitus.The injudicious use of steroids with improper dosage, duration, timing as well as self-medication contributes directly or indirectly to this. Generalised lymphopenia induced by Coronavirus, characterised by the specific depletion of killer T-cells, provides further impetus to the deadly fungus.In addition to hyperglycemia, DKA is known to predispose subjects with diabetes to mucormycosisowing to the high cellular iron and low serum pH (acidosis). Iron is an essential micronutrient for most organisms and fungi are no exception. A report published in the April 2021 issue of Journal of Fungi suggests that iron metabolism holds the key for the development of mucormycosis, and that serum iron and glucose together enhance the expression of glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78), the novel host receptor that mediates invasion and damage of human endothelial cells by Rhizopus oryzae.Published literature, supported by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), recommend six vitamins (D, A, C, Folate, B6, B12) and four minerals (zinc, iron, copper and selenium) as essential constituents for resistance to viral infections because of their ability to enhance immune function and reduce inflammation.But addition of zinc may worsen the course of mucormycosis. This is supported by the fact that Zinc chelators (compounds that bind it in blood) like Clioquinol with posaconazole are the most active combination in ameliorating mucor in animals. This may be relevant in the Indian setting as during the pandemic, there has been an unprecedented, over the counter use of drugs of unproven benefit such as vitamin C, D and zinc. The latter may be doing more harm than good and may explain the high incidence of mucormycosis.The key to prevention of mucormycosis is prompt control of hyperglycemia, maintenance of hygiene, and judicious use of steroids; the key to treating it is early diagnosis for ameliorating morbidity and mortality. It is critical to have high index of suspicion even on observing subtle symptoms. For suspected cases, prompt imaging (contrast enhanced MRI of paranasal sinuses/ brain or plain CT chest), with or without fungal scrapping/culture from the accessible tissues, is of utmost importance. Successful treatment of mucormycosis requires multidisciplinary approach involving multiple specialists.General experience of treating patients with various brain tumours, endocrine disorders such as the Cushing’s syndrome as well as a multitude of other medical indications where steroids are generally prescribed in high doses shows opportunistic fungal infections especially mucormycosis do occur, but in modest proportions. Why then is there a sudden spurt in cases in Covid-19 where comparatively moderate steroid doses of short duration are used? Could there be a specific affliction between Sars-CoV-2 derived viral proteins and the steroid compounds? Are there specific host determined factors that might predispose a certain group of individuals? Clearly, further research is needed to understand the pharmacokinetics of drug-protein interaction, besides devising easier diagnostic and prophylactic strategies.Even though mucormycosis is a serious opportunistic infection among patients with Covid-19 treated with steroids and those having uncontrolled hyperglycemia, it is important to remove undue fear and anxiety by creating guarded awareness among health care workers and the public.Mohd Ashraf Ganie is the Professor of Endocrinology and Metabolism at Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, SrinagarNK Mehra is Indian Council of Medical Research Emeritus Scientist (Hon) and former Dean of the AIIMS, New Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-tale-of-two-infections-101621926612862.html
25-05-2021||Today's||For PM Modi, the seven-year itch||In August 2020, when a Mood of the Nation poll showed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity still rock solid, a senior Congress leader rang me up in anger: “Why are you running these farzi (false) polls? So much distress after the lockdown and you godi (pliant) media people are still trapped in Modi mania.” A few months later, when the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) won the Bihar elections, albeit with a reduced margin, the leader called back, this time in a more sheepish voice: “Guess the lockdown didn’t make that much of a difference to voter behaviour.”In the last seven years, Narendra Modi has been a colossal figure in Indian politics. He is almost like the Pied Piper to whose tune millions would happily clap and bang utensils, light diyas, or even willingly lighten their pocket of ₹500 and ₹1,000 notes.And yet, the cruel Covid summer of 2021 is perhaps a watershed moment for Modi’s leadership. As he completes seven years in office on May 26, there are visible signs that the halo is losing its glow. Call it the seven-year itch, or more appropriately the one-year virus, but the PM is not quite the indomitable presence of even nine months ago.While a year ago, his serial televised addresses to the nation were similar to an all-powerful general leading the citizenry into a self-proclaimed Mahabharat-like war against Covid 19, his less assured public presence now betrays unease and uncertainty in the face of unimaginable grief. A year ago, the PM could demand obedience to his “stay at home” instruction; today, even his tears don’t seem to move those who have witnessed a brazen disregard for Covid protocols while seeking votes on the campaign trail.Also Read | SC to hear plea seeking SIT probe into alleged post-poll violence in West BengalThe seven-year itch is an interesting prime ministerial syndrome to explore. Modi will be the fourth Indian PM to complete seven years in office. The first, Jawaharlal Nehru, was a much adored leader whose political graph took a significant dip in 1959, just a little over seven years after he won the first general elections. The dismissal of an elected Kerala government and the onset of a bloody boundary dispute with China tarred the Nehruvian age. By 1973-74, seven years into her prime ministership, Indira Gandhi was confronted with rising prices, a faltering economy and growing political unrest, culminating in the dark hour of the Emergency. Manmohan Singh too was fatally besieged by the anti-corruption Anna movement in 2011, seven years after becoming the “accidental” PM.Modi too now faces his moment of truth. His initial appeal was drawn from his claim to be an anti-establishment folk hero, a man from humble origins who combined religio-nationalist zeal with the image of an anti-corruption crusader and a development icon. For seven years, this image has been artfully managed, a teflon-like coating ensuring that no blame ever stuck to it. The Covid-19 surge is the first time that the glossy protective veil around the PM’s persona is being lifted and a governance deficit lies exposed: the optics of a tika utsav for example cannot compensate for a floundering vaccine policy.The government propaganda machine can blame the Covid crisis on the all-pervasive, unaccountable “system”; the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) can attempt to spread a positive spirit; the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s social media cell can focus on toolkit controversies. In normal times, these moves might even gain traction. But in extraordinary times, the blackened pyres and rising flames in crematoriums make public relations exercises look terribly jarring, insensitive distractions. And the misuse of agencies in West Bengal appears even more like a sore loser’s attempt to destabilise political rivals at a time when unity and consensus building is the need of the hour.The PM still enjoys a considerable reservoir of goodwill. To believe that the Modi era is coming to an abrupt end would be foolhardy and akin to making the same mistake that the Congress leader made last August when questioning poll numbers. After all, the durability of Modi’s appeal is also dependent to a great extent on the disjointed state of the opposition.Also Read | HC questions Centre for denying visa to OCI card holder as mother visited PakBut like in the Covid fight, complacency is a dangerous attitude in public life. The next year is decisive because in every state that goes to the polls within a year from now, the Covid shadow will loom large. Nowhere are the stakes higher than in Uttar Pradesh, the pivot to Modi and the BJP’s dominance of Indian politics in recent times. In 2014, Modi carved a national stature for himself when he decided to contest from Varanasi and famously claimed that he had been called by “Ma Ganga”. Today, as the dead wash up on the Ganga’s banks, the stench of unclaimed bodies is a reminder of a putrefying political system where the citizens were promised so much more than what was actually delivered. The headline-grabbing dream merchant of 2014 must now transform himself into a nuts and bolts crisis manager to ensure that his government too, like those led by other PMs in their seventh year, is not pushed into ventilator mode.Post-script: In 2019, just ahead of the general elections, I met an astrologer on the campaign trail. “Modi will be PM for sure, the BJP will get more than 300 seats and the NDA will score more than 350,” he predicted. But there was a sting to his tale: “But Modi will have rough time mid way through his term, I can’t say how and why.” As an avowed rationalist, I walked away with a dismissive grin. Now, the words are proving uncannily prophetic.Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-pm-modi-the-seven-year-itch-101621924270073.html
