26-05-2021||Today's||In a pandemic, the power of the rumour||On average, in 2019, Indian internet users spent close to 2.5 hours on social media everyday. Average usage went up to 4.3 hours during the first phase of the 2020 nationwide lockdown, later stabilising to 3.3 hours by the end of June 2020. For many Indians, who were isolated and confined to their homes, social media outlets such as WhatsApp and Facebook enabled convenient and seamless access and dissemination of health information, including information related to curbs and restrictions.Yet, health information, specifically on social media, is often published, shared, and re-shared, irrespective of its veracity, frequently leading to the spread of misinformation and rumours under the guise of truth. Covid-19 is the first pandemic in history where technology and social media are being used on a massive scale, and widespread dissemination of health rumours has been rampant, prompting the World Health Organization (WHO) to also call the pandemic an “infodemic”.Also Read | A tale of two infectionsHealth-related rumours spread fast and not only hinder individual display of desirable health behaviour but also prevent the seamless implementation of institutional efforts to manage public health. To be sure, a pandemic gives rise to confusion, ambiguity, anxiety, and uncertainty, which, in turn, may lead to increased transmission of health rumours. The accuracy, veracity, and perceived credibility of the source are ignored, more so on social media where users are already cognitively overloaded with too much information.As such, studies find that during a crisis (e.g. natural disaster, terror attack, global pandemic), sharing rumours works like a coping mechanism. People draw a false sense of relief, such that anxiety or fears associated with the uncertain situation is momentarily reduced. But in the long-run, during a pandemic, prior research finds that health rumours, exchanged in a community, can instil fear.One such fear is about the Covid-19 vaccine. Vaccine hesitancy, in 2019, was named as one of the top 10 threats to global health by WHO. This was announced after the global uptake rates for the measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine slipped to 85%, significantly lower the required target of 95%. Further, the presence of anti-vaxxers, a cult across the world that shares the belief that vaccines cause more harm than good, and opposes vaccines for a variety of reasons including religious beliefs, indicates that these ideas exist even though there is evidence to the contrary. In the United States (US), half the population is now fully vaccinated. But survey-based findings reveal that close to 25% refuses to get jabbed altogether.While India’s core crisis today is vaccine shortage, and data on hesitancy is inadequate, it would be a mistake to ignore the role of the latter as supplies shore up. This stems from distrust in health institutions and experts, misunderstanding related to herd immunity, fear related to rapid vaccine development, and new side effects, supplemented and reinforced by conspiracy theories and misinformation circulating widely on social media.Technology-enabled rumour dissemination can conflict with public health and safety interventions during a pandemic. Since the internet and social media are important sources for health information, governments and health agencies must establish an engaging web presence to debunk misinformation and fill the knowledge gaps. Some of this is already happening, but a lot more is desirable.Engaging celebrities and social media influencers can motivate people who are less eager to take the vaccine. To be sure, social media platforms such as Facebook, YouTube, and WhatsApp (to name a few) have been proactive in adding features that allow users to access verified information, but they must double their efforts in flagging misinformation and rapidly removing heath rumours.If the government is to be believed, India’s current crisis of shortage will ease in the next few months. Then, the challenge will not be in supply, but ensuring that citizens understand that a vaccine is the most effective protective mechanism that is currently known and available. Putting the rumours to rest is a national imperative.Payal S Kapoor is associate professor (Marketing), FORE School of Management, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-a-pandemic-the-power-of-the-rumour-101622024234451.html
26-05-2021||Today's||As India-US ties confront new realities, Jaishankar’s visit is critical||External affairs minister S Jaishankar’s visit to the United States (US) — his official meetings in Washington kick off on May 27— comes at a time when India is grappling with a debilitating second wave of Covid-19. Though the situation on the ground seems to be stabilising gradually, the long-term challenge of vaccinating a huge population still looms large. It’s natural, therefore, that a lot of focus during this visit is on health-related bilateral engagement.But this is an important visit in its own right, as the first visit at the highest echelons from the Indian side to the US after the election of Joe Biden. It would have happened much earlier, had it not been for Covid-19 first consuming the US and then India. Bilateral ties, however, have continued to deepen with the visits of Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and climate envoy John Kerry to India, and the US President himself convening the Quad leaders summit within the first 100 days of the new administration.Jaishankar’s visit will seek to review the entire gamut issues shaping India-US bilateral relationship, but the realities of the pandemic in India will ensure that issues related to health cooperation will get maximum coverage. After an initial delay, the Biden administration has been very vocal in its support for India in managing the second wave. The US President himself underlined his nation’s resolve in helping India at a critical juncture, reciprocating the help India had provided to the US during its severe first wave. “Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need.”Also Read | US Congressional committee passes resolution to express solidarity with IndiaThis has resulted in the US mobilising around $100 million worth of Covid-19 relief assistance, with extensive help from the US corporate sector and the US Congress. This assistance has included oxygen plants, concentrators, critical medicines as well as raw materials for vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India (SII).Given India’s current requirements, the issue of vaccine procurement is likely to hog the limelight as Jaishankar will seek support from various stakeholders, including the US government, for India’s efforts towards procuring and producing these critical vaccines. As India takes these talks forward, it will be hoping to get full support from the Biden administration that has announced it will distribute 80 million vaccines from its stockpile to countries in need. While some of it will come to India, the broader issue for India will be to ensure vaccine production in India.Domestic political debate in India is heating up and state governments want the Centre to respond fast in ensuring smooth supply of vaccines. India’s ambassador to the US, Taranjit Sandhu, has been engaging leading vaccine manufacturers of the US — Pfizer, Johnson and Johnson and Moderna — to see if local production in India in partnership with Indian entities can be kickstarted.Jaishankar will be taking this forward during his visit as pharma majors remain reluctant to relinquish their proprietary knowledge and decrease their profit margins. What will be needed is a long-term road map of bilateral cooperation in the health sector as issues emanating from Covid-19 and its aftermath are unlikely to go away anytime soon.This issue also goes beyond the bilateral. The two nations have to work at the global level. The US has backed India’s proposal for a TRIPS waiver at the World Trade Organisation that New Delhi argues is the only way to ensure enough vaccine production to tackle the challenge of vaccinating the poorest nations of the world. Global supply chains will have to respond to the growing global demand for vaccines and in a global pandemic, the fundamental reality remains that no one is secure until everyone is.Also Read | Jaishankar, Guterres discuss Covid-19 vaccines, AfghanistanIn India’s immediate vicinity, the country’s decision to halt exports of vaccines is also changing health and geopolitical equations. As China steps up its vaccine diplomacy, nations in South Asia and the wider Indo-Pacific will have little choice but to embrace Chinese vaccines despite their questionable track record. India’s partners such as the US will have to pitch in to help nations in managing their responses to Covid-19. Some of this has already begun to happen with Australia, Japan and the US trying to help South Asian nations by providing emergency relief funds and helping with vaccine procurement. But much more will have to be done in the coming months if the pandemic has to be successfully contained.This was, after all, reflected in the agenda of the Quad leaders summit earlier this year which sought to expand the vaccination capacity of India to produce one billion doses by 2022 with US and Japanese funds and Australian logistics. As Jaishankar engages the US leadership on regional security issues, it will be critical for him to underscore that a robust response to the present crisis by India’s Quad partners will go a long way in shoring up the credibility of the platform.The debate around vaccines and health today implicates almost all major strands of the India-US partnership – trade and global supply chains, the Indo-Pacific strategic environment as well as the future of multilateralism. In his interactions with officials and diplomats from India to the United Nations, Jaishankar has expressed confidence that the country will continue to shape the “big debates of our times.” He is right but this will need the support of India’s partners. His visit to the US this week can go a long way in shaping the response of one of New Delhi’s key partners.Harsh V Pant is professor, King’s College, London, and director of studies, Observer Research Foundation, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/as-india-us-ties-confront-new-realities-jaishankar-s-visit-is-critical-101622021234124.html
26-05-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | Decoding the evolution of coronaviruses||Coronaviruses infect many animals. Bats are often singled out as culprits in spillover events, but they are not unique. In fact, humans have transmitted Sars-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes Covid-19, to animals like cats, minks, and gorillas.Viruses don’t always respect species boundaries. They recognise receptors to attach to and cells to infect. There are currently around 220 viruses known to infect humans, of which seven are coronaviruses.Coronaviruses have been responsible for two epidemics and one pandemic in the last two decades. In recent months, scientists have discovered two more novel coronaviruses that infect humans. There are certainly many more. The simple fact is the more we search in the “virosphere”, the more viruses we will find.Before Sars, there was limited interested in coronaviruses. A perspective in Science in 2003 called coronavirology one of the “backwaters” of virology. After Sars, when scientists searched intensively for new coronaviruses, they found two that cause common cold-like infections.Also Read | A tale of two infectionsThere are many reasons we will find more viruses.First, the molecular tools of virology are relatively new, and sampling of animals has traditionally been limited to species and classes of viruses with greatest pandemic potential. Second, some spillover events from animals may be relatively recent. Third, some of viruses may be infecting people but escaping detection because they are not causing disease. Others may cause disease, but may be self-limited to non-specific symptoms of pneumonia or gastrointestinal problems that get better within a few days.In COVID-19: Separating Fact from Fiction, I mention the various interactions between viruses and humans. There are millions of viruses that don’t infect human cells at all. There are a few viruses that infect people in spillover events, but don’t spread further. There are others can infect people but do not cause recognisable disease. Yet others that result in disease may not have outward transmission to other people. Viruses that transmit from one person to another might stop spreading if they don’t transmit well.Of course, of greatest concern are viruses like Sars-CoV-2 that transmit well and cause disease. These viruses cause significant disease and death and they threaten to remain in human populations.A preprint on MedRxiv describes a pig coronavirus found in blood samples of children in Haiti who had acute fever of unknown cause a few years ago. By sampling the genome and comparing with other known viruses, researchers found that these infections were the result of at least two past spillover events. The causative coronavirus belongs to a family that was not thought to typically infect humans. It is currently unknown whether the virus caused the fever in the children or whether it was simply coincidentally present. We also don’t know how prevalent this coronavirus is in broader populations.Another description of a novel coronavirus is in an article in Clinical Infectious Diseases. Eight samples collected from children hospitalised in rural Malaysia with pneumonia many years ago turned up a canine coronavirus. This virus seems to have sequences that are similar to dog coronaviruses but also to coronaviruses found in cats and pigs.Sars-CoV-2 is also a virus that seem to have different genetic sequences that are similar to coronaviruses from different animals. What the discovery of the hybrid canine coronavirus in Malaysia reinforces is that recombination events, which result in new viruses that are made up of parts of other viruses, are common in nature.The newly identified virus is the first canine coronavirus found to infect people, a trait that may have taken years of evolution to acquire. Like the other novel coronavirus which spilled over from pigs, it hasn’t yet been shown to cause disease; it might even result in dead-end infections.Both studies underscore a fact. We do not know how many coronaviruses infect humans. Better surveillance for coronaviruses is needed especially when humans and animals are in close proximity and there are outbreaks of pneumonia of unknown causes. The virus identified in Malaysia was found because of a highly sensitive RT-PCR test that checked for many different coronavirus types.Neither of these two new coronaviruses are capable of causing a pandemic right now. They were found because scientists were looking for them. But there is a need to search for viruses that infect people, because a virus might lurk undetected and be just a few years away from causing the next pandemic.We can speculate what might happen when viruses remain undetected and cause infections in people. Over years, in the test tube of human cells, they might acquire additional mutations that allow them to become more capable of replicating and transmitting to others. In the process of using up the cell’s resources, they might cause severe disease. These scenarios are catastrophic for us, but there is nothing nefarious here, only evolution at work.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From FictionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/decoding-the-evolution-and-possible-proliferation-of-coronaviruses-101622015773310.html
