27-05-2021||Today's||Covid-19 and the disease of inequality||Abandoned by the State that insisted on locking down, refusing to recognise the damage done to their livelihoods, India’s workers asserted their rights and made themselves heard by walking home in March 2020. The long march home was emblematic of the suffering and hardship unleashed by the first wave.A year later, it is India’s broken health system and the suffering it has unleashed even on the most privileged that have dominated public imagination. Ironically, the scale of the health crisis has rendered invisible the deepening livelihood crisis that India confronts, drowning out the voices that fought a callous State and asserted their rights barely a year ago. It is a measure of how easily the State abandons its people that two months into the second wave, the looming livelihood crisis awaits acknowledgement by the government and relief, such as it is, remains sporadic and inadequate. The poor, long abandoned by India’s broken health system, is now being forced to suffer the indignity of abandoning their dead.Also Read | India runs the risk of losing its pharma edgeThe second wave hit an economy that was showing signs of deepening structural inequality caused by Covid-19. The recently released State of Working India report by researchers at the Azim Premji University points out that 2020 saw a dramatic decrease in incomes for a majority of India’s workers. The cumulative income loss was higher among poorer households (27% for the bottom 10%). For the poor, the loss of income on a low base inevitably resulted in a significant cutback in consumption. A Hunger Watch survey points out that in October 2020, one in three respondents reported skipping meals “sometimes” or “often”, and 71% of households reported a worsening in the nutritional quality of their food intake.The dynamics of India’s post-lockdown economic recovery pointed to a structural problem, which India failed to confront in 2020. The formal economy, notably large, saw listed firms benefitting through the pandemic at the cost of, as economist Pranjul Bhandari has pointed out, putting several small and informal firms that employ the bulk of India’s workers, in distress. This profit-led, jobless recovery saw formal salaried employees entering informal employment. Drawing on Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) data, the State of Working India report reveals that nearly half of India’s formal salaried workers moved into informal work, either as self-employed (30%), casual wage (10%) or informal salaried (9%) workers, in 2020.The State, on its part, responded with a bare minimal relief. This did little to stem rising inequality. The limited fiscal stimulus and lack of income support arguably contributed to deepening inequality, even as it provided some succour against extreme hunger and starvation.The second wave has brought with it a new set of challenges that will exacerbate inequality. First, because the Centre has abdicated all responsibility, state governments are charting their course. The result has been a medley of state-level lockdowns, with the burden of providing economic relief now solely on state governments.In principle, state governments ought to lead the charge on relief and income support, for they are likely to face differential economic consequences, linked to disease transmission dynamics and state-specific socioeconomic profiles. However, now that states are being asked to take on the financial burden for vaccines, health infrastructure and relief, adequate fiscal support, denied in the first wave from the Centre to states, is critical. Absent this, relief measures, especially in poorer states, will inevitably be sporadic and inadequate.Also Read | Tough but crucial lockdown decision enabled Delhi to tame deadliest waveSecond, state governments have failed to learn crucial lessons from 2020. The one relief measure announced by the Centre, and complemented by state-specific efforts, has been the reinstatement of last year’s provision of supplementary food rations through the public distribution system (PDS). However, migrant workers were ignored. It has taken the interventions of the Supreme Court to get state governments to expand grain provision to migrant workers who, despite grand announcements of one-nation one-ration card, still do not have access to PDS outside their home states. And even today, bureaucratic obsession with paperwork and the need to distribute temporary ration cards, is coming in the way of enabling easy access. In recent weeks, NGOs are reporting a rise in distress calls.Finally, unlike last year, Covid-19 is now spreading to rural areas. In 2020, India’s workers relied heavily on the rural economy to survive the crisis and the economy depended on rural demand. This is not the case now. CMIE data is indicating increased unemployment in rural India in May. And demand for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) has outstripped supply. The livelihood crisis is visible and stark.Reports have it that the Centre is mulling over a fiscal stimulus, no doubt worrying about its implications for fiscal deficit and spooking markets. Yet the longer the government takes to act, the greater will be the demand shock. The policy prescriptions are well known. We need expanded fiscal support to state governments, universal PDS, continuous and expanded funding of MGNREGS. The Indian economy cannot afford a callous State. If not for citizens, then at least for the markets, the State needs to act now.Yamini Aiyar is president and chief executive, Centre for Policy Research The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid19-and-the-disease-of-inequality-101622117390142.html
27-05-2021||Today's||India runs the risk of losing its pharma edge||The world now agrees that the only solution to the Covid-19 pandemic is to vaccinate, vaccinate, vaccinate. New Delhi has joined the consensus, thanks to a brutal second Covid-19 wave. Equally belatedly, India has realised there is a race among countries seeking vaccine dominance. A major step in India’s new vaxpolitik was placing jabs at the heart of an upgraded British relationship and in its present interactions with the United States (US).The world has so far produced two billion vaccine doses but needs 11 billion more by year-end —with several billion boosters possibly needed every subsequent year. The countries on top of this process will benefit enormously, from goodwill to profits to know-how.India, long the world’s largest vaccine maker, could lose its crown of jabs. It excels in mass manufacturing, but lags in innovation. The country’s workhorse Covid-19 vaccine, made by the Serum Institute of India, uses a British formula. Worse, there is no Indian vaccine using mRNA technology, though one is in the works, and this is the future of vax tech. With the world’s largest child population, vaccines crucial to its pharma sector, and for national security concerns, India needs to work hard to ensure its vaccine throne is not usurped.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine supply hasn’t closed, says Dr VK PaulTo stay ahead of the pack, India must create its own pack. This means international partners for funding, tech and markets. The Astra Zeneca-Serum Institute-Oxford University triad is seen as exemplary leading to inexpensive vaccines, zero patent hassles and export opportunities. Britain’s pharma sector is infused with a non-profit culture. All of this provides a template for a future bilateral partnership in vaccines, diagnostics and more. In contrast, while US inputs are indispensable to India’s vaccine production, New Delhi’s experience with US big pharma has been bruising – Pfizer and Merck were at the forefront of the intellectual property rights (IPR) pharma battles between India and the US in the 1990s and early 2000s, which still rankles.The meat of the new India-United Kingdom (UK) relationship is medicinal. Foreign minister S Jaishankar highlighted the “action plan on health and life sciences, that includes cooperation on vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics”. The bilateral road map puts down the ambitious target of “helping guarantee equitable global supply [of Covid vaccine] by April 2022.” As important is the long-term plan to align medical standards, institutions and people.Britain was a thought-out choice. Its medical researchers are second in quality citations using the H index, number two in medicine Nobels, and its universities are among Europe’s best. And London is willing. Prime Minister Boris Johnson often cites the Astra Zeneca success, but also needs partners to fulfil his government’s plans “to develop vaccines against emerging diseases in 100 days.”New Delhi’s science bureaucracy was fixated on simply adding more vaccine assembly lines. Foreign assistance was treated as only about funds – like the Quad vaccine agreement. Overseas tie-ups for new technologies were spurned. It was proud of a domestic pipeline of 30 plus vaccine possibilities, even though few are cutting edge and their development meant a leisurely time frame. Events have tragically shown this attitude as misguided. India should have put vaccines on mission mode; instead, they were left to a five-year plan.A longer-term problem is the lack of urgency about mastering mRNA vaccine technology. Mutating viruses require nimble vaccines. The older technologies India depends on have gestation periods of 10 years or more. mRNA vaccines can be put together at warp speed — no living cells are needed, fewer ingredients are required, and batches can be cooked up in two hours. Next-gen mRNA are scalable and do not require deep freezers.Also Read | India scraps local trials for Covid vaccines to fast-track importsPresently, Gennova is the only Indian firm with an mRNA candidate. If the next few years are a race between Covid variants and vax upgrades, mRNA will become the global standard. And if India does not find allies to develop its own versions, it will lose its vaccine supremacy and end up seeing its own costs rise. China has begun trials of its first mRNA vaccine, Walvax. Pfizer’s CEO has told investors he plans to sell Covid boosters for $150 plus.Signing up with Britain is not the only element of India’s new vaxpolitik. The US, the European Union and Japan are crucial as well. A single vaccine vial can require as many as 200 different ingredients and components. Many of these are monopolies. The capping technology used in all mRNA vaccines, for example, is the monopoly of one US firm. When the Indian foreign minister and his US counterpart, Anthony Blinken, met at the G-7 foreign minister’s meeting, vaccines were topic number one on the agenda — as will be the theme of their discussion during Jaishankar’s current visit to Washington.Vaxpolitik requires the country’s health care and life science bureaucracy to think in strategic terms, with India as part of a global coalition rather than a stand-alone nation. A deep-seated tradition to see pharmaceuticals as a matter of price haggling, using other’s intellectual property, and sticking with obsolete processes needs to be changed.Washington’s leftward shift on the issue may mean India will get patent waivers for mRNA ingredients. If so, New Delhi needs to have a plan to help Indian pharma firms master the new techniques and standards required. Vaccines were once a sleepy low-margin high-volume niche that pharma multinationals were happy to leave to India. It is set to become cut-throat, high-tech and geopolitical with no guarantee India will come out a winner.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/india-runs-the-risk-of-losing-its-pharma-edge-101622114315490.html
