28-05-2021||Today's||In rural India, the government must walk the last mile||If the government wants to control the sharp surge in coronavirus cases, it has to ensure the collection and reporting of correct and usable data for rural India, transparently and with the help of epidemiologists. Until testing is done effectively across the country’s rural spread, we will not be able to ascertain the scope and extent of this virus’s devastation; more importantly, we will not be able to forecast scenarios and put in place or implement any workable strategy and plan.In Haryana, the state which I belong to, panchayats were dismantled in February 2021. In Uttar Pradesh (UP), the largest state in the country and the most populated, panchayat elections have just concluded; so the new panchayat members have not settled in fully. This absence or weakness on the last leg of governance is the reason for the poor, non-proactive response to the epidemic. This can be easily remedied by activating the gram sabhas, the panchayat sachivs, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and block development officers to work in concert on testing and treatment.Also Read | Rural demand to remain muted due to Covid-19: Ind-RaThe government must engage with all kinds of rural community organisations, including non-profits working in these areas. Khaps in UP and Haryana should be engaged proactively. It is vital that rural communities be convinced about the need for Covid-appropriate protocols, and the need for testing and vaccinating. Hardly any testing happens in rural areas as most labs are in urban locations. It is not always feasible to send samples for RT-PCR tests from rural areas to urban centres. The logistics chain for the transfer of such samples does not exist.Hence, for rural areas, the government will have to shift to rapid antigen testing (RAT). This will reduce the time for testing and processing. More RAT kits will have to be procured; the manufacturing of such kits should be scaled up. In a country like India, these kits are the most crucial first line of defence. Until we know the extent of the problem, we won’t be able to commit the necessary resources or eradicate the scourge. This is not ideal, and it is not enough, for we know the RT-PCR tests are the gold standard — but we are facing a situation of no tests, and a positive result in rapid antigen tests will give a sense of the spread and catch at least a segment of cases early on.Rural areas need far more resources, especially as health care services there have been neglected for long. Doctors and nurses do not like to work in rural areas due to poor infrastructure, the absence of educational facilities, and several other reasons. We cannot force any professional to work in rural areas, so we need to offer incentives to attract them; district commissioners (DCs) or sub-divisional magistrates should be empowered to hire doctors or nurses for a year until this epidemic gets over or slows down appreciably. They should be paid higher salaries than offered by the private sector. This is particularly important for anaesthesiologists as they are a crucial cog in the epidemic treatment process. Anaesthesiologists are needed to operate a ventilator in an intensive care unit for a Covid patient. Ventilators are lying unused in several district-level hospitals as there are no anaesthesiologists.My experience as chief minister (CM) is that there has to be a clear line of communication with district magistrates (DMs) and DCs in any disaster, along with some freedom and flexibility for last-mile officers. Yet some CMs are monitoring the spread of Covid at the last mile. Even the Prime Minister is trying to talk to them directly. But talking or holding a Zoom call once in a while is not the way to handle an epidemic, especially at the state-level.The CM has to set up a system for monitoring, tracking and implementing at district-level in his own office. The epidemic will come under control only in states where there is a clear system connecting the CM to DM. For a huge state such as UP, Bihar or Madhya Pradesh, it is difficult for the CM to manage all the districts; the responsibility for such coordination should be given to another minister.Systemic weaknesses have been clearly exposed in the epidemic. The capability and governance gaps are visible to all; these can be criticised ad-nauseam but it does not serve any purpose in times of emergency. In these times, it is important to build solutions, bridge the gaps, and address the problem jointly. History will judge each and every one of us. History will ask us what we were doing during this epidemic. History will ask us whether we made the problem worse or came up with solutions, helped somebody, procured resources. The role of political leaders, whether in power or in Opposition, is crucial. Real leaders should be in their constituencies, working with and for the people. If they are not with the people now, they cannot be called political leaders. If they are sitting at home, they are not leaders. Leaders lead from the front; in this war on Covid, the front is where the people are sick or need our help the most.There’s no point in being a political leader only on social media. Much of rural India is not on social media. They cannot ask for help on social media via some App. Keep your phone lines open, deploy your party workers on the helplines, and on the ground for resource distribution. I know some areas that have barred politicians from coming into the villages. This is a sign that the overt dereliction of duty by political leaders has not been lost on their constituents.A post-Covid world is a long way away; the falling numbers in our cities should not fool the Union government into believing that the epidemic is over. The virus is shifting regions, striking villages, small towns and other cities. The district in-charge needs to start separating the data for the big cities, small cities, towns and villages. But this will only happen if all levels of governance rebuild transparency and faith in the data.This epidemic has to be fought together. Only if we rise above petty gains will we be able to defeat this invisible and deadly enemy that is attacking our fundamental right to a healthy life.Bhupinder Singh Hooda is a former chief minister of HaryanaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-rural-india-the-government-must-walk-the-last-mile-101622197153291.html
28-05-2021||Today's||From the holy river, a story of human tragedy and State callousness||This week, I took a three-hour boat ride down the Ganga, traversing a little over 30 kilometres from the Mehndi Ghat in Kannauj to the Nanamau Ghat in Kanpur Dehat, in pursuit of understanding why dead bodies are piling up on our river banks in Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Bihar and why corpses are floating in the river.Most recently, over a 12-day trip through rural UP, I personally counted more than 1,000 bodies at six different points, spread over a few thousand kilometres from the east to the west of the state.The presence of many graves, and the fact that those who have died during the Covid-19 surge are being abandoned and dumped either because of lack of money for cremations or the continued fear and stigma around the pandemic, is horrifying. But what is even more horrifying is the Indian State’s callous refusal to acknowledge this truth.On the issue of these graves by the river banks in UP, we have seen one of three responses from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its supporters. One, there is absolute denial and a tendency to look the other way, while patting UP on the back for what is patently questionable death data. Second, there is attack on the handful among us who are on the field, in extremely trying physical circumstances, with abuse and threats. And finally, it is claimed that this is an old practice among some communities to bury the dead instead of cremating them and so to link it to Covid-19 is false.Also Read | Farm sector unscathed by 2nd Covid waveIt is this last claim that I will counter by drawing attention to scores of local testimonies recorded on camera.Subhash, a boatman, helped us navigate our way through the water, past stray animals that hovered about corpses and past pyres that were being lit by the banks even in the smallest villages. He told us that the carnage, at its peak, was so bad that he shut down his boats and ran away for a few days. “I have been working for 30 years and I have never seen so many bodies in my life. Mujhe ghabrahat ho gayi (I panicked).”Mayank, a young boy who helps with entries at the Mehndi Ghat cremation ground, said he had counted 1,500 bodies in all at the one single ghat he looks after in recent weeks. “I have worked here for eight years and I have never seen anything like this,” he told me.In Kanpur, where the bodies lie stacked up in ravines so sandy and rocky that our car would not go down and we could only access the spot by motorcycle, local residents said people would come in the cover of the night, when no one was looking, and abandon the bodies and hastily make their way home.At Prayagraj, as the police watched, the Ramnaami chadars were ordered off the makeshift graves — the ultimate indignity. A local pandit walked me through the banks and asked the fundamental question: “Will our Covid dead ever be counted, will we ever know how many people have died from Covid?”Also Read | In a crematorium, a silent Hindu-Muslim bond Theoretically, without exhumation and testing, we cannot unequivocally prove that all of the deaths are from Covid. But the fact that these bodies have piled up at multiple points within the last four to six weeks, the exact period of the second wave, is telling. Especially when you couple it with what’s happening in our villages, where there is hardly any Covid testing and most people are dying in their homes without reaching hospital.At cremation sites, in cases where families had accompanied the bodies for the last rites, villagers testified to a surge of deaths in their hamlets. There was a common refrain. “Every day, four or five bodies leave for the funeral grounds.” This account of a sudden surge in deaths in rural India was true for villages all the way from the east in Varanasi to the west in Basi Gaon, two hours from Delhi.Yes, locals have explained to us that children and young brides have always been buried and never cremated. But none of these customs explain the volume of the bodies all along the Ganga. Even in the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency of Varanasi, in Sujabad, seven bodies had to be buried by locals as they washed ashore. And at the farthest point in Unnao, by the river’s open fields, where there is hardly anyone to be seen, a young cowherd told me that over the past two weeks, 20 bodies had washed ashore or been left in the sand.Angry denials, obfuscation, calling those covering the issue vultures, none of this addresses what’s staring us in the face — the under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths and the stubborn refusal to even count the bodies. India’s citizens deserve better, in life and yes, in death.Barkha Dutt is an award-winning journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-the-holy-river-a-story-of-human-tragedy-and-state-callousness-101622195291922.html
28-05-2021||Today's||The regressive mindset behind the Tarun Tejpal judgment||When the trial of Tarun Tejpal finally began six years after a junior colleague accused him of sexual crimes, including rape, questions put to the woman were so incendiary that she had to ask the Bombay High Court to restrain Tejpal’s lawyers from asking irrelevant and — following the 2013 rape law amendment — illegal questions.Despite that, many of those questions, and replies, are now on public record thanks to a 527-page judgment by Kshama Joshi, the additional sessions judge at Mapusa who acquitted Tejpal of all charges.With its unrelenting focus on the complainant, the judgment tells you less about the sexual crimes Tejpal was accused of and more about his accuser, including her name, email address and identity of her parents and husband (the Bombay High Court has ordered a redaction).We know now her attitude to smoking, drinking and consensual sex; that she had consulted two senior women advocates; had written an article on compensation for rape survivors; is educated, intelligent and aware of the country’s rape laws — though in what way this impacts the credibility of her complaint is not clear.Also Read | ‘No template of apt behaviour after assault’: Experts on Tarun Tejpal verdictWhat she wore when she says Tejpal first assaulted her (chiffon floor-length green and black dress with lining that ended above her knees and thong underwear); her purported sexual history; and conversations with friends, sometimes of a sexual nature, are there in graphic, lurid detail.The law assures rape survivors that their past sexual history is irrelevant. And yet, since the 1977 Mathura verdict, judges continue to shame women who speak up. In March this year, advocate Aparna Bhat moved the Supreme Court to expunge a lower court order that asked a rape survivor to tie a rakhi on her rapist. Justice Ravinder Bhat went a step further and asked the judges to also undergo gender sensitisation training.The Tejpal judgment could have stopped with an acquittal on reasonable doubt due to lack of police evidence. Instead, there are insinuations about the woman’s credibility, including the fact that she admittedly had no physical injuries after the assault. It finds “glaring contradictions”, for instance, in her email complaint to Tehelka managing editor Shoma Chaudhury where she mentions “picking up” her panties while her police statement records that she “pulled” them up. Really?This level of scrutiny seems to be missing from an examination of Tejpal’s defence. It buys into his argument that he apologised, twice, under pressure from the woman who promptly went public once he had — though how she would gain from such disclosure is unclear. It doesn’t question whether the “drunken banter”, claimed by Tejpal, could really be consensual given that he was her boss and 30 years older. And, if it was “banter”, why was he so furious that the woman had told his daughter about it?Ultimately, the Tarun Tejpal verdict is not so much on a man’s alleged crime as it is on his accuser’s behaviour, conduct and beliefs. It tells you why women remain reluctant to speak up.Namita Bhandare writes on genderThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-regressive-mindset-behind-the-tejpal-judgment-101622191811755.html
28-05-2021||Today's||Wuhan Institute of Virology's role in pandemic is first step to make China accountable||In fifty-six days, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) will celebrate 100 years of its existence. In its time, the party has held a political monopoly over the lives of 1.6 billion people and has pushed China to a global power that today rivals the clout of the US in terms of money and military. The CCP on its part has expanded its wings all over the world through frontal organizations such as the United Front Works Department and has managed to penetrate countries of interest through pelf and power.While paramount leader Xi Jinping will extol the virtues of the CCP during the centenary celebrations and project himself as a natural successor to the party’s founding father Mao Zedong, China as a country, is at a crossroads today. The US President has tasked his national intelligence to submit a report within 90 days on whether the origin of the SARS-Cov-2 virus was zoonotic (transfer from animals to humans) or a laboratory accident at the Wuhan Institute of Virology. We are told that the US President will make the intelligence assessment public unless extraordinary circumstances prevent him from doing so. The global scientific community has conjured up tedious arguments to back both hypotheses, but there is enough circumstantial evidence to suggest that the origins of the global pandemic lie in Wuhan with all its secrets either destroyed or buried deep within the virology institute. After the global pandemic has already snuffed out 3.5 million lives, infected 1.6 billion people and destroyed economic livelihoods of far higher numbers, it would be very naïve to assume that China will either allow access to the Wuhan laboratory or provide samples of Patient Zero. Perhaps what will happen will be to the contrary with the Chinese getting more aggressive in their attitude towards their enemies and more demanding of their client states. Given the evidence that points to the involvement of some elements from the US scientific community in promoting the research at WIV, the truth about the origin of the virus from Wuhan will never be found as it will be too inconvenient for G-2 to handle.Consequently, the role of WHO under Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus in wittingly or unwittingly delaying the announcement of a global pandemic will also be remembered by history with a large question mark. Backed by the Africa group, Mr Ghebreyesus will perhaps be elected WHO DG again next May and Beijing will prepare for the XXIV Winter Olympics. But all this will come at a price for China as the country is definitely seen as a kind of Darth Vader by the democratic world due to its aggression towards its adversaries whether it be trade wars with Australia, or its combative approach in the South China Sea and Taiwan with the US, Senkaku Islands with Japan or LAC with India. Everyone knows that talk of the Indo-Pacific and globally resilient supply chains are euphemisms for that which shall not be named.Also Read: China, US clash again on Covid origin, Indo-PacificThe rise of QUAD to counter the Chinese challenge has ensured that Indo-Pacific now finds resonance in Europe, which had handed over the keys of its diplomacy to large corporates trading with China. The EU’s freezing of the Comprehensive Agreement on Investment with China is reflective of the unease within Europe to the big money trade by Germany under Angela Merkel and to some extent France.Given the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) effort to unilaterally change the status quo along the 1597 km long Ladakh LAC in May 2020, India under Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not back down till such time as China restores April 2020 status quo ante on the LAC. While India is awaiting dates from China for the next round of WMCC and the 12th round of military talks on Gogra-Hot Springs disengagement, this may not happen soon — or else PLA will have nothing to show at centenary celebrations of its 2020 aggression. The rapid upgrade of military infrastructure in the hinterland in Tibet and Xinjiang are all a part of an effort to make Fortress China impregnable.If the international community led by the US does not make China accountable for the virus, the next PLA target will be Taiwan, after which the PLA’s nuclear submarines will be free to patrol the Indo-Pacific and virtually impose toll on international ships crossing the South China Sea. The question here is what will trigger a push-back by the democratic world? Virus, Taiwan or Indo-Pacific?The first signs of push-back to China will be dependent on the outcome of the summit between President Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin scheduled on June 16 in Geneva. If the two erstwhile Cold war rivals agree to bring China under the strategic arms control regime, then at least the daily threats of CCP’s propaganda machine on the use of ballistic missiles like DF-21 and 26 on adversaries will stop. Normalization of the relationship between the US and Russia will also pave the way for making China accountable for the spread of the virus in an unsuspecting world.While the QUAD summit is also expected this fall, the grouping must go from being a security talk shop to creating an alternative global supply chain that is not dependent on one country only. For India, this is not only an opportunity but also a challenge. Irrespective of whether the global matrix is a triangle, quadrilateral or a pentagon, it will be at the centre of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/wuhan-institute-of-virology-s-role-in-pandemic-is-first-step-to-make-china-accountable-101622179188333.html
