30-05-2021||Today's||The priority sector lending India needs||The origins of priority sector (PS) lending can be traced back to 1966 when Morarji Desai saw a need for increasing credit to agriculture and small industries. However, the definition for PS was only formalised based on a Reserve Bank of India (RBI) report in the National Credit Council in 1972. After bank nationalisation, the PS formulation also allowed Indira Gandhi to assuage important political lobbies, in a poor country with full adult franchise, through such directed lending. The PS definition grew over time, and was not just limited to important lobby groups, but extended to cover important neglected sectors of the economy. But despite the tweaks, the classification retains a heavy focus on agriculture and small industries (defined as micro, small and medium enterprises or MSME) till today. Banks lend nearly 40% of their adjusted net bank credit (ANBC), a not inconsiderable ₹39,50,205 crore, to the priority sector. The important question that arises, as we battle Covid-19 today, is whether the PS definition needs any change? Are valid categories such as health infrastructure well served? Are we using the full possibilities of JAM — full access to Jan Dhan accounts, universal Aadhaar numbers and near-universal mobile penetration — to address the issues that PS lending cannot achieve, but direct benefit transfers (DBT) may be able to solve? PS includes eight identified sectors. The biggest is agriculture with an 18% target of total ANBC. The other important category is MSMEs. In addition, five sectors are classified as PS — housing, export credit, education, social infrastructure and renewable energy. Social infrastructure has lending caps and covers loans up to a limit of ₹5 crore per borrower for setting up schools, drinking water facilities and sanitation facilities, including construction/ refurbishment of household toilets, and water improvements at the household level. It also covers loans up to a limit of ₹10 crore per borrower for building health care facilities in Tier II to Tier VI centres. The education category covers loans for study or vocational courses. Further, these targets must include 12% loans to defined weaker sections, 7.5% to micro enterprises, and 10% of the agriculture target is for small and marginal farmers.We believe this formulation needs a rethink. First, it is shocking that health is only a sub-category of social infrastructure with a ₹10 crore limit for building hospitals. This needs to be a large independent category where we encourage “right size” not “small size” hospitals — big in urban centres but smaller outside. Second, the need to create institutions for training nurses, health technicians, and health machine operators, and more broadly for training in basic technology and digital applications is dire. Tata chairman N Chandrashekharan has captured this wonderfully in his book Bridgital Nations. Third, educational infrastructure has a low credit limit of ₹5 crore. Finally, loans for purchase of computers and smart phones for low income categories should also be considered as part of PS lending. The related question in respect of PS lending is to assess whether it is the right form of intervention for some of its targeted categories. While allowing banks to lend to micro finance institutions, are there not some PS categories that are better served by grants? How productive has lending to weaker sections and small and marginal farmers in agriculture been? They still struggle after 50 years. The banks lending to these categories in agriculture have double digit non-performing assets (NPA) in their loan portfolios, making the sector economically unviable for them.Granting loans to this borrower segment with the high probability of NPAs creates corruption opportunities for bank managers and create moral hazards for the identified beneficiaries. When there are large defaults in a segment, the farmers repaying the loans are disincentivised, and the overall credit environment gets contaminated by large defaults. Converting some part of PS lending to a grant paid directly by government can unlock large amounts of efficiency in the system, and dramatically increase the valuation of public sector banks also. These weaker sections will benefit a lot more with grants. The JAM trinity allows us to do this, the beneficiaries will prefer this, and it will be politically popular. In fact, we believe that banks should be happy to pay for part of the overall grant amounts through a specific cess imposed on them for the purpose. It could be calculated as the cost of their NPAs in the segment, so they are no worse off than before. Covid-19 has forced us to re-examine many things from the past. The importance of health and education infrastructure has been sharply highlighted. It has underlined the importance of digital access as we all settle into new ways of working and learning. PS classification should reflect this, and we should use the potential of our technology stack (and JAM) to target and deliver grants to the weaker sections. This, however, cannot supplant the dramatic increase needed in health and education budgets of state governments to fix our social infrastructure. All talk of being a superpower should wait till we can offer our people even minimum access to the basic social infrastructure needed for living. That is what we owe all those lost to Covid-19. Janmejaya Sinha is chairman, BCG India and Ruchin Goyal is managing director and senior partner, BCGThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-priority-sector-lending-india-needs-101622376883593.html
30-05-2021||Today's||Seven years on, Modi faces three challenges||The beginning of the third year of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s second term would be an apt occasion to look at the early days of this innings. He began as a run-hungry batsman, eager to notch up a big score, belting out sixes and fours to every corner of the ground. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government divided Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and abrogated Article 370 in one fell swoop. A new Union Territory, Ladakh, emerged and J&K’s full state status was done away with. The practice of triple talaq was declared illegal. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) always had these issues in its sights, but Modi is the one who grasped the nettle. His vow of making India a $5-trillion economy by 2024 meant removing certain hurdles to growth. He zeroed in on non-performing assets of public sector banks as one and a merger of 19 banks into four was executed. Despite unprecedented opposition from farmers and the Opposition, agri-sector laws were changed and the path to the privatisation of government undertakings was cleared. Modi meant to show that he would not hold back on economic reform. Then disaster struck in the form of the lethal coronavirus. Of the three major challenges facing the government, this has been the biggest the NDA has faced by far. As of Saturday, the death toll from the virus is around 3.22 lakh. The Opposition and some experts claim that the death toll could be higher and a third wave may be in the offing. They also say that if 70-80% of the population is not vaccinated without delay, the waves will keep coming. The government claims that everyone will be vaccinated by December but so far there is little to inspire confidence in this assertion. A vaccination drive for those above 18 years has been announced, but hundreds of vaccination centres are running short of vaccines for this cohort. In fact, the whole vaccination strategy, which was to be a model for the world, is now in trouble. Vaccines are in short supply and prior commitments made to foreign nations for vaccine supplies cannot be fulfilled. The state governments ruled by opposition parties are up in arms about the paucity of vaccines and have accused the government of ignoring the threat from the virus for political gain. The pandemic may eventually peter out but it has seriously damaged the economy. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), the rural unemployment rate reached 13.5% in the week ending May 23. On May 9, it was 7.29%. The unemployment rate in cities was found to be 17.4% and the national unemployment rate has climbed to a new high of 14.7%. If the lockdowns do not end quickly, the situation could worsen. Certainly, the government will have to address the deteriorating financial condition. The second challenge Modi faces is political. Next year, assembly elections will be held in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Goa and Manipur. The groundwork for these has begun. Despite the victories in Assam and Puducherry, the defeat in West Bengal has dented the BJP’s reputation as an invincible election machine. During Modi 2.0, the party has won only four out of 10 state elections. In these, the role of the allies was crucial. That is why many political critics feel that even though there is no alternative to Modi at the Centre, the voters prefer strong state-level parties in the assembly elections. As on March 2018, the NDA was ruling 21 states, with 71% of the country’s population. In April 2019, it was reduced to 18 states. However, in terms of demography, now 49% of the population is ruled by the NDA. The seven states where elections are to be held next year are crucial to the BJP. All of them are governed by the BJP, barring Punjab, which is ruled by the Congress. Retaining power in these states is going to be the political litmus test for Modi. In Punjab, so far, the BJP has been fighting elections in alliance with the Akalis. This time, it is on its own. Over the last five years, the NDA has lost almost all its old allies.The third challenge the Modi government is from across the borders. China is still up to its old tricks. Will Modi be able to get China to retreat from the border areas it has encroached on? These are all daunting challenges for PM Modi. His track record on meeting difficult situations head-on is well known. He is a past master at political manoeuvrings. Will he rise to the occasion now as well? It remains to be seen but this is why the eighth year of his prime ministership or his second term as pradhan sevak as he likes to term himself, will prove interesting to both his admirers and critics. Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are personal--||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/seven-years-on-modi-faces-three-challenges-101622376344599.html
30-05-2021||Today's||To ease Covid-19 curbs, rely on decentralised/district-level guidelines||Since the Covid-19 pandemic hit India, our response strategy has been around the mantra “test, test, test”. India has increased its testing capacity by using RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test kits, along with an innovative combination of different platforms. These strategies helped us reach 1.2 million tests per day in September 2020 and a further peak of 2.2 million tests per day in May. This was also accompanied with the introduction of two India-made vaccines in January. Now, with India in the midst of a second surge, the state governments have implemented restrictive measures. While these have mostly been successful in curbing the spread of infection, restrictions cannot be a sustainable solution. So, what then should constitute an evidence-based response to the situation? What can be considered as a neither too-late nor too-early easing of restrictions, as each option has its associated consequences?The answer lies in a decentralised pandemic response that focuses on three pillars — district-level test positivity rate, vaccination coverage, and a bottom-up decision-making process. During the first wave, centralisation, to some extent, was critical — since we were dealing with a novel virus and regulatory processes had to be set up. But now, with wide heterogeneity in disease transmission between states, these decisions need to be more decentralised and contingent on local-level data. Restrictive measures on movement, mass gatherings, and social events are being governed at the district level. We need to further engage districts to make these recommendations based on district-level data and trends. But while monitoring is key, evaluation tools should be easy to use, shunning a long list of asks that keeps delaying the decision to ease things. Instead, what we should focus on are three key parameters. Pillar one should focus on districts with a test positivity rate (TPR) of less than 5%. TPR reflects the percentage of all Sars-CoV-2 tests performed that are positive. This will continue to be the key indicator for making informed decisions. As per the World Health Organization (WHO), the epidemic should be considered under control, when the positivity average over two weeks is less than 5%. Districts should liaise closely with state government on TPR, ensuring quality of restrictions and make recommendations accordingly. Pillar two rests on adequate vaccine coverage for priority and vulnerable groups, and should be a parameter while considering opening up. Vaccinations among the most vulnerable population groups need to be ramped up to ensure that there are fewer deaths, even if the cases surge. The reality is that the supply of vaccines will take a few months to reach the level of adequacy in terms of doses. However, the judicious use of what is available now, and ensuring their administration where they are needed most (frontline workers, including health care professionals, those above 60 years, and those who are above 45 years and with co-morbidities) need to be prioritised. At least 70% of these priority groups need to be covered while a district is working its way out through restrictive measures to reach the TPR threshold of less than 5%. Pillar three is community ownership. Without community ownership — where people follow Covid-appropriate behaviour such as masking up and maintaining physical distance — all administrative measures are bound to fail. The pandemic has forced us to think differently about the norms that govern responses to it. While we live in silos and ask for continued restrictive measures or new treatment and prevention to be adopted every day, we must consider the impact of these on lives and livelihoods. Therefore, our response to the pandemic must be driven by local data, and executed and monitored by a flexible administration and an empowered community.Dr Samiran Panda, head, epidemiology and communicable diseases division, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and director, ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute, Pune.Professor (Dr.) Balram Bhargava, director-general, ICMRThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/to-ease-covid-19-curbs-rely-on-decentralised-district-level-guidelines-101622375921860.html
