01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||Disorientation of crew in poor weather likely cause of crash||The tri-service inquiry ordered into the crash of an Indian Air Force helicopter which killed Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat and others is complete with officials indicating the probable cause to be “Controlled Flight into Terrain” (CFIT). The findings have been sent for legal review after which the report will be submitted to the Union government, a defence official said on condition of anonymity. “The findings have been sent for legal vetting. It will take about 10 to 15 days for finalisation,” the official said on Friday. Two officials in the know of the matter said CFIT was the most probable cause of the crash, and the inquiry report, once submitted, would throw more light on it.  The Mi-17V5 helicopter with Gen. Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 12 others including his staff, the pilots and crew was en route to the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, from Sulur on December 8 when it crashed in the Nilgiris close to the destination.  A tri-service inquiry was ordered by the IAF headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Training Command, to investigate the crash. As part of the inquiry, the flight data recorder (FDR) as well as the cockpit voice recorder (CVR) were recovered and sent for analysis to reconstruct the last moments before the crash. CFIT means that the pilot is in full control of the aircraft but due to faulty situational awareness, the aircraft strikes the terrain, explained Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd.), a former helicopter pilot. “An example could be of an aircraft doing low flying over a large expanse of water and striking it due to lack of depth perception. A similar strike could happen over snow,” he said elaborating on what CFIT means. Instruments in order A CFIT means the helicopter was fully serviceable and instruments are in order, a senior Army pilot who has flown extensively in the mountain said. The crash is likely due to loss of situational awareness and disorientation which in most cases is due to poor weather, he noted. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) defines CFIT as an unintentional collision with terrain (the ground, a mountain, a body of water, or an obstacle) while an aircraft is under positive control. “Most often, the pilot or crew is unaware of the looming disaster until it is too late. CFIT most commonly occurs in the approach or landing phase of flight,” an FAA fact sheet stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/disorientation-of-crew-in-poor-weather-likely-cause-of-crash/article38084530.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||GST Council defers tax rate increase on textiles||Hours before the new GST rate was to take effect, the GST Council on Friday decided to temporarily roll back the increase in tax rate for the textiles sector at an emergency meeting on Friday. The move follows demands from several States, including Gujarat, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said it was a brief meeting with just one item on the agenda. “The decision today was that we retain the status quo and not go to 12% from 5% in the case of textiles,” Ms. Sitharaman said after the meeting. She said the trigger to review the decision, announced in September, was a December 29 letter from the Gujarat Finance Minister requesting reconsideration of the same. Representations were also received from other stakeholders, Ms. Sitharaman said. Various States such as Gujarat, West Bengal, Delhi, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu had opposed the move to raise the Goods and Services Tax (GST) rate on textiles to 12% with effect from January 1, 2022. 12% for footwear However, a similar demand for footwear was not considered and the sector will attract GST of 12% from January 1, irrespective of prices. While the industry is perplexed over the last-minute holding off on the rate change, Ms. Sitharaman indicated the final decision on the rate would be taken a couple of months from now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gst-council-defers-tax-rate-increase-on-textiles/article38084532.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:06 IST,||State reports 44 more Omicron cases||Health Minister Veena George on Friday said 44 more persons have contracted the Omicron variant of COVID-19. Ernakulam reported 12 new cases, Kollam 10, Thiruvananthapuram 8, Thrissur 4, Kottayam, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kannur 2 each, and Alappuzha and Idukki 1 each. At least 10 infected persons arrived in Kerala from high-risk countries and 27 from low-risk nations: United Arab Emirates (UAE) 13, United Kingdom (U.K.) three, Qatar three, and one each from South Africa, Israel and Malta, Nigeria, Spain, Sweden. Local transmission Four persons in Kollam, two in Kottayam, and one in Thiruvananthapuram got Omicron via transmission. Ms. George said 107 persons had contracted Omicron in the State so far. Of the total Omicron cases, 41 infected persons reached Kerala from high-risk nations and 52 from low-risk countries. Most patients were from the UAE, 29, and the U.K., 23. The spread of Omicron is most in Ernakulam 37, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 26, Kollam 11, Thrissur 9, Pathanamthitta 5, Alappuzha 5, Kannur 4, Kottayam 3, Malappuram 3, Palakkad 2, Kozhikode 1, and Idukki 1. Ms. George urged the public to exercise extreme caution given the steady climb in Omicron infections. She counselled citizens to shun crowds, wear mask, and maintain physical distance. Ms. George announced a special drive to bridge the gaps in COVID-19 vaccination. The two-day programme will commence on Saturday. He urged unvaccinated persons and those due for their second shot to take advantage of the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-44-more-omicron-cases/article38084840.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||FCRA licences of NGOs extended by three months||The Union Home Ministry on Friday extended by another three months the validity of the licences of FCRA-registered NGOs which were not renewed by December 31. The extension in “public interest” will, however, bring no relief to Missionaries of Charities (MoC), founded by Mother Teresa, as the Ministry said non-governmental organisations (NGOs) whose request for renewal was turned down would not be eligible to receive or utilise the foreign contributions in their designated bank accounts. The Home Ministry had earlier said in a statement that it refused to renew the FCRA registration of the MoC on December 25 as “some adverse inputs were noticed”, adding that its registration was valid till October 31 and it was subsequently extended till December 31 along with that of other FCRA associations whose renewal applications are pending. According to returns filed by the MoC, the NGO has over Rs. 100 crore in its account. Registration mandatory A registration under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) is mandatory for any NGO or association to receive foreign funds and it is renewed every five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fcra-licences-of-ngos-extended-by-three-months/article38084568.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:25 IST,||Omicron surge stretches Central genome laboratory||The surge in coronavirus cases appears to be stretching the organisational capacity of labs tasked with sequencing virus genomes. The Delhi-based National Centres for Disease Control (NCDC), a Union Health Ministry laboratory and a key lab in India’s genome sequencing network, has asked States to pause sending COVID-19 positive samples to it. For the past year, labs have been sending the NCDC samples to check for key variants of concern and since December, Omicron.  In a note sent on Thursday to labs of State Health departments seen by The Hindu , an NCDC official says: “Keeping in view the surge in number of COVID-19 cases and increased flow of samples for next generation sequencing (genome sequencing) to NCDC has resulted in a situation wherein they (NCDC) are not in a position to accommodate samples further (for now).”  A scientist, who declined to be identified, said it was bewildering that despite the strain NCDC chose to continue expending effort in testing international travellers when the Omicron strain was clearly far widespread in the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-surge-stretches-central-genome-laboratory/article38084538.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:57 IST,||Daily case load of COVID-19 crosses 300-mark in Telangana||The daily reporting of COVID-19 positive cases in Telangana has crossed the 300-mark on December 31 after a gap of over three months as 311 positive cases were reported during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Friday. It was on September 15 the daily cases were reported over 300 the last time. According to a bulletin issued by the Directorate of Health on COVID-19 status in the State on Friday, no Omicron variant cases were reported during the day although samples of 7 out 159 air-passengers arrived at the RGI Airport from “at risk” countries were sent for genome sequencing after they were found positive for COVID-19. In all, reports of 27 samples sent for Omicron variant detection are awaited. Of the 67 Omicron variant cases reported in Telangana so far, 27 have already been declared recovered, including 5 on Friday. The cumulative number of COVID-19 cases in the State has reached 6,81,898 with 311 positive cases reported on Friday. With 222 infected persons declared recovered during the day, the number of recoveries has gone up to 6,74,221. The number of COVID-19 deaths have reached 4,027 so far with 2 more deaths reported on Friday. The bulletin put the active cases at 3,650, including 1,229 admitted to government and private hospitals for treatment. In all, 36,759 samples were tested for COVID-19 infection during the day with 4,498 reports still awaited. Of the 311 cases reported, nearly two-thirds - 198 - were from GHMC limits, followed by 32 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 28 from Rangareddy, 9 from Hanmakonda, 5 each from Siddipet and Yadadri-Bhongir districts. No (zero) positive cases were reported in 11 districts. Vaccination With 2,84,773 doses of COVID-19 vaccine administered to eligible persons in the State on Friday, the total doses given so far has reached 4,70,12,501, including 1,90,57,459 persons taking two doses each. Nearly 36.21 lakh doses of vaccine were available with the State as on Friday with 11 out 33 districts yet to achieve 100% coverage of first doses vaccination for eligible population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-case-load-of-covid-19-crosses-300-mark-in-state/article38084797.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:56 IST,||TAC favours stricter restrictions||Worried over the high transmissibility of Omicron, the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee has advised the Government to impose stricter curbs if the weekly test positivity rate (WTPR) goes above 2% as an early measure of mitigation. While recommending weekend and night curfews if the WTPR is between 1% and less than 2%, TAC said lockdown should be considered if the WTPR goes above 3%. If it’s between 2% and 3%, educational institutions will have to switch to remote learning, and offices to work from home. The committee had earlier fixed the threshold for lockdown as 5%. As of Dec. 30, the weekly TPR is 0.46%. At its 144th meeting held on Wednesday, TAC noted the situation is worrisome as there is a spurt in cases in Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, and Bengaluru. “From the previous experience in Karnataka, the case surge in Bengaluru/Karnataka was preceded by that in Mumbai/Maharashtra,” said the TAC report. “Hence, after detailed deliberations TAC makes the following recommendations as an early measure of mitigation: As Omicron is known to be more contagious, measures stricter than the second wave that was largely driven by Delta are contemplated. Districts should be classified into three colour codes based on the WTPR - Yellow if WTPR is less than 1%; Orange if WTPR is 1% to less than 2% and Red if WTPR is 2% and above, for imposing curbs in public activities,” the report said. Examining the third wave action plan put in place by the Delhi government, the TAC has formulated a table under the three colour codes. “In districts that come under the orange zone (where WTPR is between 1% and < 2%) there is a need to ensure cinemas and auditoria, schools and colleges, pubs and bars, restaurants, offices and factories, recreational clubs, public transport including Metro trains and salons/barber shops function with 50% capacity. In this scenario, malls and shopping complexes should function only between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m.,” according to the table in the report. In a scenario when the WTPR crosses 2% and districts fall into the red zone, schools and colleges should start online classes. “While offices and factories should allow work from home facility for their employees, cinemas and auditoria and public transport should be stopped. Pubs, bars and restaurants should be open only for take away. In this scenario, salons, barber shops, gyms and fitness centres, swimming pools, places of worship and parks should be closed,” according to the table. “In a scenario, when the WTPR crosses 3%, a total lockdown is recommended. These measures are required to be initiated early because as a measure of precaution. Although Omicron infection is said to be milder, we should try and cut transmission at an early stage. This will help reduce the burden on health facilities and save lives,” a TAC member said. He said the committee referred to IIT- Kanpur’s “Sutra model” that is backed by the Government of India. This model had predicted that the third wave of COVID-19 is expected in India in January - February, 2022. Based on this, the TAC has already given an advisory to the State Government and following that the government has imposed a 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. night curfew in the State from December 28 to January 7, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tac-favours-stricter-restrictions/article38084569.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:13 IST,||Delhi resident doctors call off strike||Resident doctors in Delhi, who have been protesting over the delay in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Postgraduate) counselling for the last 14 days, called off their strike on Friday. The doctors resumed services at 12 noon after receiving assurances from Delhi Police that the FIR registered against them would be cancelled. In a statement, the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association said Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had agreed to submit a report to the Supreme Court before January 6 and to publish the NEET-PG 2021 counselling schedule following the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-resident-doctors-call-off-strike/article38084694.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:07 IST,||PM likely to take part in ‘Modi Pongal’ event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to take part in an event named ‘Modi Pongal’ in Madurai on January 12. The BJP is making preparations for the event at Mandela Nagar near the Madurai airport, State general secretary Karu. Nagarajan said. A committee, led by Mr. Nagarajan, was announced by party president K. Annamalai to make the preparations.  Mr. Nagarajan told The Hindu that the Prime Minister is likely to attend the event after inaugurating 11 new medical colleges in the State during his visit to Virudhunagar on January 12.  Mr. Nagarajan said thousands of women would celebrate Pongal in accordance with the Tamil tradition at the event. Mr. Modi would deliver a short speech. He said the party has planned a series of events from January 7 to 12 to mark the festival on the lines of ‘Namma Ooru Pongal’ celebrated by the party last year. Mr. Modi is expected to take part in the valedictory event this year, he said. Asked whether the BJP was bringing in the Prime Minister to counter Congress MP Rahul Gandhi’s visit during the Pongal last year to witness ‘jallikattu’, Mr. Nagarajan disapproved of Mr. Gandhi’s visit. “Jallikattu is a violent sport and it was banned. It was the DMK and the Congress which brought it back...,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-likely-to-take-part-in-modi-pongal-event/article38084644.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:23 IST,||Delhi resident doctors call off strike||Hundreds of resident doctors, who had been boycotting work for 14 days to protest the delay in NEET-PG counselling, called off their strike on Friday. “The strike has been called off and the doctors will join duty at 12 p.m. today [Friday]. We had a detailed discussion with the police, and they assured us to withdraw all punitive actions, including the FIR,” Dr. Kulsaurabh Kaushik, general secretary of the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA), said. On Monday, the protesting doctors were marching towards the Supreme Court when they were stopped by the police near ITO. FORDA said that the doctors were “brutally thrashed, dragged, and detained” by the police, but the latter refuted the allegation. Later, the police registered an FIR of rioting, causing obstruction to duty of police personnel, and damaging public property against the doctors. Following this, FORDA demanded an apology from Delhi Police and also cancellation of the FIR. On Tuesday afternoon, members of FORDA met the Union Health Minister, but talks were inconclusive and the protest continued. The counselling is delayed as cases are pending in the Supreme Court over reservation for the economically weaker section. Announcing withdrawal of the protest, FORDA said in a statement that at Tuesday’s meeting the Minister had agreed to submit a report to the Supreme Court before January 6 when it will hear the matter and to publish the NEET-PG 2021 counselling schedule after the hearing. Despite this, the strike went on and the decision to end the boycott was taken after the Delhi police assured them to cancel the FIR. “A series of meetings of FORDA representatives with Delhi Police officials was held on Thursday. They police said that they were well aware of the hardships of doctors and as earlier, they were willing to cooperate with the medical fraternity in any issue. They also assured that the complaint against the resident doctors would be taken care of as per the legal procedure,” the statement said. Doctors had been boycotting work mainly at the Central Government-run Safdarjung Hospital, RML Hospital, and Lady Hardinge and the Delhi Government-run LNJP and GTB hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-resident-doctors-call-off-strike/article38084674.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Omicron surge stretches a Central genome lab||The surge in coronavirus cases appears to be stretching the capacity of labs tasked with sequencing virus genomes. The Delhi-based National Centres for Disease Control (NCDC), a Union Health Ministry laboratory and a key lab in India’s genome sequencing network, has asked States to temporarily pause sending COVID-19 positive samples to it. For the past year, labs have been sending the NCDC samples to check for the presence of variants of concern and since December, Omicron.  In a note sent on Thursday to labs of State Health departments seen by The Hindu , an NCDC official says: “Keeping in view the surge in cases and increased flow of samples for next generation sequencing to NCDC has resulted in a situation wherein they (NCDC) are not in a position to accommodate samples further (for now).”  “ ... All labs are requested to store all positive samples as per established protocol till further directions. However positive samples of individuals arriving at IGI Airport (New Delhi international airport) with a history of travel to country of concern/their contacts will continue to be sent to NCDC for sequencing,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-surge-stretches-a-central-genome-lab/article38084567.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:07 IST,||First Omicron case confirmed in Coimbatore||A COVID-19 positive senior citizen, who had recently returned to Coimbatore from the United Kingdom, has been confirmed to be the first patient to have contracted the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 in Coimbatore district. Sources in the Health Department said on Friday that the 69-year-old man had tested positive for COVID-19 on December 20, days after he arrived at the Coimbatore International Airport from the U.K. His swab samples were subsequently sent to the State Public Health Laboratory in Chennai for whole genomic sequencing. On Friday, the results from the laboratory confirmed the infection by the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2. The patient had taken both the doses of the Covishield vaccine, the sources said. The patient’s health condition was stable and he had mild throat irritation on Friday. After being under home isolation at his residence in Coimbatore, he was shifted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-omicron-case-confirmed-in-coimbatore/article38084651.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:11 IST,||Sun sets on 2021||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sun-sets-on-2021/article38084673.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:25 IST,||Three months’ FCRA nod for NGOs||The Union Home Ministry on Friday extended by another three months the validity of the licences of FCRA-registered NGOs which were not renewed by December 31. The extension in “public interest” will, however, bring no relief to Missionaries of Charities (MoC), founded by Mother Teresa, as the Ministry said non-governmental organisations (NGOs) whose request for renewal was turned down would not be eligible to either receive or utilise the foreign contributions in their designated bank accounts. The Home Ministry had earlier said that it refused to renew the FCRA registration of the MoC on December 25 as “some adverse inputs were noticed”, adding that its registration was valid till October 31 and it was subsequently extended till December 31 along with that of other FCRA associations whose renewals are pending. According to returns filed by the MoC, the NGO has over Rs. 100 crore in its account. A registration under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) is mandatory for any NGO or association to receive foreign funds and it is renewed every five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-months-fcra-nod-for-ngos/article38084537.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:14 IST,||Free Kalicharan Maharaj: plea by Hindutva groups||Members of right-wing groups on Friday took out a march seeking the release of Kalicharan Maharaj, who was arrested in Chhattisgarh for his derogatory remarks against Mahatma Gandhi, and said Nathram Godse was their “ideal”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/free-kalicharan-maharaj-plea-by-hindutva-groups/article38084695.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:14 IST,||‘Perfume war’ on, SP slams raids on MLC||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday accused the BJP government of roping in Central agencies as “allies” after I-T raids on locations linked to Pushpraj Jain ‘Pampi’, a party MLC and perfume trader from Kannauj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/perfume-war-on-sp-slams-raids-on-mlc/article38084696.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:56 IST,||23 new Omicron cases in State take tally to 66||Karnataka witnessed a spike in Omicron cases on the last day of the year 2021 with 23 new cases being reported. This took the tally of Omicron cases in the State to 66.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/23-new-omicron-cases-in-state-take-tally-to-66/article38084570.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:23 IST,||Free Kalicharan Maharaj: plea by Hindutva groups||Members of right-wing organisations on Friday took out a march seeking the release of Kalicharan Maharaj, who was arrested in Chhattisgarh over derogatory remarks against Mahatama Gandhi, and said Nathram Godse was their “ideal”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/free-kalicharan-maharaj-plea-by-hindutva-groups/article38084675.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:23 IST,||‘Perfume war’ on, SP slams raids on MLC||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday accused the BJP government of roping in Central agencies as “allies” after I-T raids on locations linked to Pushpraj Jain ‘Pampi’, a party MLC and perfume trader from Kannauj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/perfume-war-on-sp-slams-raids-on-mlc/article38084676.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:28 IST,||Rs. 3 crore for road development||The former Chief Minister and MLA Jagadish Shettar has said that main roads in Channapet, Arvind Nagar and Old Hubballi will be developed under the Rs. 3 crore grants extended under Urban Renewal Mission. He was speaking at a Jana Sampark Sabha at Diddi Oni on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-3-crore-for-road-development/article38084776.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:28 IST,||Group vandalises religious mutt||A group of men threw stones at the building of Siddlingeshwar Samsthan Mutt in Mashal village, Afzalpur taluk, in Kalaburagi district on Thursday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/group-vandalises-religious-mutt/article38084778.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:51 IST,||Another enclosure for orangutans||Help is pouring in for the Mysuru zoo as the Bank Note Paper Mill India Private Limited has agreed to donate a sum of Rs. 99.20 lakh for the construction of another enclosure for orangutans. It signed a memorandum of understanding in this regard with the Mysuru zoo, under its CSR initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/another-enclosure-for-orangutans/article38084978.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:51 IST,||Congress to organise convention in Mysuru||The Congress will be holding a convention in Mysuru on January 3 as a prelude to the January 9 padayatra from Mekedatu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-to-organise-convention-in-mysuru/article38084980.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||Tax anomalies found in 2 Chinese phone firms||The Income-Tax Department on Friday claimed to have detected multiple irregularities on the part of two companies manufacturing Chinese mobile phones, during the pan-India searches initiated on December 21. In the case involving certain foreign-controlled mobile communication and mobile phone manufacturing companies and their associated entities, the searches were carried out in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Assam, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Bihar, Rajasthan, and Delhi and its neighbouring cities. “The search has revealed that two major companies have made remittance in the nature of royalty, to and on behalf of its group companies located abroad, which aggregates to more than Rs. 5,500 crore. The claim of such expenses does not seem to be appropriate in light of the facts and evidence gathered...,” the agency said. According to the agency, both the companies had not complied with the regulatory mandate under the Income Tax Act, for disclosure of transactions with associated enterprises. “Such a lapse makes them liable for penal action under the Income Tax Act, the quantum of which could be in the range of more than Rs. 1,000 crore,” it said. The agency alleged that foreign funds were introduced in the books of the Indian company, but the source from which such funds had been received were of doubtful nature, purportedly with no credit worthiness of the lender. The quantum of such borrowings was about Rs. 5,000 crore, on which interest expenses had also been claimed. “Evidence with regard to the inflation of expenses, payments on behalf of the associated enterprises, etc., have also been noticed which led to the reduction of taxable profits of the Indian mobile handset manufacturing company. Such amount could be in excess of Rs. 1,400 crore,” said the I-T Department in its statement. One company allegedly used the services of another entity located in India, but did not comply with the provisions of tax deduction at source introduced with effect from April 2020. The quantum of liability on this account could be about Rs. 300 crore. In the case of another company, the control of its affairs was substantively “managed from a neighbouring country”, as alleged. ‘Dummy directors’ “The Indian directors of the said company admitted that they had no role in the management of the company and that they lent their names for directorship... evidence has been gathered on the attempt to transfer the entire reserves of the company to the tune of Rs. 42 crore out of India, without payment of due taxes,” it said. The searches on certain fintech and software services companies revealed that many such entities were created for inflating expenses and siphoning off funds. “Such companies have made payments for unrelated business purposes as also utilised the bills issued by a Tamil Nadu-based non-existent business concern. The quantum of such outflow is found to be about Rs. 50 crore,” the agency alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-detects-anomalies-in-2-chinese-mobile-firms/article38084240.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||‘Perfume war’ on; SP slams raids on MLC||As the Income-Tax Department searched multiple locations linked to a Samajwadi Party MLC and perfume trader from Kannauj, Pushpraj Jain ‘Pampi’, party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday accused the BJP government of roping in Central agencies as “allies” due to the “fear of losing” the 2022 Uttar Pradesh election and trying to defame his party as well as Kannauj, known country-wide for its perfume industry and a traditional Yadav family stronghold. Mr. Yadav claimed the searches were conducted to cover up and “rectify the mistake” made by the BJP government by earlier “accidentally raiding their own man”, Piyush Jain, from whom GST officials recovered over Rs. 197 crore in cash, 23 kg of gold with foreign markings and unaccounted-for perfumery raw material worth Rs. 6 crore. With the BJP linking the seized cash and goods and Piyush Jain himself to the SP in its election campaign, Mr. Yadav, who held a scheduled press conference in Kannauj hours after the fresh search began against the SP MLC, asked the BJP leadership to explain on what basis they were making such claims.  He reiterated that the SP had no connection to Piyush Jain and demanded that his CDR (call record details) be made public to expose his real link, which he said was with the BJP. “How come such large quantity of notes was recovered [from Piyush Jain]? The BJP had said there would be no black money after note bandi (demonetisation in 2016) and that people would not be able to hoard cash,” Mr. Yadav said.   Referring to the searches on the premises of Mr. Pushpraj, Mr. Yadav said the BJP was targeting the SP through the Central agencies as it had sensed it was losing the U.P. election. Mr. Pushpraj recently launched a Samajwadi Ittar or ‘Socialist Perfume’.  “The BJP is rattled,” said Mr. Yadav, accusing the BJP government of having an alliance with the Enforcement Directorate, Income Tax Department and the Central Bureau of Investigation. Mr. Yadav also appealed the Election Commission of India to stop searches by Central agencies in U.P. till the election was over. “[Adolf] Hitler had just one ministry for propaganda. This entire party, BJP, is for propaganda,” Mr. Yadav said. BJP charge  Meanwhile, top BJP leaders continue to link the SP with the cash recovery in the Piyush Jain and Pushpraj raids. Addressing a rally in Ayodhya, BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the “stench of the Samajwadi ittar ” was spread across U.P.   “Today, when raids are being carried out their belly is simmering,” Mr. Shah said. “Do you have a problem if there is a raid on those with black money,” Mr. Shah asked the public. “What problem do you have Akhilesh bhai ?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/perfume-war-on-sp-slams-raids-on-mlc/article38084259.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||Amid spike, Centre calls for more RATs||India saw the highest single-day rise of 309 cases of the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus, taking the country’s tally of such cases to 1,270, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. It also recorded 16,764 fresh COVID-19 cases and 220 more fatalities due to the viral disease. Taking cognisance of the surge, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Director-General, Indian Council of Medical Research, Balram Bhargava jointly wrote a letter to the States to “increase testing” by employing rapid antigen tests (RAT). The gold standard test for confirming COVID-19 is the RT-PCR. However, the RAT, though less accurate, gives results much faster. “Based on the previous experience, it has been observed that if the number of cases rise above a certain threshold, RT-PCR-based testing leads to delays in confirming diagnosis due to its turnaround time of five to eight hours. Therefore, you are encouraged to increase testing by widespread use of rapid antigen tests (RATs) in such specific situations where RT-PCR testing poses challenges,” the Friday letter notes. “ln addition to healthcare facilities, the States and Union Territories are encouraged to engage appropriate medical and paramedical staff and to set up and operationalise RAT booths, at convenient locations.” Of the 23 States and Union Territories that have recorded Omicron cases so far, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of 450, followed by Delhi (320), Kerala (109) and Gujarat (97). The daily rise in the number of coronavirus cases crossed the 16,000 mark after 64 days, taking the country’s COVID-19 tally to 3,48,38,804, while the number of active cases of the infection has gone up to 91,361, according to the data. On Friday, Maharashtra’s COVID-19 surge continued unabated with the State reporting 8,067 new cases on Friday as the active case tally soared to 24,509. There was also a decline in fatalities with eight deaths reported as opposed to the average figure of 20 deaths. Karnataka on Friday reported 832 new cases of COVID-19. Bengaluru Urban reported 656 cases and five deaths. With eight deaths, the State’s toll rose to 38,335. Kerala reported 2,676 new cases on Friday when 60,962 samples were tested. Of the 2,676 cases reported, 2,453 were infected through contact and 42 had arrived from outside the State while the source of infection was yet to be confirmed in 156 persons. As many as 1,399 were breakthrough infections in fully vaccinated citizens and 140 had received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine while 771 were unvaccinated. (With inputs from bureaus and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-spike-centre-urges-more-rats/article38084264.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||Chinese embassy writes to group of MPs||The Embassy of China has written to a group of MPs asking them to “refrain” from supporting the cause of Tibetan independence. The move, which is being interpreted as a rare and undiplomatic interference, came after six MPs from the All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet attended a meeting in a Delhi hotel. “As is known to all, the so-called ‘Tibetan Government-in-Exile’ is an out-and-out separatist political group and an illegal organisation completely in violation of China’s Constitution and laws. It is not recognised by any country in the world,” wrote Zhou Yongsheng, Political Counsellor of the Chinese Embassy in India. The meeting was attended by Congress MPs Jairam Ramesh and Manish Tewari, Sujeet Kumar of the BJD, Maneka Gandhi of the BJP, and K.C. Ramamurthy and Minister of State for Skill Development, Electronics & Technology Rajeev Chandrashekhar. The Forum on Tibet dates back to 1971 and has had a distinguished list of figures such as Atal Bihari Vajpayee, George Fernandes and Mohammadali Carim Chagla. An MP unwilling to be named said the participants had taken their political parties on board and they did not attend the meeting unilaterally, and added that the Chinese embassy often sent letters to politicians expressing its opinion on issues that were important to Beijing. Mr. Kumar, of the BJD, said the forum was a cultural outfit that promoted Tibetan heritage and issues relevant to Tibetan refugees. “I am not surprised by the Chinese reaction, it is pretty much on expected lines,” Mr. Kumar said. “This is not the first letter I have got from them. I have got four to five letters from them so far. Each time I have spoken or written on the Chinese connection to the COVID-19 pandemic or the Galwan incident, they have shot me a missive,” Mr. Kumar added.  The Chinese Embassy, he noted, had no locus standi to directly speak to an elected representative of India.  It must direct all communication via the Ministry of External Affairs, Mr. Kumar added. “I believe that cultural genocide has been going on in Tibet and the world has let it down,” Mr. Kumar, who visited the Tibet Autonomous Region in 2009, said. During the latest meeting too, he spoke about his travels to Lhasa and his sentiments on breaking up of ties between India and Tibet after the Chinese occupation. The MPs were outraged by the letter from the Chinese embassy. Mr. Ramesh said he had attended the function for three reasons, which he had outlined in his speech during dinner at the meeting.  “First, my profound fascination for Buddha. Second, my deep respect for the Dalai Lama. Third, my grateful recognition for the role Tibetan sources have played in the rediscovery of India’s Buddhist heritage. I said I was present culturally, philosophically and spiritually,” Mr. Ramesh told The Hindu , adding that he did not propose to respond to the letter.  Mr. Tewari, however, said that he did not receive any letter from the embassy. “Neither have I received any letter from the Chinese nor will I diminish myself by responding to such imbecile missives,” Mr. Tewari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-embassy-writes-to-group-of-mps/article38084252.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||Year of the Mathura experiment||As the Bharatiya Janta Party is on the verge of successfully closing the Ayodhya and Kashi chapters of its Hindutva syllabus, it opened the Mathura folder in 2021. With Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath visiting the pilgrimage centre 18 times and showering it with around 200 projects, some observers speculate that Mr. Adityanath might contest the upcoming Assembly election from there. This week, at a rally in Amroha, he said, “Magnificent temples were being built in Ayodhya and Kashi, how could Mathura-Vrindavan be left behind?”  It is not just the hints dropped on Twitter and in political rallies; observers said it is a multi-pronged campaign. In the past one year, multiple petitions have been filed in court seeking to “reclaim” the land being occupied by the Shahi Idgah Masjid, built during the reign of Aurangzeb, in the Krishna Janmabhoomi complex. Simultaneously, a call was made to do a jalabhishek and install a deity inside a mosque on December 6. The call was taken back but it led to tensions and massive security arrangements.  Around the same time, the political leadership of the party raised the pitch with the Rajya Sabha member from Uttar Pradesh Harnath Yadav making the demand for the repeal of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 in the winter session of Parliament. Meanwhile, at the executive level, in September, the municipal corporation of Mathura declared 22 wards of the city as pilgrimage centres, banning the sale of liquor and meat in the area. It rendered several people of different communities who indulged in the meat and liquor trade jobless. Locals said that they have withstood the attempts to polarise Mathura, but expressed apprehension over how long they will be able to hold on. According to old-timers, Mathura did not see communal flare-ups even at the time of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. Local economy The economic aspect reflected in a letter written by the Akhil Bhartiya Teerth Purohit Mahashabha to the U.P. government asking for action against right-wing elements who shouted slogans on December 6. The group of priests not only said any communal tension would have an adverse impact on the economy of the temple town but also sought to become a party to the suit, saying it did not want any change in the complex. “Similarly, Shri Mathur Chaturvedi Parishad resolved to maintain the status quo as decided by the 1968 settlement,” said Madhuvant Chaturvedi, advocate and convener of Qaumi Ekta Manch. Pavan Chaturvedi, a businessman who has worked with the BJP in the past, said Muslims constitute 15-17% of the population in the city and form a large section of workforce involved in making the headgear, clothes and rosaries used to decorate and worship Lord Krishna. “At least 40% of workforce in our business establishment are Muslims. Nobody raised a fuss when the SC delivered the Ram Janmabhoomi verdict,” he said.  Zaheer Hasan, president of the Shahi Idgah Masjid Committee, said Krishna is part of everybody’s life in Mathura. “After every Id namaaz , my Hindu friends and officials offer a cake that has Krishna’s flute and peacock feather embossed on it.” However, he said, a slow poison was being spread by Hindutva forces and its impact would be discerned soon. “When the December 6 call was made, the number of people going to offer namaaz in Shahi Masjid suddenly multiplied without any call from the committee. Usually, not more than 50-100 turn up in a day but at that time it increased to a few hundreds,” said Mr. Hasan, a retired professor of English.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/year-of-the-mathura-experiment/article38084256.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||Akhilesh scared and shaken over raids, says Sitharaman||Amid a face-off between the BJP and the Samajwadi Party over the income tax searches in U.P., Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday stressed that raids, including on the premises of perfume trader Piyush Jain, by law enforcing agencies were done on “actionable intelligence”. “When law enforcement agencies raid any place, they do so based on actionable intelligence... Did they come back empty-handed from the search? If they would have returned empty-handed, then they could have said that what happened was wrong... They went to the right house and the right house was searched... Do you get this kind of money in the wrong house,” Ms. Sitharaman said. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) raided properties related to Odochem Industries and its proprietor Piyush Jain, recovering cash of Rs. 197.49 crore, 23 kg of gold and other things. On allegations by former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav that the money belongs to the BJP, the Union Minister said, “How does he know whose money? How is he so sure it is BJP money… Is he his partner? That is why he knows. I am saying it is not BJP money. The former U.P. CM is shaken.”  Dismissing the charge that these raids were politically motivated given that U.P. elections are around the corner, Ms. Sitharaman said, “Should we wait for a muhurtam to catch the thief?”  “Politicisation of such a thing? What should I understand from this... that former CM of U.P. Akhilesh Yadav is scared? Is he shaken by this,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-scared-and-shaken-over-raids-says-sitharaman/article38084261.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||Winter of lively tourism warms Kashmir’s cockles||This December, the buzz on the famous Boulevard Road around the Dal lake here was louder than ever, not dying down even after sundown in the freezing temperatures. In Gulmarg and Pahalgam, most high-end hotels put up the “sold out” tags online. The reason for the busy streets here is that Kashmir, for the first time in over a decade, hosted over 2.5 lakh tourists in November and December, running most high-end hotels in tourist hotspots of Gulmarg and Pahalgam full. “Tourist footfall has been between 3,500 and 5,500 a day in the past two months. We recorded 1.27 lakh tourists in November, highest in the past one decade. The combined tourist figures of November-December are good omen for Kashmir’s tourism,” a senior tourism official said. Compared to the 4.1 lakh visitors last year in the middle of the pandemic, Kashmir has crossed the six-lakh mark already this year as foreign shores remain out of bounds for upper middle class tourists in the country. Healthy bookings  “Our hotels in Gulmarg and Pahalgam were sold out for the month of December. We are expecting healthy bookings for the coming months of January and February too. It’s rare that Pahalgam is also getting a healthy footfall this winter against Gulmarg, which otherwise had remained a preferred destination in winters,” Asif Iqbal Burza, who runs a chain of hotels in the Valley, told The Hindu .  Mr. Burza said one of the key reasons for tourists preferring Kashmir despite the pandemic was “higher levels of vaccination and lower trend of COVID-19 cases”. “The Tourism Department has treated workers associated with the hospitality business as the second preference after frontline workers for vaccination. It did help in infusing confidence among those who visit us,” Mr. Burza said. Pahalgam, around 90 km south of Srinagar, wears a festive look with illuminations, as the New Year approaches. The Jammu and Kashmir Tourism Department has arranged Rohanpreet Singh, a singer from Punjab and husband of popular performer Neha Kakar, to entertain the tourists on the eve of New Year. Skiing picks up In Gulmarg, which received fresh snowfall around Christmas, the ski slopes are full of domestic tourists. Officials said that all 1,300 rooms in Gulmarg were booked for January too. Komal, a resident of Gujarat, is part of a five-member all-woman group and practises six hours a day on the ski slopes. “We have registered with the Indian Institute of Skiing and Mountaineering, Gulmarg, for a skiing course. Two of our group members are aged eight and nine. It feels like heaven learning skiing on these slopes,” Ms. Komal said. Z-Morh tunnel Buoyed by the growing footfall of tourists, Sonamarg, which would remain closed during winters due to heavy snowfall, will also be made accessible this winter, as the government is working hard to complete the Z- Morh tunnel, which bypasses the snow-filled route to touch the tourist destination. The fresh push to complete the Z-Morh tunnel comes in the wake of the recent statement of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha who said, “I get three to four calls from people and friends to arrange hotels for them as all hotels are booked in Kashmir”. He added that there needed to be more hotels and guest houses in Kashmir to accommodate tourists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/winter-of-lively-tourism-warms-kashmirs-cockles/article38084267.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||Rahul fires year-ender salvos at Modi govt.||Former Congress party president Rahul Gandhi fired two year-ender salvos at the Narendra Modi government, questioning the pace of vaccination and falling behind its promise to administer both doses to the entire eligible population by the end of the year. He also hit out at the government on the Indo-China situation with Beijing renaming 15 places in Arunachal Pradesh. As per the CoWin website, nearly 85 crore people have got the first dose and 60 crore have got both doses. Overall 94 crore persons of the Indian population, who are above 18 years, are eligible for COVID vaccine till now. Mr. Gandhi tweeted, “The promise of the Central government was that by the end of 2021, everyone would get both doses of the vaccine. Today is the end of the year. The country is still away from the vaccine. Another rhetoric shattered!” Congress spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh pointed out that only 40% of the eligible population have received double doses. This is far behind the world average of 48% and the Asian average 55%. China, he said has administered two doses to 85% of its population. Mr .Vallabh said, “When rest of the world was busy framing its vaccination policy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was busy exhorting us to beat utensils. The government needs to tell us why it filed a wrong affidavit in the Supreme Court?” He also sought to corner the government over the Indo-China crisis especially in face of China renaming 15-places in Arunachal Pradesh. Mr. Gandhi tweeted, “Just a few days back we were remembering India’s glorious victory in 1971. For the security and victory of the country, wise and strong decisions are needed. Hollow words do not win!” Mr. Vallabh said on one hand China is renaming places in Arunachal Pradesh, setting up villages in Indian Territory and on the other, the government is still carrying on with 100-billion-dollar trade with China. ‘Muted reaction’ In the last 19 months, the Indian reaction to Chinese aggression has been to remain mute, Mr. Vallabh said. The nominal reaction to China’s incursion, Mr. Vallabh said, was to ban a few Chinese owned digital applications. Mr. Modi, the Congress said, did not talk about the Chinese incursions at any international forums that he attended over the last one-year. “We want a concrete strategy on China, if you can’t understand that we can assist you in forming one,” Mr. Vallabh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-fires-year-ender-salvos-at-modi-govt/article38084245.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||3 militants killed, 4 jawans injured in Srinagar encounter||Three more militants were killed and four security personnel injured in a fresh encounter in Srinagar on Thursday night, taking the number of militants killed to nine in the past 36 hours in three separate gunfights in the Kashmir Valley. “Three unidentified terrorists were killed at the encounter site in Srinagar. Incriminating materials including arms and ammunition recovered,” a police spokesman said. Preliminary reports suggested that the encounter broke out in the interiors of the Pathachowk area on the outskirts of Srinagar in the night. The operation is currently on in the area. Earlier, six Jaish-e-Muhammad militants were killed in two separate encounters in south Kashmir’s Anantnag and Kulgam districts. Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said that one of the dead was identified as a local militant Suhail Ahmed Rather of Jaish-e-Muhammad who was also involved in Zewan attack. The attack had left three policemen dead in December. He said two other slain militants seem to be foreigners “as no family has come forward.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-militants-killed-4-jawans-injured-in-srinagar-encounter/article38084247.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||NIA registers case against Sikhs for Justice operative||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has registered a case against Jaswinder Singh Multani, a Germany-based operative of Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), and his associates for allegedly attempting to revive terrorism in Punjab. Following a directive from the Central government, the agency has initiated the probe under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. An NIA team may soon visit Germany to pursue the leads in the case. “This case relates to a criminal conspiracy hatched by Jaswinder Singh Multani with several other pro-Khalistani elements located abroad for radicalising, motivating and recruiting youths in Punjab on the ground and online, through social media platforms, to propagate their ideology with the aim to secede Punjab from the Union of India,” the agency said. According to the NIA, the accused persons have been involved in raising funds to procure arms, ammunition and explosives by using smuggling networks in Punjab. Multani has also been in contact with Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence operatives for carrying out terror attacks in Mumbai and other parts of the country, it said. On Thursday, the Centre instructed the NIA to launch the probe against Multani and his associates from other banned outfits such as the Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) and the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF). Earlier this week, the German police had detained him for questioning on the basis of the inputs shared by the Indian agencies about his alleged involvement in terror activities. Earlier this year, the Punjab police registered two cases against Multani and others, in connection with the smuggling of arms, ammunition and explosives, and an alleged conspiracy to kill a farmer leader to trigger unrest during the anti-farm laws protests. He is suspected to be linked to the Ludhiana court complex blast last week. The NIA will also investigate several alleged associates of Multani, including Jagdish Singh Bhura of the KZF, his deputy Gurmeet Singh, who is also associated with the SFJ; Ranjeet Singh Pakhoke of the KTF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-registers-case-against-sikhs-for-justice-operative/article38084248.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||Hindutva groups demand release of Kalicharan Maharaj||Members of right-wing organisations on Friday took out a march seeking release of Kalicharan Maharaj arrested in Chhattisgarh for his derogatory remarks against Mahatama Gandhi, and said Nathuram Godse was their “ideal”. The protesters also submitted a memorandum demanding that the Chhattisgarh government be sacked for the arrest of the “godman”. Led by an advocate Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, the protesters raised slogans in support of Kalicharan and hailed Nathuram Godse. “Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Jhansi Ki Rani and Nathuram Godse are our ideals. The manner in which the Chhattisgarh government arrested Kalicharan Maharaj, we condemn it in the strongest words. We are going to submit a memorandum to the President through the Deputy Commissioner’s office, saying that the action against Kalicharan Maharaj was one-sided, and no arrests were made in connection with the indecent remarks made by Asaduddin Owaisi against the Hindus and the police,” Mr. Bhardwaj said. “We are not questioning the contribution of Mahatama Gandhi to the freedom struggle, and we respect him, but we are not ready to accept him as the Father of the Nation,” Mr. Bhardwaj said. Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti president Mahavir Bhardwaj said people like Kalicharan Bhardwaj had given a direction to the country. “It has been a Hindu Rashtra forever. If some people were forced to convert, it doesn’t mean that it is not a Hindu Rashtra. No one making a demand for Hindu Rashtra can be wrong. We demand the immediate release of the monk arrested,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hindutva-groups-demand-release-of-kalicharan-maharaj/article38084254.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||Letter urges President, PM to condemn violence incitement||Expressing concern at the recent events in Haridwar, Delhi and elsewhere openly calling for a “genocide of Indian Muslims” and the targeting of other minorities elsewhere, a group of over 200 concerned citizens, including five former Service Chiefs, in an open letter to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urged them to condemn such “incitement to violence in no uncertain terms” and “take immediate steps to curb such attempts.” “In view of the current situation on our borders, any breach of peace and harmony within the nation will embolden inimical external forces. The unity and cohesiveness of our men and women in uniform, including the Central Armed Police Forces [CAPF] and police forces, will be seriously affected by allowing such blatant calls for violence against one or the other community in our diverse and plural society,” the December 31 letter stated. The undersigned said in the letter they were “seriously perturbed” by the content of speeches made during a three-day religious conclave of Hindu sadhus and other leaders held at Haridwar between December 17 and 19. Also, a large number of persons gathered in Delhi and publicly took an oath resolving to make India a Hindu nation, by fighting and killing if necessary, and more such seditious meetings are being organised in other places, the letter noted. Stating that the Constitution provides for the free practice of religion across faiths, the letter strongly deplored such polarisation in the name of religion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-pm-urged-to-slam-incitement-to-violence/article38084268.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:40 IST,||Daily COVID caseload crosses 300-mark in TS||The cumulative number of COVID-19 cases in the State has reached 6,81,898 with 311 positive cases reported on Friday. With 222 infected persons declared recovered during the day, the number of recoveries has gone up to 6,74,221. The number of COVID-19 deaths have reached 4,027 so far with 2 more deaths reported on Friday. The bulletin put the active cases at 3,650, including 1,229 admitted to government and private hospitals for treatment. In all, 36,759 samples were tested for COVID-19 infection during the day with 4,498 reports still awaited. Of the 311 cases reported, nearly two-thirds - 198 - were from GHMC limits, followed by 32 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 28 from Rangareddy, 9 from Hanmakonda, 5 each from Siddipet and Yadadri-Bhongir districts. No (zero) positive cases were reported in 11 districts. With 2,84,773 doses of COVID-19 vaccine administered to eligible persons in the State on Friday, the total doses given so far has reached 4,70,12,501, including 1,90,57,459 persons taking two doses each. Nearly 36.21 lakh doses of vaccine were available with the State as on Friday with 11 out 33 districts yet to achieve 100% coverage of first doses vaccination for eligible population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/daily-covid-caseload-crosses-300-mark-in-ts/article38084801.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||Omicron surge stretches a Central genome lab||In a note sent on Thursday to labs of State Health departments seen by The Hindu , an NCDC official says: “Keeping in view the surge in cases and increased flow of samples for next generation sequencing to NCDC has resulted in a situation wherein they (NCDC) are not in a position to accommodate samples further (for now).”  “ ... All labs are requested to store all positive samples as per established protocol till further directions. However positive samples of individuals arriving at IGI Airport (New Delhi international airport) with a history of travel to country of concern/their contacts will continue to be sent to NCDC for sequencing,” the note said. NCDC, along with being a sequencing laboratory, is also a hub that coordinates with all regional labs as well as the India SARS-CoV2 Genome Consortium (INSACOG. The Delta variant, for instance, was first validated in India by INSACOG labs and was later linked to be the main culprit behind the lethal second wave. NCDC is also an INSACOG lab.  NCDC Director Sujeet Kumar Singh told The Hindu that this was a “partial” message and the request was that Delhi samples be diverted to other labs for quicker analysis to avoid delay. “The message is samples of Delhi may be kindly diverted to other genome sequencing laboratories for the time being as most samples are from Delhi to avoid delay in processing and reporting. Further, some States have been asked to send the samples to other nearby labs which have the capacity,” he told The Hindu in a text message.   The NCDC has an estimated sequencing capacity of 3,000 samples per month and Mr. Singh didn't clarify to The Hindu if the samples from Delhi exceeded this capacity.  “These 125 samples are from different labs in the city and not from the airport. This shows that there is transmission of the Omicron variant in the community and there is no point in sending all positive samples to check whether they are Omicron variant,” a Delhi government official had said. These samples were sent to another lab, the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, which too is part of the INSACOG network. Delhi, notably, has seen a rapid surge in cases with over 1,000 cases being reported since Thursday and 320 of them confirmed to be of the Omicron variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-surge-stretches-a-central-genome-lab/article38084241.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||CBI arrests NHAI official, five others in graft case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested a Bengaluru-based Regional Officer of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and five others, including four functionaries of a Bhopal-based private company, in an alleged bribery case. The NHAI official has been identified as Akil Ahmad, while the other arrestees are Dilip Buildcon Limited’s general manager Retnakaran Sajilal, executive director Devendra Jain, additional general manager Mahim Pratap Singh Tomar and another employee, Sunil Kumar, besides one Anuj Gupta. “During the searches being conducted in Delhi, Bengaluru, Cochin, Gurugram, Bhopal and other places, about Rs. 4 crore has been seized from the premises of private persons and Rs. 4 lakh from that of the Regional Officer,” said a CBI official. It is alleged that the NHAI official was a habitual offender when it came to demanding or accepting illegal gratification from private contractors for clearing their pending bills and issuing provisional commercial operations date for completed projects. The accused official also demanded bribe from Dilip Buildcon’s general manager for a project under Bengaluru-Chennai Expressway Package 1 & 2 executed by the company in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-arrests-nhai-official-five-others-in-graft-case/article38084242.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||FCRA licences of NGOs extended by 3 months||The extension in “public interest” will, however, bring no relief to Missionaries of Charities (MoC), founded by Mother Teresa, as the Ministry said non-governmental organisations (NGOs) whose request for renewal was turned down would not be eligible to receive or utilise the foreign contributions in their designated bank accounts. The Home Ministry had earlier said in a statement that it refused to renew the FCRA registration of the MoC on December 25 as “some adverse inputs were noticed”, adding that its registration was valid till October 31 and it was subsequently extended till December 31 along with that of other FCRA associations whose renewal applications are pending. According to returns filed by the MoC, the NGO has over Rs. 100 crore in its account. A registration under the FCRA is mandatory for any NGO or association to receive foreign funds and it is renewed every five years. According to Dhaval Udani, founder of DanaMojo, an online payment platform for NGOs, there are no set rules around what can be done on rejection of renewal. “The standard practice is to either ask for a review of the decision or re-apply for a fresh application. But for that, they would need to know the reason for the rejection of their renewal to correct any shortcomings. If the government does not share that, they may need to approach the courts,” Mr. Udani said. The Hindu reported on December 28 that the registration of thousands of non-governmental organisations (NGO) and associations that were up for renewal in October 2021 were stuck and the deadline for the same was December 31.  The Hindu reported that only around 5,000 renewal applications were processed so far while there are 22,762 NGOs registered under FCRA. Mr. Udani added, “As per a study done by AccountAid on the four Metros and Bangalore the renewal rate was so far 4% as of 21 December, 2021.”  In an order issued on Friday, the Ministry stated, “… the Central Government, in public interest, has decided to extend validity of FCRA registration certificates up to March 31, 2022 or till the date of disposal of the renewal application.” It added two conditions — the FCRA registration certificates of such entities is expiring between September 29, 2020 — March 31, 2022, and that they have applied or apply for renewal on the FCRA portal before expiry of certificate of registration. As per FCRA rules, an NGO has to apply for renewal within six months of expiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fcra-licences-of-ngos-extended-by-3-months/article38084249.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||GST Council defers tax rate increase on textiles||The Finance Minister added that the panel of State Finance Ministers looking into GST rate rationalisation had been asked to review the tax rate on textiles along with other items. The committee is likely to submit its report by February, the Minister said. After the report is submitted, the Council will meet to take it up for discussion. While welcoming the deferment, experts have, however, pointed out that the textiles sector hardly had any time left to make appropriate changes to their systems and software as the changes were to come into effect on January 1. “Textile industry will certainly have a sigh of relief. However, it may be noted that the rate revision was due right from January 1, and wholesalers / retailers would have already got their pricing tags changed to 12%, made necessary revisions to the billing systems to adhere to the rate change,” Saket Patawari, executive director - Indirect Tax, Nexdigm, said. Bimal Jain, chair, Indirect Tax Committee of PHDCCI, pointed out that the footwear sector, which is also an unorganised sector with small/ medium-scale traders “also needed support and sustainability but now, this hike in GST rates will make footwear expensive for the common man... to ensure sustainability of the footwear sector…the Council should have deferred hike in GST rate from 5% to 12% for this sector as well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gst-council-defers-tax-rate-increase-on-textiles/article38084250.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||Train18 engineer alleges conspiracy against him||Shubhranshu, the engineer who led Team ICF that made Train18, which was later flagged off as Vande Bharat Express, has formally written to the Railway Board alleging that a malicious campaign was on in the past two years to destroy his career.  With the Central Vigilance Commission exonerating him of all charges, the then Principal Chief Mechanical Engineer of the Integral Coach Factory (ICF) in Chennai has written to the Railway Ministry that he should be elevated as General Manager as per rules and then considered for promotion as Chairman of the Railway Board and Chief Executive Officer, sources in the Railways told The Hindu on Thursday.  Though his case was moved as per rules following the intervention of the Minister for Railways on January 11, 2021 for restoration of his name in the GM panel even as the vigilance cases existed, the file was shelved for reasons “unknown”. The self-propelled Trainset, India’s first semi-high speed train, was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as Vande Bharat Express in February 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/train18-engineer-alleges-conspiracy-against-him/article38084493.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||Muslim body moves SC against hate speeches||The Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind has approached the Supreme Court against the repeated instances of hate speeches against Muslims across the country, seeking immediate judicial intervention. The plea filed by Jamiat national president Maulana Mahmood A. Madani said hate speech feeds into a system of political and social discrimination and has a cumulative effect on the dignity of a group/community. In a statement released to the media about the filing of the petition, Jamiat, a socio-religious organisation, narrated various instances of derogatory remarks and calls for violence against the community since 2018. The petitioners voice concerns about law enforcement agencies “succumbing to non-state actors” and failing to protect the rights of the minorities. They have argued that the police authorities have failed to discharge their “duty to care” by failing to act against the anti-Muslim hate speeches. The petition placed reliance on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Tehseen Poonawalla v Union of India, where the Supreme Court passed elaborate directions to deal with mob crimes and lynching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/muslim-body-moves-sc-against-hate-speeches/article38084265.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||RS annual productivity drops to 59%||The Rajya Sabha reported the second lowest annual productivity at 59% in 2021 since its inception. The silver lining in the otherwise bleak picture is above average performance by the Parliamentary Standing Committees under the upper house. According to the Rajya Sabha secretariat, 2021 with 59% of annual productivity was second lowest. The lowest was reported in 2018 with 36% productivity. So far, with the BJP not enjoying a clear majority in Rajya Sabha it remains an arena of confrontation between the opposition and the government. The year 2021 saw passage of many controversial legislations which resulted in continued disruptions in the upper house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-annual-productivity-drops-to-59/article38084243.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||Dalai Lama’s guard in 1959 escape dead||The last surviving member of a small troop of Indian soldiers who escorted the Dalai Lama as he fled from Tibet in 1959 has died aged 85, his former regiment said on Friday. The Dalai Lama arrived in India as a young monk after a 13-day trek through the Himalayas disguised as a soldier to evade detection by Chinese troops. Naren Chandra Das, who died on Monday at his residence in Assam, was 22 at the time and had just completed his training with the Assam Rifles. Along with six other soldiers, he escorted the monk to Lumla in Arunachal Pradesh on March 31, 1959. Mr. Das in an interview last year described how the soldiers had walked through the mountainous region while the Dalai Lama was on a horse. He said they had not been allowed to talk to the Dalai Lama during the journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dalai-lamas-guard-in-1959-escape-dead/article38084527.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||SII applies for full market authorisation||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawala on Friday said the vaccine major had applied to Indian authorities for full market authorisation of Covishield, stating supplies of the COVID-19 vaccine had exceeded 125 crore doses. The SII had partnered with AstraZeneca for the supply of the vaccine to the Indian government, which in January this year granted emergency use authorisation in the country. “Supplies of the COVISHIELD vaccine in India, have exceeded 1.25 billion doses. The Government of India now has enough data for full market authorisation, and therefore @SerumInstIndia has applied to the @CDSCO_INDIA_INF (DCGI) and @MoHFW_INDIA for this permission,” Mr. Poonawala said in a tweet tagging the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation and the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry. Covishield and Covaxin were the first two vaccines approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in January this year, under emergency use authorisation against the pandemic. Regulatory process In case of full market authorisation, the vaccines need to undergo the standard regulatory process for reviewing the quality, safety and effectiveness of medical products. Earlier this week, Covovax, Corbevax, and Molnupiravir were granted emergency use authorisation in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sii-applies-for-full-market-authorisation/article38084269.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 00:00 IST,||Adieu 2021||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adieu-2021/article38084274.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:16 IST,||Potency drugs not under NDPS Act: SC||Sexual enhancement drugs containing herbs and medicines are not covered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, the Supreme Court has observed in a recent order. The observation came in an appeal for bail by a man accused in a case involving the seizure of about 1,37,665 tablets of different types collectively weighing approximately 90 kg from four locations in Chennai in 2019. Forensic tests showed that a “large number” of tablets seized by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) contained herbs to enhance male potency. In its order granting bail and reversing a High Court order, a Bench led by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, pointed out that sexual enhancement pills do not come within the ambit of the NDPS law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/potency-drugs-not-under-ndps-act-sc/article38084257.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Normalcy returns gradually even as more rain lashes city||After intense and unexpected rain lashed Chennai on Thursday, the city gradually returned towards normalcy even as showers continued, though with far less intensity. Owing to efforts to dewater inundated areas throughout Thursday night by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), a majority of the areas were cleared of water on Friday morning. However, roads in some localities remained inundated with the situation worsened by rain on Friday. Officials said the city received an average of 40 mm rain till Friday evening with Perambur and Ayanavaram receiving the highest of 60 mm and 53 mm till evening. While traffic in the city came to a standstill for hours from Thursday evening till late night, it was largely smooth on Friday on all the major roads except in a few places such as Ashok Pillar that sections of the road inundated. Central region was the worst affected on Thursday, the officials said. Sections of low-lying areas like Bazullah Road, Seethammal Colony in Teynampet, West Mambalam, K.K. Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Tamil Salai and Raja Mannar Road continued to have inundation with GCC deploying additional pumps to dewater the areas. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the civic body had deployed 383 heavy duty pumps by Friday evening compared to 153 pumps deployed on Thursday night. He said that the Corporation managed to clear inundation from all major roads on Friday. “With the rain continuing, some traditionally flood-prone low-lying areas are facing inundation. However, we have deployed additional pumps in those localities,” he said. For instance, in Seethammal Colony, one of the localities inspected by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday, pumps with a cumulative capacity of 520 HP have been deployed, he said. He said that senior officers designated as monitoring officers for each of the 15 zones were closely monitoring the work in their respective zones. With rain continuing on Friday night and expected on Saturday as well, an adequate number of personnel have been deployed to dewater the areas as and when there was flooding, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/normalcy-returns-gradually-even-as-more-rain-lashes-city/article38084610.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||96 lakh due for second dose of vaccine||Nearly 96 lakh persons are due for their second dose of COVID-19 vaccines in Tamil Nadu. With nearly 59% of the eligible population fully vaccinated so far, the Health Department wants to improve the pace, especially because of the surge in fresh infections and the emergence of the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus. Right now, 86% of the State’s eligible population — 5,78,91,000 persons — have received at least one dose. As on December 29, 80,85,218 persons were due for the first dose and 96,71,007 persons for the second dose. One of the areas of concern was the low vaccination levels among the elderly. Among all age groups, the elderly continued to account for the lowest coverage. While 61% of the targeted 1,04,19,000 senior citizens have received the first dose, only 44% have been fully vaccinated. On the contrary, 95% of the population aged 45-59-have received the first dose and 72% have been fully vaccinated. The category of 18-44 years accounted for the first dose coverage of 81% and the second dose coverage of 51%. A challenge Noting that the vaccination of the elderly was the challenge, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine T.S. Selvavinayagam said, “Considering their age and probable co-morbidities, the 60-plus population are prone to additional/excessive mortality. So we request all to convince their 60-plus-old parents, relatives and friends to get vaccinated.” The Health Department wants to accelerate the pace of vaccination, and has been urging people to come forward. “Getting both doses is important,” he said. “The reality is that creating a wall of population immunity is the best deterrent against the third wave caused by Omicron. Worldwide, they are trying to do this,” said T. Jacob John, retired professor of virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore. People should know why they should take the second dose, he said, stressing the need for good messaging. “Tell people the importance of the second dose, particularly in the light of Omicron. Teach people the details. There are no concerted efforts to do this. This information-deficiency is the cause of the reluctance to get the second dose,” he said. He said that in all two-dose vaccines, there was clear evidence that a person would not be protected with the first dose. Vaccine-induced protection would kick in with the second dose. Even if delayed, the second dose would remain the second dose. E. Theranirajan, Dean, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, said the second dose would help to achieve immunological response, resulting in more antibody production. “Even now, in patients who test positive for COVID-19, we are seeing fully vaccinated persons being asymptomatic. Vaccination prevents severity of the disease. If we want to prevent mortality, vaccination is the only solution,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/96-lakh-due-for-second-dose-of-vaccine/article38084629.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||State sees 60 private equity and venture capital deals in 2021||Private equity and venture capital companies invested around $1.8 billion in Tamil Nadu based firms through 60 deals during 2021. Data collated by Venture Intelligence, a research firm focused on private company financials, transactions and their valuations, shows that in the first quarter of 2021, firms invested $510 million across 11 deals and during the second quarter around $323 million came through 11 deals. In September and December quarters, around $415 million (19 deals) and $585 million (19 deals) came into State-based firms. In 2020, PE-VC firms invested $690 million through 41 deals in State-based firms. Arun Natarajan, founder of Venture Intelligence, said: “PE-VC investments in Tamil Nadu-based companies zoomed 166% year-on-year in 2021 to over $1.8 billion (across 60 deals). Fintech start-ups from Chennai like M2P Fintech, CredAvenue and GuardianLink made a strong mark on the radar of Indian and international VC investors during 2021,” Mr. Natarajan said. “It was also interesting to see B2C brands from the State like Juicy Chemistry, TenderCuts and The Indus Valley attract VC investors from outside the State,” he added. The year 2021 saw established companies like TVS Logistics and IPO-bound financial services companies like Five Star Business Finance and Star Health Insurance attract mega investments (of over $100 million each). The traditional investor favoured sectors of enterprise technology and especially SaaS exemplified by Uniphore Software and ChargeBee continued to attract large size investments during 2021. “The Nasdaq IPO of SaaS unicorn Freshworks and exit of cross-border software start-up Ally (via acquisition by Microsoft) is only going to put more wind behind the sails of the enterprise technology start-ups in the State,” Mr. Natarajan said. Investments by Angel Networks and “Super Angels” in Tamil Nadu-based companies also grew by 46% year on year to 38 deals in 2021. The number of such investments registered a steady rise in each quarter during 2021, Mr. Natarajan said. Last year, the State saw 26 angel investment deals. Some of the firms that received angel investments were Blaer Motors (raised Rs.2.61 crore from The Chennai Angels), Planys Technologies (raised $1.6 million as part of its ongoing pre-series A round) and Agnikul (raised $11 million in a series A round led by Mayfield India). In February, Mahindra Group Chairman Anand Mahindra had invested in Agnikul. In 2021, two companies from Tamil Nadu, Chargebee Technologies and Five Star Business Finance turned Unicorns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-sees-60-private-equity-and-venture-capital-deals-in-2021/article38084646.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Some displaced dwellers get back their valuables||As the removal of debris from the collapsed Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board building in Tiruvottiyur began on Friday, a few residents were elated to find their valuables, including jewellery and cash. According to the officials, three families recovered their jewellery worth Rs. 4,50,000 on Friday. Some cash and government issued identity cards were also retrieved. One wing of a building at the board’s site in Village Street in Tiruvottiyur collapsed on Monday. Twenty eight of the 48 units in the building collapsed. The removal of debris, which began on Tuesday, was stopped immediately after the effects of the exercise were felt in adjacent buildings. It resumed on Friday after the technical committee finished inspecting all the board’s buildings at the site. “We are removing debris in a gradual manner with minimum use of earth-moving equipment. Our officials, along with personnel from Fire and Rescue Services and the police, are there to identify every item recovered and give it to the rightful owners, ” said M. Govinda Rao, Managing Director, TNUHDB. Santhi, a resident, said she could not believe that her jewellery was recovered intact from the debris. “It is my lifetime savings,” she said emotionally. Legis, a social development specialist with the board, said Rs. 6,500 saved by a senior citizen and his differently-abled wife in a piggy bank was recovered. “In another case, we managed to recover five tiny golden beads from the thali chain of a woman that were scattered in the debris,” she said. With the fear of losing identity cards gripping the residents, many were happy to get back their aadhaar cards, passbooks and smart cards issued by the Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection Department. “We are mainly identifying damaged cupboards used by each family. In that location, we then allow the family members to look for their belongings,” Ms. Legis said. Meanwhile, Mr. Rao said the board was in the process of identifying alternative housing for those who lost their houses. “Around 10 people have expressed willingness to move to another site where we have vacant houses,” he said. While a number of families from the adjacent buildings temporarily moved to their relatives’ houses or rental accommodation, many other families who could not find alternative accommodation continued to stay in the vacant space at the site with their belongings. The officials said they had asked them to move to a nearby community hall by leaving their belongings in their residences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/some-displaced-dwellers-get-back-their-valuables/article38084626.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 daily tally crosses 1,000 in T.N. after two months||Tamil Nadu reported a sharp rise in the number of new COVID-19 cases as the daily tally crossed 1,000 after two months on Friday. The State recorded 1,155 COVID-19 new cases. More than half of the cases were in Chennai. Meanwhile, another 74 persons tested positive for Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, taking the number of confirmed cases of the new variant to 120. Of these, 63 cases were not linked with international travellers. From 890 cases on Thursday, the number of new cases rose to 1,155. The number of daily cases dropped below 1,000 on November 1. Chennai, which reported 397 cases on Thursday, clocked 589 new cases on Friday. However, the city did not record any death due to COVID-19. Along with Chennai, the neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram took recorded a rise in the number of new cases. While 137 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Chengalpattu, there were 43 and 34 cases in Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram respectively. Tiruppur and Thoothukudi registered a marginal rise in cases as 43 and 30 persons tested positive for the infection respectively. There were 70 new cases in Coimbatore while Erode logged 22 cases. Two districts of Ariyalur and Mayiladuthurai had no new case of COVID-19. As many as 23 districts recorded fewer than 10 cases each. Ten international travellers — seven from the UAE and one each from Qatar, Sri Lanka and Oman — and a person who returned from West Bengal tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. With this, the State’s tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 27,48,045. New variant According to the bulletin issued by the Health Department, out of 117 samples sent for whole genomic sequencing earlier in the week, 115 results were received and two were pending validation. Of the results received, 74 were identified as Omicron variant and 41 as Delta variant. With this, the number of persons who have tested positive for Omicron variant stood at 120 in Tamil Nadu. Chennai had the most number of cases at 95. Of these, 57 were related to international travellers — 35 international travellers and 22 of their contacts. The remaining 63 persons were not linked to international travellers. So far, 66 persons have been discharged from hospitals. While two cases were cross-notified to Kerala and Puducherry, 52 patients were admitted to hospitals. This included 38 in Chennai. The State recorded 11 deaths, taking the toll to 36,776. While there were no deaths in 33 districts, Coimbatore reported four fatalities, while there were two deaths in Salem, Tiruvallur and Tiruchi and one in Tiruppur. Among the deceased were two persons aged in their 30s. While 603 persons were discharged, the number of active cases rose to 7,470. Chennai’s active caseload crossed 2,000 as 2,403 persons are under treatment. The State tested a total of 1,04,615 samples. 1.23 lakh vaccinated Another 1,23,261 persons were vaccinated in the State. Of these, 65,996 persons were aged 18 to 44 and 35,805 were aged 45 to 59. This took the total coverage of government vaccination centres so far to 8,11,21,160.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-daily-tally-crosses-1000-in-tn-after-two-months/article38084631.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Face contempt action if STF for eviction is not formed: HC||The Madras High Court has warned the State government of contempt of court proceedings if it had not complied with an April 2019 directive to constitute a Special Task Force, headed by an officer in the rank of Additional Chief Secretary, for conducting periodical inspections, field survey and removal of encroachments from government lands. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and A.A. Nakkiran recalled that another Bench led by Justice M. Venugopal (since retired) had on April 29, 2019 ordered that the STF should be constituted permanently and that it should be headed by an “efficient, devoted and honest” official who could crack down on large scale encroachments. “It is not known as to whether such a force has been constituted for the said purpose,” the Bench led by Justice Vaidyanathan said and warned that the court would pass stringent orders if any wilful and deliberate disobedience was noticed. It also made it clear that the court would not hesitate to order imprisonment of the officials concerned for their lapses. The warning was issued while disposing of a writ petition on an alleged illegal construction at Marshalls Road in Egmore. Passing orders, the Bench recalled the 2019 order which had not only conceived the constitution of a permanent STF, similar to the one in Karnataka, but also listed out its probable functions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/face-contempt-action-if-stf-for-eviction-is-not-formed-hc/article38084624.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Close or shift thermal power plants’||Fisherfolk of 32 hamlets in Ennore on Thursday called for shutting down or shifting the polluting thermal power stations that spread harmful fly ash in their area for over four decades now. They questioned the rationale behind allowing their area to be polluted by the power stations while generating power for the development of the rest of the State. “The fly ash is everywhere, in the air we breathe, the water we drink and even on the food we consume. When we dry fish outside, the ash forms a layer on it. When we return home from work, our people are covered with fly ash and even when it rains, the water washes down as a dark slurry due to ash deposited everywhere. Knowingly, we are feeding poison to our children,” said Rajathi of Sivanpadaiveedu while urging the government to provide them with safe drinking water. The residents were expressing their anguish at a public hearing convened by members of a joint expert committee constituted by the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal to prepare a detailed project report for remediation of fly ash from Ennore and to prepare a report detailing damages caused to the river basin. A resident of Kattupalli panchayat said that each time a project was proposed in the area, including the ports and thermal power plants, local people were always promised jobs and that their environment would be safeguarded. “They make this promise before the District Collector. But we do not get any jobs and our ecosystem is damaged. We keep filing cases and saying no to projects during public hearings. However, our voices remain unheard,” she said. Fisherfolk leader Ko. Su. Mani said they had been protesting since the 1990s. “People used to be affluent in Ennore and the prawns caught here used to be exported. However, now with hot water and fly ash let into the water, the fishermen are not able to net anything for their own consumption,” he said. Patient hearing Head of the committee Santha Sheela Nair and members Balaji Narasimhan and Indumathi Nambi of the Department of Civil Engineering, IIT- Madras; D. Narasimhan from the Madras Christian College; and Jayashree Venkatesan of Care Earth, heard the residents patiently. Ms. Nair said the committee had been formed to look at the possibilities of remediation of fly ash. She welcomed residents’ suggestions regarding how fly ash can be dealt with and said a fair report would be submitted to the NGT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/close-or-shift-thermal-power-plants-fisherfolk/article38084648.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||We will remind Centre to replace IMD equipment: CM||The Tamil Nadu government will remind the Union government of the need to replace the equipment at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) to ensure a better rain forecast, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Friday. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Stalin referred to the heavy rain that pounded the city on Thursday and said, “The IMD will generally provide us with a forecast. This time, even it could not make a prediction.” Asked whether the State would urge the Union government to replace the equipment, he said, “This is their job. Since you have mentioned it, the Tamil Nadu government will do so.” Mr. Stalin on Thursday night visited the flood control room of the Ripon Building, the headquarters of the Greater Chennai Corporation, to oversee the work on clearing stagnant water at various places. He went around the waterlogged areas on Friday. Asked whether there was any issue in the planning to eliminate water-logging, he reiterated his charge that the AIADMK government had ruined it [the system] over the past 10 years. “We are not prepared to criticise them now. We have to clear the stagnant water. I am confident we will set it right before the next monsoon. The work is under way.” The Chief Minister said various parts of the city recorded 20 cm of rain on Thursday alone and officials were working round the clock to clear the water. He said he was monitoring the situation and hoped it would improve soon. He visited the affected areas in Seethammal Colony, Dr. Giriappa Salai and the Tirumalaipillai Salai-Bazullah Salai junction. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru; Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi; MLAs Dha. Velu and J. Karunanithi; Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation Gagandeep Singh Bedi; Greater Chennai Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal; and senior officials accompanied him. Maran slams Centre Member of Parliament Dayanidhi Maran said in a tweet: “For over two years, I have repeatedly requested Union Government to expedite repair work on Chennai’s radars on war footing. The delay by the Union Government is solely responsible for putting Chennai in a situation where our technology is not sufficient to support the people in times of need.” According to sources in the IMD, the old radar on Rajaji Salai office was functioning but being operated with limitations because of its wear and tear. The IMD here had been requesting to replace some parts of the radar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-will-remind-centre-to-replace-imd-equipment-cm/article38084613.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM opens medical centres at 7 temples||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday virtually inaugurated medical centres at seven temples on behalf of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department for the benefit of devotees. The temples are Subramaniyaswamy Temple in Tiruchendur, Arunachaleswarar Temple in Tiruvannamalai, Angala Parameswari Temple in Melmalayanur, Lakshmi Narasimhaswamy Temple in Sholinghur, Subramaniyaswamy Temple in Maruthamalai, Subramaniyaswamy Temple at Tiruttani and Dhandayuthapaniswamy Temple at Palani. In these medical centres, besides basic amenities, first aid and basic treatment would be provided with oxygen cylinders, beds and life-saving medicines. Funds to the tune of Rs. 30 lakh to each of the temples would sanctioned from the temple funds for running these medical centres, an official release said. Each centre would have two doctors, two nurses and two multi-disciplinary medical staff. In the first phase, the centres have been inaugurated in seven temples. Three more temples would have these centres later, the release said. Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan, HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu and senior officials were present during the event in the Secretariat. Minister for Fisheries Anitha R. Radhakrishnan, Minister for Textiles R. Gandhi, Minister for Dairy Development S.M. Nasar and senior officials virtually took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-opens-medical-centres-at-7-temples/article38084621.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. against hike in GST on textile items||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday opposed the proposed increase in the Goods and Services Tax on some textile goods from 5% to 12%. It argued that the increase in the rate on fabrics, including handloom goods made from natural fibres, would dampen the demand, thus affecting farmers and small and medium enterprises. The GST Council later decided to put the decision on hold. At a special sitting of the Council in New Delhi with the sole agenda of discussing the increase, Tamil Nadu Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said, “Alternatively, ready-made garments, having a sale value of above Rs. 3,000 or Rs. 5,000, could be taxed at 12% and the present rate of 5% on goods below this level could be retained.” Human-made fibres were made through automated processes involving low labour and high capital. But the manufacture of goods from natural fibres was more labour-intensive and would have an impact on farmers. This sector was also run with a lower capital, mostly by micro, small and medium enterprises. “The proposed hike could not have come at a more inopportune time when the industry is limping back to normalcy from the onslaught of the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. Tamil Nadu is one of the major States making handloom, powerloom and hosiery goods, and this sector is next only to the agriculture in job creation, he said. Before the GST was introduced, textiles were given full exemption under Tamil Nadu’s VAT regime and readymade garments were taxed at 5%, he recalled. The textile industry in the State was a forerunner in job creation. “The handloom sector, which is barely surviving on the subsidies granted by the State government, will not be able to absorb the blow from the increase in the GST,” he said. In their representations, the associations representing this trade had highlighted that the GST increase would cause a large-scale unemployment in the weaving industry because of the non-availability of additional loans and working capital, he said. Mr. Rajan also reiterated that the current method of sharing of powers of direct taxation and indirect taxation was unfair as the direct taxation powers of the States had been limited. The situation was exacerbated by the curtailment of even the bulk of indirect taxation powers after the GST was introduced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-against-hike-in-gst-on-textile-items/article38084623.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK delegation meets Governor Ravi||A delegation of AIADMK leaders called on Governor R.N. Ravi at the Raj Bhavan here on Friday and submitted a petition alleging deterioration in law and order in Tamil Nadu and police harassment of the party cadre. “Law and order has broken down in the State,” former Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam alleged while talking to journalists after meeting the Governor. He said the situation resembled a “mini-undeclared emergency”. Crimes against women had increased, he said, referring to an incident in which a girl was found burnt in western Tamil Nadu recently. Under the pretext of reinvestigation of cases, the DMK government was trying to protect its Ministers. Mr. Shanmugam alleged that the police were being “used by the government” for its interests. He questioned whether the police, who were on the lookout for former Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, had the courage to arrest Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji since both faced complaints of the same nature. Asked whether the AIADMK enquired about the status of the legislation against NEET pending with the Governor, Mr. Shanmugam said the meeting dealt only with law and order. He blamed DMK MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin for making “misleading statements” against NEET during the Assembly election campaign. Since the Supreme Court had upheld NEET, either the court or Parliament alone could change the status, he said. Elaborating on the allegation of harassment of government servants by the ruling DMK, the former Minister said an audio clip in which a sub-inspector in Vellore had alleged harassment by DMK workers went viral, but he was transferred. ‘Workers went missing’ He said AIADMK workers went missing from Jolarpettai and Ramanathapuram and the Virudhunagar Superintendent of Police was responsible for it.  “But we are not afraid of any case. We have faced [former Chief Minister and DMK leader] Karunanidhi and we will face the cases legally as our Amma [late AIADMK leader Jayalalithaa] did.”  Mr. Shanmugam alleged that many Ministers in the DMK government had cases registered against them. Banned psychotropic substances were being sold in the State. Within 200 days of the new government, over 500 murders had occurred, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-delegation-meets-governor-ravi/article38084637.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Teenager arrested for death of student||The Government Railway Police (GRP), Tiruvallur, on Friday arrested an 18-year-old college student in connection with the death of a 20-year-old student of another college at Thiruninravur railway station. On Tuesday night, M. Kumar, a first-year student of M.A. History at Presidency College and a resident of Guruvarajapet near Arakkonam, ended his life. In a voice note, he said he faced humiliation from a group of students and did not want to live at the mercy of the students of another college. On Wednesday, his friends gathered in front of the Government General Hospital, Tiruvallur, and staged a protest demanding action against the students responsible for his death. The police suspected the death could be a fallout of a “route thala” clash among students to establish their supremacy in buses or trains. The GRP arrested V. Manoj, 18, a resident of Thiruninravur and a student of Pachaiyappa's College. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teenager-arrested-for-death-of-student/article38084617.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Postdoctoral fellow stabbed to death by woman colleague, her friend||A 45-year-old postdoctoral fellow of a private educational institution was stabbed by his woman colleague and her friend at Kalavakkam near Tiruporur in Chengalpattu district on Thursday, following a dispute over unrequited love and cheating. He was called by the duo for talks outside the campus and was stabbed on the road, the police said. The police identified the victim as K. Senthil, 45, a native of Melapuliyur in Perambalur district. He was a postdoctoral fellow, who stayed on the campus. One of the accused has been identified as J. Desapriya, 34, a native of Keezh Pennathur, Tiruvannamalai district. She has completed her Ph.D in physics and was working as a junior research assistant on the same campus. Her friend and the other accused S. Arun Pandian, 34, is a Ph. D scholar and a native of Ulundurpet. Upset over cheating Desapriya and Senthil were acquainted with each other while pursuing Ph.D at a private university in Ramapuram a couple of years ago. The police said they were in a relationship. Later Senthil married another woman, leaving Desapriya upset. Senthil brought her to the campus, where he was working, and got her the post of junior research assistant a few months ago, the police said. Desapriya repeatedly asked Senthil to marry her and brought Arun Pandian to mediate between them. At 3 p.m. on Thursday, she and her friend came to the campus at Kalavakkam. They invited Senthil outside and had talks near a culvert on Tiruporur Road. Since he would not agree to their terms, they stabbed him to death, the police said. They fled on a bike and while driving the wrong way, they hit an auto-rickshaw and fell down. The auto-rickshaw driver and other motorists nabbed them as the police from Kelambakkam rushed to the spot. Senthil died on the spot. His body was taken to the Government General Hospital for post-mortem. Kelambakkam inspector V. Radhakrishnan registered a case against Desapriya and Arun Pandian for the murder. They were arrested on Thursday and remanded in judicial custody on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postdoctoral-fellow-murdered-by-woman-colleague-her-friend/article38084615.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Academic bodies to check quality of flats||Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUHDB) has signed memoranda of understanding (MoU) with two organisations for third party assessment of the quality of its projects. The move followed the demand for stringent quality control measures in the board in the wake of the collapse of one of its buildings in Tiruvottiyur recently and the poor quality observed in its recently constructed flats in K.P. Park in Pulianthope. The two institutions are Centre for Urbanisation, Building and Environment (CUBE), an organisation formed in collaboration between IIT-Madras and the Government of Tamil Nadu, and the University College of Engineering, a constituent college of Anna University. M. Govinda Rao, Managing Director, TNUHDB, said the Board had written to 21 institutions across the State seeking their help in independent quality assessment work. He said that nine of them had responded and MoUs would be signed with them soon. One of the organisations would be assigned to carry out third party quality assessment work for every project to be implemented by the Board. “They will perform the quality monitoring while the construction work is under way so that any problems can be rectified soon,” he said. He said engaging these organisations as third party to carry out quality monitoring would encourage the contractors and the board’s staff to work diligently. CUBE was engaged to assess the quality of the K.P. Park tenements after complaints of poor construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/academic-bodies-to-check-quality-of-flats/article38084627.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain forecast for Chennai, other districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued heavy rainfall warning on Saturday for coastal regions, including Chennai, and other districts of Tamil Nadu. IMD’s Deputy Director General of Meteorology S. Balachandran said the coastal regions, including Chennai, were likely to receive heavy rainfall for two days because of the system caused by the convergence of easterly winds and westerly winds. On Friday, Nungambakkam received 32 mm of rain, Ennore Port 40 mm, Cheyyur (Chengalpattu) 31 mm, Tirur (Tiruvallur) 43 mm, and Good Will School, Villivakkam (Tiruvallur) 40.5 mm. Rains are expected to cause localised flooding of susceptible settlements or roads, and low-lying areas. Localised and short term disruption to public services such as electricity, road transport are expected in the next two days. As per observations on Friday, intense convective clouds were present over Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Chennai, Vellore, Villupuram, Cuddalore, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur, Kallakurichi, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet, Salem, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Tiruchi, Madurai, Namakkal, Karur, Tiruppur, Dindigul, Pudukottai, Thoothukudi and Sivaganga districts and in Puducherry, including Karaikal. Blogger Pradeep John on Friday tweeted: “One more band of clouds to move in and all these will be short intense spells, enjoy these rains for two more days then we go into break from January 2. These are normal common rains from easterly wave unlike the freak one yesterday.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/imd-predicts-heavy-rain-today/article38084606.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sivarajah Ramanathan is TANSIM CEO||The State government has appointed Sivarajah Ramanathan as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Tamil Nadu Start-up and Innovation Mission (TANSIM) with a mandate to enhance the start-up ecosystem in the State. He is expected to take charge in the first week of January. Mr. Ramanathan is the founder and CEO of Nativelead Foundation, which has mentored hundreds of start-ups from tier-2 and tier-3 towns. It has also provided funding to innovative start-ups through its Native Angels Network and in September, The Chennai Angels struck a deal with Native Angels Network to co-invest in start-ups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sivarajah-ramanathan-is-tansim-ceo/article38084619.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||PM to take part in ‘Modi Pongal’ event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will take part in an event called ‘Modi Pongal’, to be organised by the Tamil Nadu BJP in Madurai on January 12, State BJP president K. Annamalai said on Friday. Mr. Modi will visit Virudhunagar on January 12 to inaugurate 11 new medical colleges in the State. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will also participate in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-to-take-part-in-modi-pongal-event/article38084941.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Chief Minister violated his own orders, says OPS||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Friday alleged that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin violated COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, advocated by him to the people, during his public events in Thanjavur and Tiruchi on Thursday. In a statement, Mr. Panneerselvam quoted from Mr. Stalin’s speech in Tiruchi, where he said Minister K.N. Nehru had organised the event for a sea of people and it did not need much effort for the Minister to mobilise people, and said this incident made it clear the Chief Minister did not respect his own orders. “If the Chief Minister himself violated the norms, how would the people be? When the gathering is termed ‘a sea of people,’ definitely wearing of face masks and enforcing social distancing norms would not have been complied with,” Mr. Panneerselvam contended. Organising such public events, especially during the pandemic amounted to spreading the virus. “So, considering the increasing number of COVID-19 cases and the spread of the Omicron variant of the virus, all public events such as social, cultural, political and government functions should be entirely banned,” Mr. Panneerselvam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-violated-his-own-orders-says-ops/article38084633.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami criticises govt. over flooding||Strongly criticising the DMK government over flooding at several places in Chennai, AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday asked what had the ruling party achieved in the past eight months. In a statement, he condoled the death of three persons, who died of electrocution on Thursday and further sought a solatium of Rs. 20 lakh to the families. “The Northeast monsoon had slowed down some 20 days ago. If only the defective equipment, roads and drains had been repaired, the damage could have been avoided, he said. If Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had implemented the ideas he had suggested as an Opposition leader, three deaths could have been avoided, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-criticises-govt-over-flooding/article38084635.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man posing as inspector arrested for cheating||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Friday arrested a 42-year-old man who posed as a police inspector and allegedly cheated an estranged woman and her father on the pretext of remarrying her. The police said that two months ago, the accused, A. Siva alias Sivaji, of Tiruvottriyur, approached Mohandoss, 60, of Rajakilpakkam after learning that the latter was wealthy, and that his only daughter Reka was estranged from her husband. The accused claimed to be a police inspector and member of a special investigation team and pretended to help Reka get a divorce from her husband, and proposed to marry her. He collected Rs. 85.80 lakh from Mr. Mohandoss to meet the legal expenses. One day, he drove away in a sedan belonging to Mr. Mohandoss. On a complaint from Mr. Mohandoss, the Entrustment Document Fraud Wing of CCB arrested Siva alias Sivaji, who was hiding at another woman’s house in Coimbatore. The police suspect that the accused had cheated a couple of women in a similar manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-posing-as-policeman-arrested-for-cheating-woman-her-father/article38084616.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||34 school students test positive||A total of 34 school students who were undergoing a residential training programme at the Greater Chennai Corporation-run Model School at Saidapet have tested positive for COVID-19. All of them remained mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic, officials said. Two girls in hospitals While one girl, who was anaemic, was taken to hospital as a precautionary measure, another girl was taken to a private hospital by her parents. The remaining 32 have been admitted to the COVID-19 care centre at Injambakkam, said a senior official of the Corporation. Of the 34 students who were in Class 12, there were 24 boys and 10 girls. They were from different city schools and staying at the school’s hostel for the programme. All of them were tested after one of the boys, who developed fever, tested positive, the official said. Preparations for NEET The official said they were part of a programme run by the School Education Department at select schools across Tamil Nadu to prepare the students for competitive examinations, including NEET. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, Sholinganallur MLA S. Aravind Ramesh and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan visited the students at the COVID-19 care centres and enquired about their health. The Minister said the students were doing well and the Greater Chennai Corporation was taking care of their needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/34-school-students-test-positive-for-covid-19/article38084641.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Felicitation centre||The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has opened a Taxpayer Facilitation Centre on the premises of New Custom House, Air Cargo Complex, Meenambakkam at Chennai airport. This is to mark 75 years of the country’s Independence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/felicitation-centre/article38084614.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees 11.6% rise in POCSO cases in 2021||The number of cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act within the limits of Coimbatore City Police saw a slight increase of 11.6% in 2021 in comparison to the previous year as 77 cases were registered in 2021 while 69 cases were registered in 2020. As per data provided by the police on Friday, the 77 POCSO cases registered till December 30, 2021 comprised 51 cases of rape and 26 cases of other sexual offences against minors. In 2020, the 69 POCSO cases comprised 46 rape cases and 23 other sexual offences. In both the years, all the accused booked under the POCSO Act were remanded in judicial custody. Crimes against women saw an increase of 48.7% in 2021 than the previous year as 235 cases were registered in 2021, while in 2020 it was 158 cases. The 235 cases comprised 13 rape cases, eight molestation cases, five abductions, 22 cases of cruelty by husband or relatives, 132 cases registered under the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act and 55 cases under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. No dowry deaths were reported in the city police limits in both the years and all the accused were remanded, according to the data. At a press conference on Friday, Commissioner of Police Pradip Kumar said that the Coimbatore City Police will adopt a “prevention and punishment strategy” for crimes against women and children. Preventive measures will be intensified and punishment for criminals will be ensured without delays in these cases, he said, adding that safety of women and children will be prioritised in the New Year.  Mr. Kumar told The Hindu that the police will adopt a three-level strategy to scale-up awareness to prevent crimes against children in Coimbatore in the New Year. This would involve interaction with children, staff members of educational institutions and parents of the children through awareness programmes. The total number of murder cases reported in the city police limits were 27 for both the years, he said. A total of 1,872 CCTV cameras were installed in the city in 2021, taking the total number of CCTV cameras installed in collaboration with private players to 24,415.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-116-rise-in-pocso-cases-in-2021/article38084662.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Maruthamalai temple gets first aid centre||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday virtually inaugurated a first aid centre on the premises of the Subramaniyaswami Temple in Maruthamalai to cater to the devotees visiting the temple. He inaugurated the centre through videoconferencing from the Secretariat in the presence of Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan and Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu. At Maruthamalai, District Collector G.S. Sameeran, Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan, HR&CE Joint Commissioner for Coimbatore Zone R. Senthilvelavan and HR&CE Assistant Commissioner for the temple K. Vimala were present during the inauguration. Officials from the HR&CE Department said that 10 temples have been chosen across the State for the initiative, among which Subramaniyaswami Temple is the only temple from Coimbatore district. With four beds, the first aid centre will be located next to the stairway that leads to the temple from the vehicle parking area. Minor health issues such as giddiness or small injuries faced by devotees visiting the temple will be treated at the facility, the officials said. There will be two doctors, two nurses and two attenders at the centre and they will work in two shifts in mornings and evenings. The temple will soon get its own ambulance to shift patients to hospitals from the centre, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maruthamalai-temple-gets-first-aid-centre/article38084664.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 400 species of birds, butterflies recorded||The annual Birds and Butterflies Survey, which was held across Coimbatore Forest Division recently, has recorded 238 species of birds and 185 species of butterflies in seven forest ranges in Coimbatore district, according to the Forest Department. In a press release, District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar said that the annual survey was conducted from December 24 to 26 in the seven forest ranges namely Sirumugai, Mettupalayam, Karamadai, Periyanaickenpalayam, Coimbatore, Boluvampatti and Madukkarai. The Forest Department collaborated with three organisations – Coimbatore Nature Society (CNS), The Nature and Butterfly Society (TNBS), and the World Wide Fund for Nature-India (WWF-India) – to carry out the survey to assess the presence of birds and butterflies in the forest ranges, he said. President of CNS P.R. Selvaraj said in a release that out of the 238 bird species, 122 were from the Passerine bird group, indicating that most of these forest-dwelling birds thrive well across the Coimbatore Forest Division. Echoing similar sentiments, Landscape Coordinator of WWF-India D. Boominathan noted that the results of the survey for three consecutive years have been consistent in both birds and butterflies, which “reflects the healthy state of the [Coimbatore Forest] Division.” He added that this year’s survey recorded 34 migratory species of birds and most of them are forest-dependent. Some of the bird species recorded were Bar-headed Goose, Oriental Turtle-Dove, Lesser Fish Eagle, Legge’s Hawk Eagle, Spot-bellied Eagle Owl, Malabar Trogon, Great Hornbill, Malabar Barbet, Peregrine Falcon, Indian Pitta, Grey-headed Canary Flycatcher, Hill Swallow, Grey-headed Bulbul, White-bellied Treepie, Blue-throated Flycatcher, Verditer Flycatcher, Forest Wagtail, Tawny Pipit and Buntings.  Regarding butterflies, TNBS president A. Pavendhan said in a release that the butterfly Common Tinsel was recorded for the first time in Coimbatore Forest Divison at Boluvampatti Forest Range during the survey. Among the 185 butterfly species recorded, 55 were from Lycaenidae and Riodinidae families, 54 from the Nymphalidae family and 38 species were from Hesperiidae family, also known as the Skippers.  Common Mime, Nilgiri Grass Yellow, Chocolate Albatross, Nilgiri Tiger, Tawny Rajah, Colour Sergeant, Short-banded Sailer, Blue Oakleaf, Centaur Oakblue, Silver-streaked Acacia Blue, Banded Royal, Silver Royal, Malabar Flash, Madras Ace, Wax Dart, and Philippine Swift were some of the butterfly species that were recorded. A total of 14 teams (two per forest range) were deployed for the survey that comprised 68 naturalists and 42 forest officials. Assistant Conservators of Forest C. Dinesh Kumar and M. Senthil Kumar along with the Forest Range Officers from the Forest Department supervised the exercise, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-400-species-of-birds-butterflies-recorded-during-annual-survey/article38084655.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Muted New Year celebration in city||Brightly lit churches, bakery and confectionery shops, ice cream parlours and hotels were the indicators welcoming the New Year 2022 in Coimbatore city. Occasional firework that lit the winter sky also indicated the arrival of New Year. People wanting to celebrate the arrival of 2022 could be seen at sweet sand savoury shops. They were also seen at bakeries shopping for cakes. Youngsters were seen at ice cream parlours and hotels. Coimbatore City Police personnel and Traffic Police personnel were at vantage points regulating traffic and checking on revelry, which the district administration had banned. Earlier on Friday, Pradip Kumar, Coimbatore City Commissioner of Police, told mediapersons that the police will have “zero tolerance to drunk driving.” Out of the 11 check-posts on the borders of the city, seven were linked directly to the control room of the City Police to monitor violations, he said. Over 1,000 police personnel were deployed and 44 two-wheeler patrols were arranged to ensure maintenance of law and order and adherence to COVID-19 safety protocols, Mr. Kumar said. Over 1,300 police personnel were deployed within the limits of Coimbatore District Police on Friday, said Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/muted-new-year-celebration-in-city/article38084659.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Vizha to take off on Jan. 2||Coimbatore Vizha, an annual event anchored by Young Indians (Yi), will take off on January 2 with “Symphony by the Lake” at Valankulam. With more than 100 organisations coming together for the events that will go on till January 9, the public can participate in cooking contest, marathon, cyclathon, treasure hunt on electric vehicles, meetings on agriculture, music events, etc. The focus this year will be on the water bodies in the city. Valankulam and the pavement around it will be decorated and events will be organised there. According to the organisers, in an effort to celebrate the lakes in Coimbatore, a water screen laser, sound and light show called Symphony by the Lake will be held from January 2 to 9 at 6.30 p.m. every day at Valankulam. Minister V. Senthilbalaji will inaugurate it on Sunday. Further, the whole stretch of the Valankulam will be filled with a touch of Coimbatore’s most favourite - from food stalls to hand-made products. The lane will have an amazing selfie spot depicting Coimbatore. Another unique event is Isai Mazhai in which music bands from colleges in the city will perform at the Corporation parks (Gandhipark, Valankulam, VOC Park and Bharathi Park) on January 8. Art Street will be on January 8 and 9 at Race Course Road. A virtual and live cooking contest will be organised as part of the vizha and the finals will be on January 9 at PSG College of Arts and Science. The Pitch is for start-ups and it will be held at PSG STEP. A treasure hunt will be organised on January 9. Meetings and events related to agriculture will also be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-vizha-to-take-off-on-jan-2/article38084660.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore girls shine in cycling event||Two girls from Coimbatore district have won gold medals in the National Track Cycling Championship that was organised by the Cycling Federation of India at Jaipur, Rajasthan recently. M. Pooja Swetha, a Class X student of a private school at R.S. Puram in the city, and J.P. Dhanyadha, a Class X student from a private school at Karamadai, won two medals each at the national-level event held from December 24 to 28. Both were part of the team that won the gold medal in Team Sprint category. While the former won a bronze medal at the five-km Scratch Race category, the latter won a gold medal in the two-km Individual Pursuit category.  Speaking to The Hindu on Friday, Ms. Swetha said that she began cycling from the age of 11 and had trained for two months at a training institute in Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala. “So far, I have won two silver, two bronze and one gold at the national level,” she said.  Having been cycling since 2018, Ms. Dhanyadha said that she was trained by her school to participate in the national-level championships. “I want to get a medal in Olympics 2028,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-girls-shine-in-cycling-event/article38084657.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for burglary||The Coimbatore City Police on Friday arrested a man on charges of stealing Rs. 20 lakh cash along with two smartphones and a laptop from two mobile phone showrooms in Gandhipuram earlier in December. According to the police, Prithvi Bharti (27) from Rajasthan committed the burglary along with another man in the early hours of December 14. The Kattoor police, who arrested the accused after over two weeks of searches, recovered Rs. 9,48,800. He was booked under Sections 457 (Lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night) and 380 (Theft in dwelling house, etc.) of the Indian Penal Code and was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-burglary/article38084665.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Powerloom units to go on strike from January 9||Powerloom units that do job work in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts will stop production from January 9. This was decided at a meeting of the job working powerloom unit associations in the two districts on Thursday. According to C. Palanisamy, president of the Somanur job working powerloom unit owners association, the government issued an order on November 24, revising upwards the wages paid by master weavers to the job working units. The new wages were to be implemented from December 1 -- but this has not happened. Though orders slowed down in November, there was a revival in December. The master weavers were distributing yarn to the job working units but were paying the earlier wages and were not implementing the new wages. “They buy yarn at higher prices and pay more to the sizing units too. But, the master weavers are not willing to increase the wages for the job working units. The wages have not been revised for seven years now. Since it is unviable for the job working units to continue to accept orders at the old rates, we have decided to go on strike from January 9,” he said. The job working unit associations met the joint commissioner of labour and discussed the issue as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/powerloom-units-to-go-on-strike-from-january-9/article38084670.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Facilities for sanitary workers reviewed||Chairperson of National Commission for Safai Karamcharis M. Venkatesan held a review meeting under the aegis of Collector S. Dhivyadarshini at the Collectorate. Later, Mr. Venkatesan interacted with sanitation workers and ascertained the facilities available for them in their housing units. He also sought information on the welfare deductions made to their salary, ESI protection among others. Mr. Venkatesan also held a meeting with the representatives of sanitation workers and officials. The chairperson ascertained information on the pay for workers and, if there were arrears to be paid to them. Avail loans He urged sanitation workers to avail the various schemes drawn up for the benefit of the workers. He called upon the workers to avail loan for self-employment for their wards. The chairperson also urged the administration to monitor the working conditions of sanitation workers employed by private firms. Safety gear The authorities were called upon to ensure compliance by private firms and the local bodies in providing safety gear to workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/facilities-for-sanitary-workers-reviewed/article38084763.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Report on probe into jewellery loan irregularities awaited’||Despite a severe financial crunch, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had kept his promise to the people to waive gold loans for people belonging to below povert line (BPL) category, said Cooperation Minister I. Periyasamy here on Friday. Speaking to reporters, he said that during electioneering, the DMK had indeed said that it would waive loans to eligible people - for the needy and whose annual income was very less. Those who had pledged gold jewellery up to a maximum of 40 grams (five sovereigns) - with one Aadhaar card and one name - were eligible. Knowing for sure that the AIADMK would lose the Assembly elections, the then CM Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O. Panneerselvam had also announced the waiver scheme with a malicious intent. Now, the officials have unearthed a scam wherein a majority of the borrowers of jewel loans during the AIADMK rule were neither farmers nor had any cultivable lands. Mr. Periyasamy said that the government had ordered a thorough probe and was waiting for the report. It is learnt that even some pawn brokers had pledged gold jewellery. For instance, a pawn broker in Tiruvannamalai had taken 622 loans by pledging five sovereigns of gold for each loan. In many cases, people had taken loans after pledging fake jewellery. While the AIADMK claimed to have issued gold loans to 48 lakh borrowers across Tamil Nadu (40 grams each), only 22 lakh among them appeared genuine. The AIADMK is duty-bound to answer people as most of the beneficiaries belonged to their party. Worried about the exposure, the AIADMK has started blaming the DMK and Mr. Stalin for the fiasco. In crop loans too Likewise, in crop loans issued during the AIADMK rule, there were many malpractice. For instance, by submitting documents for one acre, the borrowers had taken loans for seven acres and so on. The then government had issued Rs. 2,000-crore crop loans, which would also be probed, Mr Periyasamy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/report-on-probe-into-jewellery-loan-irregularities-awaited/article38084749.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring officers appointed to check distribution of Pongal gifts||The Erode district administration has appointed monitoring officers and has set up a control room to ensure error-free distribution of Pongal gift kits announced by the State government. District Collector H.Krishnanunni said in a release that 7.39 lakh rice card holders and 1,382 rice card holders in Sri Lankan refugee camps would receive the kits in the district. The Collector advised the public to follow COVID-19 safety protocols while collecting the kits from ration shops. He said that ration shops would function on January 7 and a holiday has been provided on January 15. Mobile monitoring teams have been deployed to check the distribution of kits. Public can also contact the control room at District Civil Supplies office at 0424-2252052.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-officers-appointed-to-check-distribution-of-pongal-gifts/article38084767.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode police recovered stolen goods worth over Rs. 1.59 crore in 2021||Of the 422 theft and burglary cases reported in the district in 2021, the police have recovered stolen goods in 322 cases, a release from the Erode District Police said. According to a release from the police, a total of 73 persons have been arrested in connection with 40 murder cases. Stolen goods worth Rs. 1,59,89,768 were recovered in 322 cases. Accused in 118 POCSO cases have been arrested and 6,03,086 cases were registered against traffic rule violations and Rs. 1,24,04,320 was collected as fine. A total of 22,151 driving licences were temporarily suspended. As many as 11,567 CCTV cameras were installed in the district to prevent crimes. The police recovered 240 mobile phones worth Rs. .4.5 lakh and a sum of Rs. 16.24 lakh was recovered in online fraud cases. Police have registered 71,957 cases for violating mask norm, 2,504 cases for violation of COVID-19 protocols and Rs. 1.56 crore was collected as fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-police-recovered-stolen-goods-worth-over-rs-159-crore-in-2021/article38084769.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murder in Erode||The Arachalur police on Friday arrested a man on charges of murder. The police identified the deceased as Vadivel (54), a tailor from Nagarajapuram who was working in a private textile firm. Vadivel, along with a few others, was taking rest on the premises of a temple during the late hours of Thursday. Eswaramoorthi, a tailor from the same locality, tried to turn on the lights at the temple. This ensued in a quarrel between Vadivel and Eswaramoorthi. Eswaramoorthi allegedly attacked Vadivel with a log. Passers-by intervened and Vadivel went home. Next morning, Vadivel was found dead by his brother Shanmugham. Aracahlur police have registered a case. Eswaramoorthi was arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-murder-in-erode/article38084766.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power entrepreneurs chase their dreams||Three buddies, Jith George, Rohit Govinda, and Vijesh Sam Sanoop, are chasing their dreams. BTech graduates, employed with a consultancy, are into the rough and tumble of setting up their own project. For, they have ventured into power generation. Driving their entrepreneurial spirit is their firm Suiso Energy, which they set up three years ago. The Kerala State Electricity Board welcoming independent power producers has come at an opportune time, they think. Suiso Energy recently got permission for a 350-kW mini-hydroelectric project on one acre at Ezhamkadavu, near Iritty, in Kannur. Mr. George, 30, says they work together in a firm that outsourced engineering design and consultancy work dealing with oil and gas. Four years ago they received consultancy work for a project associated with the KSEB and the Energy Management Centre that helped them understand the potential of the sector. “We decided to look at options in the power-generation sector after we took up consultancy work for a mini-hydropower project to generate 100 kW at Vellakayam in Idukki,” says Mr. George, who is from Ernakulam. Two options Mr. Sanoop, 35, says the government allowed private participation for such projects under two categories, ‘built operate and transfer’ and ‘own land’. The former are bigger ones, where tenders are called for. Under the latter, hydel projects are allowed where there is a feasibility of generating power in own land. “After searching many locations we identified the land at Ezhamkadavu and the company purchased the land, where we can set up the plant under the run-of-river scheme,” says Mr. Sanoop, who hails from Kannur. As per the project, water from the Kundur stream, a tributary of the Valapattanam river, will be channelled, about 150 metres, to the power plant at Ezhamkadavu. After generating electricity, the water flows back into the river. He says as per the Central government norms, there is no need for environmental impact assessment for projects below 10 MW. Feasibility study However, they carried out a techno-economic feasibility study for setting up the plant. Mr. Govinda, 36, says it is a conventional project and the plant will be set up at Rs. 3 crore and they expect to generate 10 lakh units per year, with maximum generation expected between June and December. “Once the work is over, we plan to ink an agreement with the KSEB to supply power,” says Mr. Govinda, from Alappuzha. They have identified sites in Kannur, Palakkad and Pathanamthitta to set up similar projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-entrepreneurs-chase-their-dreams/article38084501.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||First Water Metro ferry handed over to Kochi Metro Rail||The first of the 23 fully air-conditioned, battery-powered electric ferries of the Rs. 747-crore Kochi Water Metro project was handed over by Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) to the Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) here on Friday morning.  The 50-seater ferry is christened Muziris , after the thriving BC-era port said to have been located at Pattanam, 25 km from Kochi.  Madhumita Behera, wife of KMRL managing director Loknath Behera, was the chief guest at the handing over function. Mr. Behera; CSL chairman and managing director Madhu S. Nair; and general manager (GM) of Water Metro Shaji Janardhanan; additional GM Sajan P. John; KMRL directors K.R. Kumar and D.K. Sinha, CSL directors Bijoy Bhaskar and V.J. Jose; and CSL GM Shivakumar were present. Four other Water Metro ferries are expected to be launched in the coming months. They will join the first vessel in conducting trial runs, mainly in the Vyttila-Kakkanad corridor, following which their commercial operation is expected latest from April. Each ferry is priced over Rs. 7.30 crore. The 23 ferries will be complemented by another 55 smaller ones — each having a seating capacity of 25 — in the coming years. This will be the first time in the world that a centrally controlled integrated water transport system comprising a large fleet will be battery-powered. The ferries use lithium titanate oxide (LTO) batteries — considered the latest and safest in battery technology and capable of fast charging. They can be charged in 10 to 15 minutes, while passengers are alighting/boarding. The ferries will have generator backup, which will take over their operation automatically in the event of any failure of the battery system. Faster travel Floating jetties will be set up at the 38 ferry terminals, making the ferries disabled- and elderly-friendly. The energy-efficient hull is designed for 10-knot speed (18 kmph), which is considerably faster than conventional ferries in operation in Kerala. The ferries have wide windows to provide an exotic view of the backwaters and the banks. The interiors are designed in the same colour scheme of the Kochi metro. The ferries are designed to create very less waves over the narrow channels even at high speed and would be a silent mode of transport. An automatic boat location system will continuously monitor their position from the Operating Control Centre (OCC) at the Vyttila Mobility Hub. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the Water Metro ferries would benefit over one lakh islanders. The project will provide direct waterway connectivity from, among other places, the isles off Kochi and the mainland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-water-metro-ferry-handed-over-to-kochi-metro-rail/article38084495.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Centre submits status report on 68 fishers held in Sri Lanka||The Centre on Friday told the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that Indian consular officials in Jaffna had met the 68 fishermen who were arrested and remanded in Sri Lanka. It was submitted that the officials had provided basic relief items to them, including clothes, toiletries, masks and snacks. The fishermen also made phone calls to their family members in India. In the status report, the Centre said the consular officials and the High Commission in Colombo were providing medical and legal assistance to the fishermen. Among the 68 fishermen, two were juveniles. One of them, as per his request, was remanded alongside the others instead of being sent to a juvenile home. The other was kept separately. Further, it was submitted that one of the fishermen was hospitalised due to high blood pressure. After treatment, he was remanded in a local prison. Assistant Solicitor General L. Victoria Gowri submitted that the High Commission in Colombo had taken up the matter with the Sri Lankan Government. The Indian authorities had conveyed to the Sri Lankan authorities that the matter should be handled in a humanitarian manner as per the existing bilateral understanding, she submitted. The authorities were following the matter regularly to ensure the early release of the fisherman and their boats. The fishermen had tested negative for COVID-19, the ASG said. Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram submitted that the State had already sent a communication to the Centre, which he had submitted to the court during the previous hearing. Taking note of the status report, a Division Bench of Justices C.V. Karthikeyan and S. Srimathy hoped that the fishermen would be brought back to India by Pongal. Further, the court directed the authorities to ensure that the two juveniles were given proper treatment in accordance with their age and principles followed in India and Sri Lanka. The court urged the Centre to continue its efforts through the diplomatic channel and directed the State to provide necessary assistance in this regard. The court appreciated the authorities for facilitating phone calls between the fishermen and their family members. The court was hearing the petition filed by G. Thirumurugan of Ramanathapuram district, coordinator of Tamil Nadu Meenavar Padhugappu Urimai Iyakkam. The case was adjourned till January 7. A total of 43 fishermen were taken into custody by Sri Lankan Navy on December 18. The next day, 12 fishermen were taken into custody and 13 more fishermen were arrested on December 20.  Court appreciated the authorities for facilitating phone calls between the fishermen and their family members||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-submits-report-on-68-fishers-held-in-sl/article38084643.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Effective policing made Madurai peaceful in 2021’||A combination of effective policing, usage of advanced technologies, deployment of adequate precautionary measures, and stringent action against anti-social elements has ensured lesser number of murders, with no revenge murders in the city during 2021, according to Madurai City Police. While 1,550 history-sheeted rowdy elements were kept under a close watch and 1,024 were arrested, 569 of them were bound over under Section 110 of Code of Criminal Procedure. The sustained action against the anti-social elements resulted in only 35 murders, two lesser than previous year. “None of them was revenge murder or murder among rowdy elements,” the Commissioner of Police, Prem Anand Sinha, said in a statement. He added that all those murders were due to family disputes, petty quarrels in neighbours. Out of the 37 murders reported in 2020, three were revenge murders and two rowdy murders. Similarly out of 42 murders in 2019, five were revenge murders and four revenge murders. Visible policing also resulted in no case of murder for gain in 2021. The city police were able to detect 481 out of 733 robbery and theft cases and properties worth Rs. 2 crore were recovered. Effective policing has made the city peaceful in 2021, he said. A total of 179 two-wheelers and 500 mobile phones, which were reported stolen and missed during the year, were detected and handed over to the owners. Around 1,000 kg of ganja was seized and 587 drug pedlars were arrested. A total of 81 rowdy elements were detained under the Goondas Act, the statement said. Increased patrolling and sustained vigil on city roads with 11,500 CCTV cameras at 2,500 important junctions and public places have ensured effective surveillance round the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/effective-policing-made-madurai-peaceful-in-2021/article38084935.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||College Principal elected as forum chief||M. Davamani Christober, the Principal and secretary of The American College here, has been elected as the president of All India Christian Higher Education Conference (AIACHE). The 19th general council meeting of the AIACHE was held in Kanniyakumari for three days from December 27. More than 200 colleges participated in the meet, which was inaugurated by Justice Narendra Kumar Jain, Chairman of National Commission of Minorities. Information Technology Minister Mano Thangaraj, Tamil Maiyam Founder Jegath Gaspar Raj, Advocate Isaac Mohanlal, and Kottar Diocese Bishop Nazarene Soosai offered felicitations. Former Haryana Governor Devasahayam addressed at the close of the meeting which deliberated on role of Christian organisations in higher education and their working. George Abraham, Principal, YMCA College of Physical Education, Chennai, and Rev. M. Arockiasamy Xavier SJ, Principal, St. Joseph’s College, Tiruchi, were elected as vice-presidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-principal-elected-as-forum-chief/article38084751.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM is aware of issues of tiny and small-scale units: Minister||The four-day fifth edition of Made in Madurai exhibition commenced here at the MADITSSIA auditorium in the city on Friday. Speaking at the inaugural function, Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said that such expo would give a fillip to the tiny, small and medium scale entrepreneurs. By participating in the exhibition, not only the public benefit, but also the entrepreneurs, since they can share the use of technology by the sector among others. Appreciating the MADITSSIA for conducting such an expo, he said that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin is aware of the issues concerning the tiny and small scale units. “The small entrepreneurs need great help...” and gave an assurance that the State government would do its best for the uplift of the sector in phases. In his presidential address, Legislative Assembly Speaker M. Appavoo said that within a few months of assuming office, Mr. Stalin had arranged a mega conference in Coimbatore and signed up MoUs worth Rs. 35,000 crore. The government, he said, is here to encourage the MSME sector and assured that the State would very soon witness a tangible change for better. The Speaker also recalled how the DMK government had in the past helped the MSME sector and pointed out the efforts put in by late Speaker P.T.R. Palanivelrajan, with whose efforts, the MADITSSIA had constructed its building on the Corporation of Madurai’s land on a private-public partnership programme. Offering felicitation, Collector S. Aneesh Shekhar said that the Master Plan for Madurai was on the cards. The district administration would give all possible assistance in providing infrastructure to the industry. Under the New Entrepreneur cum Enterprise Development Scheme (NEEDS), the district had made inroads as many young and neo-entrepreneurs had benefited. “I was happy to see a few of them participating in the expo here,” he added. MADITSSIA president M.S. Sampath in his welcome address said that 130 stalls — all from Madurai — have put up their stalls which include from the auto sector, engineering, food processing, textile and garments among others. The MADITSSIA procured three acres of land near Kappalur and proposed to build a convention centre soon, he said. Former president KR Gnanasambandan said that the Union and State governments should give more sops to the MSME units as entrepreneurs in Tier-2 cities. The expo chairman R.S. Gunamalai gave an outline of the features of the expo and seminars to be conducted in the next three days. MADITSSIA secretary RM. Lakshminarayanan proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-is-aware-of-issues-of-tiny-and-small-scale-units-minister/article38084937.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Number of murders down in Madurai||Madurai rural district police had registered 63 murder cases, four less than the figure reported in 2020, said Madurai Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran. In a statement issued here on Friday, Mr. Baskaran said that 162 accused were arrested in the 63 murder cases registered in 2021. Last year, the district police had arrested 232 accused in 67 murder cases. Out of the 709 crime cases, including robbery and theft, the police were able to crack 444 cases and 938 accused were arrested and properties worth Rs. 2.10 crore recovered. While 63% of the crime cases were solved in 2021, the police managed to crack only 43% of the crime cases in 2020. The district police registered 113 cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and arrested 148 accused. The police registered 240 cases of smuggling of narcotic substances and 1,098 kg of ganja worth Rs. 1.0 9 crore was seized from 344 persons. The police detained 34 persons under the Goondas Act as against 32 detentions in the previous year. In 419 cases with regard to crime against women, 585 persons were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-murders-down-in-madurai/article38084757.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Parents held for female infanticide||Madurai district police have arrested O. Muthupandi and his wife Kausalya, who were absconding after the death of their third baby girl, on Friday on a charge of female infanticide. Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said the couple had admitted to the crime after the post-mortem conducted on the baby’s exhumed body revealed that it died due to an injury on its head. Kausalya had delivered the baby on December 21 at Sedapatti primary health centre. After the baby ‘went missing’ from the house within six days after the delivery, the police were alerted. The couple, who claimed that they had buried the infant after it died, fled the village. The police filed a case under Section 318 of the IPC for secretly burying the body of the baby. Later, the body was exhumed and the post-mortem conducted. In her confession, Kausalya had reportedly told the police that the couple killed the baby as they were not in a position to raise the third female child. They were remanded in judicial custody. In a statement, the SP said that those who could not raise children could hand them over to the government homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parents-held-for-female-infanticide/article38084726.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Control room set up to check irregularities at DPCs: Collector||Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar has set up a control room to check irregularities at direct purchase centres (DPCs). Farmers can lodge their complaints through the WhatsApp number 99949-09000 and also can call 0452-252 -6888. They can alert the district officials if any person other than farmers attempting to directly or indirectly sell paddy at the DPCs. At the monthly farmers’ grievances redressal meeting held here on Friday, M. Tirupati, a farmer from Kulamangalam, raised the issue of farmers being forced to pay Rs. 50 to Rs. 60 per bag of paddy being sold at the DPCs. The money was demanded for loading and weighing of each bag, containing 40 kg of paddy. Many other farmers also made similar complaints. They claimed that they could not refuse to pay the money as otherwise their paddy would not be procured at the DPCs. The Collector said that the farmers need not pay any money for selling their produce at the DPCs. “Even on Thursday, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced increasing the paddy handling charges from Rs. 3.50 a bag to Rs. 10,” he said. When the farmers claimed that repeated complaints on this issue had not been addressed to, the Collector said that they could call the control room instead of paying bribes at the DPCs. The district administration that had planned to open around 80 DPCs has so far opened 30 centres to buy paddy from the farmers. Both Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation and Department of Cooperation will procure paddy. To a request from farmers, the Collector said that Farmers Producers Organisations would be allowed to buy the paddy with a tie-up with TNCSC. When a farmer complained that payment for the paddy sold at the DPCs was being delayed for as long as 15 days, the officials assured that steps would be taken to make the payment within one or two days. Farmers also raised the issue of wild boars damaging agricultural crops and demanded that the forest department would issue an order permitting the farmers to shoot down wild animals as done in other parts of the State. A forest official clarified that as of now wild boars that stray into farmlands from reserve forest are only allowed to be shot down. A proposal to permit shooting down wild boars in Madurai district has been sent to the State government for clearance. Farmers also sought solar fencing in vulnerable areas for protecting farms from invasion of wild animals. District Revenue Officer G. Senthilkumari, Joint Director (Agriculture) T. Vivekanandan, Joint Registrar of Cooperatives Gurumoorthi and Regional Manage of TNCSC Sugumaran were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/control-room-set-up-to-check-irregularities-at-direct-purchase-centres/article38084756.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Mullaperiyar dam stood at 141.15 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 244 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 68.83 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 518 cusecs and a discharge of 869 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,521 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday was (in mm): Pulipatti 14.6, Mettupatti 10.2, Melur 10, Andipatti 9.6, Peranai 9, Veerapandi 8, Maruthanadhi dam and Sathiyar dam 5 each, Kallandiri 4.6, Chittampatti and Shanmuganadhi dam 4.2 each, Gudalur 3.8, Uthamapalayam 3.6, Kodaikanal 3, Vaigai dam 2.8, Madurai 2.4, Thekkadi 1.2 and Thaniyamangalam 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38084754.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry govt. extends COVID-19 curbs till January 31||The Puducherry government has decided to extend COVID-19 night-time restrictions till January 31 following the detection of two cases of the Omicron variant of the virus in the Union Territory. The restrictions will be in place from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. In an order issued on December 30, Revenue Secretary Ashok Kumar said that earlier, the plan was to keep the curfew in place till January 2. “Though the number of fresh cases has come down, Omicron, a variant of concern, has been detected in the samples from Puducherry. Accordingly, measures have been put in place till midnight of January 31,” he said. Social and cultural gatherings are permitted, subject to COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. Action would be initiated if markets, malls, restaurants and theatres violate the restrictions, the release said. The order issued by the Health Department on December 4, making vaccination mandatory, should be complied with by all. Those violating the order will be liable for penal action, the release said. “The Health Department should step up efforts to enforce compulsory vaccination besides carrying out door-to-door vaccination in the Union Territory. The region is lagging in vaccination when compared to many other States and Union Territories,” the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-govt-extends-covid-19-curbs-till-january-31/article38085029.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||17 new COVID-19 cases in U.T.||The Union Territory has recorded 17 new cases of COVID 19 from 2,021 tests. Of the fresh cases, 11 are from Puducherry and 6 from Karaikal. No COVID-19-associated death was reported in the 24 hours ending at 10 a.m on Friday. As per data released by the Health Department, there are 127 active cases, including 94 under home isolation. The overall tallies are 1,881 deaths, 1,29,478 cases and 1,27,470 recoveries. According to a Health Department official, two persons who earlier tested positive for the Omicron variant have since tested negative. The patients, a 20-year-old woman who was in home isolation, and an 80-year-old man who was admitted to the Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases Hospital, had tested negative and recovered, the official said. The samples collected from 70 contacts of the two patients had also tested negative. Meanwhile, the Health Department is geared up for the vaccination of teenagers. Vaccination of children aged 15 to 18 will start on January 3. Around 80,000 doses of Covaxin reached Puducherry on December 30, the official said. “This will be the first time that Covaxin is used in the Union Territory. We are coordinating with the Education Department to work out the modalities. Chief Minister N. Rangasamy will inaugurate the vaccination programme at a school in Kadirgamam on Monday,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-covid-19-cases-in-puducherry/article38084725.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two deaths, 25 new cases in Salem||Salem district on Friday reported two deaths and 25 new cases of COVID-19. According to the Health Department officials, 25 cases were indigenous and 10 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Erode district reported 22 new cases. According to the bulletin, there were 426 active cases in the district. Namakkal reported 18 fresh cases. Eight cases were reported in Dharmapuri, and three in Krishnagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-deaths-25-new-cases-in-salem/article38084765.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Palm jaggery marketers’ plea to District Collector||Palm jaggery marketers have demanded the district administration to take measures to prevent police intervention while collecting palm sap for manufacturing palm jaggery. In a petition submitted by the members of the Salem District Palymrah Jaggery Co-Op Marketing Federation, they alleged that the police were stopping them from collecting sap. The tree climbers were tapping sap after due permission from the authorities. Their livelihood would be affected for two years if sap was not tapped between December and June, they said. Sap has to be collected during the said months for manufacture of jaggery during the rest of the year. The petitioners demanded the district administration to take necessary measures to help them collect palm sap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palm-jaggery-marketers-plea-to-district-collector/article38084768.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Procure sugarcane directly from farmers for Pongal gift kits’||Farmers on Friday requested the State government to procure sugarcane directly from them for Pongal gift kits. At the monthly agriculture grievances redress meeting held in Salem, the farmers urged the State government to procure sugarcane directly from them or through Uzhavar mandrams and farmer producer companies. The government marketing agencies could be engaged for the purpose. Based on the orders this year, farmers would be able cultivate sugarcane in the coming years, they said. The farmers also demanded that vegetables for government-run hostels should be procured directly from them. They also requested the district administration to take necessary measures to remove encroachments in water bodies in the district. Shoumita Biswas, Joint Secretary, Union Ministry of Agriculture, attended the meeting. In Krishnagiri, District Collector V.Jayachandra Banu Reddy heard the grievances of farmers and received 180 petitions. Dr. Reddy said measures were being taken to remove encroachments in water bodies in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/procure-sugarcane-directly-from-farmers-for-pongal-gift-kits/article38084771.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level at Mettur dam||The water level at Mettur dam was 115.95ft against a total scale of 120ft on Friday. According to officials from the Public Works Department, at 8 a.m on Friday, the water level at the dam was 115.95ft and the dam had stored capacity of 87,156 mcft. The inflow was reduced from 4,098 cusecs on Thursday to 3,843 cusecs on Friday. The outflow was increased to 10,000 cusecs on Thursday evening. About 600 cusecs was released through East-West canal. However, owing to reduction in demand from delta region, the outflow was reduced to 1,000 cusecs by 5 p.m. At Bhavani Sagar dam, the water level was 102.93ft against a total scale of 105ft. The dam received an inflow of 667 cusecs. The discharge was 2,300 cusecs through Lower Bhavani canal, 500 cusecs through Arakkankottai and Thadapalli canals and 100 cusecs was released into River Bhavani for drinking water purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-at-mettur-dam/article38084772.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police seize emerald lingam||The Idol Wing police have confiscated an emerald lingam from a family residing at Arulananda Nagar in Thanjavur on Thursday.  According to an official release, the Idol Wing recently received information that temple idols were hoarded at a house in Arulananda Nagar. A team of police personnel landed at the house on December 30 and conducted enquiries with its occupants.  Responding to the query, members of the family told the police that they did possess an emerald lingam and it had been kept in a bank locker.   Low-lying areas like Sampath Nagar and Kansalpet in Vellore were inundated with knee-deep water logging disrupting daily lives of residents in these areasThe family, which could not throw light on the manner it got hold of the idol, made of a precious stone, produced it before the investigating team. As the family was not able to substantiate its claim over the property with documentary evidence, the team confiscated the lingam , the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/idol-wing-police-seize-emerald-lingam/article38084638.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Governor’s comment puts govt. in the dock||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan’s contentious “revelation” that he had flagged his concern about an issue related to “national dignity and prestige” in a missive to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan seems to have put the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in a spot. Mr. Khan’s cryptic but politically stormy comment came when he interacted with reporters at Sivagiri on Thursday against the backdrop of his decision not to discharge his duties as Chancellor of universities citing political cronyism in varsity appointments. In Kollam, Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala on Friday sought to know whether the Governor had recommended to confer Kerala University’s honorary DLitt on President Ram Nath Kovind and whether it was rejected by its Vice Chancellor as per the direction of the government. The Governor’s recent revelation about the conflict between himself and the State government has exposed only the tip of the iceberg. “According to the Governor, he has revealed only very few things to the public and there are even disputes over issues affecting the dignity of the nation. Did the Governor, who is also the Chancellor, direct the Vice Chancellor of the university to take steps to award the honorary DLitt to the President of India? Did the Vice Chancellor reject the proposal following government intervention,” Mr. Chennithala asked, demanding clarity in the matter. Sanskrit varsity list He asked if the Vice Chancellor had sought the opinion of the government instead of presenting it before the Syndicate. Mr. Chennithala wanted to know whether the Vice Chancellor of the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady, who resigned last month, had submitted for the Governor’s approval a decision to award honorary DLitt to three persons. “If so, when was the list submitted and who are the three persons on the list? This list has not yet been approved by the Governor,” he said. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said Mr. Khan’s averments against the government were severe. Minister denies it Rubbishing the allegations of Mr. Chennithala, Higher Education Minister R. Bindu maintained that the government had no role in deciding the recipients of honorary doctorates awarded by universities. Speaking to mediapersons on the sidelines of a function at Calicut University in Tenhipalam, Dr. Bindu denied having thwarted any attempt by Kerala University to award Mr. Kovind with DLitt. “Universities hold autonomous powers to decide on awarding honorary degrees. Such decisions are taken by Syndicates and senates. The government neither has any role in the process nor would intervene in such decisions,” she said, adding no university has sought her opinion regarding any such proposal. The government too has not offered any suggestion in the matter.  ( With input from Kollam bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governors-comment-puts-govt-in-the-dock/article38084499.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||With major civic projects set to roll, there is much to cheer||The year that has ended has not brought in major development in terms of civic infrastructure in Tiruchi, but the year ahead holds much promise as a slew of projects are in the pipeline. Barring a few projects such as the renovation of the Chathiram Bus Stand, the Uyyakondan river front development and the illumination of the Rockfort under the Smart Cities Mission, important ongoing infrastructure projects such as the construction of the Junction Road Over Bridge, extension of the underground sewer system, the new drinking water projects for the five wards off the Thanjavur Road and development of roads have dragged on. Major pending proposals such as the building of the service lanes along the Tiruchi-Thanjavur Highway, renovation/redevelopment of the Gandhi Market, reconstruction of the Salai Road overbridge and construction of a new bridge across the Cauvery river continue to remain on paper. The State government seems to have had a rethink on the vexed issue of building service lanes along Thanjavur Road and the State Highways Minister had requested the Centre to sanction an elevated corridor on the stretch instead. With the land acquisition for the service lanes yet to be completed, the matter continues to drag on. However, the new government has come up with a series of announcements and follow up measures. The government has already sanctioned the preparation of Detailed Project Reports (DPRs) for building elevated corridors between the Anna Statue in Chinthamani to the Railway Junction and between Odathurai and Mallatchipuram in an attempt to reduce congestion within the city. New bridges are also proposed across the Cauvery in the city and the railway line near the Fort Railway Station on Salai Road. City residents hope the projects gain shape during the year. Much hope stems from Municipal Administration Minister K. N. Nehru’s repeat assurances on various aspects of development for the city. Speaking at the government function to lay the foundation stone for the integrated bus stand attended by Chief Minister M. K. Stalin on Thursday, Mr. Nehru reaffirmed the government’s commitment to strengthen the city’s civic infrastructure. “The work has already begun,” he said responding to Tiruchi MP Su.Thirunavukkarasar’s plea to scale up the infrastructure of Tiruchi. Some of the city’s civic activists are optimistic over the city’s prospects in the coming. “The move to establish the IBT after all these years has made people happy. The area around Panchapur is all set for much development. It augurs well for the city,” said C. Balasubramanian, a senior activist of the District Exnora. Echoing similar views, K. Sakthivel, organiser, Federation of Tiruchi City Residents Welfare Associations, which has been seeking to highlight some of the long pending projects in the city, observed that though the IBT proposal has taken shape after long years, it has brought much cheer. Citing the incomplete Junction road overbridge as one such prominent pending projects, Mr.Sakthivel hoped that the bridge will completed in the coming year as some vital stages have been crossed towards getting the Defence land for the project in recent months. He also hoped that the government would execute a project to clean up the Uyyakondan river in the city by preventing sewage flow into it. “Mr. Nehru has already promised that steps would be taken towards this end; we hope the pollution of the canal will be stopped soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-major-civic-projects-set-to-roll-there-is-much-to-cheer/article38084731.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Garbage dumped near Gandhi Market causes traffic snarl||Garbage strewn along the back entrance of the Gandhi Market caused a traffic snarl on Friday morning. Vendors had dumped fruit and vegetable waste onto the road leaving it to the sanitary workers of the civic body to clean up. Rotten vegetables, fruit and other waste were piled up at the crossroad between East Boulevard Road and Thanjavur Road where trucks, buses and two-wheelers ply throughout the day. “The road is already small and the garbage dump has taken up more than half the space, forcing vehicles to manoeuvre through the available space”, a traffic policeman stationed at the spot said. A sanitary worker of the Tiruchi Corporation said that while there existed some space for the vendors to dump waste within the market complex, it often overflows, because of which they dump it here. “At night when the load-carrying trucks bring the fruit and vegetables, the vendors sort them and dump them here on the spot. It is our headache to clean it after that,” she said. Some vendors were seen bringing waste and dumping it even as vehicles criss-crossed behind them. “We have nowhere else to put the waste. The civic body must allot a specific place where we can put the waste, and from where their workers can collect it. We need the workers to collect the waste at least twice in a day,” Murugesan, a vegetable vendor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garbage-dumped-near-gandhi-market-causes-traffic-snarl/article38084742.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||28 COVID-19 cases in central region||The central region reported 28 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday. Meanwhile, two patients succumbed to the illness – both in Tiruchi district. All nine districts in the central region reported less than 10 COVID-19 cases. A total of eight patients each were reported positive for the viral infection in both Thanjavur and Tiruchi. Four patients were reported COVID-19 positive in Karur while three each were registered in Tiruvarur and Perambalur. In Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts, one patient each tested positive for the virus. No fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in two districts- Ariyalur and Mayiladuthurai. Three patients- one each from Thanjavur, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur – were undergoing treatment for Omicron variant of the viral infection, according to the bulletin issued by the State Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/28-covid-19-cases-in-central-region/article38084727.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Trichy Rifle Club aims to promote shooting as sport||A sophisticated premises to promote air rifle and pistol shooting as a sport was inaugurated during Chief Minister M. K. Stalin’s recent visit to the city. The Trichy Rifle Club (TRC) facility, built at a cost of about Rs. 10 crore at the City Police Armed Reserve Ground in K.K. Nagar, was declared open by Mr. Stalin on Thursday. The building has shooting ranges that allows members to practice at distances of 10, 25 and 50 metres set up in a campus of approximately 27,000 sq ft. While the 10m range is an indoor facility, the 25m and 50m ranges are open-air with protective structures to minimise damage caused by misfiring. Around 205 people (two of them women) have enrolled as lifetime members from all over the State at TRC so far. A dedicated subscription drive for students and annual users would be held after the upcoming Pongal festival, said club authorities. The club is expected to help aspirants to train for district, regional, national and international shooting competitions. Fees for lifetime membership have been pegged at Rs. 2.5 lakh. Senior range officers and shooters will be available for coaching. The club would function under the guidance of an executive committee, led by the City Commissioner of Police as president. Collector and Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, Tiruchi, would be TRC’s patrons. Members of the public who are 18 years and above, and students who have completed 12 years, are eligible to apply for the lifetime and student subscriptions respectively. For more details, call (Mob) 9942988642.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trichy-rifle-club-aims-to-promote-shooting-as-sport/article38084740.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi GH sets up new facilities amid pandemic||Although a large part of the year and available manpower was taken over by the treatment of COVID-19 patients, the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital introduced Emergency Care and Rescue Centre (ECRC) and a post-natal depression counselling centre. C-sections were successfully performed on 466 COVID-19-positive pregnant women, while the newborns remained unaffected. While all services at the GH had been suspended during the first wave of COVID-19, departments continued to treat patients during the second wave in May 2021. Apart from providing emergency care, doctors also performed the first live kidney transplant, implanted a dual-chambered pacemaker and got various high-end equipment to treat patients for free.  Speaking to The Hindu , Dean K. Vanitha said that the Department of Psychiatry introduced ECRC and post-natal depression counselling recently. “We found that many distressed patients required immediate care, which we will be able to provide through ECRC. Meanwhile, the counselling will help treat women suffering from postnatal depression,” she said. At the counselling centre, new mothers will be screened, provided therapy including yoga, and other relaxation techniques.  The Directorate of Medical Education is looking to increase the student intake for M.B.B.S. from 150 to 250 at the K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College this upcoming academic year, Dr. Vanitha said. A new mucormycosis treating facility was set up in June. A total of 130 patients were treated, with all of them recovering well. The Special Newborn Care Unit treated 11,000 infants, of which 450 required Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP), and 550 were underweight, below 1.5 kgs. The 24-hour vaccination clinic set up at the GH has inoculated a total of 61,085 people. “We are prepared to inoculate the booster dose and vaccination for children as soon as the instructions are given,” the Dean said. While around 5,000 nasal swabs were being tested during the peak of the second wave, around 2,500 to 3,000 swabs are being processed over the last month. “We have also been processing 200 samples from the Tiruchi International Airport. These have to be given within four hours,” Gnanaguru Pichaimani, Head, Department of Microbiology said. While three oxygen-producing plants and other necessary infrastructure to tackle COVID-19 have been installed at the hospital, there is a need for a new hospital block to accommodate an increasing number of patients. “We have submitted a proposal to demolish the old block and construct a new building,” Dr. Vanitha said. The doctors also intend to create a radiotherapy clinic and also begin conducting liver transplants in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-gh-sets-up-new-facilities-amid-pandemic/article38084737.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Trade Centre project gathers momentum||The long-felt dream of the industry in Tiruchi region to have a trade centre to invigorate the culture of entrepreneurship has gathered momentum with the laying of foundation stone for the project by Chief Minister M. K. Stalin. The project gained traction last year after the land transfer was effected by Small Industries Development Corporation to the consortium of MSME entrepreneurs. The Rs. 11 crore project is to come up on a 9.42-acre expanse close to Tiruchi- Madurai National Highway under the purview of Tiruchi Trade Centre Private Limited, a private limited company, formed by the Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Limited to mobilise the share of the industrialists. The company was registered on February 21, 2020, with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. It has been classified as Non-Government Company, and duly registered under Registrar of Companies, Tamil Nadu. There are about 200 members who have invested Rs. 3 lakh each as their shareholder contribution in the project of the Tiruchi Trade Centre Private Limited, it's Chairman N. Kanagasabapathy said. The TIDITSSIA has, for long, been looking at ways to accord a thrust for food processing and textile sectors in region which already has the distinction of being known as the fabrication hub of Asia. The Government’s grant for the project amounts to Rs. 5 crore. The project, in all likelihood, will take complete shape within two years, Mr. Kanagasabapathy said. The vantage location of the trade centre will be advantageous to involve industrialists in the neighbouring districts of Karur and Dindigul also to promote entrepreneurship and infuse vibrancy into the local economy, according to officials. The trade centre is located at a distance of around 9 km from the Tiruchi Junction and Central Bus Stand, and just 12 km away from the Tiruchi International Airport. A convention centre with a 4,000 seating capacity is one of the main highlights of the project that also features a large parking space and a landscaped court. A provision has also been made for further expansions in phases, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-trade-centre-project-gathers-momentum/article38084729.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||OFT employees hopeful of getting orders to manufacture AK-203 Rifles||Employee unions in Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, are hopeful that the newly-incorporated Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited (AWEIL), of which it is a part, will take it on board execution of orders for AK-203 Rifles to be manufactured with Russian technical know-how. Engaged in manufacture and supply of weapon systems, small arms, tank gun articles and ammunition components, the AWEIL, one of the seven Defence Public Sector Undertakings that were formed after dismantling Ordnance Factory Board with 41 production units across the country, is reportedly poised to execute a major order of the Defence Ministry for manufacture of AK-203 Rifles for use by the Indian Army, under Make in India campaign. A major order to manufacture over six lakh rifles will start off with assembling parts of 70,000 rifles, the Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh has learnt. Earlier this week, General Secretary of BPMS Mukesh Singh called on Officer In-Charge of Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, Rajiv Jain, and sought the unit's pro-active lobbying with the AWEIL for securing a portion of the orders that have been planned to be placed with the two other ordnance units under its purview at Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh. Involved in manufacture of Tiruchi Asasult Rifles that are highly patronised by the Central para-military forces and police forces, OFT has the Research and Development expertise and skilled workforce to manufacture the AK.203 Rifles, Mr. Mukesh Singh emphasised. The OFT has been urging the Defence Ministry to utilise TAR for the Army, which places orders in high quantum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oft-employees-hopeful-of-getting-orders-to-manufacture-ak-203-rifles/article38084739.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plan to promote palm cultivation in a big way||With a view to promoting palm cultivation, the Agriculture Department would distribute two lakh palm seedlings to farmers, said Collector V. Vishnu. Presiding over the monthly farmers’ meeting at the Collectorate, he said that there were tremendous business opportunities in the palm sector. There was a good market for palm products and byproducts in Tamil Nadu and other States. The government would be happy to guide interested farmers in these ventures. Farmers could approach Assistant Directors in their blocks for more details, he said. When farmers raised issues on fertilizer shortage and high prices, officials informed that they had conducted checks on 55 outlets and nine licences were cancelled. P. Perumpadayar, a farmer, said that the price of urea and potash had gone up manifold. In six months, potash price had gone up from Rs. 1,040 to Rs. 1,690. Moreover, many dealers forced the farmers to buy commodities which were never needed. The Collector assured that he would look into the issue and ensure that fertilizers were available at prices fixed by the government. Another farmer said that when the government was keen on increasing the acreage under plough, it must ensure easy availability of fertilizers. The farmers were encouraged to take up alternative crops such as teak and gooseberry to supplement their income. The government had 2.19 lakh saplings for distribution. After testing the soil and other parameters, farmers can opt for the crop which suits their terrain, officials said. Seed quality Responding to a volley of questions over poor quality of seeds, the officials said that there were 268 licensed seed dealers/depots in the district. During this month alone, they took 1,344 seed samples. Out of 1,305 seeds tested, 42 were found to be sub-standard and 78.58 tonnes of such seeds worth Rs. 51,98 lakh were seized. Good rainfall The district benefited much from the rains this year, the Joint Director of Agriculture said at the meeting and gave a detailed account on month-on-month rain details. He said that against the annual average of 814.80 mm, 1471.02 mm rain was received - an excess of 80.5%. The district’s average for January is 50.2 mm, while it was 349.91 mm in 2021 and 22.47 mm in 2020. Similarly, in May, against the average of 38 mm, Tirunelveli received 122.08 mm (2021) and 37.05 mm (2020). For November, the average was 208.20 mm, but the district received 463.04 mm (2021) and 259.47 mm (2020). A majority of the tanks had water to last three more months and more, he said.  Good scope||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-promote-palm-cultivation-in-a-big-way/article38085063.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Friday was 134.55 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 447.69 cusecs and discharge of 1,104.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 116.40 ft (118 ft) with an inflow of 285 cusecs and discharge of 285 cusecs. The rainfall (in mm) recorded during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Friday was: Manimuthar: 18.4, Nambiaru: 7, Kodumudiyar: 2, Cheranmahadevi: 7, Nanguneri: 9, Palayamkottai: 1 and Tirunelveli 0.2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38085061.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Foundation stone laid for new bridge||Decades-long wait for better connectivity of residents, who are mostly farmers, in Avarankuppam village near Vaniyambadi in Tirupattur will soon come to an end as the foundation stone was laid for the construction of a high-level bridge across the Palar river at a cost of Rs. 18.40 crore on Friday connecting several villages to rest of Tirupattur district. Accompanied by Tirupattur Collector Amar Kushwaha, Minister for Public Works, Highways and Minor Ports E.V. Velu laid the foundation stone for the bridge bringing hope to thousands of farmers in over dozen villages along the river. The new bridge will be built by NABARD and Rural Roads (RR) wing of the State Highways Department, Vellore region, in 18 months. “The new bridge will be a lifeline for the residents. Based on availability of funds, long-pending demands for such public facilities will be given priority,” said Mr. Kushwaha. As per estimates, the new two-lane bridge will be 236 metres long and 12 metres with 10 concrete pillars on the river bed to provide stability, especially during floods and release of excess rainwater from reservoirs upstream. The bridge will connect Avarankuppan and Narayanapuram villages on either side of the facility. Approach roads, tiled footpath on the bridge, LED street lights, drains to discharge rainwater on the bridge to the river, crash barriers and hand railings would be in place. Villages including Avarankuppam, Thumberi, Narayanapuram, Thimmampet, Pullur, Kanaganachiammankoil, Gollapalli in Natrampalli panchayat union of Tirupattur district will be connected with rest of the district and neighbouring Andhra Pradesh (A.P.). The villagers would now be able to transport agro products like paddy, vegetables, and handmade household items to the weekly markets in big towns using the new bridge. More importantly, the bridge will end the de-tour of 15 km they take to get their essential commodities and transport the sick during emergencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foundation-stone-laid-for-new-bridge/article38085068.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Weighing scales seized in Tiruppur||Officials from the Labour Department seized 19 unapproved weighing scales that were found to be used at shops selling vegetables, fruits and meat during a surprise inspection here on December 29. A press release issued here said that 16 electronic weighing scales and three manual scales that were not duly stamped by the department were seized under the Standard of Weights and Measures Act during raids conducted by the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weighing-scales-seized-in-tiruppur/article38084652.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Procure sugarcane at price fixed by govt.’||The Coordination Committee of All Farmers Associations of Tamil Nadu has urged the State government to ensure that the sugarcane for Pongal gift hamper be purchased at the rate of Rs. 33 per cane, fixed by it. Addressing the media at Mannargudi on Thursday, the Coordination Committee president, P. R. Pandian alleged that though the unit rate had been fixed at Rs. 33 per sugarcane, the Cooperative Department officials force the cultivators to sell their produce at a rate of Rs. 15 per cane. Farmers, particularly in the Mayiladuthurai district in Delta region, were being coerced to dispose of their produce at a low price, he charged and urged the State government to intervene in the issue and save the farmers. Regretting the manner in which the jewellery loan waiver assurance was being implemented by the DMK government, Mr. Pandian said had the party made it clear during the election itself that only one jewellery loan availed by a family, which was not able to source funds at that time, would be waived if the party comes to power, then the 3.50 lakh farmers would not have found themselves in this piquant situation. Instead of pledging all their jewellery at the Cooperative institutions, they could have availed the 4 per cent interest jewellery loan from nationalised banks. Now, they have to face the heat as the Cooperative institutions would be charging 13 per cent interest for their loans. Hence, the State government should at least waive the interest portion of the loans to help the farmers reclaim their pledged jewellery by remitting the loan amount only, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-procurement-of-sugarcane-at-price-fixed-by-government/article38084738.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two months on, tiger MDT23 recuperating well in Mysuru||More than two months after he was captured by the Forest Department from the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), tiger MDT23 is recuperating well at the rescue and rehabilitation centre for wildlife, in Mysuru. Shekar Kumar Niraj, Chief Wildlife Warden of Tamil Nadu, said the condition of the tiger, which had killed two people in Gudalur and the MTR, had “improved a lot and [it had] gained weight to touch approximately 200 kg.” The tiger was very frail when he was captured, after being darted by the Forest Department. His chances of survival at the time of his capture were put at 50/50. However, from the time he was taken to Mysuru, his condition has gradually improved, with his abscesses and around 7-8 injuries which he sustained, having fully healed, said Mr. Niraj. MDT23 is consuming around 10 kg of beef a week and his tested stool samples are devoid of pathogenic infections. “The injury near the eye has been a long-time problem with the tissue being absent. The tiger’s sleep cycle has become normal and the posture more firm. It seems MDT23 will require daily care for five to six months more,” he said. “The tiger is eating well but still has a lot of wild behaviour left in him. He is being kept in the smaller day enclosure, while the bigger enclosure measuring 2,200 to 2,400 square feet with trees, sunlight, open sky and natural conditions, is still not open to him as he might not return to his cell due to his wild instincts,” said Mr. Niraj.  The tiger is eating well but still has a lot of wild behaviour left in him. He is being kept in the smaller day enclosure||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-months-on-tiger-mdt23-recuperating-well-in-mysuru/article38084634.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Public gatherings on New Year banned||All gatherings in public places in the Nilgiris from Friday to Sunday for New Year celebrations are being banned, said District Collector S.P. Amrith on Friday. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Amrith said that the number of visitors to the district had increased in view of the New Year and also for the weekend. He said that the government had issued instructions prohibiting gatherings in hotels, resorts, clubs, recreational spaces, tourist spots and public places due to the spread of the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. He said that the steps were being taken to discourage large gatherings to minimise the chance of risk of spread of COVID-19. Teams from the Health Department have also been deputed at all the border check-posts and random samples are being collected and people are being tested. Officials were also checking whether visitors have COVID-19 vaccination certificates, failing which, they are being turned back at the check-posts. Resorts, hotels and guest houses have been issued with standard operating procedures, to ensure that guests and staff wear masks, use hand sanitisers and maintain personal distancing, while these spaces will also be closed after 11 p.m., he said. Teams of Revenue Department staff have been formed to ensure compliance among the public, with strict vigil being kept to ensure COVID appropriate behaviour and to also prevent littering. District superintendent of police Ashish Rawat will be in-charge of police personnel, who will keep tab on movement of vehicles and prevent drunk and reckless driving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-gatherings-on-new-year-banned/article38084668.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rain disrupts normal life in Vellore||Rain lashed many parts of Vellore and neighbouring towns of Ambur, Arani, Arcot, Wallajah, Arakkonam, Cheyyar and Gudiyatham on Friday. Low-lying areas like Sampath Nagar and Kansalpet in Vellore were inundated with knee-deep water disrupting daily lives of residents in these areas. Power was shut down to prune overgrown trees and fallen branches on key stretches in the district. Clogged stormwater drains were cleaned to ensure free flow of rainwater from the streets. “Drains are being desilted to prevent waterlogging. On the other hand, adequate police personnel have been deployed at key spots to prevent crowd for New Year celebrations as part of COVID-19 restrictions,” said Collector P. Kumaraval Pandian. The downpour that began on Thursday night continued on Friday with several areas, especially those along the Bengaluru Highway (NH 48), like Sathuvachari, Rangapuram, Kagithapattarai, CMC, facing severe waterlogging. Areas like Gudiyatham (12mm), Katpadi (14 mm) and Vellore's Old Town (22 mm) received heavy rain with the district recording an average rainfall of 14 mm. Ranipet received the highest rainfall of 28.57 mm since Thursday night, followed by Tiruvannamalai district with 15.13 mm. Among major towns, Arakkonam in Ranipet district got the highest rainfall of 47.80 mm, followed by Cheyyar (Tiruvannamalai) with 43 mm rainfall as of 8.30 a.m. on Friday. Wallajah, Arcot, Kaveripakkam in Ranipet, Arani and Chetpet in Tiruvannamalai, Gudiyatham and Katpadi in Vellore and Ambur in Tirupattur received good rainfall since Thursday night. Meanwhile, the police in these districts made elaborate arrangements to handle traffic and prevent crowd during New Year celebrations, as places of worship are expected to attract thousands of people. Around 3,000 police personnel were deployed in these districts to prevent crowding in public places for new year celebrations. In order to ensure smooth flow of vehicles, the police have made several traffic arrangements. Additional check-posts have been erected to check drunken driving, over-speeding vehicles and more than two people travelling in two-wheelers. Superintendent of Police S. Rajesh Kannan, reviewed the security arrangements at key spots like Green Circle, Fort complex and Bengaluru Highway (NH 48) in the district as part of COVID-19 protocol On Friday, Deepa Satyan, SP (Ranipet) inspected additional check-posts on arterial roads such as the Chennai-Bengaluru National Highway, Kaveripakkam-Arakkonam Road, Ocheri-Arakkonam Road, Walajapet-Chittoor Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-disrupts-normal-life-in-vellore/article38085066.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 14 fresh cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,514 with 14 new cases reported on Friday. While 49,240 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 133. The district's death toll is 1,141. In Ranipet district, 14 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,709. In Tirupattur district, two cases were reported on Friday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,476. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases stood at 2, taking the overall tally to 55,359. Out of these, 54,645 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 41.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-14-fresh-cases/article38085069.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram sees dip in heinous crimes||Strict surveillance and shadowing of rowdies and history-sheeters by the Villupuram district police has brought down the number of heinous crimes, especially murders in the district this year. According to Superintendent of Police N. Shreenatha, as many as 23 murder cases were reported till December 28 this year as against 43 in the previous year. “This was possible thanks to the strict surveillance by the police against the anti-social gangs and history-sheeters. Special teams were deployed to keep close surveillance on the activities of rowdies and to curtail them. The teams had been maintaining a tab on the movement of gangsters and this was directly monitored by senior police officers in the district,” he said. The number of heinous crimes, including murder, attempted murder, robbery, rape and molestation of women in 2021 was 201 as against 225 in 2020. Sixty-five habitual offenders and history-sheeters have been detained under the Goondas Act this year as against 53 the previous year. 53% recovery The district police recovered property worth Rs. 1.82 crore of the Rs. 3.45 crore worth stolen property in 2021 and closed the year with figures of 55% detection and 53% recovery. However, the number of fatal accidents increased for the first time in four years. In 2021, the number of fatal accidents increased to 430 as against 420 the previous year, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villupuram-sees-dip-in-heinous-crimes/article38085027.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Register your names to sell paddy at DPC’||Farmers have been asked to register themselves on the websites of Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) for selling their paddy at direct purchase centres (DPCs). In a statement, Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that permission had been given to open 22 DPCs in the district. Farmers could register their names on www.tncsc.tn.gov.in and www.tn csc-edpc.in After logging into the websites using their mobile phone number, farmers should enter the one-time password and register themselves with their name, Aadhaar number, survey number, land details, variety of paddy, expected yield of the crop, date of selling paddy at the DPC, and the details of farmer’s bank account. Upon verification of these details, the village administrative officer concerned would give his online consent for the same and SMS with time and date for the farmer to bring the paddy to the DPC will be sent to the farmer’s mobile number. Further details can be obtained from Regional Manager, TNCSC, Virudhunagar over 94421 32016, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/register-your-names-to-sell-paddy-at-dpc/article38084755.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Prices of flowers high on New Year’s eve||Ahead of New Year celebrations, prices of flowers have increased manifold in Thoothukudi. Jasmine was sold at Rs. 4,000 a kg. With many people buying flowers for New Year, there was a good crowd of buyers at the flower market here on Saturday. Flowers come from Ottapidaram, Deivaseyalpuram, Chekkarakudi in Thoothukudi district, and Sankarankoil and Aruppukottai in neighbouring Tenkasi and Virudhunagar districts, respectively. While prices of jasmine ruled high, peaking at Rs. 4,000 a kg, ‘pichi’ was sold for Rs. 2,000. The flower market receives roses come Ooty, Kodaikanal, Bengalurur and Hosur. There was a good arrival of red and yellow roses on Saturday. The roses were sold for Rs. 25 to Rs. 30 a piece and Rs. 400 for a bouquet. Traders at the market said that since the supply outstripped demand and because of frost in the flower-growing regions, the prices were high. Still, there were many buyers, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prices-of-flowers-high-on-new-years-eve/article38084747.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||New Year begins with fresh curbs||Only 50% of customers will be allowed to dine in at a given point of time at restaurants, hotels and bakeries. Only 50% of patrons will be allowed at entertainment and amusement parks. The number of guests at wedding and related events has been capped at 100. Only 50 persons will be allowed at funerals. At jewellery and textile shops and at gyms, yoga centres and clubs, only 50% customers and patrons are to be allowed at any given time. ‘No standees’ No standees will be allowed in public transport buses, while only 50% passengers are to be allowed in Chennai Metro Rail. Likewise, mutiplex/cinemas/theatres can fill only 50% of their seats. At beauty parlours, salons and spas, only 50% customers will be allowed. Sports events will be allowed on open grounds in compliance with the norms, while only 50% of the seats could be filled at indoor stadia. The current restriction on social, cultural and political events will continue. Since there are “higher chances” of the unvaccinated population aged above 60 getting infected by the Omicron variant, the Chief Minister requested them to take the vaccine. Those who had taken only the first dose should take the second, he insisted. “The proprietors and employees of commercial establishments must have been vaccinated,” Mr. Stalin said, urging all establishments to avoid air-conditioning and ensure physical distancing among the customers. Only essential activities would be allowed in the containment zones, he said. House-to-house surveys would be undertaken in areas having a high rate of infection. Earlier, Mr. Stalin chaired a meeting at the Secretariat to review the COVID-19 situation and the spread of the Omicron variant. Ministers and senior officials took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-year-begins-with-fresh-curbs/article38084640.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||For the harvest festival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-the-harvest-festival/article38084774.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Strict vigil||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strict-vigil/article38084507.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 70 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 70 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Friday. The Health Department reported four new deaths. The toll increased to 2,515. As many as 93 persons recovered on Friday and the district had 904 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 43 new cases. The district had 424 active cases and 35 persons recovered. The Health Department reported one new death as the toll increased to 1,026. In the Nilgiris, two persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 54,559. The number of deaths from COVID-19 in the district stood at 219 on Friday while 70 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-70-new-covid-19-cases/article38084666.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||CORRECTION||In the report “On a mission to encourage women pursue their dreams in STEM” that appeared on Page 5 of The Hindu Coimbatore edition dated December 31, 2021, the last line should read as “Ms. Rutherford will fly to Mumbai on Friday” and not as published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article38084653.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal Temple: Thirukarthigai and Markazhi mahotsavam, chanting of Thiruppavai, Kovaipudur temple, 5.20 a.m. onwards.    New Century Book House: Book Exhibition cum sale, 3 & 4, Nehru Staidum, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article38084667.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||01-01-2022-city cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA ABBAS CULTURAL HAPPY NEW YEAR!! 30th Year Annual Art Festival SHRIRAM PROPERTIES presents KALAI VIZHA 2022 powered by APOLLO HOSPITALS. Venue Partner BHARAT KALACHAR. From TODAY till 16th January 2022, continuously for 16 days - 30 performances @ YGP Auditorium, PSBB School, Thirumalai Road, T.Nagar. Daily two performances@ 4.30pm & 7.00pm.Today 6.30pm - Grand Inauguration by Padmabushan Sangeetha Kalanidhi SUDHA RAGUNATHAN & Kalaimamani Y.Gee MAHENDRA Followed by Y Gee M in UAA'S CHARUKESI - A Singers Lifes S(R)aga. Partly in aid of LAKSHMI PAIN & PALLIATIVE CARE TRUST, Print Partner-DINAMALAR, Magazine Partner-ANANDA VIKATAN, Co-Sponsors-INDIAN BANK, KOTAK LIFE, LIC HFL, LIC, SBI, IOC, T.NAGAR LKS, ADITYA BIRLA, GIRI TRADING, GOPURAM, METAL PRODUCTS,TVS JUPITER. Detailed Schedule & Tickets @ bookmyshow.com. Season/Daily Tickets@ Hall : 9710 633633. NEW MEMBERSHIP ENROLLED. COVID SOP Followed.  CROTCHETS BAND EVENT. 9444110717  In the mood for a 07.01.2022 Musical Friday at 6.30 p.m. Head to Raja Annamalai Mandram A/c Chennai. for an Evening of Music and Fun Vijay TV Super Singer Priyanka NK's Crotchet's Band Tickets @ bookmyshow.com Kartik Fine Arts 24997788 / 9840928049 WISHES ITS MEMBERS AND PATRONS A VERY HAPPY NEW YEAR 2022 Programmes for January - LIVE PROGRAMMES 2nd 6pm at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Mini Hall (2nd Floor) 47th Year Art Festival 2021 - Endowment Awards presentation & CD release 5th 6.45pm Narada Gana Sabha Main Hall in association with Narada Gana Sabha and Sri Parthasarathy Swami Sabha 'Kalai Ilamani' S Sruuthi's Naatya Naadha Nataka Sangamam inaugurates 'MEENAKSHI SUNDARESWARAR THIRUKKALYANAM' (by K.P.Arivanandham), Produced & Directed by S. Sruuthi 23rd 7pm in association with Narada Gana Sabha and Brahma Gana Sabha Stage Creations presents ATM (A Fantasy Comedy by S.L. Naanu) 21st to 26th 6pm Narada Gana Sabha Mini Hall in association with Saba Foundation (in memory of Shri L. Sabaretnam, Former Chairman, KFA) Natya Darshan Mini Dance Festival. Namasankerrthana Vizha - 2021 - 22 Integrated Academy for Performing Arts, Sri Krishna Gana Sabha & Bhagavatha Seva Trust presents Namasankeerthana Vizha 2021 - 22 from 31st December 2021 to 09th January 2022.Today 10.30 AM Namasankeerthanam by Sri Bhaktha Smarana Bhajana Mandali, Chennai. 12.00 Noon - Namasankeerthanam by Sri Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan School Students, KK Nagar, Chennai. 02.30 PM - Namasankeerthanam by Sri Vishwa Vidhyalaya Matriculation School Students, Vandalur, Chennai. 04.00 PM - Namasankeerthanam by SASTRA Deemed University. 06.00 PM - Namasankeerthanam by Sengottai Sri. Harihara Subramanian Bhagavathar. Venue: Sri Krishna Gana Sabha, T. Nagar. The programme will be Telecast on the website https://namasan keerthanavizha.com & Facebook Page - "namasankeerthanavizha" - - ALL ARE WELCOME - - ENTRY FREE - - Programs sponsored by Integrated Enterprises (India) Pvt. Limited, Shriram Group of Companies and City Union Bank Limited. Narada Gana Sabha (Regd) Phone: 24993201,24990850 WISH YOU ALL A VERY HAPPY NEW YEAR. Today - 7.30 am-Mini Hall - Thiruppavai - Dr. M.A.Venkatakrishnan. Main Hall - 7 AM - Radha Kalyanam by Bhagavatha Sammelana Samajam led by H.H.Ramananda Saraswathi Swamigal. Programmes for January 2022. 5th-Nataka Kavalar, Chennai R.S.Manohar's NXGS inaugurates 'MEENAKSHI SUNDARESWARAR THIRUKALYANAM". 6th- G.N.B.Day - T V Gopakrishnan, S Varadarajan, Thiruvarur Bakthavathsalam & V Suresh. 18th Lecture -"Thaipoosathil Tamizh Murugan" by Thirupugazh Mathivannan. 23rd - Stage Creations present Kathadi Ramamurthy in " ATM" by S.L.Naanu. The Mylapore Fine Arts Club(Regd.) Phone 24997755/42607755 Program for January 2022 - 26.01.2022 SRI THIAGARAJA ARADHANA CELEBRATIONS - 9.30 AM Group Singing of Pancharatna Krithis by Vidwans and Vidhushis - 6.00 PM Music Concert by CARNATICA BROTHERS - 29.01.2022 Drama Dharini Komal Presents EN VEEDU EN KANAVAN EN KUZANTHAI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/01-01-2022-city-cinema/article38084618.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Vaccine for 3,01,828 adolescents in Belagavi||Vaccination for teenagers will start in Belagavi district soon. Acting on the advice of National Technical Advisory Group of Immunisation (NTAGI), children in the 15-18 age group will be vaccinated in schools and colleges starting Saturday. Officials have fixed a target covering 3,01,828 adolescents. These include students of nineth, 10th, 11th and 12th standards. Health and Education department officers will coordinate the vaccination drive. The district administration is taking all steps to control the spread of COVID-19 infection and the Omicron variant, the State Government said on Friday. The government is ensuring universal coverage of COVID-19 vaccination and is taking steps such as strict checking on the inter-State border with Maharashtra, Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar said. COVID-19 warriors have received preferential doses. They include personnel of Health, Police, Revenue and other departments and anganwadi and ASHAs. A total of 44,442 personnel have received their first dose and 44,117 their second. Belagavi received the single largest number of doses in the country, on September 17, when it clocked 2.99 lakh doses in a day. Per day vaccination is in the range of 15,000-24,000, say officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccine-for-301828-adolescents-in-belagavi/article38084782.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Additional tahsildars, ACs to be deployed to clear pending cases||In a bid to clear pendency of cases in revenue courts in the next one year, the State Government will provide additional tahsildars and Assistant Commissioners along with support staff to districts where pendency of revenue cases are high. “In many districts, 3,000 to 5,000 cases that are 10 to 15 years old are still pending. At the current rate, it may take more than four to five years to address the cases and many may not get justice,” Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said after chairing a meeting of Deputy Commissioners here. After a comprehensive review of districts, the Chief Minister said 48 urban centres are yet to get their master plans, which was hindering land conversions among others. “The Deputy Commissioners have been told to complete the process in three months or master plans will be done through the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Department.” To hasten the survey process in rural areas for the purpose of Podi, Mr. Bommai said the State Government will spend Rs. 20 crore to hire private drones to complete surveys.” With as many as 4,370 urban and rural areas requiring burial grounds, he said instructions had been given to utilise government land or purchase land from private individuals. In terms of flood/rain relief, Mr. Bommai, while appreciating the good work of the Deputy Commissioners during the crisis, set a deadline of January 7 to make data entry for providing crop compensation. “More than 14 lakh farmers are to receive compensation and additional relief has to be provided yet.” In terms of houses that were damaged in 2019-2020, he said the government was informed about several house owners yet to start construction. “In such cases, the Deputy Commissioners have been asked to verify using GPS if house construction has started, and issue notices to such owners and give them 10 days to start.” He also said that some house owners have sought change of location, and the government has allowed such requests if the other property also belonged to them. The Chief Minister said several other pressing issues, including Akrama Sakrama scheme in rural areas, were discussed. “We will seek legal opinion from the Law Department on regularising the properties in gomala land. Deputy Commissioners have been directed to order a fresh survey to identify deemed forest land.” Mr. Bommai said Deputy Commissioners have been directed to hasten the process of linking Aadhaar cards of the remaining three lakh beneficiaries of Social Security schemes such as Sandhya Suraksha, widow pension, and disabled pension among others in which 65 lakh beneficiaries are receiving benefits. “I have told them that if you work in the interest of certain persons and not in the interest of the people, you will lose eligibility to be a Deputy Commissioner.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/additional-tahsildars-acs-to-be-deployed-to-clear-pending-cases/article38084594.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Congress fares well in many ULBs represented by BJP legislators||The Congress seems to have performed better in many Assembly constituencies currently represented by the BJP legislators, including Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, in the elections to 58 Urban Local Bodies, the results of which were out on Thursday. While in many places, the ruling BJP ceded ground to the Congress in the ULBs, in some urban pockets currently represented by the BJP, mixed results have come up. In all, of the 1,184 seats in 58 ULBs for which polls were held, the Congress registered victories in 501 seats while the BJP won in 433 seats. JD(S) managed just 45 seats, and 195 Independents won. A closer look at the Congress’ performance shows that it managed well in constituencies such as Kanakagiri, Hungund, Harihar, Nippani, Shiggaon, Navalgund, Kagwad, Arabhavi, and Muddebihal, among others, that are represented by the BJP. In Rayabagh, Kittur, Saundatti, Nippani, and Kittur also represented by the BJP, the poll results have thrown hung results that can also tilt in the favour of the Congress. In some ULBs in Kittur and Arabhavi, represented by legislators from the ruling BJP, all seats have been won by Independents. In Hospet Municipal Council, the BJP failed to register majority, while in Sira where the BJP registered victory in the high-profile byelections fought bitterly after the demise of JD(S) legislator Satyanarayana, the BJP managed just four seats as the municipal council returned with mixed results. The support of JD(S) is crucial to any party to come to power. Of the five City Municipal Councils that went to polls, the BJP managed to win three, while two are hanging. Of the 19 Town Municipal Councils, the BJP and the Congress won seven each, while four are hanging with the JD(S) winning one. In the 34 town panchayats that faced polls, the Congress registered victory in 13, while the BJP won nine, and 12 town panchayats reported mixed results. However, in the midst of success, Congress lost ground to BJP in Anekal, Koppal, and Basavana Bagewadi. In Maski, where the party won the bypolls, it ceded ground to the BJP. Tavargera town panchayat in Kushthagi saw mixed results though Congress is likely to come to power with the support of Independents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-fares-well-in-many-ulbs-represented-by-bjp-legislators/article38084597.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Wanted: An elected body for BBMP||Potholed roads, water-logging, encroachments — Bengaluru’s list of problems has not seen any major changes in the recent past. Yet, the city has been without an elected body since September 10, 2020, when the five-year term of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike came to an end. Elections to the local body have been put off owing to a “confusion” on whether the polls have to be conducted for 198 wards or 243 wards, as per the new BBMP Act, 2020. After the term of the BBMP council ended, when the BJP government showed no signs of holding polls, the matter went to the High Court of Karnataka. Though the court directed the State Government to hold polls within six weeks to 198 wards, the Government appealed against it in the Supreme Court stating that the number of wards had been increased to 243. The case is still being heard in the apex court. However, sources claim that the Government is now all set to submit an affidavit in the apex court with regard to holding polls for the 243 wards. “In all likelihood, the polls may be held in either April or May 2022,” sources said. Abdul Wajid, former Congress floor leader in the BBMP council and one of the petitioners before the apex court, underscored the need for an elected body. “With no councillors, the citizens have no one to approach for redressal of their grievances. One cannot expect the MLA to attend to local problems. That is the role of the councillor,” he pointed out, and said that if the elected body were present, the pandemic management in the city could have been better. He also alleged that BBMP had used the pandemic outbreak as a ruse for not taking up any development work over the past two years. “The projects mentioned in the Budget have not been implemented since 2019,” he said. Srinivas Alavilli from Janaagraha said that having an elected body in place was at the top of the wish list of many citizens. “It is difficult to imagine that 13 million citizens don’t have a democratic forum to raise issues of the city. Unfortunately, citizens are resorting to social media to air their problems. We can’t go on like this,” he said and added that citizens must participate in local governance, for which an elected body is essential. Concurring, N.S. Mukunda, founder member Bengaluru Praja Vedike, pointed out that with no elected body in BBMP, issues of the city are in the hands of the state government. “This is against the spirit of the 74th Amendment of the Constitution. Along with the elected body, the ward committees are the checks and balances of a democratic system,” he said and added that only through these could citizens be part of planning and governance. With polls to the Assembly likely in 2023, the MLAs need foot soldiers. “The MLAs will need councillors. We are hoping at least because of this, the polls to the civic body will be held,” said Mr. Wajid. For now, all eyes are looking at the Supreme Court, which is likely to pronounce its judgement in the ongoing case early this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wanted-an-elected-body-for-bbmp/article38084576.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Second year of subdued NY celebrations||In what has now become a familiar scene, the city ushered in New year’s Eve in a subdued manner for the second year in a row since the COVID-19 pandemic struck. Amidst a strict night curfew and government guidelines to keep a check on the rising number of infections and the Omicron scare, most of Bengaluru wore a deserted look as the clock struck midnight signalling the arrival of 2022. The city police imposed Section 144 from 6 p.m. onwards and started ensuring that people did not gather outside. By 9 p.m, announcements to shut shop by the 10 p.m. deadline began. Roads were barricaded and strict drunk driving tests were carried out. Brigade Road was blocked before 10 p.m. Most of the restaurants and pubs in the city, especially in the Central Business District, were full to the allowed capacity Friday evening. Only those who had got two doses of the vaccine were allowed in after checking their certificates. There was also a 50% occupancy restriction. “The business we did this New Year’s Eve is not even a fraction of what we used to do before the pandemic. But with the Omicron scare, we understand the situation,” the manager of a restaurant in Indiranagar said. However, within the ambit of restrictions, most establishments were full on Friday evening. “Within permitted levels, patrons did turn up and most establishments were full and it was almost impossible to get a reservation at the last minute,” said Adit Gowda from a popular restaurant in North Bengaluru. Crowds started thinning out starting from 8:30 p.m., given the 10 p.m. deadline for night curfew. Scenes of revellers sprinting away from the police in popular destinations such as Koramangala as the deadline was up were also seen. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra went on city rounds, including the Central Business District, and oversaw the implementation of the deadline. City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said the New Year’s Eve passed off without any major untoward incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-year-of-subdued-ny-celebrations/article38084578.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Year-end excise revenue increases by 10.5%||The rise in sale of liquor in the last week of 2021 led to increase in collection of excise duty by 10.5% compared to the corresponding period in 2020. A total of Rs. 974 crore worth of liquor was sold during the period. The data released by the Excise Department on New Year’s eve shows that Indian Made Liquor (IML) sales saw an increase by 21.22 % and beer sales saw increase by 12.11% in the period between December 24 and 31 over the previous year. As much as 17.14 lakh carton boxes of IML were sold this year as against 14.14 lakh carton boxes sold last year. In terms of beer, 10.09 lakh carton boxes were sold this year as against 9 lakh carton boxes sold last year. In terms of sale volume, Rs. 974.58 crore worth of liquor was sold in the last week of this year when compared to Rs. 844.59 crore worth of liquor sold last year, a growth of 15.39%. Similarly, the excise duty collection went up from Rs. 519.21 crore to Rs. 573.75 crore this year, a growth by 10.5%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/year-end-excise-revenue-increases-by-105/article38084595.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Light rain likely in some parts of city||As the city bid adieu to 2021 on a cold and wet Friday, forecast by the Meteorological Centre suggested that some areas in the city are likely to receive light rain in the next two days. The forecast for the next 24 hours state that fog and mist are very likely during morning hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/light-rain-likely-in-some-parts-of-city/article38084582.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||NHAI official arrested in bribery case||Sleuths from the Central Bureau of Investigation arrested a Regional Officer of National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), Bengaluru, in a bribery case. Acting on a tip-off that the officer, Akil Ahmed, had allegedly demanded an illegal gratification from a firm working on a Bengaluru-Chennai Expressway project, CBI officials laid a trap on Friday. They arrested Anuj Gupta in Delhi while allegedly receiving Rs. 20 lakh on behalf of Akil Ahmed from representatives of Bhopal-based firm M/s Dilip Buildcon Ltd., with a branch office in Bengaluru. Following the arrest of Anuj Gupta, CBI also arrested the Regional Officer Akil Ahmed and four officials of the private firm - Retnakaran Sajilal, Devendra Jain, Mahim Pratap Singh Tomar, and Sunil Kumar Verma, a statement said. CBI raided the premises linked to the firm and the Regional Officer of NHAI in New Delhi, Bengaluru, Kochi, Gurugram and Bhopal. They recovered cash Rs. 4 crore from the premises of private persons and cash of Rs. 4 lakh from the premises of regional officer of NHAI, CBI said in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nhai-official-arrested-in-bribery-case/article38084571.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||64% more narcotics cases booked in 2021||The year gone by was marked by an escalation of “war on drugs” in the city. The police booked 64% more narcotics cases in 2021, compared to the previous year. There has been a significant increase in recovery of narcotics, and the number of foreign nationals arrested in connection with these cases as well. However, it was also marked by a slight dip in detection of crimes, such as robbery and chain snatchings. The city police booked 4,547 narcotics cases and arrested 5,741 persons, including 176 foreign nationals, in connection with these cases, compared to 2,766 cases in 2020. They recovered 3,589 kg of ganja, 48.61 kg of hashish, 8,206 ecstacy tablets and 12,451 strips of LSD - significantly higher than the previous two years. “Not just in terms of quantity; this year, we were able to bust some key narcotic networks and arrest the key suppliers, and not just peddlers,” a senior official said. The number of preventive cases booked against rowdy sheeters has also taken a giant leap. Apart from an increase in the number of rowdy sheeters booked under the Goonda Act, 10 of them have also been banned from entry into the city. “Rooting out the drug and rowdy menaces from the city has been our top focus and the numbers clearly indicate more preventive action from our side,” said City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. Meanwhile, the pandemic has caused a dip in crime rate, a trend observed in 2020 and seen in 2021 as well. The number of crimes reported in both years is lesser than in pre-pandemic 2019. However, there is a dip in detection of these cases. “With the economy in a slump, fresh offenders with no history of crime are committing crimes making it tough to crack,” a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/64-more-narcotics-cases-booked-in-2021/article38084573.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Rowdy-sheeter shot in leg, held||A rowdy-sheeter, Divakar Urs, 24, wanted in a dacoity case, who had allegedly stabbed a sub-inspector and fled two days ago, was shot in the leg and apprehended on Friday morning when he allegedly tried to attack the police again resisting arrest. He is being treated at a hospital in the city. Yeshwantpur police, while investigating a dacoity case, in which a gang of men barged into a house where two women lived and robbed them at gunpoint, had arrested several persons involved and were searching for Divakar, the prime accused. Acting on a tip-off of his whereabouts, sub-inspector Vinod Rathod and his team went to arrest him from a farm near Hebbal on Wednesday night. Divakar allegedly stabbed the sub-inspector in the shoulder and fled from the scene. The police caught him near HMT quarters in Jalahalli on Friday morning, when he again tried to again attack constable Pradeep and flee. Inspector Balaraju then fired at him in self-defence and apprehended him, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rowdy-sheeter-shot-in-leg-held/article38084579.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||23 new Omicron cases in State take tally to 66||Karnataka witnessed a spike in Omicron cases on the last day of the year 2021 with 23 new cases being reported. This took the tally of Omicron cases in the State to 66. India’s first two cases were reported from Karnataka. Health and Medical Education Minister Dr. K. Sudhakar, who confirmed the new cases in a tweet, said 19 of the 23 cases are international travellers from the USA, Europe, Middle East and Africa." Of these, five are children, including a two-year-old male baby, who are not eligible for vaccination. Among the others, all of whom except two were vaccinated, one had also taken a booster shot. Only one of the 23 infected people had taken one dose. V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said 80% of Omicron cases being reported are among the fully vaccinated individuals. “People should keep in mind that all are at risk irrespective of vaccination. We are seeing the spread of Omicron mainly in cities where people have become complacent. There is no replacement for responsible behaviour and people should follow COVID appropriate behaviour,” he said. The State Health Department has directed all hospitals not to test admitted international passengers prior to the 10-day timeline mentioned in the discharge policy. Patients can be discharged only after ten days from the date of testing RTPCR positive and not from the date of symptoms onset, stated a circular. “It has been noticed that international passengers testing positive for COVID on arrival at airports and isolated at various healthcare institutions (both public and private) are being tested for COVID prior to the 10-day timeline mentioned in the discharge policy. Such testing and the consequent results have no significance and only cause confusion regarding discharge date. Hence, it is reiterated that the prescribed norms for follow up RTPCR as on designated date, before discharging from the hospitals, should be strictly complied with,” stated the circular. Meanwhile, Sir C.V. Raman General Hospital has been turned into a designated COVID hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/23-new-omicron-cases-in-state-take-tally-to-66/article38084584.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||832 new cases, eight deaths in State; 656 cases reported in Bengaluru Urban||Karnataka on Friday reported 832 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 30,07,337. Bengaluru Urban reported 656 cases and five deaths. With the eight deaths, the State's toll rose to 38,335. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 335 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 29,60,261. The State now has 8,712 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.70%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 0.96%. As many as 1,17,917 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 95,815 RT-PCR tests. The State has geared up to start paediatric vaccinations from January 3. Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission, said as many as 31.75 lakh children in the 15 years to 17 years age group have been identified as the target population for this drive. Only Covaxin will be administered in doses of 0.5 ml. It will be given free of cost in all schools. “Teams of vaccinators will go to schools and PU/paramedical colleges to administer the jab from January 3. Those who are still having online classes, especially private schools, have been directed to schedule a particular day and ask their students to come to schools to take the jab,” she said. “We intend to take up the programme intially in schools and colleges. Only if required we will open up the sessions in hospitals. However, private hospitals are free to start child vaccinations provided they have separate sessions for this group as only Covaxin has to be administred,” she explained. Children who have taken other routine vaccines are eligible for COVID vaccination after a gap of 15 days. The second COVID dose will be administered after a gap of 28 days. Registration on the CoWIN portal can be done using the parents or school principal’s number, she said. Appealing to people to get their children vaccinated, she said there is no need to worry about the safety and efficacy of the vaccines. “The government has rolled out vaccines for children after a lot of research,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-sees-832-new-cases/article38084586.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Border districts told to step up testing||In the light of increasing Omicron cases, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday directed the Deputy Commissioners of border districts to step up testing. “Border districts of Kodagu, Dakshin Kannada, Udupi, Chamarajanagar, and Belagavi have been asked to increase testing. District administrations have been asked to keep beds and oxygen plants ready. Deputy Commissioners have been directed to coordinate with medical colleges and private hospitals in their respective districts.” While 97% have received the first dose of vaccination, 76 % have received the second dose. “I have instructed officials to complete the first dose for all by the end of January and second dose coverage has to reach 80%.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/border-districts-told-to-step-up-testing/article38084590.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Belagavi city gets new Police Commissioner||Days after unrest in the city during the recently-concluded legislature session, K. Thiyagarajan has been transferred and M.B. Boralingaiah has been promoted and posted as new Commissioner of Belagavi city. The city saw vandalism by MES during the session, prompting Kannada outfits to demand the organisation be banned and even call for a State bandh that was withdrawn in the last minute. Meanwhile, the second line of leadership of Bengaluru City Police has undergone a complete change due to promotions of IPS officers and consequential transfers on Friday. While A. Subramanyeshwara Rao will be Additional Commissioner (East), Sandeep Patil will be Additional Commissioner (West), and Raman Gupta will be the new CCB chief as Joint Commissioner (Crime). Though there were speculations that the Bengaluru City Police Commissioner may be changed, the government has not affected a change of leadership in the city police. S. Murugan, who was Additional Commissioner (East) has been promoted and posted as ADGP, Communication, Logistics and Modernisation. Soumendu Mukherjee who was Additional Commissioner (West) has been posted to Intelligence. K.V. Sharath Chandra and M. Najundaswamy have been promoted as ADGP and posted as ADGP, CID, and ADGP, Home Guards and Ex-Officio Additional Director, Civil Defence. Labhu Ram, P.S. Harsha and Vikash Kumar Vikash have been promoted and continued in their postings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-city-gets-new-police-commissioner/article38084599.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Appeal to children||Hassan district administration has appealed to children between the ages of 15 and 18 to get vaccinated for COVID-19 from January 3, 2022. In a press release issued here on Friday, Hassan ZP CEO Kantharaj said the children could get vaccinated by visiting the nearest health centres. As per the guidelines issued by the State Government, the children would be administered a Covaxin dose. Helpline For more details the public can contact health centres, health workers and Asha workers or call up the helpline 104, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appeal-to-children/article38084984.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Mekedatu: Revanna hits out at Congress, BJP leaders||Former Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna has demanded the Congress and the BJP place before the public their prompt efforts to implement the Mekedatu project in the years they ruled the State. Speaking to presspersons in Hassan on Friday, Mr. Revanna said his father and former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda had tried to execute the project as early as 1987 itself. “Since then the Congress and the BJP have ruled. Their leaders held the Water Resources portfolio. Why could they not take up the project? Who stopped them from taking up the project all these years?” he wanted to know. The JD(S) leader also criticised the Congress for preparing the draft of the anti-conversion law. “What the Congress drafted, the same has been tabled by the BJP in its Bill. Let the Congress people go before the minorities to seek apology for their role in bringing in this Bill”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mekedatu-revanna-hits-out-at-congress-bjp-leaders/article38084987.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Miscreants cut 600 areca trees on farm; loss put at Rs. 10 lakh||Unknown miscreants cut around 600 areca trees in a farm at Ajjenahalli village in Belur taluk on Thursday night, causing a loss of over Rs. 10 lakh to the farm owners. Veeralinge Gowda and Kamalamma, who had spent their savings and put in hard work to grow the farm in the last six years, were in a shock on Friday morning when they came to know about the incident. The couple suspected it to be an act by people with personal enmity. Belur tahsildar Mohan Kumar visited the spot. The farm owners appealed to the officers to provide them with compensation for the loss they suffered. “The miscreants have ruined the hard work of the farmers. The efforts they had put in all these years had gone in vain”, the tahsildar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/miscreants-cut-600-areca-trees-on-farm-loss-put-at-rs-10-lakh/article38084983.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Three held, girl rescued||Kadur Police rescued a minor girl after arresting three accused, who allegedly kidnapped her from Maradihalli in Kadur taluk on December 27. In a press release on Friday, Chikkamagaluru Superintendent of Police Akshay M. Hakay said the 17-year-old girl was kidnapped by a group of people early morning on December 27. Acting upon the complaing filed by the girl’s father, Kadur police succeeded to trace the accused at Sagani Basavanahalli village and rescued the girl on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-held-girl-rescued/article38084990.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Life term for murder||A Hassan court convicted a person accused of murder and sentenced him to life imprisonment, besides a penalty of Rs. 45,000. Rajashekhar of Gundkanahalli in Arsikere taluk murdered Lathamani of Giribommanahalli on July 23, 2014. They were in a relationship and when differences broke out, Rajashekhar took Lathamani to Mullayyanagiri in Chikkamagaluru taluk, where he murdered her. The incidnet came to light after Lathamani’s parents filed a missing complaint with Arsikere police. The police during the investigation found that Rajashekhar murdered her and took away her jewellery worth over Rs. 40,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/life-term-for-murder/article38084991.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Rs. 3 crore for road development in Old Hubballi||The former Chief Minister and MLA Jagadish Shettar has said that main roads in Channapet, Arvind Nagar and Old Hubballi will be developed under the Rs. 3 crore grants extended under Urban Renewal Mission. Speaking at a Jana Sampark Sabha at Diddi Oni in Old Hubballi on Friday, Mr. Shettar said that the State Government has released Rs. 1 crore for the underground drainage system and drains in Ward No 55 and work will be initiated soon. Pointing out that storm-water drains in Dalimbarpet and surrounding areas overflow during the rainy season inundating houses, Mr. Shettar asked the officials to conduct a detailed survey of the areas and come out with a plan for providing a permanent solution to this. On complants from residents about increasing number of thefts in the locality, he assured them of taking up the issue with the Police Commissioner. He also told them that he will take steps to get CCTV cameras installed at strategic locations in the area. He said that funds are available for the purpose under various Union Government schemes and that he will take up the issue with Union Minister Pralhad Joshi. Mr. Shettar took the officials to task for the delay in issuing death certificates, when a resident brought the issue to his notice. Residents submitted a memorandum on various issues, including construction of community halls and houses for slum-dwellers. On the occasion, identity cards for workers of the unorganised sector were distributed. Director of Mysore Soaps and Detergents Limited Mallikarjun Savakar, HDMC councillor Santosh Chavan, the former Mayors Pandurang Patil and D.K. Chavan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-3-crore-for-road-development-in-old-hubballi/article38084790.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||KRV launches letter campaign seeking ban on MES||Alleging that Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) were behind the desecration of statues of national heroes, the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (raita faction) launched a letter campaign on Friday seeking ban on MES. The members of KRV staged a demonstration outside the office of Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad before launching the letter campaign. They alleged that MES activists were behind the acts of desecrating statue of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna, and defacement of portrait of social reformer Basaveshwara in Belagavi district. ‘Indulging in mischief’ Addressing the protesters, KRV office-bearer Papu Dhare said MES had been unnecessarily raking up the border row and deliberately trying to hurt feelings of the Kannadigas by torching Kannada flags and indulging in mischief. He alleged that the Maharashtra Government was supporting Shiv Sena and MES activists who had torched vehicles belonging to Kannadigas and for threatening Kannada-speaking people living along the State border. The MES had been indulging in vandalism and had even tried to disrupt the Winter session of the legislature in Belagavi. The MES activists were trying to test the patience of Kannadigas and the government should not tolerate them anymore, he said. Mr. Dhare said the letters would be sent to the Chief Minister and the Governor of Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/letter-campaign-seeking-ban-on-mes-launched/article38084598.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Minister visits HESCOM Transformer Bank||Minister for Power V. Sunil Kumar has lauded the steps taken by Hubballi Electricity Supply Company (HESCOM) to replace failed transformers with alternative transformers within 24 hours. The Minister, who visited the Transformer Bank set up by HESCOM on Karwar Road on Wednesday, appreciated the initiative taken by HESCOM for providing timely replacement of transformers. Mr. Sunil Kumar inspected the various facilities at the Transformer Bank and also sought details on the repair mechanism of transformers. Managing Director of HESCOM D. Bharati and other officials briefed the Minister about the various facilities at the bank. She told him that the requirement of transformers in Hubballi division was comparatively less and within 24 hours, replacement was being provided where required. Senior HESCOM officials A.H. Kamble, Ramesh Bendigeri, M.R. Shanbhag, Krishnappa, HDMC councillor Santosh Chavan and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-visits-hescom-transformer-bank/article38084787.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Award for IIT Dharwad campus project||Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Dharwad, which is building a smart eco-friendly permanent campus, has received an award with its campus project being declared the first runner-up at the national level. IIT Dharwad’s campus project has been declared runner-up under Exemplary Performance Awards by Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment (GRIHA) Council under Passive Architecture Design Category, Director of IIT-Dh P. Seshu has said in a press release. Mr. Seshu has said: “In the campus project, energy consumption is being minimised by designing buildings to minimise air-conditioning requirements and maximise daylight with use of solar passive architecture, effective insulation, effective use of glass, shading devices, etc.” “Lighting loads are further decreased by use of energy efficient light fixtures both inside and outside buildings. The minimum efficiencies of utility equipment are chosen and designed to comply with ECBC-2017 standards,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/award-for-iit-dharwad-campus-project/article38084788.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Farmers can save Rs. 180 crore through zero tillage||Farmers across the State can save about Rs. 180 crore by following zero tillage technology in the coming summer season if they go for irrigated and dry (ID) crops where only paddy was harvested. This experiment conducted at village in Kangti mandal of Sangareddy district and the yield by the farmer who experimented in his filed was same like other farmers. The saving per acre will be around Rs. 3,000 per acre. Dry crops Amid crisis on growing paddy in the coming summer season, the farmers are looking at alternative crops that would offer them good remuneration. Majority farmer are looking at irrigated and dry (ID) crops maize, jowar and sun flower. However, agriculture experts suggests that without tilling operations of farm lands, where paddy was cultivated as previous crop, farmer can grow one of these three crops. Tilling operation involves ploughing, using cultivator and levelling. This will save about Rs. 3,000 per acre to the farmer. An experiment was conducted in one of the farms in Kangti mandal where maize seeds were directly sown in the paddy wet lands. Once paddy was harvested, one irrigation was supplied and then after 24 hours the maize seed was directly dibbling in soil. This experiment conducted in a field at Tadkal village of Kangti mandal in Sangareddy district in 2019 has not only saved money for farmer but also time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-can-save-rs-180-crore-through-zero-tillage/article38084589.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Mutt premises vandalised||A group of men threw stones at the building of Siddlingeshwar Samsthan Mutt in Mashal village, Afzalpur taluk, in Kalaburagi district on Thursday night. The group vandalised the mutt with stones causing damage to windowpanes even as seer Kedar Swami was sleeping inside. On December 28, 2021, Kedar Swami had participated in an event organised by Hindu Jagruthi Sene in Kalaburagi and spoke against cow slaughter and Love Jihad. Now, the police have expressed the suspicion that people who were angry with his speech could be involved in vandalising the mutt and stone-throwing. Condemned Condemning the act, the Hindu Jagruthi Sene demanded action against the culprits for vandalising the mutt. The police have tightened security around the mutt building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/religious-mutt-vandalised/article38084783.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||With Hosapete win, AAP opens account in ULBs||The efforts by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to enter the Urban Local Bodies has finally yielded result with its candidate winning in Hosapete City Municipal Council in the newly formed Vijayanagara district. In the elections held to 58 urban local bodies (ULBs) in 20 districts of the State, the AAP secured the lone seat at Hospet with its candidate Shaikh Shah Wali winning in ward no. 22 of Hosapete CMC. Mr. Wali secured 703 votes and registered a win against the Congress candidate by a margin of 71 votes. Among other candidates in the fray, three Independents secured 381, 359, and 293 votes respectively, pushing the BJP candidate, with 61 votes, to the last position. While there were 4,515 voters in the ward, only 61% (2,759) voted. Mr. Wali secured 25% (703 votes) of the votes cast.  Mohammad Nasir, a local AAP member, told The Hindu that Mr. Wali, who belongs to the semi-nomadic tribe Helavaru, was chosen by community elders to contest as the AAP candidate largely because development issues in their area were ignored.  Successive governments have neglected the Helavaru community. Due to the alleged failure of the State Government in providing facilities and amenities to the tribal community, they decided to vote collectively for the AAP candidate, he said. A farmer, Mr. Wali joined the AAP eight months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-hosapete-win-aap-opens-account-in-ulbs/article38084592.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||Relief in the offing for power consumers in Sullia, Kadaba||Residents of Sullia and Kadaba taluks are likely to get some relief with regard to quality power supply when Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar inaugurates a few power infrastructure in these taluks on Monday. Yet, the long-pending demand for a 110 kV Madavu (Puttur)-Sullia Series Compensation (SC) Direct Current (DC) line that can mitigate the woes of energy consumers in Sullia region is still awaiting forest clearance. Mangalore Electricity Supply Company (MESCOM) has added additional 8 Mega Volt Amp (MVA) transformer at the 33/11 kV power sub-station in Kukke Subrahmanya. Some new 11 kV feeder lines have been formed from this sub-station, while conductors of some feeders have been upgraded. With an expenditure of Rs. 2.2 crore on this project, about 20,000 energy consumers in and around Subrahmanya will get quality power supply for almost round-the-clock, the company said. The power supply company will also save about 6.7 lakh units of power annually with the upgradation. This facility is being backed up by laying a 33 kV underground power cable from 33 kV Guttigaru sub-station to Subrahmanya sub-station at a cost of Rs. 7.8 crore. Meanwhile, MESCOM has constructed a new 33 kV line from Bolubailu in Sullia taluk to Sullia power sub-station with a 4.3-km-long Coyote conductor line and a 1.2-km underground line. It has constructed a 33 kV terminal bay at the Sullia sub-station, all at a cost of Rs. 3 crore. The company has also erected a 12.5 MVA additional transformer at Sullia sub-station, which, put together, can ensure quality power supply to about 40,000 consumers. The works can also help save about 2 lakh units of power every year, MESCOM said. Mr. Kumar will inaugurate these facilities on Monday. An engineer said that the Chief Minister will convene a meeting shortly to sort out the Madavu-Sullia 110 kV line to be constructed by Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Ltd. (KPTCL). The transmission company has said that the Beeline between Madavu and Sullia was 16.9 km long, while the proposed route is about 20 km long avoiding forest areas. It requires about 8 hectares of forest land, KPTCL has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relief-in-the-offing-for-power-consumers-in-sullia-kadaba/article38084946.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||Seer-in-waiting for Paryaya says age-old traditions will continue||Sri Vidyasagara Tirtha Swami of Udupi Krishnapura Mutt, seer-in-waiting to ascend the Sarvajna Peetha at Udupi Sri Krishna Temple/Mutt during the Paryaya this month, on Friday said that he will continue the practices and rituals being followed at the mutt for public good. He said that he does not propose any major projects either. Interacting with reporters after a felicitation programme at the residence of the former district Kannada Sahitya Parishat president Pradeep Kumar Kalkura here, Sri Vidyasagara Tirtha said that the Anna Daana and Janna Daana that are being followed since the time of Sri Madhwacharya and Sri Vadiraja Tirtha will continue to be followed during his Paryaya, beginning January 18, too. These practices are very close to the Lord, he added. Sri Vidyasagara Tirtha, who will be performing the Paryaya for the fourth term, said that he is not stickler for rules and that he is flexible if any changes will result in the larger good of people and society. He was responding to a query regarding the reported inconvenience being caused to devotees while entering Sri Krishna Temple/Mutt through the Vishwa Patha, a circumventing path introduced during the current Paryaya, led by Udupi Admar Mutt seer Sri Ishapriya Tirtha Swami. Preparations The swamiji said that preparations for the Paryaya ceremony are going on in full swing so as to hold it with usual fervour. However, changes will be made if the government imposes restrictions to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He said, “We do not want to inconvenience devotees; the Paryaya rituals will be tweaked, if necessary.” Pura Pravesha As a norm, the seer visited many places, including pilgrim places in the run-up to the Paryaya and his Pura Pravesha (entry into the town) of Udupi was held on December 16. The eldest of all the seers of the Ashta Mutts, Sri Vidyasagara Tirtha urged devotees to keep in mind government restrictions before visiting the Paryaya ceremony where he will ascend the Sarvajna Peetha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seer-in-waiting-for-paryaya-says-age-old-traditions-will-continue/article38084948.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||‘An elaborate process is involved before B reports are filed in courts’||Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police Rishiskesh Sonawane on Friday said that cases are scrutinised in length before approval is granted to file B reports in courts saying there is no evidence to prove a charge made in a complaint. Denying the charge that the District Police are being influenced to file B reports in cases related to atrocities on Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, Mr. Sonawane said that charge-sheets are being filed in most of the cases. Only in a few cases, B reports are filed and they are done after approval by Inspector-General of Police (Western Range) Devajyoti Ray. During the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes grievance redressal meeting held at the office of Mr. Sonawane, convenor of Dalit Hakkugala Samanvya Samiti Shekar Laila said that B reports are being filed in many cases of atrocities on Dalits as they are incapable of challenging the decision. Another activist said that the police are not getting approval of the District Level Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes grievance cell before filing the reports. The activist said that the police are being bribed for filing B reports. Mr. Sonawane said that it is easy for the police to file charge-sheets and difficult to get approval for B reports. After a detailed scrutiny by him, the file goes to Mr. Devajyoti Ray, who also looks at such files closely, before granting approval. There is no question of taking bribe for filing B reports, he said. Moreover, Mr. Sonawane said, complainants get notice from courts after B reports are submitted. “If discrepancies are found (in B reports), courts pass strictures against the investigation officer,” he said. When activist S.P. Anand pointed to continued harassment of a complainant by an accused in an atrocity case registered in Venur Police Station in 2019, Mr. Sonawane directed the jurisdictional police officer to book another case against the accused and seek cancellation of bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/an-elaborate-process-is-involved-before-b-reports-are-filed-in-courts/article38084955.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||College refutes charge by students||A few girl students in the Government PU College for Girls in Udupi have said that they are not being allowed to attend classes for wearing hijab (head scarf). Talking to reporters on Friday, a group of six PU students said that they were not allowed to attend classes for the last three days. The students said that while students from other communities are being allowed to follow their religious practices, they are being denied it. Denying the charge, college principal Rudre Gowda told reporters that only a few among the 40 Muslim students are sporting hijab. He has spoken to parents of those children, Mr. Gowda said and added that the parents have agreed that their wards will not wear hijab in classrooms. Deputy Director of PU Education Maruthi said that the college administration has called for a meeting of parents and teachers on Saturday. Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao said that he has sought a report from Mr. Maruthi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/college-refutes-charge-by-students/article38084949.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Ethanol policy soon: Minister||Minister for Handlooms, Textiles, Sugar and Cane Development Shankar Patil Munenakoppa on Friday said that the BJP Government will soon bring out Ethanol Policy so as to boost ethanol production in sugar factories across the State. Speaking to reporters during his visit to Udupi, Mr. Munekoppa said that ethanol production needs a massive boost as the Union Government has proposed to blend petrol and diesel with 20% of ethanol by 2025. Having extensively toured Uttar Pradesh where sugarcane is cultivated in a large scale, Mr. Munenakoppa said that mere production of sugar will not be sustainable for factories. Ethanol production thus will become a win-win situation for sugar factories as well as the government. The Minister said that the State Government will also encourage ethanol production from maize and paddy so as to ensure more income to farmers. Soon, a research team will visit Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra to study modalities of ethanol production, the Minister said and added that the State Government will approve proposals from sugar factories to set up ethanol production units. The State Government itself will buy ethanol from them and sell to oil marketing companies, he added. Looms modernisation After visiting Udupi Weavers Primary Cooperative Society whose members produce Udupi Handloom Saris, Mr. Munenakoppa said that the department will soon send an expert team to Udupi to suggest ways to modernise handlooms. Youngsters are hesitant in undertaking weaving as it is economically unviable; the State Government will make every effort to make the profession viable, he said. Mr. Munenakoppa said that the State Government will also open a training institute for weaving to provide professional training at the proposed Textile Park in Karkala. Weavers will be categorised as agriculturists to provide various facilities and incentives to them. Funds have already been released for Nekara Sammana Scheme and Rs. 122 crore subsidy has been paid to weavers. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat urged the Minister to reduce GST on handloom products from 12% to 5% and pay 10% incentive on the wages being paid to weavers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ethanol-policy-soon-minister/article38084791.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||All set for vaccination for 15-18 age group||The Department of Health and Family Welfare is all set for the roll out of vaccination for those aged between 15 and 18 years, with the Centre announcing vaccination for the teens. This comes amidst the threat of a spike in cases from Omicron variant of COVID-19 whose numbers are on the rise in the country. As many as 1.47 lakh beneficiaries – school and college students put together – have been identified based on the data sourced from the Departments of Public Instruction and Pre-University Education. The entire vaccination drive will be done only in schools and colleges and as many as 400 teams will carry out the task. Mysuru district has around 1,500 schools and colleges. The district administration had a meeting ahead of the roll out collecting the statistics from the departments on the numbers. Mysuru also got fresh stocks of Covaxin, the vaccine that has been approved for administering to the age group.  District Health Officer K.H. Prasad told The Hindu that the idea is to carry out vaccination in each school and college simultaneously. “If this is achieved as planned, we are in a position to vaccinate the population in a span of five days. We are yet to finalise the schedule and the teams had discussions with the staff of the departments. Another 30,000-plus students are expected to be added to the list and the final list would be ready by Saturday.”  The DHO said around 2 lakh doses are available in the district. Vaccine is not an issue as more stocks are expected in the days ahead. The vaccination drive will be launched on January 3 at Maharani’s College at 8.30 a.m. On the proof of identity for the vaccination, he said the schools are being asked whether the students can get their parents’ phones for receiving the OTPs for facilitating immunisation. If they cannot bring the phones, then we will consider alternative methods to ensure the vaccination as registration is a must in the CoWIN portal. In Mysuru district, 84 per cent of people have got their second dose. In November this year, vaccine hesitancy had worried the district administration as over two lakh people were found to have skipped their second dose of vaccination for no reason after completing 84-day gap from the first dose. As many as one lakh people who are delaying their second dose are from Mysuru city alone. There used to be long queues before the vaccination centers here barely a few months ago but now people are not ready to take their second dose even though the health workers are going to their doorsteps to vaccinate them. However, after the Omicron threat and decision on making vaccination certificates mandatory, the vaccination got some pace, narrowing the gap of those who missed the second dose. Now the number of people who need to take their second dose has come down to one lakh from 2 lakh, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-set-for-vaccination-for-15-18-age-group/article38084988.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Congress plans convention in Mysuru on January 3||The Congress party will be holding a convention in Mysuru on January 3 as a prelude to the padayatra from Mekedatu. The padayatra from January 9 is to bring pressure on the BJP Government in Karnataka to begin the project, which envisages the construction of a balancing reservoir, generate power and provide drinking water to Bengaluru. Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D.K. Shivakumar are expected to participate in the convention. The Congress party, which is buoyed by its performance in the recently held elections to Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) and the Legislative Council from local area constituencies, will also kickstart its membership drive in Mysuru region during the convention. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Friday, former MP and Working President of KPCC R. Dhruvanarayan hit out at BJP MP Pratap Simha as well as JD(S) leaders, who had criticised the padayatra. He said they were opposing it out of sheer desperation. Mr. Dhruvanarayan said the Congress had established an upper hand in the recently-held elections to the Legislative Council as wells the urban local bodies. This proved that there was a wave in favour of the party in the State. The Congress had performed well even in parts of the State that were considered to be BJP strongholds. The people of the State were upset with the “anti-people” policies of the BJP Government and ,disappointed due to the price rise and difficulties they faced during COVID-19, besides the internal squabbles in the ruling party. Mr. Dhruvanarayan expressed confidence that the Congress will return to power in the State by securing a majority in the next Assembly elections. He said the JD(S) had lost support of the people even in Old Mysore regions of Mandya, Tumakuru and Bengaluru rural. The party had won a seat from Mysuru-Chamarajanagar constituency due to the second preference votes cast by Congress voters, he claimed. Mr. Dhruvanarayan opposed the BJP’s decision to liberate temples from Government control. Arguing that it was better if the temples remained under the control of Muzrai Department, he said there could a “hidden agenda” behind the move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-plans-convention-in-mysuru-on-january-3/article38084989.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Active cases fall below 100, recovery rate improving||The active case tally in Mysuru has fallen below 100 with the drop in number of new cases. As on Thursday, the active cases stood at 97 with about 60 patients admitted in government as well as private hospitals, and the rest are home isolated. The recovery rate is also faster as 21 patients were discharged even as 16 were tested positive to the infection on Thursday. The testing target fixed for the district is around 6,000 daily. However, around 4,000 tests are being done every day with the numbers on some days falling below 4,000. But, on an average, around 4,000 tests are being done. Around 26 lakh tests have been done in Mysuru district since the first and second waves. Effective As the cases in the country have started to inch up because of Omicron, the cases in Mysuru continue to remain lesser and one of the crucial reasons has been the effective vaccination coverage. Though Omicron cases have also been reported among the vaccinated populations, the people are being urged to go for vaccination to minimise the threat and follow precautions such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance in public places for keeping the guard against the pandemic. DHO K.H. Prasad said, “Our teams are ready for 6,000 tests a day but we are not getting the numbers for doing the tests though we have been conducting tests randomly covering schools, colleges, factories and so on. We have been told that all SARI and ILI patients must get tested.” Random testing of shopkeepers and salespersons at malls and markets, staff of hotels and restaurants, students, teachers and other staff in colleges among others is being done. The increase in daily testing target is as part of the State Government’s direction for stepping up the surveillance by revising the daily target for the State with new clusters of COVID-19 cases being reported in different parts of Karnataka. Testing children Besides covering the targeted testing of cases of ILI (Influenza-like Illness), SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection), contacts of positive cases and high-risk groups, fortnightly random testing of selected groups like students and teachers of colleges and high schools is being carried out to reach the daily target. The government has also asked the officials to ensure that at least 10 per cent of samples are taken from children. The teams have been asked to test at least 5 per cent of the children in schools every week for their safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/active-cases-fall-below-100-recovery-rate-improving/article38084986.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Activists petition Forest Minister over tree-felling||A group of citizens, who are the members of Mysore Grahakara Parishat (MGP), has urged Forest Minister Umesh Katti to institute a high-powered committee to inquire into the persons responsible for the irresponsible act of felling 20 trees here. The committee should also look into the action that can be taken against the guilty and institutional changes that can be brought to prevent such acts in the future in the State, it suggested. In a letter to the Minister, they urged the Minister to ask the Forest Department officials to immediately act on their complaint over the two recent incidents of tree felling here. They said on the night of December 13, three fully grown trees in front of a hospital in Yadavagiri were felled. “When some of us complained to the forest officer, he was unfriendly. He told us that he could act only if we could give details about who did it. Further, he asked us to complain in writing. We were surprised why he could not take action suo motu,” they said. To highlight the problem of tree felling and dereliction on the part of the Forest Department, Mysureans organised“last rites” (the way it is done on the death of near and dear ones) for the tree on the thirteenth day – on December 26. Priests performed the usual rites chanting mantras. People offered flowers and prayed for the dead trees. The solemn function attracted the attention of Mysureans. “As we were reflecting on what to do next to preserve trees, we came to know 20 trees were felled in another part of Mysuru - Vijayanagar first stage. While no permission was given for tree felling in Yadavagiri, there was official permission in the case of Vijayanagar,” said Bhamy V. Shenoy and other members in the letter. The MUDA/PWD had initially asked for the felling of 57 trees and finally only when it was reduced to 20, permission was given by the Forest Department here. “We learnt that former DCF Prashanth had not given permission even after the number of trees was reduced to 20. When the previous DCF had refused permission, what was the new development to change the earlier decision,” they asked. When 20 activists met ACF, Rangaswamy (the DCF was away), the officer said he visited the site and was convinced that there is a need for widening the road. His observation was based on a few minutes of observing the traffic on the stretch of the road. “When we asked whether a survey was done to assess traffic density, the response was ‘no’. How can the Forest Department give permission without any analysis especially when the previous DCF had refused permission?” they question. Asked why there was no public hearing, the ACF’s response was that it would be held only when 50 trees or more are involved. Since there was no Tree Authority in Mysuru, he could not seek its permission. Why did he not wait for the constitution of the Authority and then follow the procedure, the activists asked. The petition is signed by Maj-Gen (retired) Sudhir Vombatkere, S. Shobana (retired principal of Teachers’ Training College), Nanjapur Yaduraju (retired agricultural scientist), Usha Subramanium (retired scientist, Ministry of Environment), Venkatesh Kharidi (entrepreneur) and Bhamy V. Shenoy (international energy expert).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activists-petition-forest-minister-over-tree-felling/article38084982.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||A common man now a leader||A 26-year-old Parashuram Hulagappa Govindar, fielded by the Congress, has created record of sorts by winning an election to the Kakkera Town Municipal Council (TMC) in Shorapur taluk with a margin of 51 votes against BJP’s Shivaraj showing once again that people can help make a common man without any political background a leader. Mr. Govindar is a worker in a petrol pump in Kakkera. He joined there for a small salary and after serving eight years, his salary went up to Rs. 8,000 per month. Ward No 6 has the highest number of voters in the Kakkera TMC limits. There were 1,634 voters and Mr. Govindar secured 467 votes, while his opponent from the BJP secured 416 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-common-man-now-a-leader/article38084785.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||TAC favours stricter curbs than 2nd wave||“Hence, after detailed deliberations TAC makes the following recommendations as an early measure of mitigation: As Omicron is known to be more contagious, measures stricter than the second wave that was largely driven by Delta are contemplated. Districts should be classified into three colour codes based on the WTPR - Yellow if WTPR is less than 1%; Orange if WTPR is 1% to less than 2% and Red if WTPR is 2% and above, for imposing curbs in public activities,” the report said. Examining the third wave action plan put in place by the Delhi government, the TAC has formulated a table under the three colour codes. “In districts that come under the orange zone (where WTPR is between 1% and < 2%) there is a need to ensure cinemas and auditoria, schools and colleges, pubs and bars, restaurants, offices and factories, recreational clubs, public transport including Metro trains and salons/barber shops function with 50% capacity. In this scenario, malls and shopping complexes should function only between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m.,” according to the table in the report. In a scenario when the WTPR crosses 2% and districts fall into the red zone, schools and colleges should start online classes. “While offices and factories should allow work-from-home for staff, cinemas and auditoria and public transport should be stopped. Pubs, bars and restaurants should be open only for takeaway. In this scenario, salons, barber shops, gyms and fitness centres, swimming pools, places of worship, and parks should be closed,” according to the table. “In a scenario, when the WTPR crosses 3%, a total lockdown is recommended. These measures are required to be initiated early because as a measure of precaution. Although Omicron infection is said to be milder, we should try and cut transmission at an early stage. This will help reduce the burden on health facilities and save lives,” a TAC member said. He said the committee referred to IIT- Kanpur’s “Sutra model” that is backed by the Government of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tac-favours-stricter-curbs-than-2nd-wave/article38084587.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||Saying it with flowers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/saying-it-with-flowers/article38084951.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||With full of hopes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-full-of-hopes/article38084781.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Continuing protest||ranga||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/continuing-protest/article38084994.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||Three from Alappuzha killed in accident in Goa||Three Alappuzha natives were killed in a road accident at Sancoale in Goa on Thursday night. The deceased were identified as Nidhin Das, 24, of Valiyazheekkal, Vishnu, 27, and his brother Kannan, 24, of Perumbilly in Arattupuzha grama panchayat. Two others Akhil, 26, and Vinod Kumar, 25, who sustained injuries in the accident were admitted to a hospital. The car they were travelling in overturned after hitting a road divider. Vishnu and Nidhin were working in Goa for an Indian Navy-related entity and the Dabolim airport respectively. “Vishnu, who was in Alappuzha on leave, left for Goa along with three others earlier this week. They joined Nidhin there. They rented a car for sightseeing and it met with the accident,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-from-alappuzha-killed-in-accident-in-goa/article38084927.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||On a mission to popularise Kalaripayattu||Harikrishnan S. was only 10 when he was introduced to the traditional martial art form Kalaripayattu. Now 26, the Punnapra native is an expert in several styles of Kalaripayattu, including Thekkan (south), Vadakkan (north), Madhyakeralam (central) and Thulunadan Lahalamura. He has numerous records to his name, including a Guinness World record. “My grandfather, an army man, was a Kalaripayattu practitioner. I first heard about the martial art form from my mother who used to tell me about my grandfather and his skills. I began learning Thekkan kalari under the tutelage of Sylvas Gurukkal,” says Mr. Harikrishnan.  In a relatively short span of 16 years, he has etched his name in the field of Kalaripayattu. In December 2019, he got into the Guinness World Records for chopping off 61 pineapples placed on the heads of people in 30 seconds using a sword. He entered the Arabian Book of World Records in 2018 by performing the highest number of strokes using both hands with the sword-like weapon Urumi. He performed 230 strokes in 37 seconds in the feat.  His other achievements include winning gold medal thrice in a row at the Kalaripayattu national championship between 2013 and 2015. Harikrishnan is also an exponent of Silambam, a traditional martial art form of Tamil Nadu. The young kalari gurukkal is on a mission to popularise the ancient martial art form. Prior to COVID-19, his Ekaveera Kalaripayattu Academy once had 16 branches in four districts where around 1,600 students were practising. However, the pandemic forced him to close all the branches outside Alappuzha. Now, he imparts training to 600 students in four branches in the district. Harikrishnan also conducts online classes. “I started conducting online Kalaripayattu classes during the lockdown. It has turned out to be a big success,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-a-mission-to-popularise-kalaripayattu/article38084890.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:58 IST,KERALA||He taps bamboo for music||For D. Kuttappan, a resident of Ramakkalmedu here, bamboo spells music since he fashions unique musical instruments out of it. “When a simple flute is made from bamboo culm, the craftsman turns into a musician with a keen sense of rhyme. He will feel music the instrument produces,” says Kuttappan. The craft provided him with a livelihood since there were many takers for the musical instruments. However, COVID-19 threw his life out of gear and he altered his expertise to meet the demand. He now makes bamboo huts or other crafts as demanded by the customer. But his heart is with the musical instruments, the common ones being Kallanmula chenda, Kinneeram, Ekadhari, Mazhathullikilukkam, Karu, Maram Jambu, Thudi, Mulam Thudi, and Udukku. He can make 20 musical instruments from bamboo culms and play them too. “All musical instruments are tailor-made for the customer. I usually work in front of the customer so that they can try out the instrument on the spot,” he says. Utmost care “Western musical instruments adhere to certain universal criteria on quality. For bamboo instruments, utmost care is needed from selection of the bamboo culms to their treatment,” he said. Kallanmula and Olamula are used for making most of the instruments. Anamula, a variety found in Wayanad, is also put to use, he said. A few saplings are planted near his house. “The bamboo culm is naturally treated to make musical instruments. Otherwise its bio-content will be lost and it will affect the sound quality,” he says. Troupe disbanded Kuttappan had a 17-member folklore troupe ‘Uthimalakkoottam’ that performed stage programmes using bamboo instruments in connection with temple festivals. They had performed folk songs throughout the State. However, the band was disbanded and the other artistes now work as daily wage earners. Youth stay away The craft too is slowly dying out, with the youngsters keeping off it. “It needs taste and dedication, rather than profit motive,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/he-taps-bamboo-for-music/article38084920.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Scientists propose treatment for COVID-19 complications||At a time when COVID-19 has become a potential threat to global public health, an interdisciplinary team of researchers has proposed a new line of treatment for the disease. “Through our study, we hope to find a remedy for COVID-19-associated life-threatening complications,” said Punnoth Poonkuzhi Naseef, the first author of the publication and professor, department of pharmaceutics, Moulana College of Pharmacy, Perinthalmanna, Malappuram.  The research article was published in the recent edition of Elsevier, Saudi Journal of Biological Sciences .  “Iron metabolism plays a key role in determining the severity of COVID-19. Ferritin is a compound that regulates iron metabolism in the body,” said Muhammed Elayadeth Meethal, lead author and assistant professor, department of animal breeding and genetics, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, said. “Hyperferritinemia, an increase in ferritin content in blood, has been associated with life-threatening complications due to COVID-19. We propose ferritin as a therapeutic target to combat COVID-19,” Dr. Muhammed said. In COVID-19, identifying the biological pathways leading to complications and death was a puzzle for health professionals. There are several pathways that explain how COVID-19 showed severe morbidity, he added. Iron metabolism imbalance has been linked to immune-mediated COVID-19 complications. Nine publications The research team integrated protocols from multiple disciplines through interdisciplinary collaborations. The team has compiled nine publications so far. Interestingly, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has already featured two of their COVID-19 publications. “The next step in the research will be to identify therapeutic molecules that target ferritin-mediated pathways in COVID-19 disease severity,” Dr. Naseef said. Collaboration “Researchers now plan to expand studies in the area through wider collaborations. Our research plans include optimising, validating, and characterising therapeutic molecules and patenting them,” Dr. Muhammed said. Besides researchers from Indian institutions, Dr. Muhammed Saheer Kuruniyan of King Khalid University, Saudi Arabia, who made major contributions to the study, also participated in the research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scientists-propose-treatment-for-covid-19-complications/article38084842.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Package sought||The Wayanad District Development Committee (DDC) meeting, chaired by District Collector A. Geetha, here on Friday urged the State government to set apart a special compensation package for farmers of Kurukkanmoola and nearby places, where domestic animals were reportedly killed by a tiger recently. A special sub-committee, chaired by the Wayanad Sub-Collector, too had recommended that the case be considered as special, and that the farmers be granted adequate compensation. As many as 16 domestic animals owned by 13 farmers were reportedly killed. O.R. Kelu, MLA, urged the Forest department to adopt effective measures to prevent wild animals from straying into human habitats. Owners of private estates on the forest fringes should clear undergrowth, as bushes and plants become hideouts of wild animals, he said. The meet decided to submit a proposal for allotment of funds for the renovation of houses of tribespeople in the district. T. Siddique, MLA, demanded the reopening of the ICU unit at the General Hospital at Kainatty. The meet also called upon the government to allot more seats for Plus Two humanities batches in the district to accommodate tribal students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-package-sought-for-farmers-of-kurukkanmoola/article38084857.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Congress to launch campaign against K-Rail||KPCC president K. Sudhakaram on Friday demanded that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should apologise to the people of Kerala for the delay in conducting an environmental study on the K-Rail project. Mass agitation He said the Congress was all set to launch a mass agitation against the government as more details of the K-Rail project were coming out. He said Congress workers would go door-to-door campaigning with leaflets exposing the K-Rail project from next week. Public opinion Mr. Sudhakaran said K-Rail was a Rs. 2-lakh-crore project. Despite everyone saying that public opinion should be sought on the project, the government was reluctant. The KPCC chief demanded that CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury state his position on the K-Rail project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-to-launch-campaign-against-k-rail/article38084859.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Night curfew, low-key carnival dampen New Year’s eve revelry||The clamping of night curfew from December 31 to January 2 dampened New Year revelry in Kochi, what with agencies in charge of grounds and other public spaces being forced to turn down requests to host musical nights and other events. This resulted in the Ernakulam DTPC having to turn down requests to host musical events at the otherwise crowded Durbar Hall Ground and at Vasco da Gama Square in Fort Kochi which generally see huge crowds. Even before the announcement of the night curfew, organisers of the Cochin Carnival had cancelled the “burning of Papanji” annual event at midnight on New Year Eve in Fort Kochi, the carnival rally that is generally held on January 1 and a beach-bike race, foreseeing huge crowd turnout and the potential of these events to become a trigger for yet another wave of the pandemic. “We also wanted to prevent large-scale peddling of narcotic drugs during such events. All through rest of the carnival, mike announcements were made exhorting people to maintain social distancing,” said an office-bearer of the organising committee. Rushing back home Friday evening saw people rushing back home or to their hometowns for the weekend, to arrive at their destinations before the 10 p.m. curfew took effect. Police personnel were present along arterial roads to ensure that New Year revelry went on without law and order problems and to enforce curfew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/night-curfew-low-key-carnival-dampen-new-years-eve-revelry/article38084869.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||COVID duty, criminal cases make year eventful for police in district||After a relatively uneventful 2020 when pandemic disrupted criminal activities as well, the world of crime in Ernakulam district sprang back to life last year, leaving the police stretched between law and order maintenance and enforcement of the COVID-19 protocol. Monson case Monson Mavunkal, the self-styled “antique” dealer and confidence trickster, hogged the headlines for days, as he took several victims for a ride, allegedly cheating them of crores, besides putting the police force itself on the defensive with social media awash with images of senior officers and not less than a former State Police Chief posing with his “antiquities”. At last count, the Crime Branch have registered 12 cases against him, including a couple of cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, and filed the charge sheet in four cases. The Enforcement Directorate has also launched a parallel investigation into his financial dealings. The death of a 24-year-old dental student who was shot dead by a stalker at Nellikuzhi near Kothamangalam in July sent shock waves across the district. Since the accused also killed himself, the Ernakulam Rural police were left to arrest two from Bihar from where the accused procured the gun, and a friend of the accused. The death of two aspiring young models in what initially looked like a tragic accident at Chakkaraparambu in the early morning hours of November 1 soon morphed into an act of crime as the Crime Branch arrested a man who allegedly chased the victims’ car from the hotel where they had partied. He was slapped him with several charges, including stalking and culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Multiple cases were registered against him across the State under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Drug seizure The Excise department was pressed into action in the days leading up to Onam as over 1 kg of drugs, initially suspected to be MDMA but later identified as methamphetamine, was seized from an apartment in Thrikkakara. Out of the 21 accused, the excise could not arrest two as they fled abroad. Two cases were registered in connection with the seizure and the charge sheet in one case will be registered shortly. Aluva witnessed a day-long pitched battle between the police and Congress activists after a young law student allegedly took her own life owing to domestic violence and dowry-related harassment and left behind a suicide note naming among others the inspector of Aluva East police. The Congress launched a protest over the delay in suspending the officer, a demand which the government eventually conceded. The police also arrested the woman’s husband and his parents. The year-end was marked by violence when a group of migrant workers and police clashed at Kizhakkambalam on the night of Christmas, leaving the Kunnathunadu inspector grievously hurt. The police registered two First Information Reports and arrested 174 accused who were since then remanded in judicial custody.  The death of a 24-year-old dental student who was shot dead by a stalker at Nellikuzhi in July sent shock waves across the district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-duty-criminal-cases-make-year-eventful-for-police-in-district/article38084874.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Fort Kochi misses its date with Carnival Pappanji again||Fort Kochi’s unique year-end tradition of burning the effigy of an old man, the Pappanji, has been cancelled by the government-imposed night curfew fearing a rise in COVID-19 cases again. A Portuguese relic, this is one of the highlights of the Cochin Carnival, which engages local clubs and families in creating and burning effigies at midnight. “The Pappanji is the focus of merriment,” says K.J. Sohan, former Mayor, explaining that it is not an effigy of Santa Claus that is torched but is a way of saying goodbye to the old year. Eye-catching installation Unlike 2020, when the lockdown put paid to even the creation of Pappanji, this year has seen the installation of a few effigies. At the entrance of K.B. Jacob Road is an almost six-foot one created by Lyson and Vimal Paul of Parapally House. The family has done this annually for the past three decades and has also painted the road with graffiti, the most prominent being ‘Welcome 2022’. Another eye-catching installation is at the Manthra Bridge where six medium-to-small Pappanjis, each with a musical instrument, are grouped together. Made by the local club, Manthra Brothers, the figures will not be burnt and will be on display for a week, says Bristo Fernandez, one of the organisers. “Manthra Bridge is the entrance to Fort Kochi so it is important that we welcome visitors to our area. In better times, there used to be over 100 Pappanjis in Fort Kochi but, from last year, there are just a few.” Mr. Fernandez adds that a few small figures can be seen seated on chairs or propped against lamp posts in the pocket roads of Fort Kochi. “The appearance of a few Pappanjis this year is a sign of revival,” he says, hoping for a better year ahead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fort-kochi-misses-its-date-with-the-carnival-pappanji-again/article38084872.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Phase two: joint team checking specifications||The handing over of the first of the 23 Water Metro ferries (each capable of carrying 100 passengers) on Friday to Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) by the Cochin Shipyard and another four in the first quarter of 2022, would be followed by the delivery of the rest of the 18 ferries the very same year, said sources. KMRL placing orders for the second lot of 55 ferries (each capable of carrying 50 passengers) will be based on feedback from the commercial operation of the 23 ferries across 38 ferry terminals. According to sources, the smaller vessels will be able to operate through narrower waterbodies like the once-navigable Edappally Canal (which is among the canals that KMRL will clear of encroachments and rejuvenate under the Rs. 1,528-crore Integrated Urban Regeneration and Water Transport System project). A team of engineers of KMRL and the Cochin Shipyard are engaged in examining a checklist of 91 points, based on which the specifications of the second phase roll-out of 55 vessels will be finalised. This is because technical specifications, based on technological advancements, have changed drastically over the past couple of years. A decision on whether to construct the hull using aluminium that is being used for the 23 ferries in phase one, or any other material, too will be taken based on joint consultations, it is learnt. Meanwhile, KMRL is readying to recruit personnel based on expert advice, to maintain the fleet of 23 ferries that will be procured by 2022-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/phase-two-joint-team-checking-specifications/article38084875.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||HC’s e-initiatives to be inaugurated today||The e-filing, paperless court and e-office projects of the High Court of Kerala will be inaugurated on January 1. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Supreme Court judge Justice D.Y. Chandrachud (who is also chairperson of e-committee of the court), and Kerala High Court Chief Justice S. Manikumar will inaugurate the paperless court, e-filing modules for High Court and the State judiciary, and e-office in courts, respectively. Industries Minister P. Rajeeve will be among those who will offer felicitations. Aid of technology The justice delivery system in the State is all set for a quantum jump with the aid of technology, an official communication said. There will be a paradigm shift in the process of filing and processing of cases. Cases e-filed will be processed, verified and cured through e-mode. Stakeholders will have the option of hearing of cases in hybrid mode, involving physical hearing and videoconferencing. Delivering judgments Orders and judgments will also be delivered through e-mode. Every part of the process can be viewed, processed through the dashboard or virtual box of individual stakeholders and participants. All stakeholders, including litigants, could access, work and update cases from their homes, offices or in transit, added the communication.  Stakeholders will have the option of a hybrid mode of hearing involving physical hearing, videoconferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hcs-e-initiatives-to-be-rolled-out-today/article38084846.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Police to enforce security measures for apartments||The city police are set to enforce a slew of measures to enhance the security of apartment complexes in the wake of a spate of incidents, including hosting of drug parties and even the operation of a gambling centre, in apartments. Apartment associations will be alerted in view of the recent developments during the monthly meetings of Janamaithri police and residents’ associations. “We will be asking associations and owners to at least collect proper identity documents of new tenants since police verification cannot be insisted upon. Besides, a day of the household visits being undertaken by Janamaithri beat officers as part of the M-Beat [Mobile Beat] system will now be dedicated to residential flats,” said Aishwarya Dongre, Deputy Police Commissioner (Law and Order and Traffic), Kochi City. Apartment associations will also be asked to maintain high-quality CCTV networks and proper backup of footage so that they come in handy in the aftermath of any untoward incident. “Night patrolling officers will also drop in at apartment complexes to ensure that the security guards are on alert and that the guest register is maintained properly,” said Ms. Dongre. Recently, the police had stumbled across a gambling centre operating out of a premium duplex apartment on the 18th floor of a major apartment complex at Chilavannoor during the course of an inspection in connection with the cases being registered against Syju Thankachan, one of the accused in the Chakkaraparambu accident, under the NDPS Act. The tenant operating the centre was arrested invoking charges under the NDPS Act, since he was allegedly found in possession of 5 grams of ganja, and the Kerala Gaming Act. He had allegedly custom-built a gaming table, while the other paraphernalia was bought online, besides creating the ambience go with it. He had taken the luxury apartment at a monthly rent of Rs. 60,000, which was more than covered by the commission of between Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 40,000 he earned during every day of gambling, said police sources. “The owner was probably lured by the rent and had no clue about the happenings in the apartment, while the apartment association was also in the dark. The security guard, who was handsomely tipped, fudged the entries in the guest register. It is important that owners verify the credentials of tenants and ensure the proper upkeep of CCTV networks and guest registers. They should also be proactive about alerting the police in the event of an untoward incident. Often, associations are reluctant to inform the police for fear of damaging the reputation of the apartment,” said M.S. Faisal, Inspector, South Police. V.S. Somanathan, general secretary, All Kerala Flat Owners’ Association, said that the government should bring in common guidelines for the apartment associations to follow so that needless arguments between tenants and their guests and association staff are averted. “Also, apartment owners should also ensure the credentials of tenants rather than simply renting out apartments to the biggest bidder. Once the apartment is rented out, there is hardly any contact between the tenant and the owner, since everything happens online these days, making it easier for tenants to indulge in nefarious activities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-to-enforce-security-measures-for-flats/article38084878.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||96 kg of ganja seized, one held in Kochi||Excise sleuths seized over 96 kg of ganja from Edappally and arrested a man in this connection on Friday. A man was arrested with 2 kg of ganja while the rest was recovered from his car and the rented house of another accused, who allegedly supplied him the narcotic. The arrested man was identified as Libin, 30, of Chendamangalam, North Paravur. He had only recently managed to secure bail after being arrested in another ganja-related case. Another person escape Another accused, Babykunju aka Baby, of Cheranalloor, who allegedly supplied the ganja to Libin fled the scene on noticing the excise team. A hunt has been launched for him. The excise team also seized the car used to smuggle the ganja. The huge quantity of ganja brought form outside the State was stored anticipating high demand during the New Year celebrations. The seizure was made on a tip-off received by T. Anilkumar, Inspector of the excise enforcement squad. A team led by North Paravur excise Circle Inspector S. Nijumon, preventive officer V.S. Haneesh, and civil excise officers M.M. Arunkumar, P.S. Basanthkumar, N.K. Sabu, Binu Manual, C.G. Dhabu, Raji Jose, and M.A. Dhanya made the seizure. The accused was produced in the court, which remanded him in judicial custody. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/96-kg-of-ganja-seized/article38084880.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Woman’s death: sister in judicial custody||The police on Friday recorded the arrest of a 22-year-old woman on charge of murdering her elder sister at their home near North Paravur where the victim’s body was found in a charred state on Tuesday afternoon. A case has been registered invoking Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The woman was produced before court, which remanded her in judicial custody. She had gone missing from the house since the incident. Initially, the police had registered a case for unnatural death. Though the accused reportedly had mental health issues and had gone missing twice in the past, the police found her to be in a stable condition when her statement was recorded. The accused was taken into custody on Thursday evening from a shelter home in Kakkanad where she was lodged after being spotted by a patrolling squad at Menaka Junction the previous night. Fight with victim According to the police, she confessed to have had a fight with the victim following which she stabbed her and then set her on fire. The parents of the women were reportedly away when the incident took place. The accused used to be tied up on account of her tendency to flee home. On Tuesday, she was freed to go to the bathroom when she turned violent, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womans-death-sister-in-judicial-custody/article38084876.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Naidu arrives on visit to Kerala, Lakshadweep||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu, who had a brief stopover at the naval airport here en route to Lakshadweep, was accorded a warm reception on Friday. Dignitaries including Industries Minister P. Rajeeve, Mayor M. Anil Kumar, K.J. Maxi, MLA, and Chief of Staff of the Southern Naval Command, Rear Admiral Antony George, received Mr. Naidu who arrived by a special aircraft from Delhi. Many events The Vice President is slated to attend various events at Androth, Kadmat, and Agatti islands in Lakshadweep over two days before returning to Kochi on January 2. In Kochi, he is scheduled to visit thesoon-to-be commissioned indigenous aircraft carrier of the Navy, which is undergoing a series of sea trials. Mr. Naidu will also make a visit to the Naval Physical and Oceanographic Laboratory, the only DRDO facility in Kerala. He will lay the foundation for a towed array integration centre at the laboratory. He is also slated to take part in an event held in connection with the 150th death anniversary of Fr. Kuriakose Elias Chavara at Mannanam, Kottayam.  He will make a visit to the Naval Physical and Oceanographic Laboratory||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vice-president-arrives-on-visit-to-kerala/article38084848.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||SilverLine only for the elite: Satheesan||V.D. Satheesan, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, on Friday said that how anti-people was the SilverLine railway project became apparent when some pages of the detailed project report (DPR) appeared in the public domain. The DPR, he told the media here, was against developing the national highways in order to make the railway project successful. It also was in favour of increasing the fare of second and third A/C tickets in regular trains. The DPR, he said, also pointed to the need to increase toll charges on roads besides increasing bus fare. It all showed that the SilverLine project was for an elite class of people, Mr. Satheesan alleged. How would a government that claimed itself to be a Communists-led government implement such an anti-people project, he asked. Mr. Satheesan also accused the State Government of copying the Narendra Modi-led Union Government’s approach of moving away from planning process-led development to just implementing “projects”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/silverline-only-for-the-elite-says-satheesan/article38084851.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Pandemic still a challenge for cops||The pandemic that imposed a hitherto unprecedented job profile on the police continued to challenge the force in the district in 2021 with an intense second wave in the first half of the year. Then after the near normalisation of life for months, the police have now again been put on alert with the Omicron variant of the virus threatening another wave. “The second wave posed an immense challenge in enforcing home quarantine since the numbers were huge. We also had to strictly enforce social distancing and wearing of masks. Later, crowd management at vaccination centres in coordination with various departments assumed priority,” said C.H. Nagaraju, District Police Chief (Kochi City). By the time things settled down on the pandemic front, crime rate started getting back to the pre-COVID level. Mr. Nagaraju cited the arrest of Sanu Mohan, accused of killing his young daughter, from Karnataka after being on the run for days, as one of the major achievements of the city police. The arrest of Martin Joseph on the charge of confining a costume-designer from Kannur at an apartment at Marine Drive and brutally assaulting her was another major case. “Thereafter there was a real surge in the reporting of domestic violence,” said Mr. Nagaraju. Then came the case related to the death of two models. The arrest of the accused again put the focus back on drugs. “Going into the New Year, imposing restrictions and avoiding crowding remain our priority in view of the threat posed by Omicron,” said Mr. Nagaraju. The Ernakulam Rural police have prioritised the safety of women and children in 2022. “The year that went by was a challenging one as we had to deal with the enforcement of the pandemic protocol, maintain law and order, and manage problems posed by rain fury,” said K. Karthick, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). Of late, huge drug hauls, including those of ganja and synthetic drugs, has soared in rural police limits. Mr. Karthick, however, said that in majority of cases, the seizures were made along the national highway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-still-a-challenge-for-cops/article38084873.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Rs. 1-cr. COVID ward being set up at MCH||In the face of the rising threat from the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV2 virus, a makeshift COVID-19 ward costing Rs. 1 crore is being readied at the Government Medical College Hospital at Kalamassery. The ward is being equipped using CSR funds made available by LG Electronics. A press release said it would have an isolation ward with remote patient monitoring facility. During non-COVID times, it could be used as a post-operative facility, said MCH Superintendent Ganesh Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-1-cr-covid-ward-being-set-up-at-mch/article38084881.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||BJP trying to alter history, says SRP||The three-day Kollam district conference of the Communist Party of India (M) started with Polit Bureau member S. Ramachandran Pillai inaugurating the delegate meet at B. Raghavan Nagar at Valakam here on Friday. “What Modi is doing in Kashmir is similar to what Israel is doing in Palestine. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government is trying to sabotage the country’s democratic system. Laws like the Unlawful (Activities) Prevention Act (UAPA) are being widely used against political opponents to silence the voices of dissent,” said Mr. Pillai. He said the Prime Minister terming the cow ‘sacred’ was an embarrassment to the nation. “They are trying to alter history and showcase mythology as part of history.” Mr. Pillai added that the Communist party has stood with commoners trying to address their issues all these years. ‘Strong secular stand’ “It has made consistent interventions to improve the social, political, economic and cultural fabric of Kerala. At present only the Left can protect democracy and prevent privatisation. While all other political outfits are wavering, only the Left is taking a strong secular stand,” he said. While K. Somaprasad, MP, presided, senior leaders P.K. Gurudasan and N. Padmalochanan were honoured at the conference. George Mathew, Tulasidhara Kurup, and P.A. Abraham spoke. A total of 242 delegates, including 42 district committee members, will be part of the conference to be held from December 31 to January 2. Central Committee members T.M. Thomas Isaac, P.K. Sreemathi, Vaikom Viswan, and M.V. Govindan and State Secretariat members Ananthalavattom Anandan, M.M. Mani, and K.J. Thomas will attend the conference. Defeat in the Karunagapally and Kundara constituencies in the last Assembly will be a main topic of discussion at the conference. The conference will conclude on Sunday and State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan will inaugurate a public meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-trying-to-alter-history-says-srp/article38084929.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||Vacancies at primary health centre||The Thevalakkara Primary Health Centre has invited applications for the vacancies (temporary) of staff nurse and cleaning staff. Application written on white paper along with self-attested copies of certificates should reach Medical Officer, Primary Health Center, Thevalakkara P.O., Kollam 690 524, by 5 p.m. on January 1. For details, contact 0476 2877933.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacancies-at-primary-health-centre/article38084930.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||Vacancy at IHRD college||There is a temporary vacancy for the post of assistant professor in the Department of Mathematics at Karunagapally Engineering College under the IHRD. Interested candidates can walk in for an interview with certificates proving eligibility on January 3 at 10.30. a.m. For details, call 0476 2666160, 940042308.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacancy-at-ihrd-college/article38084931.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Tourist spots see huge turnout despite curbs||Despite strict regulations in view of Omicron threat, Kozhikode district witnessed huge turnout at prominent tourist destinations and shopping centres on New Year’s eve. Visitors crowded the Kozhikode beach and other eco-tourism spots to greet the New Year. Anticipating traffic regulations, people flocked the beach by noon. Traffic snarls The police had blocked entry of vehicles to the beach side by 5 p.m. as part of crowd-control measures. Though several urban link roads were blocked, it was a challenge for the police to regulate visitor turnout. Moreover, haphazard parking chocked several narrow roads causing severe traffic snarl. Meanwhile, celebrations shifted to restricted mode late in the evening thanks to intensified enforcement. Event planners had called off programmes in view of the pandemic threat and in compliance with government guidelines for public safety. Virtual events turned a hit with the active participation of guests on social media platforms. ‘Share Love, Not Drugs’, an online celebration hosted by the Kozhikode district administration on Instagram, drew the participation of many youths. Family gatherings with minimal attendance were held. Malls and other shopping centres remained closed after 10 p.m. Visitors were not allowed to enter beach tourism spots after the permitted hours. Surprise checks As part of enforcement measures in the city, police and Excise squads conducted surprise inspections at hotels and homestays. Though there was a total ban on outdoor celebrations, it did not affect small family gatherings held in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourist-spots-see-huge-turnout-despite-curbs/article38084863.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||Two floors of Shathabdi Bhavan for sale||Two floors of Shathabdi Bhavan (centenary complex) of the defunct Nedungadi Bank Limited (NBL) on the mini bypass road at Govindapuram in the city have been put up for sale with a reserve price of Rs. 4.26 crore and Rs. 4.12 crore respectively. The NBL, with its headquarters in Kozhikode, was one of the first private sector commercial bank established by Appu Nedungadi in South India in 1899. It was taken over by the Punjab National Bank (PNB) in 2003 after the Reserve Bank of India declared a moratorium on the bank. Confirming the development, PNB Kozhikode circle head N. Ramchandran said the complex was the headquarters of NBL once.  “It is a huge building. Now we don’t require seven floors for a circle office. That is why we decided to sell two floors,” he told The Hindu on Friday.  The bank has decided to sell the fifth and sixth floors measuring 606.08 sq m and 583.82 sq m respectively. The last date to submit earnest deposit money and documents for e-auction sale of the property is January 22. As part of the centenary celebrations, NBL constructed the seven-storey complex in 1.12 acres of land in 1999. At the time of the amalgamation with PNB, NBL had established 174 branches across the country. The Kozhikode circle of PNB has 60 branches in five districts in north Kerala. Initially PNB had plans to sell the complex and the land. But the management felt that none would purchase the assets at a huge price. After it took over NBL, PNB now owns assets worth crores of rupees in various towns and cities in the State, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-floors-of-shathabdi-bhavan-for-sale/article38084885.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Corpn. Council’s first anniversary fete to kick off today||Mayor Beena Philip on Friday refuted allegations raised by Opposition councillors earlier this week, terming them far-fetched and baseless. Speaking to reporters on the first anniversary of the corporation council, she said the previous year had left her extremely satisfied and proud of the achievements the council, despite battling the pandemic. “We cannot show you anything tangible. But we have worked relentlessly and have been able to resolve many issues through discussions and meetings, which counts too,” she said. She added that the Corporation had stood first in the State in tax collection, contrary to the Opposition’s claim, and that it had spent its own funds to tackle the pandemic and implement the LIFE Mission project. She pointed out that the civic body had resolved the issue between the Army and residents of the barracks area regarding building permits. The Hygiene Protocol that the Corporation had implemented was a cultural movement too. “It was aimed at improving the happiness quotient of city residents,” she said, adding that it could not be implemented in a hurry, as it needed time to convince people. The Mayor said the drainage near Arayidathupalam was being extended to the Conolly Canal to address waterlogging on Mavoor Road, with the help of the Public Works Department. Work on parking plazas at Kidson Corner and stadium will begin soon, while the one on Link Road is delayed due to technical problems. The Corporation has lined up several plans for the tourism sector, including a food street at Valiyangadi and the Vaikom Muhammed Basheer museum, which are being implemented with the help of the Tourism Department. The Palayam subway, which was turned into an art gallery, was opened for the public recently. Museum The old Corporation building will be handed over to the Department of Museums to be converted into a museum on the confluence of cultures in Kozhikode. Adalats every six months The Mayor also plans to hold adalats every six months to resolve complex issues. The smart parking system, expected to be implemented in a month, will alleviate parking issues in the city to a great extent, she said. The system is based on a computer application through which anyone coming to the city can book parking slots for a specific period of time based on availability. Meanwhile, the first anniversary celebrations of the council will begin on Saturday. Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas will launch the celebrations at 4 p.m. at the Kozhikode Town Hall. Minister for Museums and Ports Ahammad Devarkovil will inaugurate the smart parking system in the city on the occasion. The 100-day action plan of the corporation council will also be launched on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-councils-first-anniversary-fete-to-kick-off-today/article38084854.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Beyond the boundaries of mural painting||It is the same old Kerala mural painting, but with a touch of modernity. Sagara Neelima, an exhibition of mural paintings at the Simon Britto Memorial Art Gallery at Kappad here, is notable for the variety of themes and selection of colours. Sagara Neelima is the result of year-long planning by students and faculty members of the department of mural painting at Pookkad Kalalayam in Chemancheri grama panchayat. The team of 26 artists is led by well-known mural artist and trainer Satheesh Thayat. The set of around 30 paintings was made with the ocean as the theme, quite a contrast with the traditional mural style that uses themes from mythology. Here, the characters are common people who have some connection with the sea, such as fishermen, sellers of groundnuts and ice cream on the beach, historical figures like Vasco da Gama, and even fantasy creatures like mermaids. The use of colours is also different. While in traditional mural art, only basic colours like red, yellow, green, black, and blue are employed, any number of shades of those colours have been used for paintings at Sagara Neelima. However, the mural style of characterisation has been followed in all paintings. The exhibition was opened on December 27 by K.U. Krishna Kumar, principal, National Mural Art Institute, Guruvayur. The exhibition is the first to be held at the Simon Britto Memorial Art Gallery of Chemancheri grama panchayat after it was opened a few months ago. It will conclude on January 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beyond-the-boundaries-of-mural-painting/article38084856.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Gold worth Rs. 2.25 crore seized at Calicut airport||In separate incidents, the air intelligence unit of the Customs department seized over 5 kg of gold valued at Rs. 2.25 crore at the Calicut international airport on Friday. Based on input received from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Customs sleuths seized 1.19 kg of gold from a passenger, Mohammed Ajaz of Kannur, who arrived from Sharjah. He had concealed the contraband in small capsules in his rectum. In another case, 1.08 kg of gold in compound form was recovered from a passenger, Hussain Menattil of Malappuram, from Sharjah. As much as 958 gm gold was seized from Mohammed Safvan of Perinthalmanna who arrived from Jeddah. From Sharjah Gold weighing 890 gm was seized from a passenger, Shihabudheen of Malappuram, who arrived from Sharjah. The Customs also effected a seizure of 164 gm of 24 carat of gold from Yahiya Phawz of Kasaragod who arrived from Dubai. The Customs team also seized three capsules weighing 871.6 gm of gold from Shuhaib of Malappuram who arrived from Dubai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-worth-rs-225-crore-seized-at-calicut-airport/article38084894.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Flash checks after recovery of crude bomb materials||The bomb detection and disposal squad completed its first round of flash inspections in Thuneri panchayat in Kozhikode district to trace the source of a bundle of 21 steel bomb containers. It was on December 22 that the containers were recovered by the police. The search on Thursday was on a directive from District Police Chief (Kozhikode Rural) A. Sreenivas. A dog squad also accompanied the police. According to police sources, there were suspected attempts to make crude bombs in a village near Mudavantheri. Though the statements of a few local residents were recorded, the squads could not make any clear lead, they said. Police sources said the seized containers were suspected to be an indication of preparations to trigger unrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flash-checks-after-recovery-of-crude-bomb-materials/article38084852.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||3 held in gold snatching case||The Kasaba police on Friday arrested three persons suspected of having involvement in a major gold snatching case in the city. The accused- T.K. Padmesh, 40, N. Mohammed Sharooq, 34, Niyakath-were nabbed after a three-month-long investigation into the incident. According to police sources, the three were part of an eight-member gang that snatched gold ornaments weighing 1.2 kg on September 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-held-in-gold-snatching-case/article38084861.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Body of missing boy found||Rescue squads recovered the body of a 10-year-old boy, who went missing in the sea near the Kozhikode beach on Friday. The victim was identified as Shamnas, son of Shifas. The boy met with the accident while bathing in the area. Police sources said the body was recovered after several hours of search.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/body-of-missing-boy-found/article38084860.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||Spanish sparrow spotted at Ponnani||Spanish sparrow, a passerine bird found in the Mediterranean region, was spotted at Ponnani the other day. It was the first sighting of the exotic bird in South India. A migrant bird, the Spanish sparrow used to be seen in the northern parts of India during winter. “But it was the first time that we could spot the bird in Kerala,” said Jayan Thomas, an ophthalmologist from Kannur whose love of bird-watching brought him to Ponnani. Dr. Thomas reached Ponnani along with Aswin Janardhan in search of Ortolan bunting, a Eurasian bird belonging to the passerine family, after news spread about the presence of that bird at Ponnani. “But what we could see was even more exciting. The Spanish sparrow was perched on a branch in the bushes, where we had found so many friendly jackals as well,” he said. The bird was sighted in the bush between the shore and the road. “During our observation, we saw a bird of the size of a sparrow but with a different look. The upper parts were more streaked than the domestic sparrow, with streaks along the flanks. Its head and nape was brown. The head showed a supercilium, and the base of the bill was yellow,” Dr. Thomas said. Dr. Thomas took enough pictures of the bird and soon shared them in the birding groups as part of an authentication procedure. Experts said that it was a Spanish sparrow and was sighted for the first time in South India. Dr. Thomas said the Spanish sparrow he spotted was a male.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spanish-sparrow-spotted-at-ponnani/article38084888.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Quiet turnaround for IT sector||Just as most other sectors, things did not really look up for the information technology (IT) sector in the State in 2020. However, a combination of factors has led to a quiet turnaround in 2021, which is reflected in the increased recruitments and the opening of new companies. As many as 143 firms, big and small, started functioning in 2021 across the State’s three IT parks — Technopark in Thiruvananthapuram, Infopark in Kochi and Cyberpark in Kozhikode. New firms The companies that newly opened operations include Testhouse, AOT Technologies, Seqato Software Solutions, Kennedys Kognitive Computing and Airpay Payment Services. Many existing companies are expanding their operations as well. The total employment in the IT sector stands at 1.5 lakh across the State, out of which 1.15 lakh are concentrated in the three IT parks and the rest in firms located outside these. Job additions While 2020 was a year of job losses, there has been a demand for more resources. The number of jobs newly added in 2021 is estimated to be around 8,000. At Kochi Infopark, the number of employees went up from 47,000 to 51,000 in the past one year. The total employee strength at Technopark stands at 63,000, while it is around 1,000 at Cyberpark. There are a total of 973 companies now functioning across the three IT parks. The total IT export from these parks alone stood at Rs. 14,837 crores in 2021. The figure could be much more if all IT companies, including those outside the parks, were factored in. “The performance in 2021 was strong, with a double digit growth in exports. More mega projects are becoming live. Now, perhaps anybody who is qualified can get a job. But the problem is in getting the right talent as there is a shortage. Campus recruitment has also been strong in the past one year. There has been a lot of interest from funders in investing in start-ups in the State. For instance, a medical start-up that received investments from the funding agency Y Combinator, has decided to relocate from Bengaluru to Kerala. The Kerala Startup Mission has also been doing a good job in promoting brand Kerala. The newly opened digital hub in Kochi is focussing on specialised incubators and accelerators in healthcare, design and fintech sectors. We also have a plan for a similar facility in Thiruvananthapuram,” says John M. Thomas, CEO, IT Parks, Kerala. Digital shift With the technological shift in several sectors, accelerated by the COVID-19 outbreak, new businesses are coming up, focussing on edutech, health and digital payments. “Due to the digital shift, there is high growth in the sector and a huge demand for employees. Since operations are digital, with most employees working from home, many companies do not face any constraints to scale up. To address the lack of quality among graduates, steps have been initiated for industry-institution linkages to upskill students and make them employable. As many as 134 colleges under the Kerala Technological University have signed up for the programme,” says Binu Jacob, secretary, Group of Technology Companies (GTech), and managing director and CEO of Experion Technologies.  143 firms, big and small, started functioning across Kerala’s three IT parks in 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-quiet-turnaround-for-it-sector-last-year/article38084845.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||A cautious start to New Year||The State rang in the New Year with scaled-down celebrations amid growing restrictions necessitated by the Omicron variant of COVID-19. Concerns sparked by yet another surge in COVID-19 cases put paid to hopes of returning back to normalcy after two years of restricted movement and public activity. With the night curfew coming into effect at 10 p.m. on Friday, revellers had little option but to return to their houses hours before the clock struck 12. The famed Kovalam beach, which typically attracts a huge number of people on the New Year’s eve, witnessed a largely deserted look around 8.30 p.m. by when the local police began to send back the visitors. With DJ parties and other celebrations in hotels coming under the close watch of the police and the Excise department, the hospitality industry too opted low-key programmes. The capital city that has come under a tight security blanket with over 100 checking points set up to enforce the night curfew did not bear resemblance to the festive mood seen during the New Year’s eves of the past. The Arts and Crafts Village at Vellar, near Kovalam, however, witnessed a festive mood, with the organisers hosting a musical evening that featured popular singers and music bands. Kochi buzz People from within Ernakulam district and domestic tourists earlier poured into the famed Fort Kochi beach and the walkway of the locale, despite both being in not so good a condition due to sea erosion. The crowd was evenly matched at Veli Ground in Fort Kochi and roads leading to the locale, thanks to a host of activities that included rides such as giant wheel, demonstration by vehicles in ‘a well of death’ and football matches held as part of Cochin Carnival. The adjacent Pallathu Raman Square too turned into an activity hub. Kozhikode frenzy Curbs on movement of people after 10 p.m. till January 2, however, proved to be a dampener in the New Year celebrations in the region and also in Kochi city. The celebrations in Kochi city were mellowed down in comparison, although streets were decked up with lights Kozhikode bustled with excitement as a huge turnout was witnessed at tourist destinations and commercial areas. The Kozhikode beach remained the hotspot of celebrations as several flocked to the area by noon. While the festivities wound up by the evening in view of the Statewide restrictions, there were many takers for the virtual events, especially the online celebration organised by the Kozhikode district administration. (with inputs from Kochi and Kozhikode bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-cautious-start-to-new-year/article38085047.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||More takers for circular service||The occupancy levels in the city circular bus services launched by the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) recently have shown signs of marginal improvement. From an average daily passenger count of 3,200 across 66 buses in the initial week, the numbers have now gone up to 16,000 a day. The average ticket collection is around Rs. 19 per kilometre, with KSRTC officials maintaining that it should reach at least Rs. 35 for the service to become sustainable. The circular services, formally launched in November-end, are aimed at expanding public transportation in the city to more areas, and linking government offices, hospitals, shopping centres and other major institutions. In the initial phase, the service is being conducted along seven circles, each designated with separate colours – red, blue, brown, yellow, violet, magenta and orange. Buses ply the designated routes in the clockwise and anti-clockwise directions, ensuring availability of transport at regular intervals of about 15 minutes at most places. Lack of awareness However, in the initial days, many of the buses were seen plying with just a handful of passengers. The low patronage was mainly attributed to a lack of awareness. Following this, the KSRTC launched the Rs. 10 ticket offer to travel anywhere in the city. The introductory offer, which will be effective till January 15, seems to have somewhat paid off. The Good Day ticket of Rs. 50, with which a person can travel in any circular service anywhere in the city for a whole day, was aimed especially at those visiting the city from elsewhere and those having to take multiple trips during the day. As per the KSRTC’s analysis, the brown circle service, which takes the East Fort-Thampanoor- Killippalam-Jagathy-Thirumala-Valiyavila route is the most popular one. On Thursday, the brown circle service was used by 1,753 persons in the clockwise direction and 1,594 in the anti-clockwise throughout the day. The green circle service covering the East Fort-Uppidamoodu-Pettah-Medical College route too is witnessing a considerable number of passengers. The route recording the least patronage is the red circle service that covers East Fort-PMG-Vikas Bhavan-Nandavanam camp-Bakery junction-Thycaud route. According to KSRTC officials, those travelling shorter distances within the city might not choose this service due to the roundabout route via Vikas Bhavan. Extension plans “As per our analysis, we need to reach ticket sales of Rs. 35 per km to meet diesel cost, depreciation of buses and crew wages. We are studying occupancy patterns, but there won’t be any changes soon. There are plans to extend it to eight more routes, including coastal areas, for which a survey is being conducted. To increase awareness about the services, we are distributing booklets about its advantages,” said a KSRTC official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-takers-for-circular-service/article38084925.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||State posts highest annual rainfall in 60 years in 2021||If anything, Kerala was the playground of the rain gods in 2021. The year, which came to a close on Friday, will be remembered as one of the wettest for Kerala, setting new rainfall records in the southern State even as an increase in unruly weather systems over the Arabian Sea added fuel to the debate on climate-change impacts. In 2021, the State logged its highest annual rainfall in 60 years and the sixth highest annual rainfall in the past 120 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The State recorded an annual rainfall of 3,610.2 mm during the 12-month period against the ‘normal’ of 2,924.7 mm, an excess of 23.4%. There is more. The winter rainfall (January-February) and the northeast monsoon rainfall (October-December) in 2021 were the highest ever recorded in the State, while the pre-monsoon rainfall (March-May) was the sixth highest in 120 years, according to the IMD. Kerala recorded percentage departures of 409% above the normal in winter rainfall, 108% in pre-monsoon rainfall and 109% in the northeast monsoon rainfall. Southwest monsoon On the other hand, the southwest monsoon, which contributes most of the State’s annual rainfall quota, was ‘normal’. Although the season’s rainfall (June-September) recorded a 16% deficit, percentage departures ranging between -19% and +19% are classified ‘normal’ by the IMD. To compare, in 2018 and 2019 when the State was subjected to devastating floods and landslips, the surplus in annual rainfall had stood at 20% and 7%/ respectively. In 2020, the annual rainfall exceeded the normal by 2%. Of the five cyclones that formed in the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal in 2021, two — Tauktae in the Arabian Sea and Yaas in the Bay of Bengal — brought more rainfall to Kerala. In October, powered by a low pressure area over the Arabian Sea, torrential rainfall pounded central Kerala districts, triggering landslips in Kottayam and Idukki districts leaving several dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-posts-highest-annual-rainfall-in-60-years-in-2021/article38084901.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Vigil against Omicron community spread||With Omicron cases reported in 12 districts in the State, the government on Friday upped the vigil against community transmission of the new variant of coronavirus. The medical administration prepared itself for a two-day intensive vaccination drive even as Health Minister Veena George hinted at imposing more restrictions after assessing the pandemic situation. Of the total 107 Omicron cases in the State, 41 were in international travellers from high-risk countries and 52 from low-risk nations while 14 had picked up the infection through contact. Two of the Omicron cases were detected through sentinel surveillance. However, those on their contact list had tested negative. The government has advised travellers from low-risk nations to take self-observation seriously and avoid mixing with people. The intensive vaccination drive would be held on Saturday and Sunday, ahead of the vaccination for children starting Monday. Ms. George appealed to all citizens to make use of the opportunity to get themselves inoculated. Centres for children Meanwhile, arrangements have been made for special vaccination centres for children in the 15-18 age group. The government has issued directions for schools to help children register for vaccination. As many as 5,00,000 doses of Covaxin are expected to reach State on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigil-against-omicron-community-spread/article38084902.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Expo of alternatives to plastic begins||Minister for Tourism and Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas inaugurated the city Corporation’s exhibition of environment-friendly alternatives to plastic carry bags and other disposable items at the Putharikkandam Maidan on Friday. Around 25 stalls showcasing plastic alternatives have been set up as part of the exhibition, which will be open till January 2. Mayor Arya Rajendran, who presided over the function, said the cooperation of the public was important in the activities being organised as part of implementing a ban on plastic carry bags. V.K. Prasanth, MLA, later inaugurated a discussion on upcycling. On Saturday, Nava Keralam Mission coordinator T.N. Seema will interact with Haritha Karma Sena workers on the subject of recycling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alternatives-to-plastic-at-expo/article38084933.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Swedish tourist faces raw deal at Kovalam||A Swedish tourist’s plans of a New Year’s toast turned sour thanks to alleged high-handed approach of a few policemen that led the former to empty three bottles of alcohol on the road side at Kovalam on Friday. The incident occurred when Swedish native Stig Stephen Asberg was travelling along the Kovalam beach road on a scooter after purchasing Indian-made foreign liquor from an outlet of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) nearby. At a checking point, some police officers tasked with security checks stopped the motorist and sought the bills for the alcohol in his bag. While he did not possess the bill, he insisted that Bevco seals were intact on the bottles. While the police remained adamant that the tourist could not carry them without producing the bills, they were taken by surprise when the Swede walked towards a vacant plot to drain out the liquor. The incident was captured in a mobile phone by a passer-by who could be heard asking the police team: “Isn’t this a bad thing to do to a foreigner who has come here to enjoy?” Before he could empty the third bottle, he was told by the police that he could keep it if he managed to retrieve the bill from the Bevco outlet. He produced the bill at the police station. City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay, however, denied reports that the police compelled the tourist to discard the liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/swedish-tourist-faces-raw-deal-at-kovalam/article38085045.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Govt. effects reshuffle in top echelons of police||The State government has engineered a reshuffle in the top echelons of the police. It has posted G. Sparjan Kumar as the new Inspector General of Police & Commissioner of Police, Thiruvananthapuram City. P. Prakash has been posted as Inspector General of Police, South Zone. R. Nishanthini has been made Deputy Inspector General of Police, Thiruvananthapuram Range. Ankit Asokan is the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Thiruvananthapuram City. Divya V. Gopinath is the new District Police Chief, Thiruvananthapuram Rural. A.V. George has been posted as Inspector General of Police & Commissioner of Police, Kozhikode. Kuriakose V.U. is the new Deputy Commissioner of Police, Kochi City. Aishwarya Prasanth Dongre has been posted as Superintendent of Police, Thrissur Rural. Rahul R. Nair is posted as Deputy Inspector General of Police, Kannur Range. Vaibhav Saxena is the new Superintendent of Police, Kasaragod. Amose Mammen is the new Deputy Commissioner of Police, Kozhikode City. Madhukar Mahajan has been posted as Superintendent of Police, Pathanamthitta. Harshita Attaluri, Inspector General of Police, is posted as IG, Intelligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-effects-reshuffle-in-top-echelons-of-police/article38084899.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||2,676 fresh cases in State||Kerala recorded 2,676 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 60,962 samples were tested. Ernakulam with 503 cases registered the highest number of infections followed by Thiruvananthapuram (500) and Kozhikode (249). The State’s death toll due to the pandemic rose to 47,794 with 11 recent deaths and 342 mortalities attributed to COVID-19 as per the Supreme Court guidelines added to the list. Of the 2,676 cases, 2,453 were attributed to contact and 42 people arrived from outside the State. The source of infection of 156 persons was yet to be identified. As many as 1,399 were breakthrough infections and 140 had received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine while 771 were unvaccinated. The active caseload in the State as on Friday was 19,416, of which 10.4% were admitted to hospitals. A total of 1,11,110 persons were under surveillance in various districts, with 1,07,564 in home/ institutional quarantine and 3,546 under observation in hospitals. The authorities have imposed strict restrictions in six wards where the Weekly Infection Population ratio is higher than 10. An official press note here said 2,742 COVID patients were discharged from hospitals after they tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2676-fresh-cases-in-state/article38084904.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||5 held for attack on boy||The Neyyar Dam police on Friday arrested five persons in connection with an assault on a minor boy at Amboori a few days ago. The arrested were identified as Rahul (19), Vishnu (24), Subin (24), Vineesh (19) and Akshay 20, all hailing from Amboori. According to the police, they have been held for the assault on a Plus One student on December 26. The gang has been accused of torturing the 17-year-old when he had gone to bathe in a waterfall at Amboori. Besides injuring him using a knife, the accused allegedly assaulted him. The gang also forcibly fed him alcohol before setting him free, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5-held-for-attack-on-boy/article38085048.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Vaccination for teens in district begins on Jan. 3||Vaccination for teenagers between the ages of 15 and 18 will begin at all government hospitals and health centres in the district on January 3. Vaccines will be available at the centres on the following Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. The District Medical Officer said that vaccination will be exclusively provided for the 15-18 age group in 10 select health centres in the district on all days. The select centres are the General Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram; Government Ayurveda colleges; IFHC, Pangappara; Fort Taluk Hospital; General Hospital, Neyyattinkara; CHC, Kesavapuram; Taluk Hospital, Chirayinkeezhu; Taluk hospital, Attingal; Taluk hospital, Varkala; and Taluk hospital, Vithura. In all the other health centres except these 10, vaccine will be available for those above the age of 18 on Mondays and Fridays.  Online registration for vaccination for the 15-18 age group will begin on January 1 on the website www.cowin.gov.in . The registration can be done using an account created earlier as well. Registration can also be done directly at the vaccination centre, subject to availability of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-for-teens-in-district-begins-on-jan-3/article38085050.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Pettah murder: police seek custody of accused||The Pettah police on Friday sought custody of Simon Lalan who allegedly murdered a teenager few days ago. According to Pettah station house officer (SHO) Riyas Raja M.B., the accused will be taken to the scene of the crime again to strengthen circumstantial evidence. The police remained firm on its belief that the murder was not pre-meditated. However, the accused harboured hatred towards the 19-year-old victim, Aneesh George, for his relationship with the former’s elder daughter. The investigation team recovered the weapon from within a water meter box at Simon’s house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pettah-murder-police-seek-custody-of-accused/article38085044.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||500 new COVID-19 cases||The capital district recorded 500 COVID-19 cases and 541 recoveries on Friday as the number of active cases stood at 3,150. A test positivity rate (TPR) of 6.1% was recorded on the day in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/500-new-covid-19-cases/article38085049.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||CM greets people on New Year||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the New Year will usher in an era of development and prosperity for Kerala. In a New Year’s eve message to citizens on Friday, Mr. Vijayan reminded citizens to exercise caution while ringing in 2022, given the threat posed by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. He urged people to isolate forces that attempted to divide society on religious lines and incite enmity between communities. Kerala had emerged at the top in various national-level indexes relating to law and order, health, poverty eradication and economic growth. The government was committed to social welfare and development. Kerala had successfully braved several adversities in 2021, including floods and the pandemic. It would continue to surge ahead in 2022, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-greets-people-on-new-year/article38084897.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||CPI(M) protest against bid to ‘polarise’ State||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] will muster the masses against a bid by Hindu majoritarian outfits and Islamist forces to create a communal divide in the State. It will organise marches across the State on January 4 on the death anniversary of CPI(M) worker U.K. Kunjuraman “who fell to Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) swords” while protecting a mosque during the Thalassery riots. In 2,273 centres The marches will commence at 5 p.m. and conclude at 7 p.m. in 2,273 centres across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-protest-against-bid-to-polarise-state/article38084898.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Mission for organic farming||The Agriculture department will give shape to an organic farming mission in 2022 for guaranteeing production of safe food, Minister for Agriculture P. Prasad has said. Food production in 2022 will give emphasis to the protection of health, Mr. Prasad said while briefing the media as part of a two-day workshop on ‘Carbon Neutral Agriculture in Kerala’ organised by the Agriculture department on Thursday and Friday. The department will give shape to projects aimed at achieving carbon neutrality in the farm sector by including the recommendations and suggestions made at the workshop. Farmers will be trained in agricultural practices that help reduce carbon emissions. Workshops will be held in all panchayats on the theme of carbon neutral agriculture. The department also plans to introduce benchmarks at the unit level (individual farm holdings) as part of assessing the emission levels, he added. Carbon balance Experts who attended the workshop opined that an assessment of carbon balance is the first step towards achieving carbon-neutral farming in the State. How to go about reducing carbon dioxide emissions forms the second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mission-for-organic-farming/article38084905.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Couple in adoption row get married||Anupama S. Chandran and Ajith Kumar B., the city couple who waged a successful battle to get back their biological child, ended the year on a high note when they got married here on Friday. Just over a month after being given custody of their one-year-old son by the Family Court here, Anupama and Ajith tied the knot at a local registrar office here in the presence of the little one. The couple had submitted papers for making their union legal a month ago and were allotted the last day of the year to begin a fresh chapter in their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/couple-in-adoption-row-get-married/article38085043.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Drive against TB to be ramped up||Activities aimed at eradicating tuberculosis (TB) completely from the district by 2025 will be intensified, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. She was speaking at an event in connection with National TB Elimination Programme here on Friday. Ms. Khosa said the objective would be achieved through measures in association with the Health, Labour and Fisheries department, Kudumbashree volunteers, ASHA workers and anganwadi workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drive-against-tb-to-be-ramped-up/article38085051.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Kala Utsav begins today||Eighteen students from the State will participate in the Kala Utsav 2021 organised by the National Council of Educational Research and Training from Saturday. The seven-day online fete, in which competitions will be held in real time, will see students participate in nine events. Contests will be held separately for boys and girls who will showcase their talents in events such as classical and folk dance and music, painting, sculpture, indigenous toy making and so on. The events for the State will be organised in Kozhikode district this time as well. Music and dance events will be held at a specially arranged studio hall, while painting, sculpture and similar events will be held at Karaparamba Higher Secondary School. The performances will be adjudged virtually by judges in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kala-utsav-2021-kicks-off-today/article38084850.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||IGNITE 2022 to be inaugurated today||Higher Education Minister R. Bindu will inaugurate IGNITE 2022, a competition for promoting the spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship among students, on Saturday. The programme is organised under the aegis of Darsana, a charitable organisation run by the alumni of NSS College of Engineering, Palakkad. The competition themes include accessibility, inclusion, rural well-being and micro enterprises. APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajasree will deliver the felicitation address. The university is associating with the programme as ‘University Partner’ along with Digital University Kerala, Kerala Startup Mission and K-DISC, an official release here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-to-inaugurate-ignite-2022-today/article38084849.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||MSP for copra increased for 2022||The minimum support price (MSP) for fair average quality milling copra has been hiked to Rs. 10,590 a quintal for the 2022 season from Rs. 10,335. The MSP for ball copra has been hiked to Rs. 11,000 a quintal from Rs. 10,600.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/msp-for-copra-increased-for-2022/article38084891.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Tracing the roots through folklore||Forgotten trails often take us to our roots. Shilpa Mudbi and team are on a mission to keep the folklore alive by telling the lesser-known folk stories to urban audiences.  Co-founder of the Urban Folk Project, Shilpa Mudbi introduced the audience at the HOPE Fest to the mythology of Yellamma through a music and storytelling performance - Yellamma and other stories on Thursday night.  In her captivating style, she narrated the transformation of young beautiful princess Renuka to powerful Goddess Yellamma. Scope for research The Urban Folk Project was started by Shilpa Mudbi Kothakota and Adithya Kothakota to bring to the fore lesser-known folk forms by creating scope for research, documentation, archiving, and ultimately experimenting with these knowledge systems.  “We started our journey researching and documenting Yellammanaata , which is a ritualistic overnight play hosted mostly during Dussehra by marginal communities around north Karnataka.”  Yellamma’s temples are across southern India, even in Sri Lanka. Her following across Karnataka and Maharashtra consists of the Jogathi (transgender women disciples), Jogamma, Jogappa, and the devadasi communities. The Urban Folk Project followed these communities to document rare and dying forms related to ‘Yellammanaata’ like ‘Chowdki Pada’ and ‘Jogathi Nritya’. Yellamma and other stories is the contemporary version of Yellamma’s myth. “We could trace many versions of Yellamma stories during our research. Every community tailor-made the experience according to their needs and styles. Its is a collective telling of experience of so many women,” says Ms. Mudbi. The performance raises pertinent questions about gender, patriarchy, purity and power structures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tracing-the-roots-through-folklore/article38084923.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||HOPE festival concludes with Kabir Project||The three-day HOPE Fest organised by the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi concluded here on Friday with the soulful Kabir Project by Mooralala Marwada, the celebrated Sufi folk singer from Kutch, Gujarat. Ungala Neenga Yeppadi Paakka Virumbareenga?, a solo in Tamil by Anandsami, inspired by Sizwe Bansi is Dead by Athol Fugard, John Kani and Winston Ntshona, was performed in the Black Box on the concluding day.  Branthu (madness), a mediated performance based on Malayali Dalit writer C Ayyappan’s short story, was performed on Thursday and Friday. In the play, the performer and collective use affective technologies, material, and an Ambassador car to generate experiences. The play starts when four of the audience starts a journey in an Ambassador car. The central character starts communicating with the travellers through virtual media and takes them into the intricacies of life. It communicates with the audience how colour, religion, and illness influence personal life. At a time only four people can watch the 40-minute play directed by Abheesh Sasidharan. The play was performed many times in the two days. Velichenna performed by Sudhi Panur was another play staged at the festival.  The festival had a screening of videos from ITFoK archives. It also had a digital theatre performance. A compilation of films from the Belfast International Art Festival was broadcast at the fest. Eminent poet P.P. Ramachandran was in conversation with theatre person Sreeja Arangottukara on ‘Grameena Nataka Vedi (village theatre) on Friday. Ramachandran spoke about evolving contemporary theatre with strong women presence from a male-centric era in the past. Village theatres Sreeja Arangottukara noted that village theatres were different in process of conceptualising, making and evolving of performances compared to academic theatres. “Largely it will be a group activity with its own merits and demerits. However, it is surely a democratic process.” Diversity in making, scripts, approach and terotechnology have to be experimented and welcomed in the theatre, she said. She called for drama theatres in the State to make theatre more popular.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hope-festival-concludes-with-kabir-project/article38084844.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Onto new beginnings||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/onto-new-beginnings/article38084883.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Driven by devotion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/driven-by-devotion/article38084893.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:21 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||350 students bag jobs in recruitment drive at JNTUA||As many as 350 students of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Anantapur College of Engineering secured placements in the 2021-22 academic year with 15 companies conducting recruitment tests, said JNTUA Vice-Chancellor G. Ranga Janardhana and Registrar C. Sashidhar here on Friday. At a press conference, they said the pandemic had come as a boon for students with some of the companies, which could not have come to the college here for conducting the physical recruitment process, chose to club the students along with students of other colleges and make them compete at the national level,” said Mr. Janardhana. Meanwhile, Srinivasa Ramanujan Institute Of Technology director Aluru Sambasiva Reddy said the total number of students getting placed in the 2021-22 academic year was 544 (TCS - 119, Wipro - 172, CTS - 180).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/350-students-bag-jobs-in-recruitment-drive-at-jntua/article38084541.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Belagavi school closed for ‘conversion’; reopened||Officials of Education Department, Belagavi, closed St. Paul Higher Primary School in Ilkal near Hungund in Bagalkot district on Thursday on the charge of trying to convert students and their parents. Block Education Officer (BEO) of Hungund issued an order on December 26 after a complaint by some right wing organisations and an inspection that was carried out in the school by an officer. The State Government is yet to enact a law against forcible or fradulent conversion. The government did not table the Anti Conversion Bill in the Legislative Council, though it was passed by the Legislative Assembly during the Winter Session in Belagavi recently. Officers withdrew the order to close the school after news spread in the media on Friday. The school effectively remained closed for four days, as the order was issued on December 26, which was a school holiday. Deputy Director of Public Instructions, Bagalkot, Shreeshail Biradar confirmed that the order was withdrawn by the BEO who earlier issued the order. “The school reopened on Friday,’’ he added. In his earlier order, the BEO had said that the school was being closed indefinitely for celebrating Christmas in violation of rules. However, he did not cite the rules in the order. “You have served meat in the classrooms during Christmas celebrations on December 25. This led to embarrassment to the public and the department. You have to keep the school closed till further orders. Legal action will be taken if you reopen the school without permission,’’ the BEO said in the order. Meanwhile, convenor of pro-Hindu organisations Pradeep Amarannanavar gave a complaint to Tahsildar K. Rathna saying that the school was trying to convert students and their parents. “The management invited students and parents to school on Christmas Day and offered them lunch with meat, wine and Satya Veda, a Kannada translation of the Bible. This is nothing but an attempt at converting Hindus to Christianity, by allurement and force,” the organsations said. The complaint named principal Silvia D’Marck and members of school management committee Jackson D. Marck and Umesh Nayak of Harapanahalli and others. “Since inception of the school, these persons are converting members of the poor and backward communities, including Banjara, Ambiger and other caste groups,” he said. “They are insulting Hindu Gods and converting the vulnerable groups of the Hindu. Once they are converted, they force the converted to throw out statues and images of Hindu Gods from their homes. This is against the law. What is more, the school’s licence is getting renewed annually, as the school management bribes some Education Department officials. The authorities should close down the school and cancel its license,’’ the complaint said. After the complaint came, Education Department’s Block Resource Centre Coordinator I.M. Angadi inspected the school and submitted a report. The BEO acted on the report and issued orders for closure. Mr. Jackson D Marck told journalists in Ilkal on Wednesday that the allegations were baseless. “We are not converting anyone. First of all, the school is not run by Christian missionaries. It is run by some interested residents of Ilkal. The school committee includes members of all faiths. The school has students of all religions studying. The lunch was not held in the school. The school is run on a rented premises,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/belagavi-school-closed-for-conversion-reopened/article38084275.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New Year begins with fresh curbs in Tamil Nadu||New Year will begin with fresh lockdown restrictions in Tamil Nadu amid growing concerns over the sharp rise in the novel coronavirus cases, including those of the Omicron variant. On Friday, when the daily case count touched 1,155, crossing the 1,000-mark after months, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin chaired a review meeting and announced the restrictions that will be in force till January 10. According to the announcement, physical classes cannot be held for students of Std. I-VIII, and play schools and kindergartens will be closed. Physical classes for Std. IX-XII and colleges and ITIs will be allowed with the standard operating procedures. The existing norms will have to be followed at the places of worship. All exhibitions and book fairs (including the Chennai Book Fair which is scheduled to start on January 6) have been postponed, Mr. Stalin said. 50% capacity Only 50% of customers will be allowed to dine in at a given point of time at restaurants, hotels and bakeries. Only 50% of patrons will be allowed at entertainment and amusement parks. The number of guests at wedding and related events has been capped at 100. Only 50 persons will be allowed at funerals. At jewellery and textile shops, owners will have to ensure that only 50% of the customers are allowed in at any given time. At gyms, yoga centres and clubs too, only 50% patrons are to be allowed at any given time. No standees will be allowed in public transport buses, while only 50% passengers are to be allowed in Chennai Metro Rail. Likewise, mutiplex/cinemas/theatres can fill only 50% of their seats. At beauty parlours, salons and spas, only 50% of customers will be allowed. Sports events will be allowed in open grounds in compliance with the norms, while only 50% of the audience could be let into indoor stadia. The current restriction on social, cultural and political events will continue. Since there are “higher chances” of the unvaccinated population aged above 60 getting infected by the Omicron variant, the Chief Minister requested them to take the vaccine. Those who have taken only the first dose should take the second, he insisted. “The proprietors and employees of commercial establishments must have been vaccinated,” Mr. Stalin said, urging all establishments to avoid air-conditioning and ensure physical distancing among the customers. Essential activities Only essential activities would be allowed in the containment zones, he said. A house-to-house survey would be undertaken in areas having a high rate of infection. “COVID appropriate behaviour and norms would be monitored and penalty would be imposed on those who violate these norms,” Mr. Stalin said. Earlier in the day, Mr. Stalin chaired a meeting at the Secretariat to review the COVID-19 situation, the spread of the Omicron variant and the lockdown restrictions. Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan, Minister for Municipal Administration and Water Supply K.N. Nehru were among those who took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-year-begins-with-fresh-curbs/article38084604.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:21 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shortage of teachers takes a political turn in Kuppam||The Kuppam Assembly constituency, represented by former Chief Minister and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, is at the centre of a new controversy as primary school students went on a protest demanding the appointment of more teachers. While there is a shortage of teachers at government-run schools, the protest by children has raked up a controversy with Education Department officials and ruling party cadres terming it the ‘handiwork of TDP cadres’. Kuppam Assembly constituency, which is aloof from the rest of the district, has remained a bone of contention when it comes to the posting of teachers for decades. A majority of the teachers in government schools reportedly leave no stone unturned to get transferred to other mandals, which enjoy better connectivity, admit senior education officials in Chittoor. Against this backdrop, the lone mandal of Kuppam is said to be hit by a dearth of over a hundred teachers in government schools, with 40 schools reportedly manned by only one teacher and four schools having no teachers. Thursday’s incident at Gundlamadugu village of Kotalur panchayat in Kuppam mandal has left officials ruffled, who are at their wits’ end over who was behind the protest which saw primary school children blocking a rural road — something never witnessed before in the district.  District Educational Officer (DEO) Shriram Purushottam told The Hindu that a thorough inquiry was under way into the episode. “The primary school at Gundlamadugu has four teachers. On Thursday, one teacher was sent to handle a no-staff school in the neighborhood. Another teacher was on leave. We are ascertaining how the children were allowed to stage a protest on a public road. A detailed report would be submitted to the Collector,” the official said.  The DEO said that currently, there is a dearth of over 2,500 teachers in Chittoor district, with primary and upper primary schools the most affected. “With the new education policy, we are all set to chalk out a suitable action plan to overcome the shortage of teachers. However, this deficit of teachers will in no way affect Class X, as high schools are well-staffed with experienced teachers,” Mr. Purushottam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shortage-of-teachers-takes-a-political-turn-in-kuppam/article38084543.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police rescue kidnapped boy, arrest 3 persons||The West Godavari district police rescued a six-year-old boy who was kidnapped four days ago, and arrested three persons for the crime on Friday. The boy was reunited safely with his parents. On receiving a complaint from Akhil’s parents, Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma formed special teams to detect the case. The accused demanded Rs. 10 lakh ransom in exchange for setting the boy free. The accused were identified as Rangababu, M. Ramanamma, and K. Eshwar. “The boy was studying in UKG at a school in Eluru. The accused took the boy to East Godavari district and kept him in a house,” Mr. Rahul Dev Sharma said. Eluru Town Deputy Superintendent of Police O. Dileep Kiran, who investigated the case, said that Akhil’s parents lodged a kidnapping complaint with Eluru Rural police on December 27. During investigation, it was revealed that the boy’s father, A. Shankar Rao, had a financial dispute with the main accused Rangababu, who had roped in two others to assist him in kidnapping the six-year-old. “After tracking the movements of the accused, police rescued the boy from the house of a woman named M. Ramanamma. Another accused, K. Eshwar, who abetted the crime, was also arrested,” Mr. Dileep Kiran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-rescue-kidnapped-boy-arrest-3-persons/article38085077.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jinnah Tower in the eye of a storm||The Jinnah Tower Centre is a prominent landmark in the city’s bustling commercial centre. It is the only edifice in the country erected in memory of the founder of Pakistan, Mohammad Ali Jinnah, and is one of the few heritage structures in the city. The Jinnah Tower was built in 1972 by Lal Jan Basha, the grandfather of former MLA and Adviser, Minority Affairs, Sk. Ziauddin, in memory of Jinnah following a goodwill visit by Jinnah’s emissary Judaliyaquat Ali Khan. The tower erected on six pillars of cement opens to a tall dome, typical of the Mughal architecture. A tweet by Telangana’s BJP MLA Raja Singh that the tower should be renamed either after A.P.J. Abul Kalam or Telugu verse poet Gurram Jashuva has created a commotion. “How can a prominent centre in Guntur be allowed to be named after Jinnah, who was responsible for the partition of the country?” questioned Mr. Raja Singh. Two other leaders, BJP State president Somu Veeraju and Y. Satya Kumar, have retweeted the content sparking a protest from the YSRCP. A delegation of the BJP leaders has met GMC Commissioner C. Anuradha and submitted a representation seeking that the tower be renamed. BJP Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimnha Rao has also supported the plea, and said he has submitted a representation to rename the tower. The YSRCP leaders have alleged that the BJP is trying to create communal discord in the city, which has been a symbol of peace and harmony over the years. “There has never been such a demand in the history of the city. The party will lodge a strong protest over the issue,” MLC party secretary Lella Appireddy has asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jinnah-tower-in-the-eye-of-a-storm/article38085008.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to launch enhanced pensions today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the YSR Pension Kanuka distribution programme at Prathipadu village on the New Year day on Saturday. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised that the monthly pension would be enhanced from Rs. 2,250 to Rs. 2,500, and later to Rs. 3,000 in a phased manner in the State. According to the schedule from the Chief Minister’s Office, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy will leave Tadepalli at 10.30 a.m. and arrive at the helipad at Prathipadu at 10.55 a.m., where he will interact with local leaders. Public meeting At 11.15 a.m., he will address a public meeting and launch the programme. Home Minister M. Sucharitha, Members of Legislative Counicl Talasila Raghuram and Lella Appireddy, and District Collector Vivek Yadav supervised the arrangements for the Chief Minister’s visit. A crowd of 10,000 people is expected to attend the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-launch-enhanced-pensions-today/article38085006.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shock as BJP loses in Bommai’s home turf||The results of elections to local bodies in Dharwad and Haveri districts have put Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in an embarrassing position as his party has lost to the Congress in both the districts where he has been politically active for few decades. While Haveri district is where Mr. Bommai’s constituency Shiggaon is located, Dharwad district is where he began his political career as a member of the Janata Parivar and went on to become an MLC. In Haveri district, the elections were held to the Bankapur Town Municipal Council and the Guttal Town Panchayat. In both places, the BJP failed to come to power, despite being the home district of the Chief Minister. In Bankapur, thr Congress secured 14 seats, while the BJP managed to get seven seats. Two Independents tasted victory. In Guttal, the Congress emerged the clear winner with 11 seats, while the BJP won six and an Independent won in one ward. Minority population Political observers feel that in Bankapur, where there is sizeable minority population, a clear win for the right-wing party was not expected. However, insiders feel that the BJP could have done better had there been more efforts from the local leaders, especially because the Bankapur Town Municipal Council comes under the Chief Minister’s constituency. Soon after the results, Mr. Bommai said the BJP had never won in Bankapur because the minorities accounted for 65% of the population and added that the situation was similar in Guttal. However, insiders differ even on Guttal. According to them, the Chief Minister’s reluctance to intervene in any issue related to Haveri and the alleged high-handedness of BJP MLA Nehru Olekar had more to do with the Guttal results. To add to the embarrassment, Mr. Bommai received setback in Anniger Town Municipal Council, which comes under the Navalgund constituency represented by Cabinet colleague Shankar Patil Munenakoppa. The Congress emerged the single largest party with 12 seats, the BJP won five, while six candidates contested as Independents. After the Hangal Assembly debacle in which the BJP lost despite working hard, these results are certainly cause of embarrassment to Mr. Bommai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shock-as-bjp-loses-in-bommais-home-turf/article38084277.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:47 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A murder every week in E. Godavari||Belying its reputation as one of the most liveable places in the State, East Godavari district has witnessed a spurt in crimes in the year gone by. In 2021, the district has reported at least one murder every week. The total murders reported in 2021 are 83; 22 in Rajamahendravaram city alone and 61 in the rest of the district including the Konaseema region. At least eight women were murdered in Rajamahendravaram city. , “Of the 132 rape cases reported in 2021, at least 120 cases were those where the accused happened to be the victim’s boyfriend,” East Godavari SP M. Raveendranath Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-murder-every-week-in-e-godavari/article38085031.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:47 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB lauded for taking steps to curb ganja, liquor trade||East Godavari Superintendent of Police M. Raveendranath Babu on Friday said that the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) has played a key role in tracing and eradicating ganja and illicit liquor smuggling activities in the district in the year gone by. The SEB has conducted large-scale raids on the mangrove cover in the Godavari estuary, and eradicated the flourishing ID liquor production cycles, Mr. Raveendranath Babu said. On many occasions, the SEB personnel braved challenging terrain and mangrove patches during the raids on the ganja and ID liquor production locations both along the coastal belt and the Agency areas. In a special meeting with SEB officials, Mr. Raveendranath Babu expressed confidence that the initiative of reforming those involved in ganja cultivation and trade and ID liquor trade would succeed with the support of the SEB. “SEB personnel would be roped in for the ‘Parivarthana’ programme, ” said Mr. Raveendranath Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seb-lauded-for-taking-steps-to-curb-ganja-liquor-trade/article38085032.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A towering presence in Malayalam cinema for seven decades||G.K. Pillai, who died in Thiruvananthapuram on Friday at age 97, has been a towering presence in Malayalam cinema for the last seven decades. He may have been often typecast as a villain, but he was a talented character actor.  After making his debut in Snehaseema in 1954, in which he played a 65-year-old man, he went on to act in over 300 films and several television serials. It was during the 1960s and 70s that he attained popularity as a villain. He was a regular presence in Malayalam cinema of that time. With his tall frame and powerful voice, it was a formidable presence too.  Born in 1924 at Chirayinkeezhu in Thiruvananthapuram district, he had left home and joined the Indian Army when he was 16. He had taken part in the Indo-Pak War of 1947-48 and had served as a soldier in Kolkata during the communal riots of 1946. He returned home after serving the army for 14 years and wanted to act in cinema. In an interview, he said he had found from a newspaper report that his schoolmate Abdul Khader (Prem Nazir) had become a star in Malayalam cinema. If Nazir could, he felt, he too could. But it was not easy. He was not only rejected, but also insulted. And it took a letter of recommendation from his friend to land his first role. Sudden impact  He made a sudden impact and Snehaseema did well at the box office. He did the role of sage Vishwamithra in his second film Harishchandra.  A few films later, he played the villain in Nairu Pidicha Pulivalu (1958) and that proved a turning point. He established himself as one of the most popular villains in Malayalam cinema.   He was also an integral part of Vadakkan Pattu films, which became sort of a genre in Malayalam cinema. He acted in several such films namely Othenante Makan, Ponnapuram Kotta, Kadathanattu Makkam, Thumbolarcha, Thacholi Ambu,Kadathanattu Makkam and Palattu Kunjikkannan. Karyasthan (2010) was his last major film. He had been active in television serials for the last couple of decades. He was part of some popular serials, like Kumkumapoovu (Asianet).  Passion for acting Remarkably, he retained his passion for acting even into his late 90s. He was, in fact, one of the oldest actors working in Indian cinema.  “He was among the finest character actors in Malayalam cinema,” director Hariharan told The Hindu. “I have known him right from the time I worked as an assistant director. He acted in my films Valarthumrugangal, Vellam and Lava . He didn’t get the recognition he deserved.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-towering-presence-in-malayalam-cinema-for-seven-decades/article38084505.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six Maoists arrested in Telangana||Six Maoist militia members, who were planning to carry out a landmine blast targeting combing police parties, were arrested by the Venkatapuram police in the Thippapuram forest area near the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border, the police said. Two tiffin boxes, two detonators and 11 metres of wire were seized from the possession of the arrested militia members, a press release issued here on Friday said. Acting on credible inputs, a combing operation was launched by Venkatapuram police along with CRPF team in the Thippapuram-Pedda Utlapally forest area in the wee hours of Thursday. Five of the arrested militia members hail from Penkavagu village of Venkatapuram mandal and one from Pedda Utlapally in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district., The militia members were trained by Maoist leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-maoists-arrested-in-telangana/article38084504.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala CM condemns Sangh Parivar for attack on Christians||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan lashed out at the Sangh Parivar for attacks on Christians even while trying to pamper the community in Kerala. Inaugurating the CPI(M) district conference here on Friday, Mr. Vijayan said the Sangh Parivar had unleashed widespread attacks on minorities, including Christians and scheduled communities. He said Hindutva extremists had unleashed many attacks during Christmas celebrations. “Shouting ‘Santa Claus murdabad’, they burnt the effigies in Andhra Pradesh. They attacked Christians at a Varanasi hospital during the celebration. They destroyed a statue of Jesus at Ambala. They made attacks in Kurukshetra and Assam.” The Chief Minister said when there were 142 attacks against Christians in 2015, it increased manifold to 478 in 2021. “The highest number of attacks was reported from Uttar Pradesh,” he said. He said the Sangh Parivar was accosting Christians in Kerala because of the State’s secular nature. “Our warnings against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) policies have become a reality. Only corporates are supporting the BJP policies,” he said. SilverLine project He accused the BJP of trying to use the Centre against the State government in connection with the SilverLine project. The Congress, BJP and the Jamat-e-Islami were conspiring against the State government, he said. “The Congress is becoming a B-team of the BJP,” he said. Senior party leader C.T. Krishnan hoisted the flag. Apart from Mr. Vijayan, central committee members A.K. Balan, K.K. Shailaja, Josephine, K. Radhakrishnan and E.P. Jayarajan were present. N.N. Krishnadas welcomed the gathering. V.K. Chandran presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-cm-condemns-sangh-parivar-for-attack-on-christians/article38084503.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remove Jinnah Tower or rename it by Jan. 24: BJP||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Friday served an ultimatum on the YSRCP government to either remove the Jinnah Tower (a popular landmark in Guntur named after founder of Pakistan Mohammad Ali Jinnah), or rename it by January 24. Addressing the media here, Mr. Veerraju said, “If the government is not willing to do any of these, it should allow our party to remove the structure.” “The BJP will anyway remove it whenever it comes to power in the State,” Mr. Veerraju added. The BJP leader also demanded that the King George Hospital (KGH) in Visakhapatnam be also renamed. “Name KGH either after Gowthu Latchanna or Tenneti Viswanadham. Both the leaders are freedom fighters from coastal Andhra Pradesh,” Mr. Veerraju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remove-jinnah-tower-or-rename-it-by-jan-24-bjp/article38085010.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala hundi earns Rs. 833.41 crore in 2021||The hundi at the temple of Lord Venkateswara registered an income of Rs. 833.41 crore in 2021. The collections are significant, coming at a time of reduced footfalls at the hill temple owing to the impact of COVID-19. Against an average footfall of 75,000 on normal days, only a third of them were allowed for darshan this year, according to temple officials. Last year, the income was only around Rs. 510 crore as the hill temple was closed for several months on account of the pandemic. The TTD earned Rs. 298 crore through the sale of laddus. Around 5.96 crore laddus were sold in 2021, temple officials said. Meanwhile, 1.37 crore devotees availed free meals under the Nitya Annadanam scheme, and 48.75 lakh devotees got their heads tonsured at the Kalyanakatta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirumala-hundi-earns-rs-83341-crore-in-2021/article38084544.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Now, ‘immunity booster bouquets’ to tackle Omicron!||When the emergence of Omicron variant at the fag end of 2021 challenges the very purpose of COVID-19 vaccination, the importance of developing a strong immunity comes to the fore yet again. Laying emphasis on this aspect while ushering in the New Year with open hands, the ‘immunity booster’ series of bouquets have entered the Tirupati market, with the ingredients being tender coconuts, watermelon, citrus fruits, dry fruits and nuts. Of all these, the tender coconut seems to be the ‘in thing’ for the season, which is selling like hot cakes. “Presenting coconuts to guests is an age-old Indian custom, which has faded of late as many think it is not modern. This is why we have combined this traditional element into the modern culture of presenting bouquets,” says C.B.V. Saikumar Reddy of Blue Petals, a florist who has come up with the novel idea. Tender coconut contains potassium, manganese, copper, selenium and magnesium. Similarly, watermelon contains potassium, copper, Vitamins B5 and A, apart from Vitamin C. The selling price of coconut bouquets is Rs. 300, while fruit baskets are available from Rs. 150. The idea has caught up among the denizens and the concept is going viral on social media. Focus on fluid intake “The prevalence of dengue and other viral fevers after the devastating floods in and around Tirupati underline the importance of fluid intake, which prompted us to offer gift-wrapped tender coconuts,” says Mr. Saikumar, adding that the ‘immunity booster’ series was launched in consultation with medical practitioners and nutritional experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/now-immunity-booster-bouquets-in-market-to-tackle-omicron/article38084551.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD identifies vendor ‘selling’ products online at higher price||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has identified an individual vendor, who has reportedly misused the Amazon platform by selling its products at prices higher than the fixed tariff, and has taken up the issue with the company. The TTD had tied up with the online portal, Amazon India, as well as India Post for getting better reach for its New Year products such as 2022 calendars and diaries, besides ensuring physical distancing during the COVID-19 times through door delivery. This was apart from the TTD’s own sale counters at its Kalyana Mandapams and information centres spread across the country. Upon observing that an individual had misused the Amazon platform by selling the TTD products at a premium price, the TTD appealed to the company to initiate stringent action against such vendors exploiting the devotees. Similarly, the temple management also cautioned the devotees to deal directly with the portal and not through other vendors. 3D calendar Meanwhile, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Friday unveiled a special six-page calendar, comprising 3D and silver coated portraits of Sri Venkateswara and Goddess Padmavathi. Only 25,000 copies of this ‘limited edition’ series are available for sale at Tirupati, Tirumala, Chennai, Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-identifies-vendor-selling-products-online-at-higher-price/article38085013.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sahitya Akademi award for NSU academic||Kendra Sahitya Akademi has announced its ‘Yuva Puraskar’ in Sanskrit to Swetapadma Satapathy, a senior assistant professor of Sahitya at the National Sanskrit University (NSU), Tirupati. She has been selected for her book, ‘Katha Kalpalata’, containing 42 short stories dealing with a variety of issues having contemporary relevance. The book has been unanimously adjudged the best by a jury of three eminent scholars and academic awardees. The book highlights the moral teachings in verse form at the end of each story in a simple and lucid style. Dr. Satapathy is a winner of four gold medals in the All India Sanskrit Talent Festival organised in Tirupati and has received the title, ‘Vanita Baijayanti’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sahitya-akademi-award-for-nsu-academic/article38085012.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shuttler seeks MP’s support for badminton academy||After the State government offered to allot land to Srikanth Kidambi for setting up a badminton academy in Tirupati, the ace shuttler initiated the process of identifying the land. Mr. Srikanth, who reached Tirupati along with family members on a pilgrimage on Friday, called on MP M. Gurumoorthy at his camp office and discussed his plans for the academy and sought the latter’s support. While thanking the Chief Minister for the offer, Mr. Srikanth likened his proposed academy to the Pullela Gopichand Badminton Academy. “I want my academy to be developed on an international platform so as to meet the coaching needs of aspirants,” he told the media. The sportsman said he had recovered from his previous injuries and is now aiming a gold medal at the World Badminton Championship slated for next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shuttler-seeks-mps-support-for-badminton-academy/article38084546.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Myntra CEO is now TTD advisor||E-commerce website Myntra’s chief executive officer Amar Nagaram took charge as an advisor to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) here on Friday, which was also his last working day in his current position. Mr. Nagaram, it is learnt, will provide counsel to the TTD on its futuristic projects, including and involving online registration of sevas and e-commerce platforms. The TTD had recently tied up with Jio platform to ensure hassle-free booking of darshan and accommodation online. Mr. Nagaram hails from Tirupati and joined the e-commerce company as its chief in January 2019. Earlier, he was chief technology and product officer at Flipkart.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/myntra-ceo-is-now-ttd-advisor/article38084533.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:21 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Robot to aid SVIMS in medical field||Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) has received a robot developed by the Technology Business Incubator (TBI) of Sri Padmavati Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV), expected to complement human performance by reaching the inaccessible areas of operation. SVIMS Director and Vice-Chancellor B. Vengamma formally accepted the ‘Robo’ from Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) trust board Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, at a function held on SPMVV campus on Friday. According to TBI chief executive officer Surya Kumar, ‘Robo’ was developed with a budget of Rs. 50,000 by K.Pavan, an innovator hailing from Palamaner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/robot-to-aid-svims-in-medical-field/article38084547.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. opposed hike in GST on handloom sector: Buggana||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council has decided to defer the hike in tax rate on textiles from 5% to 12%. Andhra Pradesh and several other States opposed the hike at the 46th GST Council meeting chaired by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, State Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said that any hike in GST on textiles would impact Andhra Pradesh the most. There are about 3 lakh handloom weavers and most people wear cotton clothes unlike nylon in other States. Andhra Pradesh has requested the Council to take a call on increasing the GST on textiles after conducting a comprehensive study. A.P. pointed out there was no clarity on GST to be imposed on apparel, clothing and textile products. There was no clarity on the rate of GST that would be imposed on nylon and cotton fabric as well as manmade and natural textiles. There were also no estimates available with the Council on any possible increase in refund, he said. Polavaram Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said issues arising out of bifurcation of the State were also discussed at the meeting. “The cost of the Polavaram project is on the rise due to the Land Acquisition Act enacted in 2013. About Rs. 20,000 crore would be the escalation in cost. The Centre is requested to approve the latest estimates,” the Finance Minister said said. Kadapa steel plant The Centre was also requested to take steps to implement Dugarajapatnam Port, Kadapa Steel Plant, petrochemical complex and other projects as per the Bifurcation Act. The Centre was also requested to make necessary allocations for these projects in the ensuing budget, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-opposed-hike-in-gst-on-handloom-sector-buggana/article38085017.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘A.P. in list of States not implementing RTE Act’||The School Education Department in the State is working on the modalities for implementing reservation of 25% seats in private schools for children belonging to the Economically Weaker Sections as stipulated by the Right to Education (RTE) Act, from the next academic year. Sources in the department said that a meeting held recently and attended by all the allied departments, discussed threadbare key aspects like identification of the beneficiary children, collection of the data and the cost incurred by the State government on each child’s education. “We have asked the IT wing to develop a web portal for the purpose,” said an official. What the Act says Section 12 (1) (c) of the RTE Act mandates that private unaided schools reserve 25% seats for children from the EWS. However, a recent report compiled by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) revealed that only 16 States across the country were implementing this rule and the name of Andhra Pradesh figures in the list of non-implementing states. A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by an advocate in the State High Court came up for hearing recently. Principal Secretary, School Education, B. Rajasekhar, in an affidavit submitted to the court, informed that the beneficiary students were being identified and a web portal was being developed for the purpose. Informing the court that a meeting was held to discuss the modalities of the implementation of RTE Act, he said the government had finalised fee structure for private schools and issued orders in August. Under the RTE Act, children in the 6-14 age group are entitled to free and compulsory education in the country. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) prepared by the NCPCR for better implementation defines the children who can be considered under disadvantaged groups and weaker sections. According to it, children from the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes (non-creamy layer), de-notified tribes and nomadic tribes, children with disabilities/special needs, children suffering from HIV/AIDS, children of martyred soldiers/ Central Armed Police Forces personnel or those killed in the line of duty and children of deprived communities such as traditional sex workers make up the disadvantaged groups. Under weaker sections come children from families that are registered under Antyodaya Anna Yojana, families included in the State’s Below Poverty Line list and children belong to parents/guardians whose annual income is lower than the minimum limit prescribed by the government. Implementation of the new initiative amidst the existing financial turmoil is bound to be an uphill task for the government. “Sending children from economically weaker background to private schools after spending huge money on giving facelift to government schools seems like an irony,” said representative of a private and unaided schools’ union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-in-list-of-states-not-implementing-rte-act/article38085023.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘308 persons held, ganja worth Rs. 1.52 cr. seized’||Police registered 145 cases against ganja smugglers and peddlers in Vijayawada Police Commissionerate, arrested 308 persons and seized marijuana worth Rs. 1.52 crore in 2021. The total conviction rate this year was 63.82%. Raids were conducted at different places, and police seized liquor worth Rs. 74.44 lakh and arrested 360 smugglers. Similarly, gutkha worth Rs. 5.55 lakh was seized in 139 cases and 236 persons persons, Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata said. Releasing the annual crime data for the year 2021 at a press conference here on Friday, the Police Commissioner said there was a rise in registration of cases by 23.29% and focus would be laid on blade batch gangs, ganja and gutkha smuggling and crimes against women. In 2021, police registered 1,358 property offences while people lost property worth Rs. 12.88 crore. Police arrested the accused in 61.65% cases. Rise in crimes against women In all, 1,384 cases of crime against women were booked in the police commissionerate in 2021, up from 831 last year, registering an increase of 39.95%. Through Disha Police Stations, 512 cases were booked and 91 cases were registered through Disha SoS calls. People lost property worth Rs. 5.13 crore in 126 cybercrime cases and police recovered property worth Rs. 2.20 crore (42.92%). In 2020, 166 cybercrime cases were registered, Mr. Kanthi Rana explained. Police registered 3,506 lockdown cases, of which 3,080 cases were settled, 73 were in different stages in courts and 353 were under investigation. As many as 277 persons were arrested in 1,121 road accidents in the Police Commissionerate limits. New sheets opened To control crime, police expelled 13 rowdy-sheeters, and opened 238 suspect-sheets. New rowdy sheets were opened against 40 criminals and DC and KD sheets were opened against two criminals. Police detected several sensational cases including the theft of silver lion idols from the Sri Durga Malleswaraswamy Devasthanam. A notorious temple offender involved in about 18 cases was arrested and stolen items worth Rs. 60 lakh was recovered. Three members of an inter-State gang were arrested and the robbery in Attica Gold Showroom was detected in just a few hours, Mr. Kanthi Rana said, adding that ABCD Awards were given away to police personnel for swift resolution of cases. Focus is being laid on visible, community and friendly policing and awareness drives are being launched against consumption of drugs and other banned products, the Police Commissioner said. Deputy Commissioners of Police V. Harshavardhan Raju, D. Mary Prasanthi and A.B.T.S. Udaya Rani were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/308-persons-held-ganja-worth-rs-152-cr-seized/article38085083.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Healthy food habits, exercise will help fight cancer’||Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata has said that regular medical check-up, good food habits, yoga and physical exercises can cure cancer. “The word ‘cancer’ creates panic. But advanced treatment is available for the disease and there is no need for worry. Police Department will be there for all its staff at all times,” he said and told the staff to take care of the health and their families.  He thanked HCG and The Hindu managements for organising an awareness camp for police at the AR Grounds here on Friday.  HCG Cancer Centre medical director Dr. M. Gopichand said about eight lakh patients were losing their lives due to cancer and about 12 lakh were getting affected by the disease every year. “Cancer is curable if detected at an early stage. People are requested to change their lifestyles, avoid outside food and go for health check-ups every year,” he said. Consumption of alcohol, chewing and smoking of tobacco and unhealthy food habits were the main cause of the disease while the role of genetic factors was only 10%, he said. Early detection “Cancer can be detected five years in advance. Cervix and breast cancers are common in females, which can be detected at an early stage. External radiation treatment is vital, which doesn’t have any side effects. Medical Oncology and Chemotherapy are the other types of treatments,” said hematologist P. Amarnath. “CBC test can detect blood cancer. It is advisable for people who crossed age 40 to undergo the test or consult a doctor for early detection of cancer. CML and CLL are the two types of blood cancers,” he said. The HCG Centre conducted a screening camp and medical tests for the police personnel. The doctors answered the queries raised by the police on cancer and its treatment. The Police Commissioner presented mementos to Dr. Sridhar, Dr. Gopichand, Dr. Amarnath and other police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/healthy-food-habits-exercise-will-help-fight-cancer/article38085076.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mahila panel received 1,274 petitions in 2021: Chairperson||The Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission has received 1,274 petitions seeking justice in the year 2021, according to its Chairperson Vasireddy Padma. The commission had provided treatment to many pregnant, migrant and orphan women during the COVID-19 crisis, Ms. Padma told the media on Friday. The commission had taken suo motu cognisance of 72 cases. It had received 63 petitions from NRIs on domestic violence, sexual harassment, torture, property disputes and other issues. Complaint cells “In cases of sexual harassment at work places, the commission is planning to book the staff of the departments or wings concerned,” Ms. Padma said. The heads and managements of all the organisations had been directed to set up complaint cells immediately. “The commission will soon visit the government and private organisations and enquire about the functioning of the complaint cells, including the number of petitions received, action taken and the cases forwarded to higher authorities, or to the police,” Ms. Padma said. “In cases pertaining to sexual assault of minors and grave offences, members of the commission had called on the victims at their homes and hospitals in Visakhapatnam, Guntur and other districts, and provided them financial and medical aid,” she said. The commission, in association with the colleges and university management, was organising awareness programmes on cybercrimes, trafficking, child marriages, online frauds and other crimes. “We request the managements to form Anti-Trafficking Clubs and conduct programmes in villages to prevent trafficking,” she said. The commission members had supplied food, medicines and necessary aid to the migrant women stranded in the State during the pandemic, she said. Later, Ms. Padma, along with the commission’s officers, cut the New Year cake. Commission members K. Jayasri and G. Jaya Lakshmi, Director R. Suez, Secretary Sailaja and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mahila-panel-received-1274-petitions-in-2021-chairperson/article38085004.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD seeing temple as a source of income: BJP||BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy has criticised the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) for “seeing the temple as a revenue generating source.” “The government has nominated several members to the TTD board only to meet its political necessities,” Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy alleged in a tweet on Friday. “The TTD gives discounts on its calendars and diaries for bulk orders. Amazon, an e-commerce portal, however, is looting the people by hiking the prices,” the BJP leader alleged. “While the calendar costs Rs. 15, Amazon is selling it for Rs. 199. Similarly, the diary, which costs Rs. 150, is priced at Rs. 799, and with a discount of 38%, it is sold at Rs. 499. Another Rs. 61 is being charged as delivery charges,” he said. “Amazon is selling the TTD products at exorbitant prices on the one hand and looting the devotees in the name of discounts on the other,” he alleged. “The TTD is hurting the sentiments of the devout. It should reconsider its decisions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-seeing-temple-as-a-source-of-income-bjp/article38085015.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||2021 a nightmare for people: TDP||The year 2021 was a nightmare for the people of the State as it was marked by “ruthless suppression, false cases and arrests,” TDP MLC Paruchuri Ashok Babu alleged here on Friday. Addressing the media, Mr. Ashok Babu said the year was witness to “indiscriminate exploitation of sand and unchecked frauds in liquor, land, cement, mining, and drugs.” He attributed the “decline in the education, health, financial and socio-economic sectors” to the government’s lopsided policies. The YSRCP government had pushed a progressive Andhra Pradesh into a situation far worse than Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Hoping that the New Year 2022 would bring a change for the better in the lives of the people, the TDP leader said farmers, students, employees, workers, traders, BCs, and weaker sections were waiting for relief sooner than later. Mr. Ashok Babu said that the people, who had given 151 out of 175 MLAs to the YSRCP, were cursing themselves now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2021-a-nightmare-for-people-tdp/article38085018.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. warns BJP against ‘divisive’ politics||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president S. Sailajanath on Friday accused the BJP of polarising people in the State under the guise of ‘Hindutva’. Taking strong exception to what he called “BJP’s divisive politics”, he said the party’s State president Somu Veerraju should stop making statements that would disturb communal harmony. He said India was known for its unity in diversity. Referring to the BJP demand on the Jinnah Tower in Guntur district, he said let people decide what they want. He said people would not remain silent if the BJP continued its divisive politics. New Year greetings Extending New Year greetings to the people of the State, he expressed the hope that year 2022 brings light into people’s lives and ward off the darkness spread by the COVID gloom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-warns-bjp-against-divisive-politics/article38085021.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book festival from today||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan will inaugurate the the 32nd edition of the Vijayawada Book Festival virtually here on Saturday evening. The annual event, being organised by the Vijayawada Book Festival Society at the PWD Grounds (Swaraj Maidan), will feature over 176 publishers and sellers up to January 11. At a press conference on Friday, society president T. Manohar Naidu, secretary K. Lakshmaiah, honorary president B. Babjee and others said various new books would be launched at the literary dais every day. Competitions would be held while career talks would be hosted for youth. Walk for Books, a book-lovers’ walkathon, would be organised on January 4 from Gandhi Nagar Press Club to Swaraj Maidan, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-festival-from-today/article38085019.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC cargo services cheaper than other States: corporation official||The cargo sector of the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has come in handy to the officials at the helm of the public sector giant to shore up its revenues even in the pandemic times. In a statement on Friday, the corporation’s Executive Director (Administration) K.S. Brahmananda Reddy said despite constant increase in the price of diesel, the RTC did not raise its service rates and continued to deliver parcels and couriers at an affordable price. “The rates charged by the road transport corporations in the neighbouring States are almost double the rates of APSRTC,” said Mr. Reddy. He said the APSRTC charges Rs. 120 for delivery of a 40-kg parcel covering a distance of 300 km, while the same service would cost Rs. 270 in a neighbouring State. He said unlike the private cargo sector, the APSRTC delivers 70% of the cargo material within 24 hours after the booking. Under the recently-introduced door delivery services, on an average, the corporation delivers 2,000 parcels daily to 84 different destinations. Contact number People seeking RTC cargo services could visit the website apsrtclogistics.in or call 0866 2570006, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-cargo-services-cheaper-than-other-states-corporation-official/article38085081.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 held for ‘robbery bid’ in retired IPS officer’s house||The Penamaluru police on Friday arrested two persons, T. Vikram of Ramthapur, Hyderabad, and V. Gopichand of Sangameswaram village, Avanigadda mandal, Krishna district, who allegedly tried to commit robbery in the house of a retired IPS officer T. Yoganand. The accused entered the officer’s house at Tulsi Nagar at Penamaluru on December 25 and attacked Mr. Yoganand’s father T. Venkata Thata Rao. They threatened him to hand over valuables but fled after seeing their domestic help, Sathipandu. The Penamaluru police, who registered a case, arrested the accused after observing the CCTV footages and other evidences, said Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-held-for-robbery-bid-in-retired-ips-officers-house/article38085078.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, CM extend New Year greetings||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday greeted people of the State on the eve of the New Year. In a statement, Mr. Harichandan hoped that the year 2022 would bring cheer, happiness, peace and prosperity to the citizens across the State. ‘Follow COVID norms’ “The New Year gives us a hope to look forward to a bright future, to explore new opportunities and an inspiration to achieve new goals,” he said, and made an appeal to the people to celebrate the New Year at home with their family members and follow the mandatory COVID-19 protocols. In view of the prevailing COVID-19 situation, the customary practice of prominent persons of the civil society and the general public meeting the Governor in the Raj Bhavan is being done away with this year also. Inclusive growth Wishing people a very happy and prosperous New Year, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy hoped that New Year would ring in the chimes of health, happiness and wellness in every family and the State will continue its welfare and development policies for a better future and inclusive growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-cm-extend-new-year-greetings/article38085022.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six Addl. DGPs promoted||The State government on Friday issued orders promoting seven IPS officers to above super time scale in the rank of Director General of Police (DGP). Additional DGP rank officers belonging to 1990, 1991 and 1992 batches Anjana Sinha, Madireddy Pratap, Mohd. Ahsan Reza, Harish Kumar Gupta, P. Sitarama Anjaneyulu, Kasi Reddy, V.R.N. Reddy and Nalin Prabath were promoted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-addl-dgps-promoted/article38085005.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Aim to bridge gender gap in workforce’||Lohiya Edible Oil Pvt. Ltd., manufacturer of Gold Drop Sunflower oil at Kakinada industrial area, has been striving to improve the lives of women and their families by providing an inclusive workforce, said its director, Sales and Marketing, Mitesh Lohiya. In a statement, Mr. Lohiya, referring to the gender parity issue in the labour workforce across the country, said the firm had been doing its best to bridge the gap, which would only lead to greater economic output. “A majority of our workforce comprises women from the neighbourhood and this improves the community through useful economic activity. We have women in our packing line in a noise, heat and dust-free environment, which allows them to pay attention at the workplace” he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aim-to-bridge-gender-gap-in-workforce/article38084540.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor releases grant for book fest||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has sanctioned Rs. 5 lakh from his discretionary grant funds to the Vijayawada Book Festival Society for organising the 32nd Vijayawada Book Festival to be held from January 1 at Swaraj Maidan. Mr. Harichandan will inaugurate the book festival in virtual mode from Raj Bhavan on Saturday. Special Chief Secretary to the Governor R. P. Sisodia said the grant of funds, given for the first time, would encourage the organisers to hold such events on a regular basis and promote the habit of book-reading among youth and the general public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-releases-grant-for-book-fest/article38085080.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to conduct cleanliness survey in all wards: Lakshmisha||On the lines of Swachh Survekshan Survey(SSS), the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is mulling to organise a survey in the 98 wards of the corporation to assess cleanliness in the wards in the New Year - WINGS (Ward Improvement Goal For Swacch Survekshan), said GVMC Commissioner G. Lakshmisha. He said that such initiatives would give overview of the cleanliness in the wards, ways to improve sanitation. The ward winng first prize will receive Rs. 1 crore, while the ward standing second would be sanctioned Rs. 50 lakh for ward development. The poster for the initiative was also released by Municipal Minister Bocha Satyanarayana, GVMC officials on Friday. The Commissioner was speaking during the annual press conference and announced his ideas for 2022. Mr. Lakshmisha said that he was planning to make himself available to public every day from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. Plans were being made to construct a park, exclusively for women, in all the zones. He also instructed the Sachivalayam/Secretariat staff to organise New Year celebrations in the office involving all staff and sanitary workers and also adopt a New Year resolution to strive hard and make efforts to make Visakhapatnam the cleanest city in the coming Swachh Survekshan Survey 2022. He said that medical camps will be conducted for the sanitary workers in all the wards very soon. Earlier, Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari read out the progress made by the corporation this year. The civic body had taken up 2,703 development works with a budget of Rs. 40,969 lakh. Of them, 1,554 works were completed, while 231 works were in progress. While 306 works were about to start, as many as 612 were still at the tender-stage. She said that as part of Clean Andhra Pradesh, the GVMC has received about 361 garbage collection vehicles in the first phase. About Rs. 2.10 lakh dustbins were provided to BPL families in the city. As part of ward development plan, the GVMC has sanctioned about Rs. 1.50 crore to each ward. As per the estimates, 923 works would be taken up in all the 98 wards, which requires an amount of Rs. 140.14 crore. The works include, 402 road works to be taken up with Rs. 59.87 crore and 250 drainage works at a cost of Rs. 37.32 crore, she said. Tenders would be called soon in this regard, she said. The Mayor said that the GVMC has planted about 2.21 lakh saplings this year. About 42 new health centres would be constructed in the city as per the plan of the government to establish a Community Health Centre (CHC) for every 30,000 population. There were already 30 health centres in the city. As part of Nadu-Nedu, the GVMC had developed 59 schools and in second stage, 40 schools would be developed. She said that the Waste-to-Energy Plant at Kapuluppada would start functioning soon. Deputy Mayor J. Sridhar and Chief Medical Officer K.S.L.G. Sastry were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plan-to-conduct-cleanliness-survey-in-all-wards-lakshmisha/article38085089.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remove encroachments on roads, MP tells officials||District Road Safety Committee Chairman and MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana has called for coordinated efforts by all departments to bring down road accidents in the district. Addressing the participants at the road safety meeting here on Friday, Mr. Satyanarayana said that encroachments on roads, which connect to the National and State Highways, should be identified and removed. He said that the government was apprised on the need to construct 12 flyovers at major junctions in the city. Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam suggested that that the Police Department and the GVMC officials should ensure synchronisation of traffic signals to reduce the waiting time for motorists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remove-encroachments-on-roads-mp-tells-officials/article38085088.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Works worth Rs. 337 crore under progress, says VMRDA chief||Several development works worth Rs. 337 crore taken up by the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) are in different stages of completion. These include the Multi-Level Car Parking Project (MLCP) at Siripuram and the Natural History Park and Museum, VMRDA Chairperson A Vijaya Nirmala has said. The Chairperson along with VMRDA Commissioner K. Venkat Reddy spoke to the media at the annual press conference here on Friday.Ms. Vijaya Nirmala said that the MLCP was being constructed with a budget of Rs. 80 crore over 1.35 acres. The 11-storied building would have five blocks for parking and six blocks for commercial space. Natural History Park and Museum and Integrated Museum and Tourism Complex were being taken up with a budget of Rs. 88 crore and Rs. 40 crore respectively. Kailasagiri development plan, with World Bank funds of Rs. 55 crore, was already started, she said. Apart from these, three Master Plan roads and commercial complexes were being constructed, she added. Mr. Venkat Reddy said that this year the VMRDA has completed works worth about Rs. 160 crore worth works, including the Rs. 122 crore NAD flyover project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/works-worth-rs-337-crore-under-progress-says-vmrda-chief/article38085092.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drop Ministers abusing Somu, BJP urges CM||BJP State vice president P. Vishnu Kumar Raju has appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to drop the Ministers and control YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) MLAs, who, he alleged were using abusive language against BJP State president Somu Veerraju. Addressing a media conference here on Friday, Mr. Raju said that the YSR Congress Party government should reduce the prices of liquor, if possible, instead of criticising Mr. Veerraju. He alleged that the State has witnessed despotic rule for the past two-and-a-half years and hoped that YSR Congress Party Ministers and MLAs would change their attitude at least in the New Year. He said that the roads in the State were in bad shape but contractors were not evincing interest in taking up the works as they were not paid their dues by the government. He said that if the same trend continued the YSRCP would not get any seats in the next elections. He challenged the Chief Minister to win at least 15 seats, without luring voters with liquor and money. The YSR Congress Party government gave assurances of total prohibition but was now allowing wine shops to function as usual on the New Year Eve, he said. He said that the ‘Praja agraha sabha’ in Vijayawada had revealed that the people were opposing the YSR Congress Party rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drop-ministers-abusing-somu-bjp-urges-cm/article38085087.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 arrested for ‘circulating’ fake currency notes||The city police on Friday arrested a two-member gang, which was circulating fake currency notes here on Friday. The police have seized fake currency notes of the value of Rs. 7.22 lakh in the denominations of Rs. 100, Rs. 200 and Rs. 500 from the accused. The arrested were identified as Yagati Eswara Rao and R. Vishnu, both friends hailing from Vizianagaram district. Based on credible information, Inspector of MVP Police Station P. Ramanayya and staff arrested two persons at Sivajipalem area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-arrested-for-circulating-fake-currency-notes/article38085090.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||HSL delivers tug to Navy on time||Hindustan Shipyard Ltd delivered the third of the four 50-Ton Bollard Pull Tug( Balraj) to Indian Navy on Friday. Tug Balraj was delivered on schedule despite COVID-19 pandemic situation. Earlier, HSL had delivered a tug each to ND (Mumbai) and ND (Visakhapatnam) on October 22 and 30, 2021 respectively. This tug is the 199th vessel built and delivered by the shipyard. The fourth tug of the series is also ready for delivery and with this delivery in January 2022, the HSL will achieve a milestone of 200th vessel built since inception in 1941. The tug, designed and built by the HSL, is capable of producing 50 Ton Bollard Pull and can achieve a speed of upto12 knots. The ship has proved her capabilities and achieved performance greater than the contractual requirements during the sea trials. HSL Chairman and Managing Director Hemant Khatri congratulated all the officers, staff and workmen for their professionalism and commended all stakeholders, including the Indian Navy, for extending their support for successful completion of the project .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hsl-delivers-tug-to-navy-on-time/article38085086.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tailor killed after scuffle with his customer||A 61-year-old tailor was reportedly killed after a scuffle with his customer, when the latter took offence to his failure to stitch his clothes as per his measurements at Marikavalasa here on Thursday. According to Inspector of PM Palem Police Station Ravi Kumar, a person named Ganesh reportedly complained to tailor G. Leema that his shirt was not stitched as per his size and demanded him to restitch it. Leema reportedly declined . Irked by this, Ganesh came along with his friends Surya Narayana and Clinton and attacked him. On a complaint, the police arrested Ganesh, Surya Narayana and Clinton, all aged between 20 and 30 years. The police registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tailor-killed-after-scuffle-with-his-customer/article38085091.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:47 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||PM urged to lay focus on State’s backward areas||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) senior leader and former State treasurer of the party Pakalapati Sanyasi Raju on Friday urged the Union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take necessary steps for quick progress and economic development of North Andhra region, Rayalaseema and other parts of the State. He alleged that the three regions were neglected by successive governments since Independence. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Sanyasi Raju said that people with little income continued to depend on the government’s welfare schemes in the absence of opportunities to make themselves financially self-reliant. “Except Visakhapatnam city, the entire region including Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts is among the most backward region of the country. Almost all the governments treated people as vote banks by luring them with welfare schemes which would not benefit them in the long run,” said Mr. Sanyasi Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pm-urged-to-lay-focus-on-states-backward-areas/article38085034.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-first/article38085085.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||On guard||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/on-guard/article38085073.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||119 Maoists surrendered in Bhadradri||The relentless efforts of the district police in weaning innocent tribal people away from the ideology of extremists paid off and as many as 119 Maoists surrendered in the district during 2021, said Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt. Speaking to reporters after releasing the district police annual report-2021 in Kothagudem on Friday, he said the district police excelled in all spheres of policing including the anti-extremist front, crime prevention and detection. In a significant move, the police vigorously conducted outreach activities forging strong bonds with people living in remote tribal pockets by identifying their needs and distributing 2500 water filters, distributing sports kits, organising medical camps, among other community policing programmes. The SP said around 510 booby traps were unearthed and a huge haul of explosive materials were seized by the police during the anti-Maoist operations in the district. A total of 62 Maoists were arrested in various cases of extremist offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/119-maoists-surrendered-in-bhadradri/article38084839.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||HC declines to impose restrictions on NY revelry||Instructing the State government to file a compliance report over the Union government’s guidelines to check spread of COVID-19 within four days, the Telangana High Court on Friday declined to impose restrictions on New Year celebrations in the State. After hearing a batch of PIL and writ petitions related to COVID, a bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice N. Tukaramji said that imposing restrictions depended on the situation prevailing in the State. “The situation in the State is normal,” the bench said and declined to pass any interim restrictions on New Year events. The bench, however, made it clear that managements of clubs, pubs, bars and hotels should allow only those persons who were fully vaccinated. Staff members working at these places should get COVID-19 tests conducted 48 hours prior to attending to duties. Earlier, lawyers Chikkudu Prabhakar and K. Pawan Kumar appearing for petitioners contended that the Telangana government issued orders relaxing rules pertaining to sale of liquor for New Year celebrations. If persons attending parties at these places contract COVID, the likelihood of the virus spreading further would be high when they return home where their respective parents and children live. This might lead to community infection as well as Omicron that is reportedly spreading quickly, they said. They stated that Delhi and Maharashtra governments had already issued stringent restrictions on gatherings of people for NY celebrations. The High Court bench, however, said that the status report filed by the State Public Health Director (DPH) claimed that the first dose vaccination was 100% completed covering all people. Even the second dose was completed 66%. The High Court bench also differed with the contentions of the counsels that containment zones should be created for isolation of persons testing positive for COVID-19. Containment zones would be required only when the number of infected persons was high. Such alarming situation was not prevalent in the State, the bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-declines-to-impose-restrictions-on-ny-revelry/article38084815.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||Crime graph up, police achieve ‘better conviction rate’||The Telangana police accomplished successes on many fronts like better conviction rate in the year 2021, notwithstanding 4.6% rise in overall crimes compared to previous year, DGP M. Mahender Reddy said on Friday. Sharing details of the accomplishments of police in 2021 at a press conference, the DGP exuded the confidence that the prestigious multi-storied State police command and control centre coming up at Banjara Hills in Hyderabad would emerge a role model for other States. Though 70% of the centre’s work was completed, COVID-19 pandemic slowed its construction a bit. “In next three to four months, Chief Minister would inaugurate the command centre,” Mr. Reddy announced. The centre has multiple back-end technologies with state-of-the-art equipment and tools to improve all spheres of policing. Initiatives like Citizen Financial Cyber Fraud Reporting and Management System (CFCFRMS), part of National Crime Reporting Portal (NCRP), came to the help of people losing money in cyber crimes. This system’s helpline No. 155260 (to which calls received on 100, 112 can be routed) was introduced on trial basis in Cyberabad police commissionerate. While 45,893 calls relating to financial frauds were received at this helpline, 9,644 complaints landed through NCRP. Victims lost Rs. 95.71 crore in these frauds. Authorities withheld fraudulent transfer of Rs. 5.11 crore by alerting different financial entities. The Director-General of Police said eight lakh surveillance cameras installed all over the State acted as force multipliers helping police detect crimes. Referring to allegations that cameras were invading privacy of the public, Mr. Mahender Reddy said “it is a motivated, malafide campaign by vested interests”. Entire video footage of the camera systems would be stored with the community (who installed the cameras) and only for crime detection purpose would the footage be accessed by the police. “The false campaign is part of organised effort to derail safety and security systems,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crime-graph-up-police-achieve-better-conviction-rate/article38084833.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||GHMC on the backfoot in the bygone year||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has little to boast of as achievements in the bygone calendar year, partly due to the raging pandemic in the first half and debilitating financial difficulties throughout. It has largely been a hand-to-mouth existence for the corporation, as it had to depend on property tax and building fee collections every month even to pay salaries to its employees. Delayed payment to the contractors has been a rankling issue. The year began on a note of alarm for the TRS party with regard to its sway on GHMC, as the council elections held at the end of 2020 just out of the devastating October floods, yielded substantial number of seats to its rival party, BJP. However, the ruling party could win both Mayor and Deputy Mayor posts effortlessly in the council. Delta variant of the coronavirus left a trail of destruction starting from March up to June, during which the civic body could not even carry out its regular activities let alone take up any new plans or proposals. Even the high priority SRDP works had to be practically put on hold for lack of funds and labour. Except launch of the flyover at the Owaisi Junction towards the year end, and RUBs in Hi-Tech City and Anandbagh, not much has been achieved on SRDP front. While the Strategic Nala Development Programme (SNDP) announced by the government post last year’s deluge experienced hiccups due to lack of funds, floods struck yet again towards October, though not with the ferocity of the previous year, leaving countless colonies inundated yet again. Tenders for SNDP works received pathetic response, due to GHMC’s financial straits and non-payment of bills to contractors. For 32 works for which bids have been invited, tender process has been finished only for 17 works after repeated calls. Issue of building permissions through TS-bPASS has been rolled out for GHMC this year, by the Town Planning department. Instant building permissions have been granted for 2,241 applicants for residential construction within 75 square yards of land, a statement from GHMC informed. Similarly, 8,534 applicants for construction ground-plus-two floors within 600 square yards have been given the nod without scrutiny. Single-window permissions have been granted for 1,335 structures built in over 600 square yards and with over 10 metres height. Enforcement system has been overhauled through constitution of the zonal level enforcement committees, but without much avail. A total 416 notices have been issued for illegal constructions on the whole, and the structures have been pulled down, the statement said. A total 22.84 kilometres of major link and slip roads have been built during the year, it said. On the vaccination front against COVID-19, first dose of vaccination has been completed in 4,846 colonies in coordination with the Medical & Health department. Drive for second dose has begun on December 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-on-the-backfoot-in-the-bygone-year/article38084810.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Will change the face of Nalgonda’||As part of the roadmap for comprehensive development of Telangana, Nalgonda town will be sanctioned about Rs. 100 crore worth programmes and witness a fast-paced progress soon, Minister for Municipal Administration K.T. Rama Rao said on Friday. Joining Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy and Minister for Roads & Building V. Prashant Reddy, he toured Nalgonda town, held reviews with officials and participated in a series of inaugurations and foundation-laying ceremonies. Mr. Rama Rao led a town padayatra, interacted with general public and took stock of the ground situation. Along with District Collector Prashant J Patil and local legislator K. Bhupal Reddy, he inaugurated the newly-constructed hostel for boys at the Polytechnic College and at the beat market laid the stone for the integrated vegetarian and non-vegetarian market. Putting the town in the league of IT hubs in towns such as Warangal, Karimnagar, Khammam, Mahabubnagar and Nizamabad, Minister KTR laid the foundation stone for IT hub at Nalgonda. He said nine companies had already signed the memorandum to set up their offices in Nalgonda. The hub would achieve a full shape and be inaugurated in about 18 months, he said. He announced five basti dawakhanas for Nalgonda town, skilling programmes leading to jobs for youth and construction of Vaikunta Dhamam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-change-the-face-of-nalgonda/article38084827.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Killers known to victims in 55% murder-for-gain cases||In 55% cases, out of the total 85 murders for gain reported in the State in the year 2021, the killers were known to the victims. Lured by the financial resources of the victims, persons having proximity to them executed the murders. In the remaining 45% cases, the murderers were strangers or not connected to the victims, an analysis of the motives behind these grave crimes revealed. Presenting a study of the crimes, DGP M. Mahender Reddy observed that 743 murders out of the 838 reported in 2021 were due to property fight, land dispute, family feud, discord within family members over some personal matters or strained relations. Other factors like sudden provocation, emotional issues too drove individuals to murder, the DGP explained. The analysis, however, did not explain if extra-marital relations resulted in any killing. Out of 1,218 kidnaps reported, only in nine cases ransom was demanded for release of the abducted persons. In 90% of the these instances, elopement for marriage (love, illicit relations) emerged the prime factors. Some of these cases were registered as abduction in compliance with Supreme Court guidelines pertaining to missing children. In 2,382 cases of sexual assault, the accused were known to the victims in 2,356 cases. Close family members, friends, lovers, colleagues and acquaintances of the victims emerged offender in these cases. Only in 26 rape cases, the accused were strangers or not known to the victims. Telangana police began registering cases of road accident deaths caused by drunk drivers as culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Section 304 Part-II of Indian Penal Code. Out of 389 culpable homicide cases, 159 were registered in cases of drunk driving resulting in death of people. Frauds relating to fake customer care centre calls, advertisement portals, jobs, loans and bank transactions accounted for nearly 66% of 8,828 cyber crimes. Online impersonation, cyber stalking, phishing and posting obscene content and other factors resulted in the remaining online offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/killers-known-to-victims-in-55-murder-for-gain-cases/article38084830.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:42 IST,TELANGANA||City ushers in 2022||With closed flyovers, strict drunk driving checks and party restrictions in public places, Hyderabad ushered in the New Year of 2022 with a glimmer of hope on Friday midnight. While a certain population welcomed the New Year amid prayers at churches and temples, many others kept it quiet. Parties, long drives around the city and DJs were images from virtual memory. City traffic reduced gradually towards the evening and the night was quieter with ‘roads’ curfew’. For residents of colonies and apartments, grand ‘rangoli kolams’ were show-off artistry followed by countdown timing and cutting cakes. Several liquor shops across the city witnessed queues that stood for at least an hour. While liquor stores were open until midnight, police were ready with breath analysers since 10 p.m. The all-attractive Tank Bund was a vibrant spot for revellers on their way back home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-ushers-in-2022/article38084813.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Check posts at all main roads||Equipped with body cameras and breath analysers, a large number of police personnel were deployed on New Year’s eve, with a smattering of check posts all across the main roads to curb drunk driving and rash driving that results in ghastly road accidents. Telangana police had earlier issued strict instructions to hotels and pubs on New Year celebrations, with the onus on restaurant managements to ensure that their staff have been vaccinated and to allow only those customers who were fully vaccinated. Check posts were set up at every main road and within distances of hardly two km of each other. Police said this was done to make sure that even if some revellers take alternative routes, they still get caught if drunk driving or rash driving. Commissioner of Police C.V. Anand said that they have tightened the movement of New Year revellers by taking all important arterial roads under control. He said that they expect people to be individually responsible and not to endanger their and others’ lives. “From a home guard to myself, we will be manning the roads for the safety of citizens and curb triple riding, rash driving and of course, stringent action will be taken against those who indulge in drunk driving,” Mr. Anand said. “Law and order police will be patrolling outside pubs and hotels,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/check-posts-at-all-main-roads/article38084811.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Water Board aiming to complete 31 STPs by Dasara||Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is aiming to complete construction of the 31 sewage treatment plants (STPs) by Dasara this year to achieve 100% sewage treatment in the city. The government had, in September, sanctioned Rs. 3,866 crore for upgrading the STPs to handle 1,259 million litres more of sewage per day over and above the existing capacity of 772 MLD. A study report by the government appointed consultant projected generation of 1,950 MLD of sewage in 10 years. Plans are to expand the STPs up to ORR, a statement from the Board said. Besides, the government has sanctioned Rs. 1,200 crore for addressing drinking water needs of the areas within ORR. Orders have been issued for construction of reservoirs with combined capacity of 137 million litres and laying of pipelines for 2,100 kilometres to benefit a total of 20 lakh families. The works are targeted to be complete by the end of the year. The year started for the Board with implementation hiccups of the 20 kilo litres monthly free water supply scheme, an election promise by the TRS government. The mandatory Aadhaar linkage for availing the free water scheme could not be completed in the city even by the year-end, forcing the government to announce demand waiver for the year for all domestic consumers. This decision could prove to be an albatross around the neck of the Board already reeling under severe financial crisis. Anxious moments The Board officials had spent several anxious moments during monsoons this year, as they had to open the gates of the twin reservoirs repeatedly whenever it rained heavy to release flood water into Musi river. Flood alert had been sounded to all the residential areas on the banks of the river, yet stray instances were reported of people being washed away. This year, an additional responsibility was given to the Board to maintain the sewerage network of GHMC peripheries too, extending up to 3,600 kilometres of pipeline system and 3.26 lakh manholes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-board-aiming-to-complete-31-stps-by-dasara/article38084819.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||Plea to hold zone transfer policy||Telangana BJP accused a 'busy' Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of being 'adamant' and not listening to the 'travails of the government employees' as a result of the 'arbitrary' zonal transfers policy on Friday. "Every employee has been affected due to this lopsided policy. There are protests everywhere and the media has been highlighting the issue but Mr. Rao seems to be oblivious to all these instead of making due corrections," said party president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Friday. He was talking to the media outside the Raj Bhavan after meeting Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan requesting her intervention to make the Government make necessary changes to the GO 317 - which led to the controversial transfers policy. The BJP supports the employees' concerns about the zonal transfers policy where only the CM, Ministers and MLAs have the discretionary powers and no options to them. The Government does not even have a proper seniority list and there is a deliberate effort to dry a wedge between the staff, he charged. In the memorandum, the party said the GO was in violation of the Presidential orders and the spirit of Telangana movement as it renders both the employees and the teachers non-local in the districts of their posting. With seniority the sole criterion for the exercise of options by the employees, the juniors are being transferred to the remote areas in districts, non-local to their native places while the seniors are opting for urban districts. It means, there won’t be vacancies for the next 30 years in rural areas and when seniors retire, the vacancies will go to people of urban districts, depriving educated youth of rural areas of employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-to-hold-zone-transfer-policy/article38084836.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||HMDA’s development canopy in year 2021||Kokapet layout development, completion of Balanagar flyover, beautification of the Tank Bund and illumination of the Outer Ring Road are some of the achievements by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) during the bygone year 2021. During the last three years, HMDA has taken up works to the tune of Rs. 2,000 crore some of which have been completed and more are in progress, a year-end statement from the urban development authority claimed. A six-lane two-way flyover of one kilometre length has been built at Balanagar, passing over Narsapur crossroads and Fathenagar junction, and the existing road has been widened to 45 metres from 30 metres. Granite flooring, ornamental railing, street lighting, benching and other such facilities are hoped to attract more visitors to Tank Bund while the Necklace Road has been refurbished by a VDCC road for a length of six kilometres, apart from footpath improvement and walkway lighting. High-mast LED lighting has been completed on the central median of the main carriage way for a length of 136 kilometres on the ORR, in order to reduce the accidents, and a logistic park has been launched in Batasingaram area. Two walk-ways have been taken up at Uppal and Mehdipatnam, besides installation of three foot over bridges at Uppal, AS Rao Nagar and IDPL Colony. Infrastructural facilities have been taken up in an area of 533 acres at the Neopolis layout of Kokapet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hmdas-development-canopy-in-year-2021/article38084808.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Traffic goes haywire as city celebrates New Year||A 3.4-km drive on SP Road took 11 minutes at 6 p.m. on Friday. A 9-km drive between Banjara Hills and Madhapur took 31 minutes. At 6:54 p.m., the Hyderabad Traffic Police put out a message: “Slow movement of traffic from St Ann’s School, North Zone, YMCA X road, SBH X Roads towards Paradise X Roads.” In the southern parts of the city, traffic flow was reduced to a crawl from Banjara Hills towards Masab Tank, from Toli Chowki towards Hydershakote, and Bahadurpura area. Traffic went haywire on Friday evening as citizens prepared to celebrate New Year. It was not just every private vehicle on the road, there were throngs of people at shopping malls and tourist places. Even in the inner lanes of the city, traffic was gridlocked as small bakeries and sweet shop owners spread their wares in front of their shops. Big rush “We have had a big rush of people since Christmas. It is many times the normal number of visitors. It’s been a busy week,” said a Department of Archaeology and Museums official at the Qutb Shahi Tombs Complex. Outside the Golconda Fort, traffic was gridlocked on Friday evening, as it has been for the last one week as tourists have been visiting the medieval fortress from across the country. “Today there are fewer visitors and we are able to talk to you. It is crowded for the past few days with most visitors going to Salar Jung Museum from here,” said an auto rickshaw driver from the locality. Brisk business Hawkers lining the road made a killing with their wares. While open air tourist places like Charminar, Golconda and Qutb Shahi tombs were crowded, a similar scenario played out at the shopping malls in city. The food courts in two of the biggest malls in Panjagutta area were full. During the economic downturn due to COVID, when half the food stalls were shuttered, on Friday only three out of the 25 food outlets were closed at one mall. At the other, only two out of 15 outlets were closed. The announcement by the All India Industrial Exhibition officials about the inauguration of the Numaish event on January 1 by the Governor adds a new dimension to social distancing and masking norms being enforced in the State.  Today there are fewer visitors and we are able to talk to you. It is crowded for the past few days with most visitors going to Salar Jung Museum from here. Auto driver from Golconda Fort area||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-goes-haywire/article38084818.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||Congress leaders visit oustee camp||MLC and former minister T. Jeevan Reddy wondered why Finance and Health Minister T. Harish Rao, who used to camp in the district for elections, had not visited the ongoing agitation by oustees of Gudatipally. “The Government has been constructing projects by investing thousands of crores of rupees and why it has been not coming forward to offer rightful compensation to them? Why both Harish Rao and Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao are not responding when agitation has been taking place in their own district?” asked Mr Jeevan Reddy. On Friday, some Congress leaders visited the agitation spot and extended their support. Mr. Jeevan Reddy said Mr Harish Rao had camped at Dubbak and Huzurabad during byelections but surprisingly could not find time to visit the oustees. Mr Jeevan Reddy and former Lok Sabha member Ponnam Prabhakar visited the camp of the agitators and interacted with them. Meanwhile, the oustees submitted a memorandum to officials, seeking a fresh land acquisition notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-leaders-visit-oustee-camp/article38084834.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||Congress ‘discipline’ is more of ‘indiscipline’||The issue of Congress legislator from Sangareddy T. Jayaprakash Reddy writing to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi against TPCC chief A. Revanth Reddy is snowballing into a major controversy with the TPCC Disciplinary Committee planning to seek a personal explanation, and the MLA questioning the locus standi of the committee’s decision. The disciplinary committee headed by former Minister G. Chinna Reddy met on Friday to discuss various issues including Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy’s letter. When reporters questioned on the meeting details, Mr. Chinna Reddy said the committee preferred to call Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy in person to discuss how the letter was leaked to the media. “Taking action against him is not in our purview but the committee wants to discuss the leakage issue,” he said. Reacting to Mr. Chinna Reddy’s response, Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy held a press conference to claim that he was unaware of how the letter was leaked. He demanded that the disciplinary committee should also consider the ‘indiscipline’ of the TPCC chief, who according to him, did not inform him about any meetings in his district and also in the constituencies allotted to him as the TPCC working president for party work. “I was not informed about the programme at Yerravalli in Siddipet district and also the TPCC chief’s programme at Bhupalpally that falls under the Lok Sabha constituency allotted to him for party work. The committee should also seek explanation from Mr. Revanth Reddy on this,” he demanded. Asked why he was not raising these issues on party platforms, he said he was sharing it with media since the Disciplinary Committee Chairman also shared his views with the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-discipline-is-more-of-indiscipline/article38084838.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||‘Withdraw Bill to raise marriage age’||The United Muslim Forum, a body of faith leaders, has opposed the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to raise the age of marriage of women from 18 to 21 years. In a statement issued to the media, the UMF said that the Bill must be withdrawn as it goes against the Constitution. It advised community members not to have apprehensions about the Bill at this juncture. They requested qazis to guide people in this regard so that a situation of panic does not arise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/withdraw-bill-on-raise-in-marriage-age/article38084805.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Vijaya Dairy milk prices up||The Telangana State Dairy Development Cooperative Federation Ltd. (Vijaya Dairy) has increased its milk price effective January 1, 2022. The rate is up by Rs. 2 per litre for double toned, standardised, diet, tea-special and cow milk and Rs. 4 per litre for whole milk. According to a statement issued by the Telangana State DDCF on Friday, the price of double toned milk (500 ml sachet) will go up from Rs. 22 to Rs. 23, and cow milk (500 ml sachet) from Rs. 24 to Rs. 25, toned milk (500 ml sachet) from Rs. 24 to Rs. 25, standardised milk (500 ml sachet) from Rs. 26 to Rs. 27, whole milk (500 ml sachet) from Rs. 31 to Rs. 33, diet milk (500 ml sachet) from Rs. 21 to Rs. 22 and tea-special milk (500 ml sachet) from Rs. 23 to Rs. 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vijaya-dairy-milk-prices-up/article38084812.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Road safety meeting held||Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Hyderabad A.V. Ranganath on Friday held the District Road Safety Committee meeting in compliance with the guidelines of the Supreme Court to discuss and take up all remedial measures for reduction of road accidents in the city. Mr. Ranganath along with DCP (Traffic-I) N. Prakash Reddy and other stakeholders from Transport department discussed improvement of junctions, identification of black spots, and breakdown of RTC buses on roads causing traffic congestion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/road-safety-meeting-held/article38084816.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Centre’s fresh rules echo practices in TS||The Central government on Friday issued a set of fresh guidelines to meet the challenge of rise in COVID cases, some of which have already been implemented by the Telangana government. In a letter to Chief Secretaries of all States, Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Rajesh Bhushan and Secretary of the Department of Health Research Balram Bhargava asked State governments to increase testing by widespread use of rapid antigen tests in specific situations where RTPCR testing posed challenges. Based on previous experience, it was observed that if the number of cases rose above a certain threshold, RTPCR based testing led to delays in confirming diagnosis due to its turnaround time of about five to eight hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centres-fresh-rules-echo-practices-in-ts/article38084817.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Fleming tests COVID positive||British Deputy High Commissioner to TS and AP Andrew Fleming tested positive for COVID. Mr. Fleming took to Twitter on Friday to inform those who have come in contact with him to be watchful of symptoms and get themselves tested, if the need arises. He urged his ‘local friends’ to exercise caution despite the relatively low number of COVID cases in the State.  “Having read of so many friends from different parts of the [globe emoji]  who tested positive I have now joined the COVID club. Advise anyone who I have met in recent days to be watchful of symptoms & test if need be. Local friends, despite relatively low figures in the state I urge caution,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fleming-tests-covid-positive/article38084820.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Rs. 1,145 cr credited to ryots’ accounts as RB on Friday||An amount of Rs. 1,144.64 crore was credited to the bank accounts of 6,75,824 landholding (pattadar) farmers in the State on Friday, the fourth day of the benefit transfer, as investment support for the rabi season under the Rythu Bandhu scheme. Officials said the amount was transferred to the bank accounts of farmers having landholding of over 3 acres and up to 4 acres. In four days, the total amount transferred as Rythu Bandhu benefit is Rs. 4,246.68 crore covering 52,71,091 farmers. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy appealed to farmers to go for crops having demand in the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-1145-cr-credited-to-ryots-accounts-as-rb-on-friday/article38084825.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Rs. 30 Cr sanctioned for N.G. College development||Following up on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s instructions from Wednesday’s review in Nalgonda, the State Higher Education Department has accorded administrative sanctions worth Rs. 30 crore for Nagarjuna Government College. The sanction, as per requests made by Nalgonda legislator K. Bhupal Reddy, would help construction of buildings and improve infrastructural facilities at the College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-30-cr-sanctioned-for-ng-college-development/article38084828.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||SCR bags two performance shields||The South Central Railway bagged two all India Performance Efficiency Shields for 2021 - for stores and civil engineering. The second one jointly with the West Central Railway on Friday. The Stores Department ensured depots at Lallaguda, Rayanapadu and Tirupati are declared as scrap-free while procurement of goods and services through online portal has also been effectively implemented. The civil engineering wing has helped taking the lead in eliminating manned level crossings by construction of road under bridges and limited height subways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-bags-two-performance-shields/article38084804.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:59 IST,TELANGANA||Mysuru zoo to build another enclosure for orangutans||Help is pouring in for the Mysuru zoo as the Bank Note Paper Mill India Private Limited has agreed to donate a sum of Rs. 99.20 lakh for the construction of another enclosure for orangutans. It signed a memorandum of understanding in this regard with the Mysuru zoo, under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative. This is the second time the company is helping the zoo as it earlier donated Rs. 70 lakh for the construction of an orangutan house, under the CSR initiative. The construction was done recently and two pairs of orangutans brought from Singapore and Malaysia have been put on display.  Zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni told The Hindu that another enclosure for housing orangutans had become necessary for ensuring the new bloodline of the species and taking up captive breeding of the endangered species. This required a larger place and therefore we proposed another enclosure for the species. The paper mill limited agreed to fund the project, he added.  Mr. Kulkarni thanked the company management for its gesture. The zoo got two pairs of orangutans from Singapore and Malaysia as it managed to strike another major international animal exchange deal. The 17-year-old male, Merlin, and 13-year-old female, Atina, arrived from Singapore zoo while five-year-old male, Afa, and the 7-year-old female, Minnie, were brought from Malaysia zoo. In return, the Mysuru zoo has given two pairs of giraffes. According to the zoo records, the last time the zoo displayed orangutans was in the 70s and the zoo authorities’ best efforts thereafter to get an orangutan pair did not materialise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mysuru-zoo-to-build-another-enclosure-for-orangutans/article38084807.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:59 IST,TELANGANA||SCCL captive solar power plant commissioned||The Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL)’s total installed solar power generation capacity from its captive solar power plants reached 219 MW with the commissioning of a 10-MW solar power plant in the Ramagundam-III area on Friday. The synchronisation of 10-MW solar power with the grid marked the inauguration of the 50-MW unit in RG-III area and also successful completion of the second phase of the State-owned SCCL’s ambitious solar power project in different areas of the company, spanning the vast coal belt region of the State, SCCL sources said. SCCL Directors (Finance, P&P, PAW) N Balaram and D Satyanarayana Rao (E&M) on Friday inaugurated the solar power plant in RG-III area near Godavarikhani. TBGKS president B Venkat Rao, SCCL RG-III General Manager A Manohar and others were present. The State-owned coal company drew up plans to expeditiously construct 81-MW solar power plants in vacant lands and on overburden dumps in the coal belt region and also one floating solar power plant on the water reservoir of the Singareni Thermal Power Plant (STPP) in Mancherial district to reach the 300-MW total installed capacity by mid-2022 in the third phase. The captive solar power plants of the company set up in the first and second phases together generated 166 million units of energy leading to substantial saving of Rs. 85 crore for the government-owned company. The company was planning to set up 250-MW floating solar PV power project on water surface area of Lower Manair Dam in Karimnagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-captive-solar-power-plant-commissioned/article38085040.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||Triumphs, trials and tragedies||Much like in the previous year, the COVID-19 pandemic dominated 2021 with a deadly second wave unleashing mayhem, even as the government focussed its attention on vaccinating the State population and arranging medical resources. The year also witnessed a political mudsling between the TRS and BJP in the wake of resignation of former Health Minister Eatala Rajender from the TRS which resulted in the byelection from Huzurabad constituency. The World Heritage site status bestowed on the iconic Ramappa temple and the passing away of former Chief Minister K. Rosaiah were among other important events in the calendar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/triumphs-trials-and-tragedies/article38084802.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Senapathi’ movie review: Rajendra Prasad, Naresh Agastya impress in this fairly engrossing crime drama||A policeman loses his official pistol, which changes hands at a pace that is tough to track. A series of murders rock the city. The premise lends itself to an edge-of-the-seat thriller that can give us a glimpse into the police procedures and the working of the crime network as the cop races against time to find the gun and save his job. Senapathi is a Telugu adaptation of the 2017 Tamil film 8 Thottakkal (eight bullets) written and directed by Sri Ganesh, which was in turn loosely inspired by Akira Kurosowa’s Stray Dog (1949). What gives the crime drama an edge are the backstories of the cop Krishna (Naresh Agasthya) and the man at the other end, Krishna Murthy (Rajendra Prasad), along with smaller stories of other characters caught in this tussle.  The able technical team and Shravan Bharadwaj’s background score keep the atmosphere brooding and gritty as the film traverses the maze-like conduits of crime in the bylanes of Hyderabad. The opening portions introduce us to Krishna, a boy who is framed by his employer and a cop for a murder he did not commit and sent to a juvenile home. The jail warden instils in him a sense of hope and encourages him to become a policeman, rather than be overcome by bitterness. (For the longer version, check www.thehindu.com)  Senapathi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/senapathi-movie-review-rajendra-prasad-naresh-agastya-impress-in-this-fairly-engrossing-crime-drama/article38084822.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Arjuna Phalguna’: Sree Vishnu is good, but the film is let down by a weak story||Director Teja Marni, who debuted with Telugu film Johar (2020), chooses a crime-comedy for his second outing. The opening scene explains the meaning of the title Arjuna Phalguna . No, Phalguna isn’t Arjuna’s surname.  Through an anecdote that has a mythological significance, every time the protagonist is in trouble and needs strength and courage, he utters ‘Arjuna Phalguna’, then all is well. A childhood episode becomes the prelude to establishing the character of Arjuna (Sree Vishnu), who is a good-hearted young man who helps his near and dear ones in distress but is considered a wastrel. Among his group of friends is a girl (Amritha Iyer) whom he’s romantically inclined towards. They are all a source of worry for their poor and ageing parents. (For the longer version, check www.thehindu.com)  Arjuna Phalguna||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/arjuna-phalguna-sree-vishnu-is-good-but-the-film-is-let-down-by-a-weak-story/article38084823.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||BJP bid to strengthen party in eastern Rajasthan||With an eye on the 2023 Assembly election, the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party in Rajasthan is trying to strengthen itself in the eastern part of the State, bordering Uttar Pradesh, where its organisational structure is weak. The party had won only one seat in the Bharatpur division in the 2018 Assembly polls. The BJP held a meeting of the joint executive committee of all front organisations in Bharatpur over the weekend with a call to strengthen the party at grassroots level in the region and overthrow the Congress in the next election. Senior party leaders and two Union Ministers were among those who attended the two-day meeting. The front bodies represented at the meeting included the BJP’s Kisan Morcha, Mahila Morcha, Other Backward Classes Morcha, Scheduled Castes Morcha, Scheduled Tribes Morcha, Youth Morcha and the Minorities Morcha. An exhibition at the venue displayed the achievements and future action plans of the front organisations. Lauds Jat king Addressing the participants, BJP State president Satish Poonia praised the 18th Century Jat king of Bharatpur, Maharaja Suraj Mal, who had captured Delhi in 1753, and called upon the party workers to defeat the Congress. He said the “anti-people” Congress had failed on every front, while 60 lakh farmers were waiting for loan waiver promised by the ruling party three years ago. Mr. Poonia said the BJP needed to make its fight against the Congress more assertive by highlighting the poor state of affairs, amid the lack of governance and rising crime graph. “Our leadership is our pride...All the Morchas of the BJP should convey the message of public welfare schemes of the Narendra Modi government to every household,” he said. The meeting refrained from projecting a chief ministerial face for the 2023 Assembly election. BJP national general secretary in charge of Rajasthan Arun Singh told reporters that the candidature would be decided by the party’s parliamentary board. The BJP leaders laid emphasis on political significance of eastern Rajasthan as well as the scope for the party’s expansion in the four districts of the Bharatpur division. Of the 19 Assembly seats in the region, the Congress had won 13 and the Bahujan Samaj Party three in the 2018 election. The only BJP winner was Shobharani Kushwah from Dholpur. While the rival factions in the Congress appeared to have patched up after the recent Cabinet expansion and reshuffle, the BJP faces an internal strife with the loyalists of senior leader Vasundhara Raje demanding that she be projected as the face for the next elections. Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Union Minister of State Kailash Chaudhary and Deputy Leader of the Opposition Rajendra Rathore addressed various sessions in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-trying-to-strengthen-party-in-eastern-rajasthan/article38084719.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||Spike in cases dampens New Year cheer||West Bengal, and its capital Kolkata, are witnessing an almost overnight explosion in the number of COVID-19 cases, with the cheer that had gripped the city only 10 days ago now giving way to caution. The State government is expected to soon release a fresh set of guidelines aimed at combating the surge. On Friday, figures released by the Health Department showed the State recording 2,128 COVID-19 cases on a single day, with Kolkata alone accounting for 1,090 of them. Barely 10 days ago, it was a different picture, when the city seemed set to return to the pre-pandemic days. On December 21, for example, the whole of West Bengal had reported 440 new cases, with Kolkata accounting for 177 of them. By December 28, these figures had climbed to 752 and 382 respectively, and now the count is once again in four figures.  “The situation is getting bad. Cases are skyrocketing. Phone calls are already coming from friends and relatives who had been through COVID-19 before and who are getting infected again. Hospital beds are once again in demand. The need of the hour is to restrict mass congregations and cancel celebrations, [but that not happening] is going to hamper whatever little chances we had to containing the spread of the infection,” well-known ENT specialist Dr. Arjun Dasgupta told The Hindu .  Many popular clubs have called off the New Year celebrations, and police are seeking to prevent mass gatherings, including on the Park Street, where thousands had congregated during the days before and after Christmas. The surge comes at a time when schools and colleges across the State had reopened and when winter fairs and festivals had returned to Kolkata after a gap of two years. Now the city appears to be returning to the news of cancellations — not only have the New Year festivities been called off at many popular venues, but even the opening ceremony of the Kolkata International Film Festival, scheduled to be held at the Netaji Indoor Stadium, has reportedly been shifted to the State Secretariat in Howrah. Book fair  Uncertainty also clouds the much awaited Kolkata Book Fair, which could not be held in 2021 and which, as of now, is scheduled to be held from January 31 to February 13. “We are preparing for the fair, but are awaiting instructions from the government,” Tridib Chatterjee, honorary general secretary of the Publishers’ & Booksellers’ Guild, which organises the fair, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/spike-in-cases-dampens-new-year-cheer/article38084915.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||Maharashtra courts’ date with virtual hearings||The year 2021 has been particularly difficult for courts across the country because of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, most of the courts in the country as well as in Maharashtra heard matters virtually, some of the hearings were a combination of physical as well as virtual appearance by the parties. NIA probe The year started with a suspicious letter and a car filled with gelatin found next to the residence of business tycoon Mukesh Ambani on February 25. The National Investigation Agency took over the probe and Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze and others were arrested in the case. Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh received flak for the bomb scare and was transferred to the Maharashtra Home Guard as the Director General on March 17. He then wrote a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray citing instances of corruption by State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. In a rare judgment by the Bombay High Court, the Central Bureau of Investigation on April 5 was directed to initiate a preliminary inquiry against Mr. Deshmukh. This resulted in an FIR against him by the Enforcement Directorate which led to his resignation and eventually his arrest on November 1. The Bombay High Court at Goa on May 5 acquitted former journalist Tarun Tejpal in a case of rape and sexual assault of his young colleague. Special Judge Kshama Joshi had held, “The victim’s account does not demonstrate any kind of normative behaviour on her part – that a victim of sexual assault on consecutive nights might plausibly show.” Still an accused After contracting COVID-19 at Taloja Central Jail, Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy died on July 5 at a private hospital. The 84-year-old is still an accused in the Bhima Koregaon caste violence case and was arrested by the NIA on October 9 from Ranchi. He had spent over 50 years of his life serving the tribals. His co-accused human rights lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj was granted bail by the High Court on December 1. Without possessing any contraband on himself, Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau on October 3 after the agency seized drugs and cash from a cruise ship in Mumbai. Mr. Aryan and others were booked under several sections of the Narcotics Drugs Psychotropic Substances Act. He was sent to Arthur Road Jail and was granted bail on October 28. Raj Kundra, businessman and husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested on July 19 after a pornographic racket was busted early this year. He was charged with producing and streaming pornographic content but was granted bail on September 20 by a magistrate court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-courts-date-with-virtual-hearings/article38084716.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||55% of cases are of Omicron variant: BMC||The seventh round of next generation genome sequencing carried out by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on 282 samples have found 55% cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus. Among total samples 13% were of Delta variant while 32% were of Delta derivative. According to the BMC, out of 55% Omicron patients (156 in numbers) only nine had to be admitted to hospital. These patients too did not show any symptoms or did not require Oxygen supply. BMC also informed that out of 282 patients only 17 had to be admitted to the hospital. Of these three had taken first dose of the vaccine, 10 had taken both doses while out of 81 patients who had not taken any vaccine four had to be admitted. Two patients were admitted to Intensive Care Unit (ICU) affected by Delta Derivative out of which one senior citizen lost his life. The deceased also had comorbidities such as diabetes and blood pressure. The civic administration had appealed to the people to strictly follow the COVID appropriate behaviour, use mask and get vaccinated. Meanwhile, Mumbai Police on Friday issued an order prohibiting people from visiting beaches, open grounds, sea faces, promenades, gardens, parks or similar public places between 5 p.m. and 5 a.m. daily till January 15 in view of the prevailing coronavirus situation and the emergence of the Omicron variant. DCP (operations) S. Chaitanya issued the order under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which came into force from 1 p.m. on Friday and will be effective till January 15, unless withdrawn earlier. “The city continues to be threatened with COVID-19 pandemic. In light of the increase in cases and emergence of the new Omicron variant, and with a view to prevent danger to human life, health and safety and to curb transmission of the virus, people are prohibited from visiting beaches, open grounds, sea faces, promenades, gardens, parks or similar public places from 5 p.m. to 5 a.m. next day,” the order said. The Mumbai police’s directive came after the Maharashtra government issued fresh guidelines on Thursday night capping the number of attendees at social gatherings in open or closed spaces at 50.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/55-of-cases-are-of-omicron-variant-bmc/article38084681.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:18 IST,||Welfare schemes for workers hanging fire||While the Union Labour and Employment Ministry launched surveys on unorganised sector workers and started a portal for registering such workers in 2021, welfare schemes for unorganised workers under the labour codes passed by Parliament in 2020 remained an unfulfilled promise. The four labour codes — on wages, social security, occupational safety and industrial relations — were passed by Parliament in 2019 and 2020. However, they are yet to be implemented as the rules framed under provisions of the codes have not been notified. According to senior officials of the Ministry, the Central rules were ready before the start of financial year 2021-2022, but several States are yet to frame their rules under the codes. In a statement on Friday, the Ministry listed out the developments of 2021, including the setting up of four expert committees for framing standards under the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020 for factories, dock works, building and other construction works and fire safety. The draft standards were “nearing completion”, the Ministry said. However, there was no word on when welfare measures for gig and platform workers, which was introduced for the first time in the labour codes, would be implemented. One of the initiatives launched in 2021 was the e-Shram portal, which was launched on August 26, 2021 with the purpose of creating a national database of unorganised workers, the Ministry said. Till December 28, 2021, the portal had 15.53 crore registrations. Another major step was launch of all-India surveys on migrant workers and quarterly establishment-based employment, both on April 1, 2021, and on domestic workers, which was flagged off on November 22, 2021. ESI scheme extension The Ministry noted it had expanded the Employees’ State Insurance scheme to 52 more districts in the country in 2021, bringing 2.31 lakh employees and their families under the umbrella of the social security scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/welfare-schemes-for-workers-hanging-fire/article38084722.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:15 IST,||Courts take police to task over riots probe||From Delhi Police being pulled up for its ‘lackadaisical approach’, ‘callous attitude’ and ‘confused conduct’ in handling the north-east Delhi riots cases to costs being imposed on the State for prosecutors skipping proceedings and seeking adjournments, there have been several instances where the city courts have rapped the investigating agencies probing the 2020 communal violence. Several directions were issued to senior police officers to address the inefficiencies. With nearly two years passing since the incident, here’s a look at some of the scathing orders that grabbed the eyeballs last year. In September, a court had noted that the “failure of the investigating agency to conduct a proper investigation by using latest scientific methods will surely torment the sentinels of democracy”, while discharging former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain’s brother Shah Alam and two other accused in a case of alleged loot and vandalisation of a shop in the Chand Bagh area. The court further noted that as a result of the ‘callous’ and ‘indolent’ investigation, the complainant/victim suffered pain and agony with their case remaining virtually unsolved. “The sort of investigation conducted and the lack of supervision thereof by the superior officers clearly depict that the investigating agency has merely tried to pull the wool over the court’s eyes and nothing else,” the court noted. Similarly, hearing a matter related to an explosion inside the Madina Masjid in Shiv Vihar and a saffron flag being hoisted upon it, a court in April noted that the police had proceeded in the matter in ‘unholy haste’. The complaint in the case was lodged by Hashim Ali, which was tagged along with another case of vandalism, in which Ali himself was arrested. The judge had rapped the Investigating Officer (IO) in open court when he was not able to give a satisfactory answer to the delay in the probe. The police were also pulled up recently for ‘harassing’ a riot victim by repeatedly serving him notice despite him having submitted all relevant documents to the police. The applicant, Mohd. Salman, told the court that he hadn’t received any acknowledgement from the IO despite submitting the documents. While noting the police’s silence about the status of the investigation and their insistence on taking the statement of Salman’s new landlord where he had taken refuge after his house in west Karawal Nagar was attacked, the court directed the Joint Commissioner of Police (Eastern Range) to file a report on the status of the probe and not harass the complainant and witness unnecessarily. Lack of supervision In another case of clubbing different complaints into a single FIR, a court observed that “there was a complete lack of supervision of investigation(s) by the senior police officers of the district and that the investigating agency has evidently been found to be on the wrong side of the law”. “The issue of clubbing and joining the investigation of different complaints into one FIR is basically to protect the accused, even if the offence is same,” the judge noted. It dismissed a review petition filed by the police, challenging a Metropolitan Magistrate Court’s order, directing lodging of a separate FIR in the case of Nisar Ahmed, whose complaint regarding vandalism of his house was tagged with another complaint which didn’t name any accused. “Ludicrous and preposterous”, a court had noted in another order while pulling up the police for not knowing from March till November last year that the complaint filed by Salim, whose house was allegedly vandalised by a mob, was already clubbed with another case. Prosecutors face ire Courts have also lambasted prosecutors for their lack of coordination with the police, for their absence from hearings, leading to delay in trials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/courts-take-police-to-task-over-riots-probe/article38084700.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:18 IST,||RRTS could hit the tracks sooner than expected||The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) hopes to deliver what it promised a year in advance with the construction of the Capital’s biggest transport hub, the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) station in Sarai Kale Khan, unfolding at a faster pace than expected. The high speed rail project, once completed, will connect the Capital with neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan through journeys which will be reduced to minutes from hours aboard trains moving at a speed of up to 180 kilometres per hour. The 82-km long Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor, at the core of which is the Sarai Kale Khan station in the heart of the Capital, consists of a 17-km-long priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai, which was targeted to be functional from 2023. With construction being undertaken at a faster pace, however, the NCRTC, according to sources, now hopes to get its first train by February this year, followed by trial runs by the middle of 2022. In the entire corridor, about 12 kilometres will be made underground, of which four kilometres is in Delhi and eight kilometres is in Meerut and Ghaziabad. As a result, sources said, operations on its priority section between Ghaziabad and Meerut could begin as early as the end of 2022 as opposed to 2023 as had been initially envisioned. The Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor, once completed, will reduce the travel time between Delhi and Meerut to under an hour. The entire corridor is expected to be commissioned by the year 2025. The Sarai Kale Khan station is 215 metres long, 50 metres wide and 15 metres high and will see all three corridors of the first phase converge and remain interoperable. It will be an interchange point for Hazrat Nizammudin station of Indian Railways and Delhi Metro, and Inter State Bus Terminal. According to the NCRTC, more than 100 foundation piles have already been constructed for around 45 station piers and around 300 foundation piles are to be constructed for the “huge station” given its strategic location and the complexity and challenges that come along with it. “It is because of the vision and focused approach of our MD, Vinay Kumar Singh, that the NCRTC was better equipped both technologically and logistically to deal with the two waves of COVID-19,” said Puneet Vats, CPRO, NCRTC. “With 15 kilometres of ready viaduct, about 70% of civil construction work is completed on the priority section of the corridor. In December 2021, the NCRTC has achieved a new milestone of constructing 50 spans, which is more than 1.5 km of elevated RRTS corridor. Systems contracts are also in place and progressing well,” Mr. Vats also said. While last year June saw the erection of first pier in Delhi, since then, the NCRTC has also managed to construct almost 1 kilometre of an elevated viaduct at New Ashok Nagar and for the construction of the underground portion, work of the launching shaft for tunnelling is in advanced stages, Mr. Vats added. “With the overall support of governments, more than 14,000 workers and 1,100 engineers are striving hard to deliver the priority section to the residents of NCR much before the stipulated timeline,” he said. Steady progress In the 70-km-long elevated section of the 82-km-long Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor, the foundation for 50 kilometres — more than two-thirds — has been completed, according to the NCRTC. The priority section, 17 kilometres long, which has five stations including Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, Guldhar, Duhai, and Duhai depot, the NCRTC said it had established the first special span weighing 850 tonnes and 73 metres long which is a double lane special span crossing 4 lines of Indian Railways near Vasundhara. Currently, it added, a 150 metre-long span is in the process of being installed for the station at Ghaziabad. The process of installation is progressing at a rapid pace which will weigh around 3,200 tonnes and will cross the Delhi Metro and an adjacent flyover from a height of 26 metres above the ground. This special span made of semi-circle shaped structural steel, the NCRTC hopes, will become the new identity of Ghaziabad. Further in the priority section, 95% of pillars have been erected between Sahibabad to Duhai and about 13 km of the viaduct has been constructed. Parapet installation and track laying activities are also under progress on the viaduct. Along with this, masts are being installed under the process of laying overhead equipment. The NCRTC said all the five RRTS stations in the priority section of 17 km have started coming in their original shape; the concourse level work of Sahibabad RRTS station is in progress and soon the precast segments of the cross arm will be set up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rrts-could-hit-the-tracks-sooner-than-expected/article38084724.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:15 IST,||Private buses hired to augment public transport to run till Jan.-end: Minister||Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Friday said that the 1,000-odd private buses the Government hired in November to augment the public transport and wean commuters away from individual vehicles amid the dangerous air quality levels will be operational till January 31. The decision came a day after public transport users faced issues across the city due to the cap on passengers allowed to board such vehicles as part of the COVID-19 restrictions. “Keeping in view the difficulties being faced by the public due to COVID Yellow Alert restrictions, the Delhi Government under the leadership of CM @ArvindKejriwal has decided to extend the duration of private buses running under Paryavaran Bus Service till 31.01.2022. I hope this will help. Delhi bus passengers will get relief,” Mr. Gahlot tweeted. At least 40-50 people and a police officer sustained injuries when commuters blocked MB Road in south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar and damaged a few DTC buses on Thursday morning after not being allowed to board them due to the passenger limit. Under the ‘yellow alert’ announced by the Government, buses can run with 50% seating capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/private-buses-hired-to-augment-public-transport-to-run-till-jan-end-minister/article38084701.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:16 IST,||Man stabs wife to death||A 32-year-old woman was stabbed to death by her husband in central Delhi’s Chandni Mahal on Friday, the police said, adding that the accused had been arrested. The police said that a PCR call was received in the afternoon wherein the caller said that her mother was lying dead in their house. On reaching the spot, they found Seema, mother of three daughters, lying in a pool of blood with stab wounds. Local enquiry revealed that the couple had been fighting since morning and the husband was absconding. Accused Abdul Rahman was found in Kamla Market with his two daughters and wearing blood-stained clothes, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-stabs-wife-to-death/article38084707.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:18 IST,||‘Sexual enhancement drugs won’t come under NDPS Act’||Sexual enhancement drugs containing herbs and medicines are not covered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, the Supreme Court has observed in a recent order. The observation came in an appeal for bail by a man accused in a case involving the seizure of about 1,37,665 tablets of different types collectively weighing approximately 90 kg from four locations in Chennai in 2019. The tablets were described as “psychotropic substances” by the probe agency. However, forensic tests showed that a “large number” of tablets seized by the DRI admittedly contained herbs to enhance male potency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sexual-enhancement-drugs-wont-come-under-ndps-act/article38084718.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:15 IST,||Two held for woman’s rape||A 21-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped by her employer and his two accomplices, including a minor, at Vijay Vihar on Thursday. While two of them have been arrested the minor has been detained. The woman in her complaint filed at Vijay Vihar police station said that she worked as a domestic help at one Umesh’s factory. On Thursday, she said, her employer asked her to go out with him in his car for some work. “Umesh took her to a secluded place where his accomplices were already present. They gang-raped her and then threatened her with consequences if she disclosed it to anyone,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-held-for-womans-rape/article38084697.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:15 IST,||Dowry death: settlement no ground to quash FIR, says HC||The Delhi High Court has declined to quash an FIR for a dowry death on the basis of a settlement between a man and his deceased wife’s family, saying it is a grave and heinous offence which is actuated by a social evil that needs deterrence. Justice Mukta Gupta said that in the present case, the wife ended her life by suicide within five months of the marriage due to the harassment caused by the husband and his family members. While dismissing the petition by the man and other accused family members for quashing the FIR, the High Court reminded them of a judgment passed by the Supreme Court which “clearly laid down that where serious and grave offences are involved, the quashing of FIR cannot be allowed on the basis of the compromise”. The victim’s family had alleged that after the marriage in March 2021, the man and other accused started harassing her for dowry. Subsequently, in August, the family received a phone call that their daughter ended her life by suicide. During the pendency of the investigation, the man and the woman’s family arrived at a settlement, which they said, was without any coercion and without any transfer of money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dowry-death-settlement-no-ground-to-quash-fir-says-hc/article38084698.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:16 IST,||Duo in police uniform rob Australian national, arrested||Two persons have been arrested for allegedly stealing money from an Australian national in Hazrat Nizamuddin, the police said on Friday. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) Surender Choudhary said the accused have been identified as Vakil, 30, and Badrinath, 28. The police said that during patrolling on Wednesday they heard a woman screaming for help. They saw two persons in police uniform fleeing the spot. The victim, an Australian national, said that she was standing near the staircase of her house when the two accused asked her to give them Rs. 2,000 as COVID-19 challan for not wearing a mask. When she denied, both of them forcibly took the money from her and ran away after pushing her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/duo-in-police-uniform-rob-australian-national-arrested/article38084710.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:16 IST,||Policeman hit by bike, dies||A Delhi Police Sub-Inspector (SI) succumbed to his injuries after being hit by a speeding bike in Dwarka, officers said on Friday. The police said that the officer, Sanjeev Lochan, 52, was crossing the road when a bike hit him on Tuesday afternoon. All the accused were arrested from the spot. Lochan was taken to a hospital where he was declared critical and succumbed to his injuries on Thursday morning. The SI is survived by his wife and two children. The police said he had won a Gallantry Medal from the President in 2007 for killing Bangladeshi terrorists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/policeman-hit-by-bike-dies/article38084711.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:16 IST,||Delhi records 1,796 COVID-19 cases, no death||The Capital reported 1,796 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the highest in seven months, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Friday. This is a 36.7% increase from 1,313 fresh cases recorded on Thursday. The test positive rate also went up to 2.44% from 1.73% a day before.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-records-1796-covid-19-cases-no-death/article38084702.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||Madrasa’s hospital a boon for a village near Ajmer||Making a humble contribution to the institutional deliveries of women, a first-of-its-kind hospital established by a madrasa in Ajmer district’s Oontra village has started providing health services in a rural area which lacks basic medical facilities. The 40-bed hospital, built with zakat and other charity funds on the madrasa premises, was formally inaugurated on December 19.  Idara Dawat-ul-Haq, which has started the hospital to cater to the needs of rural population, has been imparting religious education since 1998 and had registered itself with the State government’s Education Department for running multiple schools in 2009-10. One of the schools has since been upgraded to senior secondary level. The Islamic seminary boasts of a strength of 4,600 students, including girlsThe hospital is the latest addition to the institution’s work for benefiting the villagers.  Idara Dawat-ul-Haq’s head Maulana Mohammed Ayub Qasmi told The Hindu that the initiative for institutional deliveries in the hospital had turned out to be a blessing for the women in the region, who were deprived of medical care during pregnancy and childbirth in the absence of an adequate health infrastructure. The hospital has conducted half-a-dozen institutional deliveries within its first two weeks.  The hospital, which also holds the distinction of being the first medical facility established by a madrasa in Rajasthan, has set an example of communal harmony, as it offers health care at nominal prices to the people belonging to all religions, castes and creed. The emergency, ambulance and medical store facilities are available round the clock. With a population of 6,000, Oontra, situated 26 km away from Ajmer, has a primary health centre that only refers the patients to bigger hospitals in the nearby Kishangarh town and the district headquarter. The Dawat-ul-Haq hospital, which has installed 16 of the 40 sanctioned beds, has two full time doctors, including a gynaecologist, eight nursing personnel and other paramedical staff. Anshu Shiv Kumar of Kaipara village, who was advised a Caesarean delivery by the doctors in Ajmer, was the second to undergo normal delivery in the hospital. Shareefa Khatoon of Oontra village said her grandson was born here with full medical care and her daughter-in-law was doing fine. Kirti Mehta, Nursing Officer in Ajmer’s Jawaharlal Nehru Government Hospital, who has been instrumental in planning and executing the medical facility project at the seminary, said it would help reduce the high infant and maternal mortality rates in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/madrasas-hospital-a-boon-for-a-village-near-ajmer/article38084914.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||‘Voters won’t let outsiders use Goa as lab’||Goa’s voters will not allow parties that have come from outside to use the State as a laboratory for political experiments in the upcoming Assembly elections, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday in a remark aimed at the Trinamool Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party. Mr. Sawant was addressing a gathering in his native village of Kothambi in Sankhalim Assembly constituency, where he formally kicked off his campaign for the polls scheduled to be held in February 2022. ‘Legacy of CMs’ “We are taking forward the legacy of former Chief Ministers — late Dayanand Bandodkar, late Manohar Parrikar and others,” he said, taking a jibe at the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, accusing it of selling out its values to political parties that arrived from outside the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/voters-wont-let-outsiders-use-goa-as-lab/article38084720.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:26 IST,||Manjhi’s remarks stir caste pot in Bihar||Former Bihar Chief Minister and president of Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) [HAM-S] Jitan Ram Manjhi, has hit headlines recently because of his remarks allegedly offending upper castes. In caste-ridden Bihar, Mr. Manjhi’s comments have evoked condemnation from Opposition parties for his “uncalled for utterances” but a curious silence from coalition allies.  Coming from the Dalit community, which comprises about 16% of the population in the State, Mr. Manjhi while addressing a gathering of his own Musahar caste on December 19, took on the upper caste Brahmin community. Members of the Brahmin community later protested against his remarks, with some sitting outside his residence to perform puja .  Leader’s U-turn As the protests grew shriller, Mr. Manjhi, in a U-turn said his remarks were meant for his own Musahar community and “not against Brahmins”. But he was forced to rescind the line facing a reaction from the Musahars. In another volte-face, he asserted that his cuss words were against those Brahmins who “eat meat and drink alcohol while pretending to be holier than thou”. A few days later Mr. Manjhi hosted a feast for Brahmins at his house attended by members of the upper caste community. Similarly, Mr Manjhi earlier, had made a controversial comment against Lord Ram saying he was a “factious character”. His comments immediately invited sharp reaction from members of the upper caste Hindu community. However, while only two BJP MLAs attacked Mr. Manjhi, neither the BJP nor JD(U) — coalition allies in the State — condemned him for his remarks. Further, when a local BJP leader from Darbhanga, Gajendra Jha, protested against Mr Manjhi’s anti-Brahmin comments, the BJP expelled him from the party. When BJP MLA Niraj Kumar Singh ‘Babloo’ said it was time Mr. Manjhi to pass his time in offering obeisance and puja to lord Ram, HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan dared the BJP to keep his party out of alliance. “If HAM(S) is removed from the alliance, the NDA government will fall in the State,” said Mr. Rizwan. Later, senior State BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi said party men should not rake up Mr. Manjhi’s remarks as he had thrown a feast for Brahmins. The JD(U) leaders, too, preferred not to respond to Mr. Manjhi’s comments.  “It’s has been Mr. Manjhi’s calculated move to consolidate his dwindling vote among his own Dalit community. Bihar is a caste-ridden society and being a seasoned politician, Mr. Manjhi has been making such comments with a clear political motive,” political commentator Nawal Kishore Choudhary told The Hindu over phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/manjhis-remarks-stir-the-caste-pot-in-bihar/article38084713.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||Third wave has begun in Bihar: Nitish||A day after Bihar reported its first Omicron case, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday said the third wave of COVID-19 has begun in the State and urged people to remain vigilant. He also mooted opening a genome sequencing laboratory in the State. “Bihar has recorded the first Omicron case. Everyone has to be alert. The State is witnessing a sharp rise in cases, with the maximum being registered in Patna and Gaya. A large number of people from other States reside in these two places, and this could be a reason behind the spike in cases in these areas,” he told reporters. “The third wave has begun in the State. We are fully prepared...The Health Department has upgraded hospital infrastructure,” Mr. Kumar said. He said a review meeting will be convened to assess the situation and the possibility of imposing curbs will be discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/third-wave-has-begun-in-bihar-nitish/article38084912.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||Rane’s moment of triumph||After the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party scored a victory over the ruling tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the Sindhudurg District Cooperative Bank election on Friday, Union Minister Narayan Rane, who was responsible for engineering the win, said his next aim was to install a BJP government in Maharashtra. Eleven directors of the Bank’s panel, backed by Mr. Rane, emerged victorious as opposed to the eight from the MVA front. However, the win was also significant in the sense that it proved Mr. Rane, the strongman of the Konkan region, could still call the shots in the area. The win for Mr. Rane comes at a crucial moment after a Sindhudurg court on Thursday had quashed the anticipatory bail plea of Mr. Rane’s son — Kankavli MLA Nitesh Rane — in an attempt to murder case. The younger Rane has been absconding for more than five days now. Taking a potshot at the Shiv Sena and Mr. Thackeray, the Union Minister said “the people concerned [Sena] will know better as the public would teach them a lesson if a ‘conspiracy’ was again hatched against the Rane family.” “Now, our next target is [to supplant] the current MVA government. The BJP will win all the Lok Sabha seats in the Konkan in the coming general election. The people here will throw out unwanted legislators and MPs,” said Mr. Rane. ‘Politics of malice’ Buoyed by the win, the Maharashtra BJP leadership also hit out at Mr. Thackeray and the Shiv Sena, saying the results were a perfect riposte to the Shiv Sena’s ‘politics of malice’ against the Rane family. The Sindhudurg police on Wednesday had issued a notice to Narayan Rane to present his MLA son Nitesh before the police in connection with a ‘murder’ case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ranes-moment-of-triumph/article38084918.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:26 IST,||Omicron scare: Shimla Ridge vacated||Tourists and locals gathered at the Ridge maidan here were evacuated from the ground on Friday amid fears of the spread of the Omicron, Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi said. Mr. Negi said that thousands of people had gathered on the Ridge maidan on the eve of the new year and the district administration thought to vacate the overcrowded area to check spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/omicron-scare-shimla-ridge-vacated/article38084909.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:16 IST,||How our judges helped save lives during corona||As we close another challenging year with a new variant of the Coronavirus rearing its head, it is time to express gratitude to some of our distinguished judges of the Delhi High Court whose timely intervention gave a push to the collective efforts to tide over the pandemic crisis during the year. From lengthy court proceedings over weekends to urgent late night hearings, the judges went beyond the call of duty to hear out the helpless public who turned to the judiciary when everything else failed. When active cases of Covid-19 crossed 50,000 in Delhi in mid-April, the High Court revived a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) on COVID-19 testing and infrastructure. During the hearing, a bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli warned against the imminent collapse of the healthcare infrastructure and ordered the Centre and Delhi government to give details of the number of hospital beds with Oxygen support. Streamlining supply As the situation turned worse with the city hospitals running out of Oxygen supply for treating COVID-19 patients, the bench held an urgent hearing on April 21 and asked the Centre to protect the right to life of every seriously ill citizen requiring medical oxygen. The Centre was directed to make adequate arrangements and divert Oxygen supply from steel and petroleum industries to hospitals to tide over the emergency. "The shortage is now...At this point of time, the highest priority has to be saving lives,” the bench had noted. The next day, the bench directed the Centre to create a special corridor on priority for safe and swift passage of Oxygen tankers from neighbouring Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The bench warned it will not hesitate to "hang" anyone found obstructing pickup of Oxygen supplies. On April 26, a bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh requested the Delhi government to ramp up testing centres as the number of COVID-19 cases spiked. The directive came after several lawyers complained about the difficulty in getting tested as labs and staff had fallen woefully short for sample collection and examination. Availability of drugs On April 27, while hearing a plea by a lawyer, who was then suffering from COVID-19 and was able to get only three out of the six required doses of Remdesivir, Justice Prathiba M Singh directed the Delhi government to ensure the availability of the remaining three vials by the same night. She questioned the government about the scarcity of Remdesivir drug in Delhi, when several Indian companies were manufacturing and exporting the medicine. The High Court also directed the Delhi government to secure the release of Remdesivir once the police seized it from hoarders and black-marketers. The same day, the bench of Justice Sanghi and Justice Palli also cautioned the Delhi government to put its "house in order" as it had failed to check black marketing of Oxygen cylinders resulting in an unwarranted chaos. "We can’t let people die," the bench remarked, prompting a crackdown on hoarders. It also appealed to citizens not to stock oxygen cylinders and medicines at home and create an artificial scarcity. There were strict orders to make them available for people in genuine need. It was a heartbreaking moment when an advocate sought the help of the bench of Justice Sanghi and Justice Palli in getting an ICU bed for his relative, who was a COVID patient with low vitals, and in the middle of the hearing the news reached about the patient's death. “I have failed, my brother-in-law has expired, so no more efforts are needed,” the advocate said. An anguished bench answered, "No, the state has failed. We all have failed”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/how-our-judges-helped-save-lives-during-corona/article38084706.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||It is a novel about change: Namita Gokhale||“I’m overjoyed and overwhelmed,” says Namita Gokhale, winner of this year’s Sahitya Akademi Award for her English novel Things to Leave Behind. In an interview with The Hindu, the multi-faceted Ms. Gokhale says the award “is more than just a milestone.”  “The Sahitya Akademi award is deeply important to me because of its living history and legacy. As the prize is awarded to 23 Indian languages, including English, it makes me feel even more deeply connected with the multilingual literary heritage of our culture,” she says.  Since she announced her entry on the literary scene with the sparkling Paro:Dreams of Passion in 1984, the prolific Ms. Gokhale has written 18 works of fiction and non-fiction but none could match the scale, pace and drama of Things to Leave Behind, which she wrote in 2016 . Set in Kumaon from about 1840 until 1912, Ms. Gokhale says it was written and rewritten over an extended period of time.  Central character Related to Congress stalwart Govind Ballabh Pant, she has drawn from her roots in the region and the time she spent around some strong women in the family, including her grandmother Shakuntala Pande and aunt Shivani, the celebrated Hindi novelist. It reads like a careful dissection of the desires and dualities we live with, best represented by the central character, Tilottama. The complex hierarchies of caste and community and the call of the human heart play out in the intertwined stories of the spirited Tilottama, her daughter Deoki, and Deoki’s husband, Jayesh Jonas, as they search a new life in Eden Ashram - with the parallel and intersecting tales of Rosemary Boden and William Dempster. “It is a novel about change and chronicles the mixed legacy of the British Raj as well as the emergence of fragile modernity. I was searching something elusive while writing it, and left it to readers to understand and interpret it as they pleased,” says Ms. Gokhale, who doesn’t ascribe to literary influences “as these are often insidious.”  “The writer whom I most admired for style and strategy was and continues to be, Muriel Spark. Also Tolstoy and War and Peace , Dostoyevsky’s The Idiot, Herman Hesse’s Magister Ludi - The Glass Bead Game and Tale of Genji by Lady Murasaki,” she recounts. And, the Indian mythical aspect comes from the foundational and epic text of the Mahabharata, which she has retold for young readers.  In many of her works, she has etched the natural beauty of Kumaon hills in a painterly fashion. Here the Naini Lake becomes a character and metaphor for foreign control over our culture and spirit. Ms. Gokhale says her childhood in Nainital is permanently etched in her inner landscape. “The Naini lake is indeed a character, an abiding presence, through the narrative. The trees, the plants, the birds, the quality of light, in Kumaon come from personal as well as cultural memory. The stern and harsh rules which governed the lives of Brahmin women, and the joy they still managed to extract within these circumstances, are things I have seen and experienced,” she relates, adding, “the novel isn’t ‘about’ anything but a bagful of tangled narratives tumble out of it.” From Paro To Tilottama, strong female characters have been a hallmark of her works. They are strong, at times feminist but they also have a certain naivety about them rendering them life-like. “Indian women have enormous reserves of strength, even though they are socially vulnerable. This is even more true of ‘Pahari’ mountain women, of the Kumaoni sorority I grew up with. It’s no surprise that the sort of women I have known and admired turn up to inhabit my novels!,” notes Ms. Gokhale. She has flair for addressing deeper, complex issues with a light touch while maintaining a brisk pace. “I do tend to see the stories within stories, the patterns and concentric circles in narrative structures. I have a tendency to ramble, which I try to keep in check,” says Ms. Gokhale. Deep bonds As one of the forces behind the Jaipur Literature Festival and a successful publisher, Ms. Gokhale has painstakingly fostered a link between English writing and works of Indian languages. “The increasing emphasis on translations in literary circles is creating deep bonds between English and other Indian literature, as well as between different Indian languages. This is a valuable and crucial development.” However, she maintains, “the easy multilingualism of earlier generations is not so prevalent now, for whatever reason.”  Ms. Gokhale forayed into publishing at a young age with Super, a magazine that covered Hindi cinema. She retains her abiding respect for the medium and feels “a magnificent web series could emerge from Things to Leave Behind - full of spectacular landscapes and historical detail. I live in hope!”  Finally, what are the emotions 2021 will leave behind? “The bewildering changes we encountered in 2021 have impacted me in that I tend to reconsider all the things I earlier took for granted. This has reflected in two short stories I wrote in this strange year — they have a disjointed structure and a search for a pattern within a framework of chaos.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/it-is-a-novel-about-change-namita-gokhale/article38084680.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:16 IST,||A quiet beginning to the New Year||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-quiet-beginning-to-the-new-year/article38084709.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||Light amid the dark||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/light-amid-the-dark/article38084684.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:54 IST,||‘55% of cases are of Omicron variant’||The seventh round of next generation genome sequencing carried out by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on 282 samples have found 55% cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus. Among total samples 13% were of Delta variant while 32% were of Delta derivative. According to the BMC, out of 55% Omicron patients (156 in numbers) only nine had to be admitted to hospital. These patients too did not show any symptoms or did not require Oxygen supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/55-of-cases-are-of-omicron-variant/article38084910.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:41 IST,||Biden, Putin trade warnings over Ukraine||President Joe Biden has warned Russia’s Vladimir Putin that the U.S. could impose new sanctions against Russia if it takes further military action against Ukraine, while Mr. Putin responded that such a U.S. move could lead to a complete rupture of ties between the nations. The two leaders spoke frankly for nearly an hour on Thursday amid growing alarm over Russia’s troop build-up near Ukraine, a crisis that has deepened as the Kremlin has stiffened its insistence on border security guarantees and test-fired hypersonic missiles to underscore its demands. Further U.S. sanctions “would be a colossal mistake that would entail grave consequences,” said Mr. Putin’s Foreign Affairs Adviser Yuri Ushakov, who briefed reporters in Moscow after the Biden-Putin phone conversation. He added that Mr. Putin told Mr. Biden that Russia would act as the U.S. would if offensive weapons were deployed near American borders. White House officials offered a far more muted post-call read-out, suggesting that the leaders agreed there are areas where the two sides can make meaningful progress but also differences that might be impossible to resolve. Two paths Two paWhite House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Mr. Biden “urged Russia to de-escalate tensions with Ukraine” and “made clear that the United States and its allies and partners will respond decisively if Russia further invades Ukraine”. Mr. Putin requested the call, the second between the leaders this month, ahead of scheduled talks between senior U.S. and Russian officials on January 9 and 10 in Geneva. White House officials said Thursday’s call lasted 50 minutes, ending after midnight in Moscow. Mr. Biden told Mr. Putin the two powers now face “two paths”: diplomacy or American deterrence through sanctions, according to a senior administration official. Mr. Biden said the route taken, according to the official who briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity, will “depend on Russia’s actions in the period ahead”. Russia has made clear it wants a written commitment that Ukraine will never be allowed to join NATO and that the alliance’s military equipment will not be positioned in former Soviet states, demands that the Biden administration has rejected. Mr. Biden told Mr. Putin a diplomatic path remains open even as the Russians have moved an estimated 1,00,000 troops toward Ukraine and Kremlin officials have turned up the volume on their demands for new guarantees from the U.S. and NATO. White House officials said Mr. Biden made clear that the U.S. stands ready to exact substantial economic pain through sanctions should Mr. Putin decide to take military action in Ukraine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-putin-trade-warnings-over-ukraine/article38084234.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:41 IST,||Sri Lanka to ink pact with India to develop oil tanks||Sri Lanka on Friday announced its decision to sign three lease agreements on developing the strategic Trincomalee oil tank farm with India, after the Rajapaksa administration negotiated a “suitable” deal for 16 months. The announcement, signalling forward movement in a long-dragging project, is significant for New Delhi following a year of diplomatic strain beginning early 2021, when Sri Lanka unilaterally cancelled a tripartite agreement to develop a Colombo port terminal with India and Japan. The Trincomalee project pertains to some 100 oil storage tanks — built by the British during Second World War — in Sri Lanka’s eastern Trincomalee district. It has dominated bilateral talks for decades, from the time of the Indo-Lanka Accord of 1987, but has seen little progress. Lease extended As per the new deal, 14 tanks currently operated by the Indian Oil Corporation subsidiary, Lanka IOC, will be leased to the company for 50 years, Energy Minister Udaya Gammanpila told a media conference on Friday. Further, 24 tanks will be given to the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC), while 61 will be developed in a joint venture, with the CPC holding 51% stakes, and Lanka IOC, the remaining 49%, the Minister said. The lease agreements are expected to be signed in the coming weeks, following Cabinet clearance. After it was set up in 2003, Lanka IOC obtained a 35-year lease to develop the 850-acre tank farm in Trincomalee for an annual payment of $1,00,000. The company currently operates only 14 tanks — apart from two other recently built tanks in place of a damaged old one — while the other tanks in the massive storage facility remain unused, as the two countries have been unable to agree on the terms of its joint development. Successive governments in Colombo have acknowledged the need to bring in big foreign investment — refurbishment of each tank is estimated to cost over $1 million — to make the near century-old, neglected facility commercially viable, but none was able to finalise a deal with India, in the face of opposition from nationalist sections to any Indian involvement in a strategic national asset. ‘Regaining control’ Perhaps anticipating similar resistance from the government’s predominantly nationalist support base, the Minister pitched the deal as a “historic victory” at Friday’s press conference. Sri Lanka, he said, is “regaining control” of the Trincomalee oil tank farm, while also announcing that Lanka IOC — representing Indian interests in the project — would operate 14 tanks for half a century, in addition to holding 49% stakes in the new venture to develop 61 other oil tanks at the facility. The Minister’s statement comes at a time when the government’s popularity is plummeting over its response to the current economic crisis stifling the country. On the one hand, a severe dollar crunch has prompted speculation of a sovereign default. On the other, there is growing public resentment over soaring living costs and fears of an imminent food shortage, following the government’s overnight shift to organic farming, disregarding advice from farmers and scientists. Sri Lanka has sought urgent assistance from multiple sources, including India. Early December, Sri Lanka’s Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa visited New Delhi and sought emergency Lines of Credit to help Colombo import food, medicines and fuel, and a currency swap to boost the country’s foreign reserves. Negotiating a “four-pillar” strategy during his visit, the two countries agreed to strengthen collaboration in the energy sector, specifically mentioning the “early modernisation” of the Trincomalee oil tank farm as part of it.  Mr. Basil is expected to visit India again to attend the ‘Vibrant Gujarat’ summit from January 10 to 12. He will likely meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the sidelines of the event, officials earlier told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-to-ink-pact-with-india-to-develop-oil-tanks/article38084236.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:41 IST,||45 journalists killed in 2021: media watchdog||A total of 45 journalists were killed worldwide in 2021, the International Federation of Journalists (IFJ) said on Friday — “one of the lowest death tolls” it has recorded for any year. The figure tracked closely with a toll of 46 killings of journalists given two weeks ago by another media watchdog, Reporters Without Borders (known by its initials RSF), which also noted it as its lowest-ever since starting its tallies in 1995. “While this decrease is welcome news, it is small comfort in the face of continued violence,” the Brussels-based IFJ said in statement. The toll included nine in Afghanistan, the highest number suffered by a single country. Elsewhere, eight died in Mexico, four in India and three in Pakistan. The IFJ said the media workers “more often than not are killed for exposing corruption, crime and abuse of power in their communities, cities and countries”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/45-journalists-killed-in-2021-media-watchdog/article38084230.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:41 IST,||Four soldiers killed in raid on Pakistani Taliban||Four soldiers were killed in a firefight with the Pakistani Taliban, the country’s Army said on Friday, in the deadliest confrontation between the militants and security forces since a truce was called off earlier this month. Security forces were raiding suspected hideouts in the town of Mir Ali in North Waziristan when four soldiers were killed “during an intense exchange of fire”, an Army statement said. One “terrorist” was apprehended with weapons and ammunition, it added. Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) — a separate movement that shares common roots with the militants that took power in Afghanistan — said the Army raid was on a “centre” for its group. The TTP claimed in a statement that seven soldiers had been killed in its counter attack on Wednesday night, while its fighters escaped unharmed. In a separate incident the Army said on Friday that two men were killed in a clash in neighbouring Tank district in the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The TTP did not comment on the second incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/four-soldiers-killed-in-raid-on-pakistani-taliban/article38084231.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:41 IST,||S. Africa says its Omicron wave has peaked||South Africa, where the Omicron variant was detected last month, says its latest coronavirus wave has peaked without a surge in deaths or hospitalisations, enabling the country to lift a nightly curfew for the first time in 21 months. The Omicron variant emerged in November to become the pandemic’s dominant variant, driving new cases at a record rate around the world. “According to experts, Omicron has reached the peak, ...with clinical manifestations that have not caused any alarm in the hospital situation,” Mondli Gungubele, a Minister in President Cyril Ramaphosa’s office, said on Friday. The highly contagious Omicron variant, which contains a number of mutations, has fuelled an end-of-year global pandemic resurgence. But mounting evidence in South Africa and elsewhere has fuelled hopes that Omicron, while more contagious than other strains, may also be less severe. Infections in South Africa dropped by almost 30% last week compared with the preceding seven days, according to the President’s office, and while hospital admissions also declined in eight of the nine provinces. Even so, the risk of increased infections “remains high,” the presidency warned in its Thursday night statement. During the surge in December, only a marginal increase in COVID-19 deaths was noted, while hospitalisation rates were lower than in previous waves, the presidency statement said. Omicron was first identified in South Africa and Botswana in late November. It quickly became the dominant strain in South Africa, causing an explosion of infections with a peak of about 26,000 daily cases recorded by mid-December, according to official data. South Africa has been the hardest hit by coronavirus on the continent, recording more than 3.4 million cases and 91,000 deaths. But fewer than 13,000 infections had been recorded in the past 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/s-africa-says-its-omicron-wave-has-peaked/article38084232.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:39 IST,||Welcome 2022||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/welcome-2022/article38084526.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:41 IST,||Raging inferno||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/raging-inferno/article38084238.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:32 IST,||Inside Kerala’s spiral of revenge politics||As twilight descended upon Mannancherry in Alappuzha on Saturday evening (December 18), Fanzilla called her husband K.S. Shan to enquire when he would be home. “Very soon,” was the prompt reply. The couple’s two daughters, Hiba Fathima (12) and Liya Fathima (4), waited, yearning to spend the evening with their busy ‘vappi’ (dad) who was not always around to care for them due to his many commitments. The wait only got longer and ended in tears and tragedy. Shan, the State Secretary of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), the political arm of the Islamic organisation Popular Front of India (PFI), also ran an interior design products shop at Mannancherry for a living. Following the brief phone call, Shan, who had already closed the shop, hopped on his motorbike for a four-kilometre ride home to Ponnad (ward 4) in Mannancherry gram panchayat. Once he entered the Mannancherry-Ponnad road, a white car started tailing his two-wheeler. When he reached Kuppezham Junction (Masjid Junction) around 7.30 p.m., the car rear-ended the bike and knocked him down. The intentional road accident and what followed were caught on a CCTV camera on the compound of an under-construction house in the location. Four men jumped out of the vehicle and three violently attacked Shan, who was lying in the middle of the road, with iron rods and sharp-edged weapons. While the assailants carried out the deadly attack, the driver of the car blocked the road by putting the vehicle across. The entire episode lasted less than two minutes and the assailants sped away. A grievously injured Shan, 38, was first taken to a hospital, 100-metres away before he was shifted to another hospital near Alappuzha. He was later taken to a third hospital in Kochi, where he succumbed to his injuries around 11.30 p.m. A post-mortem examination of his body revealed 50 injuries including stab wounds. The response A day later, Dwaraisar lane at Vellakinar in Alappuzha municipality, some 13 kilometres south of Mannancherry was to witness a bloody spectacle. It was around 6.30 a.m. on Sunday (December 19). Septuagenarian Vinodini had just returned from a visit to a nearby temple offering a pooja in the name of his son Ranjith Sreenivas, 45, State Secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) OBC Morcha. Sreenivas’s elder daughter Bhagya, 14, had just left the house to attend her tuition classes. Suddenly, a dozen people carrying swords, machetes and hammers travelling on six motorbikes kicked open the gate of the house and barged into the drawing room. Sreenivas who was preparing to go for a morning walk rushed to the room hearing the noise. Though he was able to ward off the attacks from the machete-wielding men twice, one of the assailants struck his forehead with a hammer. He fell to the floor. When Vinodini tried to intervene, a gang member brandished a machete at her. She fell down and injured her hand. Her face was forcefully pressed to a sofa, while a machete was placed on her neck. The desperate pleas of Lisha, wife of Sreenivas, and younger daughter Hridya, 11, fell on deaf ears. While Lisha was shoved away, someone in the gang waved a weapon at the child. The girl retreated to her room crying. The assailants removed the dhoti from Sreenivas’s body and repeatedly hacked him. He was rushed to a nearby hospital but died immediately. Tit-for-tat murders According to the police, the attacks bear the hallmark of the typical tit-for-tat targeting of political rivals in the State. These communally tinged political killings within a span of 12 hours in Alappuzha, often referred to as the cradle of the Communist movement, have rocked the State raising fears of a possible communal conflagration. When it comes to political murders, the northern district of Kannur has long been identified as the killing fields. As Kannur and other parts of northern Kerala remain calm in recent times, the theatre of action seems to have shifted to central Travancore. “Both RSS and PFI are religious fundamentalist outfits. The Alappuzha killings are not pure political murders. There was no religious factor in the Kannur murders. Almost all the victims were Hindus (Thiyya OBC). In the south, religious factors are clearly visible. By retaliating within hours, Muslim fundamentalists show that they can take on Hindu fundamentalists,” says social critic and political commentator Hameed Chennamangaloor. Three days after the tragedy, a sombre mood prevails at the house of Shan. Rahuma Beevi, mother of Shan, is unable to come to terms with the loss of her son. “We don’t know why he (Shan) was targeted. When I saw him at the hospital in Alappuzha my son was writhing in pain. I saw deep cuts on his stomach and neck. He had never indulged in violence or hurt anyone. He had always helped others, but still met a horrific death,” says a teary-eyed Salim, Shan’s father, who is an autorickshaw driver. Abhijith Sreenivas, Ranjith’s younger brother had returned from a visit to Sabarimala shrine the day before, and was sleeping upstairs when all hell broke loose. “I woke up to the desperate cries of my mother and rushed to the ground floor. Before I reached the room, the assailants had left the house. My brother was lying motionless in a pool of blood. His face had been disfigured. I tried to lift him, but I couldn’t. I went out and called the neighbours. A boy came to help but ran away unable to bear the dreadful scene. Later I called the police control room and he was taken to the hospital in an ambulance,” recalls Abhijith, an IT professional. Ranjith Sreenivas was a lawyer. His wife too is a lawyer. Theirs was an inter-religious marriage. “To my knowledge, there was no threat to my brother. He had no criminal case against him. As a politician, he used to say things sometimes critical of others. But at the same time he maintained a good relationship with everyone,” says Abhijith. Link to a February killing The trigger for the murder of Shan is said to be the killing of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker Nandukrishna, 22, by SDPI men on February 24, 2021. It was the aftermath of a dispute that ensued between RSS and SDPI workers over the provocative language used by some of the speakers at a campaign meeting organised by SDPI. In the evening, members of both organisations conducted separate protest marches, ending in clashes at Nagankulangara Junction near Cherthala in Alappuzha. Nandukrishna who suffered hack injuries in the scuffle later died at a hospital. The police had arrested 40 SDPI activists in connection with the murder. In the immediate aftermath of the slaying, a few shops and vehicles belonging to SDPI activists and sympathisers were torched and burned down in Cherthala. Though it did not snowball into major violence, investigators say Shan’s murder was a “retaliatory strike”, which was “in the making for two months”. The police believe the murder of Shan led to a chain reaction resulting in the killing of Sreenivas. A special investigation team led by Additional Director General of Police, Law and Order, Vijay Sakhare, is probing the twin murders. Sakhare hinted at a high-level conspiracy in the two murders. The police are looking into whether an RSS State leader who was in Alappuzha on December 18 had motivated the assailants to kill Shan. The police have recorded the arrest of around two dozen RSS and SDPI men in connection with these slayings. Jayaprakash, who sells Kerala lottery tickets by the side of the Alappuzha- Madurai road at Komalapuram on the outskirts of Alappuzha town, does not remember any such horrific incident in the region in the name of politics or faith in recent times. “Last time a political killing happened in our region was the murder of C.G. Francis (Benny) some 25 years ago. Francis, a CPI(M) worker, was killed by RSS men at Pollethai in Mararikulam South grama panchayat,” says Jayaprakash. Clash of communal outfits What gives the recent killings a religious hue is the involvement of the RSS and the SDPI, both considered communal organisations. The SDPI has its roots in the banned Students Islamic Movement of India and the National Democratic Front (NDF). The PFI was formed after NDF, the Karnataka Forum for Dignity and the Manitha Neethi Pasarai in Tamil Nadu merged in 2006. The SDPI, the PFI’s political front, which was formed in 2009, calls itself a “socio-political movement that strives for the empowerment of the Muslims and other marginalised sections of society.” Prior to the murder of Sreenivas, SDPI men were accused of the killings of RSS worker A. Sanjith in Palakkad in November, and Students Federation of India activist Abhimanyu in Kochi in 2018 among others. The demolition of the Babri Masjid is one of the key reasons for the long-running rivalry between the RSS and PFI, says Subash Babu, a retired Superintendent of Police who had spent considerable time in probing extremist elements and led several anti-terror operations in the State. “The RSS is less militant in Kerala compared to some other States largely due to their relative lack of influence on society. In a sense, the PFI can attack the RSS only in Kerala, whereas in other States the Hindu outfit is in a much stronger position. Their rivalry and targeted communal killings are likely to continue in Kerala, but it won’t necessarily snowball into a larger war or riot,” claims Babu. Both the RSS and the PFI spread hatred against each other as a major ploy to thrive. “If there is no Muslim community in India, there is no scope for RSS. There are a lot of limitations to the consolidation of the Hindu religion or culture. To succeed, they want all Hindus to see Muslims as their enemies. On the other side, Muslim fundamentalist organisations are portraying their community as victims and the Sangh Parivar as hunters. They use the 2002 Gujarat riots and actions of the BJP government at the Centre to fan anti-Hindu sentiments. All these organisations practise communal politics,” says Chennamangaloor. According to him, the vote-bank politics of the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) have helped the fundamentalist organisations to expand their footprint in the State. “Political killings are becoming communal murders in Kerala,” opines political analyst N.M. Pearson. “The CPI(M) and the RSS were the major parties involved in the political killings in the State. After coming to power, the CPI(M) seems to have ditched murder politics. The organisations involved in recent murders utilise religion in order to gain political goals,” says Pearson. He says that when it comes to vote-bank politics there is no ideology. “We cannot say political parties including the CPI(M) have joined hands or made compromises with communal forces. But at the same time, the recent elections saw secular parties indulging in appeasement of communal groups at the local level and in some places crossing the ideological lines to ensure victory.” Signs of polarisation As per the 2011 Census, the total population of Alappuzha was 21.28 lakh. Of this, 68.64% were Hindu, 20.45% Christian and 10.55% Muslim. Murders of this kind or communal violence are not common in the district. But there are signs of polarisation. Following the murders, calls for retaliation and hate-mongering were intense, especially on social media. The remarks — “We aren’t mourning, it’s a march of jubilation” — made by SDPI State General Secretary P.K. Usman during the funeral procession of Shan exemplify it. Political observers feel that despite suffering electoral setbacks, fundamentalist forces like the RSS and the PFI/SDPI have been able to strengthen their base in the district. “Alappuzha has not witnessed any real communal problem in recent times. But it is not completely correct to say that the district has always been peaceful. Clashes have occurred in Alappuzha town. There was even a police firing during a Nabidina rally in the 1980s. Intermittent clashes have taken place between Hindus and Muslims in Kayamkulam. Of late, there has been a significant shift in Muslim politics,” says a senior journalist and political observer from Alappuzha. The rise of Islamic organisations like the SDPI in Alappuzha is in tandem with the eroding influence of the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), both constituents of the UDF. In the 2020 local body polls and 2021 Assembly elections, the LDF swept the elections in the district winning a majority of the local bodies and eight of the nine Assembly seats. “The UDF has become more or less irrelevant in the district. Muslim voters have drifted away from the UDF and aligned with the CPI(M) and SDPI. The CPI(M) has made significant inroads into the Muslim community by creating a sense that they are in the best position to fight the BJP. The SDPI is also pitching itself as a force against Hindu fundamentalist forces. The CPI(M) has consolidated Ezhava (Hindu) and Muslim votes, which is helping them to sweep polls one after another in the district,” the observer adds. The targeted political killings have sparked a wave of outrage, partly directed at the district police. Soon after the back-to-back murders, Congress leader and former Home Minister Ramesh Chennithala asked why the local law enforcement had not swamped the streets with officers soon after the first murder, given the communal implications of the crime. Soon, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan condemned the crime. In an FB post, he urged people to isolate the forces that seek to spread hate and terror in the community. The Chief Minister also promised resolute legal action against the perpetrators. The CPI(M) sees a political ploy to undermine Kerala’s communal peace, secular character, and law and order record in the Alappuzha killings. According to a press statement from the CPI(M) State secretariat, the Alappuzha killings are attempts from two religiously opposed fanatical forces to instigate a communal conflagration in Kerala. The CPI(M) said they sought to divide society into religious lines for political dividends. Since the home portfolio is with the Chief Minister, the spate of killings in Alappuzha turned out to be a shot in the arm for the Opposition. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the Chief Minister had outsourced the police station to local CPI(M) satraps. He asked the government to rein in the RSS and SDPI outfits to ensure lasting communal peace. BJP State President K. Surendran alleged that the CPI(M) and the SDPI were in cahoots in scores of local bodies in Kerala, and tacitly supported each other in the elections. The police seemed to be supportive of the SDPI, he said. Surendran alleged that the SDPI was an Islamist outfit with secret terror and assassination cells. Rejecting the accusations, SDPI State General Secretary Ajmal Ismael said the SDPI was a secular and democratic organisation. He alleged that the police had arrested and tortured innocent SDPI workers in connection with the murder of the BJP leader in Alappuzha and made them chant “Jai Shri Ram”. He accused the BJP of derailing public peace. Critics say the police failed to correctly assess the tense mood and initiate measures to check further violence following the killing of the SDPI leader. The retaliatory strike, which happened less than 500 metres from Alappuzha South police station and less than one kilometre from the District Police office, has baffled the police. However, the police top brass denies any laxity on the part of the force. Caught in the middle  At Ponnad, villagers are yet to overcome the shock of the brutal murders and the religious animosity which is unheard of in the region. Every year, the Ponnad Muhiyudheen Juma Masjid committee offers water and sweets to participants of the procession marking the celebration of Sree Narayana Guru Jayanthi. Likewise, the Ponnad temple serves payasam ( kheer ) to members of the Muslim community on the occasion of Nabidinam (Eid-e-Milad). Kushan, a headload worker from Mannancherry, says he has not witnessed the deployment of such heavy security in the area in recent times. “People here live in total harmony. I think the murder of Shan was aimed to stir communal tension in our locality, but it has failed. But, the murder certainly created panic among people.”  “It is not easy to destroy the secular fabric of Alappuzha,” says Shameel, a fruit vendor in Alappuzha town. “But there is always a chance of violence escalating with wide ramifications,” he warns. According to him, a few fringe elements in the two communities are trying to flare up communal feelings. Though Shan and Sreenivas believed in different ideologies, they were known to each other and remained friends until the abrupt end of their lives. “I am proud of my son. But, no other family should go through this kind of ordeal. The killings should stop now,” says Salim. “Issues of murdering one innocent person do not get solved by killing another,” Abhijith echoes. With inputs from G. Anand in Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/inside-keralas-spiral-of-revenge-politics/article38084229.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:31 IST,||An unfortunate ideological shift in the judiciary||A speech by Justice S. Abdul Nazeer of the Supreme Court of India ( The Hindu , December 29, 2021;https://bit.ly/3qJBgP8)has evoked vibrant discourse in legal and political circles. The judge spoke in Hyderabad on the topic, “Decolonisation of the Indian legal system”, at the National Council meeting of the Akhil Bharatiya Adhivakta Parishad, which is a lawyers’ organisation with express loyalty to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He called for the “Indianisation” of our legal system. He lamented about the continued neglect of the teachings of the great legal giants of ancient India such as Manu, Kautilya, Yajnavalkya, etc.  A ‘link’ This apathy has been against “our national interest”, said the judge, adding that the kingdoms of ancient India had a fine justice dispensation system. The judge underlined Kautilya’s theory about the duties of the king which, according to him, is based on the great tradition established in the age of Ramayana. He implied that many ideas of modern methods of adjudication were prevalent in indigenous jurisprudence. While talking about judicial corruption too, Justice Nazeer had a point. After quoting Brihaspati, he said that “a corrupt judge, a false witness and the murderer of a Brahmin” were considered as criminals on a par with one another. Evidently, the Brahmins remained on a different pedestal even while assessing the culpability of the act. On selection of judges, he recalled the Vedic priest, Katyayana, who insisted that the king had to appoint only a Brahmin to act as a judge. It is equally curious that Justice Nazeer has found glory in the Arthashastra which contemplated punishment for an official for personally talking with a woman employee, during work hours (https://bit.ly/32Ln5k6). The speech by Justice Nazeer has certain distinct characteristics. It is nostalgic in tone and abstract in its concept. It lacked coherence in terms of specific legal situations. The speech contained generalisations without situational references. It did not indicate a concrete and comprehensive legal system that is desirable or adaptable for the nation, after Independence. The basic issues with the speech, however, are two-fold. First, it ignores the Constituent Assembly debates on designing the nation’s legal landscape. Second, when religious revivalism is used as a political tool by the ruling dispensation, the legal revivalism expounded by the judge in generic terms can only subserve the regime’s political and populist agenda. The CA debates The Constituent Assembly debates started on December 9, 1946 and were completed on November 26, 1949 on which day the Assembly approved the draft. Though the Government of India Act, 1935 was a major source for the constitutional script, the debates in the Assembly and their outcome made it a unique socio-political document. The plea for Indianness was very prominent in the discourse. K. Hanumanthaiah, a member from Mysore, on November 17, 1949, lamented: “We wanted the music of Veena or Sitar, but here we have the music of an English band”. Pandit Govind Malaviya’s suggestion was to start the Preamble to the Constitution by the words, “by the grace of Parameshwar, The Supreme Being, Lord of the Universe....” Mahavir Tyagi, on December 27, 1948 emphasised regaining “spiritual freedom” and not just political freedom. Lokanath Misra was anxious about “the complete annihilation of Hindu culture” (December 6, 1948). On the other hand, H.V. Kamath warned that the history of Europe during the middle age was “bloody” and it showed “the pernicious effects that flowed from the union of Church and State” (December 6, 1948). He said that “if a State identifies itself with any particular religion, there will be rift within the State”. This was in sharp contrast with what Lokanath Misra said on December 3, 1948, “If you accept religion, you must accept Hinduism as it is practised by an overwhelming majority of the people of India.” These remarks and many others only epitomise the large volume of kaleidoscopic viewpoints that the Assembly chose to deliberate on. The plea for “Indianisation” was confronted not only with the values of western liberal democracy but also with the finer parts of the Indian tradition, which were organically incorporated into the Constitution. The second facet of Justice Nazeer’s speech has contemporary relevance and to understand it, we need to contextualise the opinion. The speech tries to create a narrative of a good old past without any convincing materials in support of it. This is totally in line with the right wing’s political rhetoric which relies on the unsubstantiated glories of the past. Justice Nazeer’s remarks have come at a time when the regime is trying to subvert the Constitution and the idea of the Rule of Law in multiple ways. At a time when even legislations are being used as a means to shatter constitutional tenets such as secularism and federalism, the remarks of the Supreme Court judge against the alleged colonial nature of the legal system, which includes the nation’s Constitution, are deeply disturbing. Metrics and a descent  The country’s democracy has stooped to a new low in recent times. It went down in the freedom index as well as hunger index. On December 27, 2021, The New York Times reported that “in India, laws against religious conversions have been accompanied by mob violence”. Hate speech has become a prominent mode of articulation in the country which is abetted by selective invocation or non-invocation of the penal laws. When the Constitution becomes the most effective tool against electoral autocracy, the speech by Justice Nazeer has had only an adverse impact on the movements thriving to restore the values of the Constitution. It is significant that even while attacking the colonialised legal system, Justice Nazeer did not find fault with the sedition law or such other draconian penal provisions, which are all colonial remnants.   Legal scholars David Landau and Rosalind Dixon, in a comprehensive study, explained that “across a range of countries, would-be authoritarians have fashioned courts into weapons for, rather than against, abusive constitutional change” ( Abusive Judicial Review: Courts Against Democracy , 2019). They have predominantly dealt with the process of adjudication which, in one way or another, aids or abets “a broader project of democratic erosion”.  Against separation of powers  But the ideological change that occurs in the institution of judiciary and the persons running it is another fundamental factor that determines the quality of judiciary and polity. The quintessential relationship between the judicial ideology and the political ideology was explained by J.A.G. Griffith in his classic work, The Politics of the Judiciary (1977). Remarks by the judges, on and off the Bench, need to be analysed by positioning them against political situations. Some comments by the judges could be an expression of sheer personal admiration for the Prime Minister as discernible from Justice Arun Mishra’s speech in February 2020, when he described the Prime Minister as a “versatile genius who thinks globally and acts locally”. In February 2021, Justice M.R. Shah said that Prime Minister Modi is a “popular, loved, vibrant and visionary leader”. Both these comments do not augur well for our democracy since these are not in tune with the constitutional scheme of the separation of powers and expected judicial behaviour. Justice Nazeer’s views indicate an unfortunate ideological shift in our judiciary.  Kaleeswaram Raj is a lawyer at the Supreme Court of India. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-unfortunate-ideological-shift-in-the-judiciary/article38084222.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:31 IST,||Prepare for the worst||The Omicron variant is galloping across the U.S. and many countries in Europe at a pace never seen since the pandemic began. If the United States set a new record of fresh cases on a single day on December 27 with over 0.54 million cases, the seven-day average is at 2,40,400 cases a day, a 60% increase compared to the previous week. At least seven countries in Europe — Britain, Denmark, France, Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain — are witnessing a similar trend this week. The World Health Organization said the number of COVID-19 cases recorded globally shot up by 11% last week (December 20-26) compared with the previous week, while the number of new deaths stayed nearly the same as the previous week. But globally, the weekly new cases are close to but yet to surpass the peak witnessed in the last week of April 2021. The sharp increase in daily cases is not surprising given the highly infectious nature of the Omicron variant. It is estimated that it spreads nearly three times faster than the highly transmissible Delta variant. While Omicron has emerged as the dominant variant in a few countries, it has not completely displaced the Delta variant. The twin threats from the two variants are responsible for fresh cases reaching record numbers in many countries. The Omicron variant has a superior ability to cause breakthrough infections in fully vaccinated people and also cause reinfections in people who have been previously infected. Early data from South Africa and the United Kingdom suggest a reduced risk of severe disease requiring hospitalisation particularly among those fully vaccinated and previously infected. But it is still too early to draw conclusions as there is an inevitable lag between infection and hospitalisation, and the protection offered by vaccines against Omicron in older and other vulnerable populations is still not clear. India has been witnessing a surge in cases in many States. As in the case of the first two waves, the increase in cases is currently seen in large cities. The total number of Omicron variant cases reported in India is inching closer to 1,300 and has already been reported from 22 States. There is no reason to believe that the variant will behave differently in India. The highly transmissible nature of the variant and its ability to cause breakthrough infections and reinfections, and the fact that people with no travel history or contact with international passengers have tested positive for the virus should alert policymakers to take the Omicron threat seriously. The first step in addressing this concern is to increase the daily testing numbers and adopt a dual RT-PCR testing strategy — testing all positive samples with a kit containing the S-gene target — before sequencing for Omicron detection. India should not repeat the same mistakes committed during the second wave by allowing the virus to spread widely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/prepare-for-the-worst/article38084217.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:31 IST,||Needless provocation||The Chinese government’s announcement on December 30 that it had come up with its own names for 15 places in Arunachal Pradesh could not have come at a more precarious moment for an already strained relationship. The move is ostensibly aimed at “standardising” how places in the Indian State are depicted in official Chinese maps, which show all of Arunachal as “south Tibet”. India’s Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement in response to the move that “assigning invented names” will not “alter” any facts on the ground and Arunachal’s status as an integral part of India. As the MEA noted, this is not the first time that Beijing has done so. In 2017, Chinese authorities issued “official” names for six places in Arunachal. The first instance followed a visit by the Dalai Lama to the State, which Beijing had protested. The list on this occasion is longer, and not only includes eight towns but also four mountains, two rivers and a mountain pass. The list covers 11 out of Arunachal’s 25 districts, extending from Tawang in the west to Dibang Valley in the north and Anjaw in the east. The spread of the locations suggests the places were chosen to reiterate Chinese claims to the whole State.  If the latest move is largely symbolic and will not, as the MEA observed, change facts on the ground, it needs to be seen against the backdrop of broader changes in China’s approach to the boundary dispute. The naming announcement was made ahead of a new border law coming into force on January 1, 2022. The law, which was proposed in March 2021 and calls for various Chinese government bodies to take steps to “safeguard” Chinese territory, was put forward a year into the crisis along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). New Delhi, which has expressed concern about the law, has seen it as an attempt to formalise the transgressions made by the Chinese military since the summer of 2020 and put a stamp on China’s unilateral measures to redraw the LAC. The Chinese Foreign Ministry defended the latest move saying the matter was “within China’s sovereignty”. Yet, Beijing had a very different view on India’s own internal reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019, which elicited not only sharp statements from China but also led to Beijing raising the matter at the United Nations Security Council. The announcement this week came as India and China remain engaged at both diplomatic and military levels to complete the stalled disengagement process along the LAC. Restoring relations, as well as the status quo along the borders, will require mutual sensitivity and an adherence to past agreements that helped keep the peace, rather than needless provocations that expand an already long list of differences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/needless-provocation/article38084218.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:32 IST,||Vaccines, boosters and some hard talk||I wish it were otherwise but we are starting the new year with vaccines and boosters at the top of everyone’s mind. So I hope you will forgive me if I write about these subjects. With boosters starting in a week’s time, there are questions that need to be raised and allegations that must be countered. That is what I want to do today. Issue of the certificate First, a blunder that has mercifully been corrected but the fact it was made raises the question: how carefully did the Government think through its announcement about boosters? After insisting on calling them precautionary, why did it initially limit them to people over 60 who can provide comorbidity certificates from a doctor? It was inexplicable and contradictory but also illogical. Let us leave aside the fact, this being India, there would have been no dearth of false certificates. If the Government had no way of checking, it would have had to accept every one. No doubt, this is why, three days later, it dropped the requirement. Now, all you need is a doctor’s advice. How will the Government know you have taken it? And how will it fathom what the advice was? This is, of course, a face-saver to wriggle out of the earlier stupidity, but it still leaves the Government with yolk all over its face. The issue was simple before the Government decided to complicate it. Comorbidities were not a condition for those over 60 years when jabs were first given. Why were they suddenly introduced at this stage? I doubt we will ever be told but it is a question that calls for an answer. The elderly are a priority in every country — that was also true of India when the first jabs were given — because age makes them vulnerable. The older you get the more prone you are to illness. So, if the doses are precautionary, the precaution that is needed is to prevent the elderly falling sick. Covaxin’s clearance This seems to have finally dawned on it but how is it that the Government did not realise it earlier? Someone somewhere did not think this through. Even though the error has been corrected it does not leave me with confidence in the Government’s strategy. The other issue I want to raise is different. It is an unwarranted allegation made by the Chief Justice of India. He has claimed: “Several multi-national companies, like Pfizer, on one hand, and scores of people from within India, on the other hand, made unfair attempts to defame Covaxin. They even complained to WHO and tried to stall recognition to this made-in-India vaccine.” Pfizer can defend itself and I hope the World Health Organization (WHO) will issue a statement to clear the air, but I want to step-in on the side of a lady widely considered India’s top vaccine scientist. It was to me in an interview last January that she expressed her reservations about Covaxin’s clearance in “clinical-trial mode”. Professor Gagandeep Kang said without efficacy data, no vaccine should be cleared and Covaxin’s clearance, only on the basis of its Phase 1 and 2 results, was neither correct nor defensible. She also said she would not take Covaxin as a vaccine until its required efficacy data is made public. Actually, she had a lot more to say but you can find that out for yourself by watching the interview. It was done on January 5, 2021 (https://bit.ly/32wbRQU). The Chief Justice of India did not name her but Prof. Kang is by far the most prominent scientist to have raised concerns about Covaxin’s premature clearance. She had the courage to do so and what she said was scientifically indisputable. She was not “defaming Covaxin” but she was certainly — and rightly — drawing attention to its improper authorisation. However, the Chief Justice of India went perilously further. “All Telugu people must come forward to tell the world about the greatness of our Telugu company that made this vaccine.” It was embarrassing to hear a Chief Justice of India say that but I would like to believe he knows he has erred and repents. I’ll say no more. Oh well, if I have not upset or depressed you, Happy New Year. Karan Thapar is a television anchor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/vaccines-boosters-and-some-hard-talk/article38084224.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Current account slips to deficit in Q2||India’s Balance of Payments (BoP) position moved to a deficit of $9.6 billion in the quarter ended September (Q2), as widening trade deficit weighed. At 1.3% of GDP, this compares with a surplus of $6.6 billion in the immediately previous quarter and with a surplus of $15.3 billion a year earlier. “The deficit in the current account in Q2 was mainly due to widening of trade deficit to $44.4 billion from $30.7 billion in the preceding quarter and an increase in net outgo of investment income,” the RBI said on Friday. “The current account deficit in Q2 FY22 was somewhat smaller than our expectation. Nevertheless, a huge widening lies ahead, with the large merchandise trade deficits seen in October-November 2021,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at rating agency ICRA. ‘Gap to widen in Q3’ “We expect the current account deficit to print in excess of $25 billion in Q3 FY22, rivalling the size of the full year CAD in FY20. For the year as a whole, we foresee the CAD at $40-45 billion, or around 1.4% of GDP,” she added. The RBI said net services receipts decreased marginally over the previous quarter but increased on a year-on-year (y-o-y) basis, on the back of robust performance in the exports of computer and business services. Private transfer receipts, mainly representing remittances by Indians employed overseas, rose 3.7% from a year earlier to $21.1 billion. Net outgo from the primary income account, mainly reflecting net overseas investment income payments, increased sequentially as well as on a y-o-y basis. Net foreign direct investment recorded an inflow of $9.5 billion, declining from $24.4 billion seen in the same period of the last year. Net foreign portfolio investment fell to $3.9 billion compared with $7 billion. Net external commercial borrowings recorded inflow of $4.1 billion compared with an outflow of $3.7 billion. Non-resident deposits saw net outflow of $0.8 billion as against $1.9 billion. “There was an accretion of $31.2 billion (on a BoP basis) in Q2 which also included SDR allocation of $17.86 billion by the International Monetary Fund on August 23, 2021.” For the half year ended September 2021, India recorded a current account deficit of 0.2% of GDP as against a surplus of 3% in the year-earlier period, on the back of a sharp increase in the trade deficit. Net invisible receipts were higher in the first half this year, on account of higher net receipts of services and private transfers. Net FDI inflows fell to $21.2 billion from $23.9 billion, RBI data showed. “Portfolio investment recorded a net inflow of $4.3 billion in H1:2021-22 as compared with $ 7.6 billion a year ago,” the central bank said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/current-account-slips-to-deficit-in-q2/article38084204.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Foreign-owned assets in India rose by $37 bn in Q2: RBI data||Foreign-owned assets in India increased by $37.3 billion during the July-September quarter (Q2), according to RBI data. Indian residents’ overseas financial assets rose $31.9 billion, almost three-fourths of which came from build-up in reserve assets. This partly reflects the allocation of special drawing rights (SDRs) by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in August 2021, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said. The regulator on Friday released data relating to India’s International Investment Position (IIP) at end-September 2021. The International Monetary Fund describes a nation’s IIP as showing the value of financial assets of residents of an economy that are claims on non-residents, or are gold bullion held as reserve assets; and of the liabilities of residents to non-residents. Reserve assets accounted for 68.5% of India’s international financial assets in September 2021. The share of debt liabilities in total liabilities increased marginally to 47.8%. The ratio of international assets to international liabilities improved to 73.6% from 70.4% a year earlier. Net claims of non-residents on India increased by $5.4 billion during July-September 2021. ‘HFC applies for licence’ Separately, the RBI also said that West End Housing Finance Ltd. had applied for ‘on tap’ licence to set up a Small Finance Bank in the private sector.  Reserve assets accounted for 68.5% of India’s international financial assets in September||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/foreign-owned-assets-in-india-rose-by-37-bn-in-q2-rbi-data/article38084202.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||GST: textile sector seeks lasting solution to niggle||The textiles and clothing industry, which welcomed the decision of the GST Council to defer the increase in rates for textile products, has sought a permanent solution to the issue. Sanjay K. Jain, vice-president of the Federation of Hosiery Manufacturers’ Association of India, said the decision of the Council was “a big relief to the textiles and clothing industry.” He said the industry had proposed 7% to 8% rate to the Finance Minister. However, there was no 8% slab in GST. “We will work for the 8% slab,” he said. The South Indian Hosiery Manufacturers’ Association president A.C. Eswaran said while the body welcomed the decision to defer the rate increase, “we want a permanent solution. The common man purchases basic wear and garments priced at less than Rs. 1,000. The rates for these should be retained at 5%,” he said. According to a press release from the Clothing Manufacturers’ Association of India, the industry was reeling under one of the most severe cost increases in recent years. Now is not the right time to increase the GST on garments, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gst-textile-sector-seeks-lasting-solution-to-niggle/article38084199.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Wheat exports jumped to $872 mn in April-Oct.||India’s wheat exports jumped to $872 million during April-October period in the current fiscal on account of healthy demand, with Bangladesh emerging as the top destination, the Commerce Ministry said. In volume terms, wheat exports during the period rose by more than sixfold to 3.2 million tonnes (MT) from 0.51 MT in the year-earlier period. “India’s wheat exports in the current fiscal (April–October) rose by 546% to $872 million from $135 million reported during the same period of the previous fiscal,” the Ministry said. In the current fiscal, wheat exports are expected to achieve an all-time record high in volume terms, it added. India’s wheat exports are mainly to neighbouring countries, with Bangladesh having the largest share of more than 54% in both volume and value terms in fiscal year FY21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wheat-exports-jumped-to-872-mn-in-april-oct/article38084211.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Core sector output rose 3.1% in November||Output of eight core sectors rose by 3.1% in November as against a contraction of 1.1% in the same month last year, according to government data released on Friday. Barring crude oil and cement, all other sectors recorded positive growth in November. In October, these core sectors’ output had grown by 8.4%. According to the data, coal production expanded by 8.2%, natural gas by 23.7%, refinery products 4.3%, fertilizers by 2.5%, steel by 0.8%, and electricity climbed 1.5% in November. The growth rate of the eight infrastructure sectors — coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertilizers, steel, cement and electricity — stood at 13.7% during April-November this fiscal as against a contraction of 11.1% during the same period last fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/core-sector-output-rose-31-in-november/article38084213.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||CCI orders probe against Apple for ‘unfair practices’||The Competition Commission of India (CCI) on Friday ordered a detailed probe against technology major Apple for alleged unfair business practices with respect to its App Store. In a 20-page order, the CCI said that Apple’s App Store is the only channel for app developers to distribute their apps to iOS consumers which is pre-installed on every iPhone and iPad. “Further, third-party app stores are not allowed to be listed on Apple’s App Store as the developer guidelines as well as agreement prohibits app developers from offering such services... these restrictions imposed by Apple forecloses the market for app stores for iOS for potential app distributors,” CCI said in the order. According to the CCI, this prima facie results in denial of market access for the potential app distributors/app store developers in violation of competition norms. Further, such practices prima facie result in limiting/restricting the technical or scientific development of the services related to app store for iOS. Citing these factors, the regulator has ordered a detailed probe by its Director General.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cci-orders-probe-against-apple-for-unfair-practices/article38084208.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||IRDAI tells Go Digit to pull out plan||Insurance sector regulator Irdai has asked Go Digit General Insurance to discontinue a product offering life insurance benefits in violation of regulatory norms. The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) also asked the insurer to withdraw advertisements regarding the product from all media. The insurance sector regulator said a show-cause notice was issued in August as deficiencies were observed in complying with the provisions of the Insurance Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/irdai-tells-go-digit-to-pull-out-plan/article38084209.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||RIL unit to buy U.K.’s Faradion for £100 mn||Reliance New Energy Solar Ltd. (RNESL), a wholly owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd., said it had agreed to acquire 100% in Faradion Ltd. for £100 million (about Rs. 1,000 crore). RNESL also agreed to invest £25 million as growth capital to accelerate commercial roll-out. “With its patented sodium-ion battery technology, Faradion has a competitively superior, strategic, wide-reaching and extensive IP portfolio,” RIL said in a statement, adding that it would use Faradion’s technology at its proposed energy storage giga-factory at Jamnagar, India. Faradion is based out of Sheffield and Oxford in the United Kingdom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ril-unit-to-buy-uks-faradion-for-100-mn/article38084214.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Tech Mahindra to acquire 100% stake in Allyis India, Green Investments||Tech Mahindra (TechM) said it had approved a proposal for the acquisition of a 100% stakes in Allyis India and Green Investments, for up to $125 million. TechM said the acquisition would bolster its capabilities in digital experience solutions — learning and development, marketing, instructional design; and engineering — cloud and automation, analytics, and technical support services.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tech-mahindra-to-acquire-100-stake-in-allyis-india-green-investments/article38084200.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||LIC unveils digital zone in Mumbai||The Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India has set up an ‘LIC Digi Zone’ here to enhance digital operations in sales and services for its customers. LIC Chairman M.R. Kumar said, “LIC plans to undertake the next wave of digital transformation to unlock several benefits of accelerating growth, driving customer satisfaction and improving intermediary productivity and loyalty.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lic-unveils-digital-zone-in-mumbai/article38084206.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Easy outing for United||Manchester United cruised to a morale-boosting 3-1 win against Burnley on the eve of Alex Ferguson’s 80th birthday on Thursday to strengthen its push for a Premier League top-four finish. Scott McTominay put United in front early and a Ben Mee own goal doubled its lead before Cristiano Ronaldo finished impudently to put Ralf Rangnick’s men 3-0 up. Veteran winger Aaron Lennon punctured the party atmosphere at Old Trafford towards the end of the first half, giving Sean Dyche’s struggling Burnley hope, but United largely bossed the second period. The Red Devils are now four points behind fourth-placed Arsenal with a game in hand after interim manager Rangnick shook up his team following a disappointing draw at Newcastle. Rangnick, still unbeaten since taking over from the sacked Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, made six changes, shuffling his defence and starting Jadon Sancho and Edinson Cavani in attack. Bruno Fernandes was suspended after picking up a fifth yellow card. United opened the scoring in the eighth minute, when Mason Greenwood cut the ball back to the edge of the box, where Ronaldo’s first touch fell for McTominay, who hit a sweet right-footed shot past Wayne Hennessey. The home side extended its advantage in the 27th minute in front of former manager Ferguson, who was at the helm the last time it won the Premier League, in 2013. Sancho was freed on the left by Shaw and the former Borussia Dortmund player cut inside onto his right foot before hitting a low strike that nestled in the corner via a slight touch from Burnley captain Mee. A superb McTominay effort was met by a similarly impressive stop by the flying Hennessey, who tipped the strike onto a post only for Ronaldo to react by flicking the loose ball into an empty net with the outside of his right boot.  The result: Manchester United 3 (McTominay 8, Mee 27-og, Ronaldo 35) bt Burnley 1 (Lennon 38) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/easy-for-united/article38084566.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,||Dravid’s overseas campaign as head coach begins on the right note||Rahul Dravid has made a winning start to his job as India coach on foreign soil. And the victory comes in no less a country than South Africa where India registered its first Test win — under Dravid’s captaincy in 2006 at the Wanderers. Wealth of experience Talking to the media, K.L. Rahul dwelt on the value of having a legend such as Dravid as coach, where you can learn about the art of cricket, drawing from his experience. Rahul also revealed Dravid brought calmness and focus to the dressing room and made the cricketers work hard at the nets. Dravid’s cutting-edge professionalism — there is a quiet ruthlessness about his methods — and skipper Virat Kohli’s passion for overseas victories in Tests, blend well. There is desire, there is hunger. The erudite Dravid, ever the perfectionist, would not have been completely happy though with the victory in the first Freedom Test. Take away Rahul’s exceptional first innings 123 and there was hardly anything to choose between the two sides. And we are talking about a transitional South African side with a porous batting line-up. The batting collapse on day three — India slumped from 272 for three to 327 all out — and the second innings capitulation [India was dismissed for 174] would have worried Dravid. The Wanderers can be extremely seamer-friendly and the host could play four specialist pacemen with Duanne Olivier coming in for Keshav Maharaj. The Indian batting, with problem areas, is bound to be severely tested. Cheteshwar Pujara is struggling at No. 3. He has been a courageous campaigner for India, but runs have eluded him in recent times. He has to look again at his forward press, which has landed him in loads of trouble. Pujara would be well advised to hang back unless the length demands otherwise. Indeed, the length should dictate the footwork from the Indians which was not always the case in the first Test. Another senior batter under scrutiny, Ajinkya Rahane, timed the ball sweetly during his first innings 48 but, given that capable young batters Hanuma Vihari and Shreyas Iyer are sitting out, needs to convert his starts. His second innings dismissal where, despite the presence of fine-leg and a deep square-leg, he ventured into a fatal hook was not what you would expect from a seasoned professional. Vihari had an outstanding tour of South Africa with India-A and Shreyas made Test runs against New Zealand at home. Skipper Kohli too needs a big score. His airy cover-drive at a wide one from the impressive debutant Marco Jansen soon after lunch on day four was disappointing. The ill-advised stroke led to his downfall. It was a case of poor batting. Kohli has to re-look his footwork and balance. He needs to dig in, ‘leave’ deliveries, be circumspect around off-stump. The Indian captain led capably but his team needs runs from him. Fully-charged battery The vibrant Indian pace bowling would have, however, pleased Dravid. None more than Mohammed Shami, at the peak of his powers. Shami has among the best seam positions in world cricket. The seam stays upright and the batters don’t always know which way the ball will deviate. Even as they are in two minds, Shami strikes. What a champion!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dravids-overseas-campaign-as-head-coach-begins-on-the-right-note/article38084517.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:34 IST,||Rahul to helm India in ODI series||K.L. Rahul will lead India in the three-match one-day international series in South Africa starting from January 19 as regular white-ball captain Rohit Sharma is not yet fully fit to take part in the series. Rahul, currently the vice-captain of the Test side as well in Rohit’s absence, will have pace spearhead Jasprit Bumrah as his deputy for the bilateral series. Along with Rohit, Ravindra Jadeja and Axar Patel too were not fit and hence not considered for selection, while Mohammed Shami has been rested. Ace off-spinner R. Ashwin will make his ODI return after four years, having last played against West Indies in June 2017. He had earlier made his T20I comeback at the ICC World T20. Experienced opener Shikhar Dhawan returns as well. Some of the fresh faceses who find a place in the 18-member squad include Ruturaj Gaikwad who topped the run-charts in the recently concluded Vijay Hazare Trophy, Washington Sundar and Venkatesh Iyer. Chetan Sharma, the chairman of the Selection Committee said they are looking at grooming Rahul as a potential future captain.  The squad: K.L. Rahul (Capt.), Shikhar Dhawan, Ruturaj Gaekwad, Virat Kohli, Surya Kumar Yadav, Shreyas Iyer, Venkatesh Iyer, Rishabh Pant (wk), Ishan Kishan (wk), Yuzvendra Chahal, Ravichandran Ashwin, Washington Sundar, Jasprit Bumrah (Vice-capt.), Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Deepak Chahar, Prasidh Krishna, Shardul Thakur and Mohammed Siraj.   The fixtures: Jan. 19, 21 (both at Paarl) and Jan. 23 (Cape Town) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-to-helm-india-in-odi-series/article38084524.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:22 IST,||Zeel goes down to Marcinkevica||National champion Zeel Desai failed to capitalise on her chances as Diana Marcinkevica of Latvia prevailed 7-6(7), 6-4 in the quarterfinals of the $25,000 ITF women’s tennis at the Ganesh Naik Complex on Friday. Zeel missed two set points in the first set, in the 12th game and then in the tie-break. She also failed to drive home the advantage when she broke for 4-3 in the second set. Diana handled the climax better and ran away with the last three games, dropping five points in all. Zeel had six aces and two double faults. She converted three of 10 break points. Diana edged ahead by converting four of seven breakpoints, apart from handling the tie-break well. Japan’s Moyuka Uchijima, champion of the last tournament in Pune, retired after four games against compatriot Naho Sato. The two latter gave a walkover in the doubles as well. In doubles semifinals, Prarthana Thombare and Ekaterina Yashina of Russia lost 6-3, 6-3 to top seeds Anna Danilina and Valeriya Strakhova.  The results: Quarterfinals: Diana Marcinkevica (Lat) bt Zeel Desai 7-6(7), 6-4; Naho Sato (Jpn) bt Moyuka Uchijima (Jpn) 4-0 (retired); Ekaterina Reyngold (Rus) bt Akiko Omae (Jpn) 6-0, 6-1; Nefisa Berberovic (BIH) bt Ekaterina Yashina (Rus) 6-1, 6-3.   Doubles: Semifinals: Anna Danilina (Kaz) & Valeriya Strakhova (Ukr) bt Ekaterina Yashina (Rus) & Prarthana Thombare 6-3, 6-3; Zhibek Kulambayeva (Kaz) & Diana Marcinkevica (Lat) w.o. Naho Sato & Moyuka Uchijima .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zeel-goes-down-to-marcinkevica/article38084692.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,||Vachier claims World blitz title||Eighth seeded Frenchman Maxime Vachier-Lagrave surprisingly stole a march over several stronger contenders before nailing local hero Jan-Krzysztof Duda 2-1 in the tie-breaker to claim the World blitz chess title in Warsaw on Thursday. Vachier, tottering at the 47th spot after losing the 10th round, scored nine points from the last 11 rounds. His victims included overnight leader Levon Aronian and Magnus Carlsen. After topping a three-way, involving Duda and third-placed Alireza Firouzja at 15 points, Vachier won the third tie-break blitz game to dash the hopes of the host. In contrast, the women’s title was decided with a round to spare after 17-year-old Kazakh Bibisara Assaubayeva built on her overnight lead to score 14 points from 17 rounds. Third seed K. Humpy, second with a round to go, missed a certain medal after losing the final round to Polina Shuvalova and was fifth. Similarly, Vaishali was third after 13 rounds but lost thrice in the last four rounds to tumble to the 14th spot. In the open section, 10th seed Arjun Erigaisi came the closest to a podium-finish.  Top-seven: (final standings) :   Open (after 21 rounds): 1-3. Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra), Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol), Alireza Firouzja (Fra) (15 points each), 4. Daniil Dubov (CFR) (14.5), 5-7. Levon Aronian (USA), Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze) and Vladislav Artemiev (CFR) (14 each).   Women (after 17 rounds): Bibisara Assaubayeva (Kaz, 14), Alexandra Kosteniuk (CFR, 12.5), 3-4. Valentina Gunina (CFR), Polina Shuvalova (CFR) (12 each), 5-7. K. Humpy, Natalia Buksa (Ukr) and Nana Dzagnidze (Geo) (11.5 each).   Indians’ standings:   Open: 18-19. Vidit Gujrathi, Nihal Sarin (13 each), 24. Arjun Erigaisi (12.5), 32. D. Gukesh (12.5). 68. Harsha Bharathakoti (11), 84. P. Harikrishna (10.5), 86. Raunak Sadhwani (10.5), 89. Mitrabha Guha (10.5), 112. S. L. Narayanan (10), 131. Abhimanyu Puranik (9), 141. Aditya Mittal (9), 150. Sankalp Gupta (8.5).   Women: 5. K. Humpy (11.5), 14. R. Vaishali (10.5), 30. Vantika Agrawal (9.5) and 55. Padmini Rout (8.5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vachier-claims-world-blitz-title/article38084510.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,||Depleted Russia faces tough title defence||Russia heads into its defence of the ATP Cup with a team depleted by injuries and COVID-19, but World No. 2 Daniil Medvedev said on Friday it only made him want to win more. Three of the four team members who helped Russia thrash Italy in the 2021 final withdrew ahead of the 16-team event which starts here on Saturday. They included fifth-ranked Andrey Rublev, who contracted coronavirus at an Abu Dhabi exhibition this month. Karatsev missing World No. 18 Aslan Karatsev and World No. 172 Evgeny Donskoy are also missing. Evgeny Karlovskiy and Roman Safiullin were drafted in at short notice. But Medvedev is undeterred, despite Russia being in a tough Group B that includes Italy, led by Matteo Berrettini, France and Australia. Only the winning nation progresses to the semifinals from each of the four groups. Each tie comprises two singles matches and one doubles. “Roman is going to be the underdog in probably all the matches, and that’s good. He has great potential, great skills in terms of tennis,” said Medvedev, who opens his campaign on Sunday against France’s Ugo Humbert. “ATP Cup is a good chance for guys like this to win a lot of points, a lot of money, a lot of confidence coming into Australian Open quallies, and just become a better player. “So I’m confident in Roman, in the team who are going to just try to do our best and who knows, maybe to win the title. I like this kind of pressure. It makes you play better.”v Berrettini’s clash with Medvedev on Thursday could be pivotal and the Italian knows he has his work cut out. “I mean, he’s really solid. He’s moving really well, playing deep, serving well, returning. He’s not missing at all when he’s playing good,” he said of the Russian. “So especially on hard court he’s probably, together with Novak (Djokovic), the best player we have now. “Personally last year I struggled to play against him, but I work hard to be ready for this match, so we will see.” In other ties Saturday, Argentina face Georgia and Stefanos Tsitsipas’ Greece take on Poland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/depleted-russia-faces-tough-title-defence/article38084600.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,||Four Indians in CA’s 2021 Test XI||White-ball skipper Rohit Sharma and off-spinner R. Aswhin are among four players from India who feature in the Cricket Australia XI of 2021. Wicketkeeper-batter Rishabh Pant and left-arm spinner Axar Patel also find a place. Rohit has been picked as opener alongside Sri Lankan Dimuth Karunaratne, followed by Australian Marnus Labuschagne at number three. Pant was named wicketkeeper. The spin department features the Indian duo of Ashwin and Axar.Labuschagne is the lone player from the Australian national side in the list.  CA Test XI of 2021: Rohit Sharma, Dimuth Karunaratne (SL, Capt.), Marnus Labuschagne (Eng), Joe Root (Eng), Fawad Alam (Pak), Rishabh Pant (wk), R. Ashwin, Kyle Jamieson (NZ), Axar Patel, Hasan Ali (Pak), Shaheen Shah Afridi (Pak) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/four-indians-in-cas-2021-test-xi/article38084513.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,||India wins U-19 Asia Cup title||India reaffirmed its supremacy in the U-19 Asia Cup with a record eighth title as it hammered Sri Lanka by nine wickets in a rain-hit summit showdown here on Friday. The Indian bowlers were all over Sri Lanka, which was gasping at 74 for seven in 33 overs, when heavy rain lashed the Dubai International Cricket Stadium and stopped play for more than two hours. It became a 38-over-a-side contest when play resumed with Sri Lanka limping to 106 for nine. India was set a revised 102-run target in 38 overs via DLS method which it reached rather comfortably in 21.3 overs with opener Angkrish Raghuvanshi scoring an unbeaten 56 off 67 balls. India's only loss in the competition came against Pakistan, which lost to Sri Lanka in the semifinals.  The scores: Sri Lanka 106/9 (Vicky Ostwal 3/11) lost to India 104/1 (Angkrish Raghuvanshi 56 n.o., Shaik Rasheed 31 n.o.) via DLS method .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-wins-u-19-asia-cup-title/article38084516.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:34 IST,||Tamil Thalaivas posts first win||Substitute Ajinkya Pawar was the star of the night as he sizzled with 11 points in 11 raids to help Tamil Thalaivas post a comfortable 36-26 win over Puneri Paltan in the Pro Kabaddi League here on Friday. The win was Tamil Thalaivas’ first of the season. Pawar had every trick in the book to negate all attempts from the Puneri Paltan defence. He was a livewire as he plotted his game beautifully. He chalked out his escape routes well, had enough fire power in him to escape the defenders’ clutches and slowly became Tamil Thalaivas’ do-or-die raid specialist.  The results: Tamil Thalaivas 36 bt Puneri Paltan 26; Patna Pirates 44 bt Bengal Warriors 30 .   Today’s matches: U Mumba vs U.P. Yoddha, 7.30 p.m.; Bengaluru Bulls vs Telugu Titans, 8.30 p.m.; Dabang Delhi K.C. vs Tamil Thalaivas, 9.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tamil-thalaivas-posts-first-win/article38084522.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:21 IST,||NZ primed to give Taylor winning farewell||New Zealand and Bangladesh put the impending retirement of Black Caps great Ross Taylor at the forefront of preparations for the first Test which starts at Bay Oval in Mount Maunganui on Saturday. 2-0 target “He would love to go out with a 2-0 series win,” New Zealand skipper Tom Latham said after the Black Caps’ most prolific run scorer announced he would put away his Test whites after the two-match series. But Bangladesh coach Russell Domingo said the tourists “want to try and make sure he doesn’t have a great send-off. But we know we have to bowl well to get him out.” With the covers still on the pitch the day before the Test, neither side was prepared to confirm its line-up. New Zealand’s only conundrum was choosing between spinner Rachin Ravindra or seam bowler Daryl Mitchell to fill the all-rounder slot. “Whether it browns off or holds its moisture, we’ll have to wait and see,” said Latham, who will open the batting for New Zealand with Will Young while Devon Conway will bat at three having recovered from a self-inflicted broken hand. The New Zealand emphasis will be on its four-pronged pace attack of Tim Southee, Trent Boult, Neil Wagner and Kyle Jamieson, who have kept the side unbeaten in the past 16 home Tests. Bangladesh has never beaten the Black Caps and its batsmen have always struggled to adjust from their slow, turning wickets to the fast, green-topped pitches in New Zealand. Driving force Another driving force for New Zealand is the need to get more points in the World Test Championship following a loss and a draw in the two-match series in India earlier this month. Bangladesh arrived in New Zealand on the back of a 2-0 home series loss to Pakistan and while the prospect of an upset win was unlikely, Domingo said his young side had plenty to play for. “We know our record is not good in New Zealand in terms of Test match cricket, (but) we’re pretty excited. It’s a good opportunity for some young players to test the waters in New Zealand and try and put on a good performance for us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nz-primed-to-give-taylor-winning-farewell/article38084687.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:14 IST,||Bopanna looking to bounce back||The close bonding with his family, the camaraderie with players and a fine sense of humour keep Rohan Bopanna cheerful most of the time. It is no different in Adelaide where he is on a 72-hour quarantine before the first ATP event of the season. “The good thing is, I have my family with me here. And we can train during quarantine,” said Bopanna, happy to have his two-year-old daughter around. For three days it will only be the hotel and practice courts, walking distance from each other. “Sania (Mirza) is also here with her son and dad. It is nice,” said Bopanna. The Indian party does not end there, as Bopanna reveals that he would be playing the first tournament with the country’s best ranked singles player, Ramkumar Ramanathan. “My partner for the season, Edouard Roger-Vasselin is busy with the ATP Cup in Sydney. I am lucky that Ramkumar was available to play doubles this week,” said Bopanna, the former world No.3 doubles star. “It was the best thing to do for Ramkumar to be here in advance, to get used to the conditions and hoping to get into the singles qualifying event. He may now get to play both singles and doubles,” said Bopanna. At 41, Bopanna has all the enthusiasm to excel and make fresh ground on the tour. “My target is to win a match in the first five months,” laughed Bopanna, as he hinted at the miserable first half he had in 2021, hardly winning two matches in the first five months in about 11 tournaments. He did have a good season, winning a few rounds in Grand Slams, apart from reaching a semifinal and many quarterfinals on the ATP Tour. “For three weeks I had good training at the academy in Bengaluru, doing yoga as well. The fitness helps me enjoy the Tour. I get along very well with Ramkumar. Win or lose, it does not matter, as long as I enjoy playing,” said Bopanna. He is also happy about national champion Niki Poonacha getting sharp for the season at the academy. “Niki definitely has the game. He needs to be consistent. He is shaping up well. There are a few Challengers after the ATP event in Pune. Good chance to do well,” said Bopanna. The country’s No.1 doubles player signed off with a warning, saying that he had met Frederik Nielsen of Denmark earlier in the day, and the Belgian was happy about playing the Davis Cup tie on grass in Delhi. “Nielsen is a Wimbledon champion,” said Bopanna about the Dane who won the Wimbledon doubles title in 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-looking-to-bounce-back/article38084565.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,||The call of the lucre skews priorities||There was a proposal, before the commencement of the Indian Premier League (IPL), that cricketers who retired from Test cricket early to pursue a career in the cash-rich Twenty20 leagues, would not gain entry into these tournaments. Enormous damage As time went by, the proposal was thrown out of the window. Its non-implementation has caused enormous harm to cricket. Two of the brightest talents in international cricket — Mohammed Amir and Quinton de Kock — have said no to Test cricket and they are only 29. Before the advent of the Twenty20 leagues such a move, bidding adieu to Test cricket, would have been unthinkable. Cricketers would have stretched every sinew to prolong their Test careers. It is not about de Kock or Amir, who had so much more to offer to Test cricket, alone. There are hordes of others who have turned their backs on Test cricket for a lucrative career in Twenty20 leagues. Take the case of off-spinning all-rounder Moeen Ali, who has quit Test cricket. His presence would have lent balance to a beleaguered England side during its ongoing disastrous Ashes campaign down under. And there are several West Indian cricketers who simply don’t want to play Test cricket, preserving their bodies for the shortest format. These days, if you quit Tests, you will actually be rewarded at the player auctions since you will be available for that many days more. Sadly, the cricketing administrators have let the game down. South African batting legend Graeme Pollock once said to this writer, “The success of the administrators is not in how much money they bring to the game but how well they preserve the soul of cricket.” The great Pollock would have been disappointed with de Kock for several reasons. Firstly, Cricket South Africa had already given him a break from the second and third Tests of the India series, to be with his wife after the birth of their child. Secondly, given the situation a transitional South Africa is in at the moment, with a wobbly batting line-up without experience, de Kock has left the team when it needs him the most. Talking about spending time with family, would not de Kock spend two months in India for the IPL, then travel for the Big Bash, and other tournaments where he would possibly be away from his loved ones. Onus on admins It’s a question of priorities. And Test cricket has been put on the back burner. Actually, cricket is the only sport where the primary form of the game is not given its due and does not feature some of its finest athletes. It’s time for the administrators to step in. Will they?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-call-of-the-lucre-skews-priorities/article38084519.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,||Asked Virat to continue as T20I captain: Chetan||More than a fortnight after Virat Kohli insisted on not being told to reconsider his decision to step down as India’s T20I captain, chairman of national selection panel Chetan Sharma has said the selectors had requested Kohli to not announce it “on the cusp of the World Cup campaign”. “It was a surprise. All the selectors asked Virat to reconsider that for the sake of Indian cricket, please continue as captain. It may affect the World Cup campaign. Everybody requested him to not announce ahead of the World Cup,” Chetan said on Friday after announcing India’s squad for the ODI series versus South Africa. Soon after the BCCI axed Kohli as the ODI captain earlier this month, BCCI chief Sourav Ganguly had said the BCCI had asked Kohli to not step down as T20I skipper. Despite Kohli contradicting the BCCI chief, Chetan said the selectors were in no position to have a detailed discussion in September. “How could we discuss it anything at that time? The team was on the cusp of a World Cup so we tried telling him to wait till the World Cup, but he had made up his mind,” Chetan said, adding Kohli remains a vital cog for Team India. Important player “Virat will continue to remain a very important player. The selectors feel the team revolves around him. But we feel there should be one captain for white-ball formats. It’s a hard decision but the selectors have to take hard decisions based on need of the hour.” “T20s was his decision, ODIs was selectors”, said Chetan, adding that there is no miscommunication or confusion between Kohli, selectors and the BCCI. “There’s no confusion between the Board and Virat. We wanted to announce (ODI) captaincy issue in advance because we wanted to give Rohit and Virat to get it into the system. There is no communication problem between selectors, board and players,” Chetan said. Requesting the controversies to be put to rest at the turn of the year, Chetan stressed there is nothing wrong between Kohli and Rohit. “Virat and Rohit are absolutely fine. Please avoid speculation. Both plan together really well. They have fantastic camaraderie. They work together as a team, family and unit. Please leave controversies behind in 2021,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asked-virat-to-continue-as-t20i-captain-chetan/article38084512.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,||Great opportunity to showcase skills, says Amit||Amit Gulia, who led India to a silver in the 2019 Asian (under-23) volleyball championship in Myanmar, and now one of the star players of Hyderabad Black Hawks in the RuPay Prime Volleyball League scheduled from February 5, said his team looks stronger than most of the others in the league and had very good chances of making a huge impact. The 23-year-old Amit said the round-robin format where the six franchisees will play against each other was a challenging one. At the same time, it offered a great opportunity for the players to showcase their skills. “We have a perfect blend of youth and experience with a foreign coach guiding us and there is an Olympian, too, in our team. We have good blockers and attackers.  “The league gives the players a chance to gain recognition and earn money. More importantly, it will improve the standard of the game in India,” the Hawks attacker told The Hindu .  “I will try my best to share my experience with the young talent so that they can handle pressure better,” the 2019 South Asian Games gold medallist said. “During break due to the pandemic, most of the players were forced to train on their own and maintain the desired fitness levels. But, they are now ready for the league as they are conscious of its schedule and well-prepared too. “In the pre-season camps, the effort will be to bond together, focus on serve and passes and get the kind of set of foreign players. For me, it will be a huge learning experience getting to know differnt aspects of the sport from the foreigners and the coaches.” Gulia added: “Live telecast is a huge boost in terms of attracting more youth.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/great-opportunity-to-showcase-skills-says-amit/article38084795.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Vishnu, Ganapathy and Varun take top honours||Vishnu Saravanan (Army Yachting Node, Mumbai) and the Tamil Nadu Sailing Association’s K.C. Ganapathy and Varun Thakkar, all Tokyo Olympians, received the Admiral RH Tahiliani Trophy for the ‘Yachtsman of the year (2021)’, Yachting Association of India announced at its AGM on Friday. TNSA’s Nethra Kumanan, who took part in Tokyo Olympics, won the award for the most promising lady sailor.  The YAI annual awards:   Lifetime achievement: Rabinder Gokaldas Ahuja (Cmde Sea Cadet Corps).   Admiral Kohli Trophy for promoting the sport: Tarandeep Bakshi (INWTC, Mumbai).   Admiral RH Tahiliani Trophy for the yachtsman of the Year: K.C. Ganapathy & Varun Thakkar (TNSA), Vishnu Saravanan (AYN, Mumbai).   E-in-C for the most promising lady sailor: Nethra Kumanan (TNSA).   Admiral Nadkarni Trophy for the most promising yachtsman: Ishwarya Ganesh (TNSA).   Race Official Trophy: Col. Satish Kumar Kanwar & Ajit Diaz.   Admiral Ramdas Trophy for offshore adventure: INSV Kadalpura (WNC), Capt. Atool Sinha, Lt. Cdr. V.S. Bisht, Lt. Cdr. K. Pednekar, Lt. Cdr. S. Gupta, Slt. Sri Hari, Slt. Prateek Kumar.   Admiral RK Dhowan Trophy for the best sailing club: INWTC .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vishnu-ganapathy-and-varun-take-top-honours/article38084560.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:14 IST,||Natl. w’lifting postponed||The National weightlifting championship, scheduled in Bhubaneswar from January 8 to 16, has been postponed due to the rise in Covid cases. Indian Weightlifting Federation (IWLF) president Sahdev Yadav confirmed the development. “The National championship was postponed due to Covid. Now it will be held from March 20,” said Sahdev. The event at the KIIT University would have seen a massive congregation of lifters as the Junior and Youth Nationals were also scheduled to be held alongside the senior championship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/natl-wlifting-postponed/article38084559.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:21 IST,||Kirsten would love to coach England||Former India and South Africa coach Gary Kirsten has expressed interest in coaching England’s Test side, saying it would be a “lovely project” to revive the fortunes of Joe Root and his men. Current head coach Chris Silverwood’s job hangs in balance as England’s Ashes hopes went up in smoke in 12 days after Australia retained the Urn with an innings and 14-run win in just two days and a session in the Boxing Day Test earlier this week. Past master Kirsten had guided India to No. 1 in the Test rankings for the first time in December 2009, just over a year after taking over. He later achieved the same feat with South Africa.  “Listen, it (the England job) is always a consideration because it’s a tremendous honour,’ Kirsten told the I News .  This is not the first time the South African has expressed interest in the job, Kirsten was the frontrunner to become England’s coach twice before. “I’ve walked this journey twice now (when England recruited new coaches in 2015 and 2019) and I’ve always made it clear that I would never commit to doing all formats. “And when international cricket boards get their head around the fact that they need to split coaching roles, then it becomes a consideration,” he said. The World Cup-winning coach hailed England’s 50-over set up as the best in the world but said the red-ball side, which lost a record nine games in 2021, has lagged behind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kirsten-would-love-to-coach-england/article38084685.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:22 IST,||Sandeepti wins again||Sandeepti Singh Rao, coached by Ankit Patel at the Tennis Vidyalaya, was in robust form as she raced away with her second successive trophy in the Rs. 1,00,000 AITA women’s tennis on Friday. Sandeepti blanked top seed Kavya Khirwar in the final. She had dropped three games each to Hannah Nagpal and Himaanshika Singh in the semifinals and quarterfinals. Sandeepti conceded only seven games in all.  The results (final): Sandeepti Singh Rao bt Kavya Khirwar 6-0, 6-0; Semifinals: Sandeepti bt Hannah Nagpal 6-2, 6-1; Kavya bt Tamanna Takoria 6-3, 6-2. Quarterfinals: Sandeepti bt Himaanshika Singh 6-2, 6-1; Kavya bt Mehar Kohli 6-1, 6-0; Tamanna bt Mahi Panchal 7-5, 6-4; Hannah bt Shefali Arora 2-6, 6-3, 6-2; Sandeepti bt Himaanshika 6-2, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sandeepti-wins-again/article38084689.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:22 IST,||Deepam, Aishwarya triumph||Deepam Malik and Aishwarya Jadhav won the boys and girls’ titles respectively in the AITA Super Series under-16 tennis tournament on Friday.  The results:   Boys (final): Deepam Malik bt Dhruv Sachdeva 6-2, 6-4; Semifinals: Deepam bt Fateh Singh 6-1, 6-1; Dhruv bt Dhruv Kumar 5-7, 6-3, 6-4.   Doubles (final): Siddhant Kishore Sharma & Dhruv Sachdeva bt Dhruv Kumar & Deepam Malik 7-5, 6-4.   Girls (final): Aishwarya Jadhav bt Suhani Gaur 6-1, 6-2; Semifinals: Aishwarya bt Vanya Arora 6-2, 6-1; Suhani bt Snigdha Ruhil 6-3, 6-2.   Doubles (final): Aishwarya Jadhav bt Snigdha Ruhil bt Sidhak Kaur & Radha Sadhra 6-3, 0-6, [10-6] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepam-aishwarya-triumph/article38084690.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,||Madras triumphs after three-way tie||Madras University won the South Zone inter-university women’s basketball title at the St. Berchmans College indoor stadium here on Friday. There was a three-way tie at the end of the semifinal league with Madras, Chennai’s SRM and Bengaluru’s Jain finishing with two wins and a loss each but Madras, with a better quotient, emerged champion. SRM’s star Priyanka missed her team’s last match as she had to join South Central Railway and her team lost to Madras 60-69. SRM finished runner-up and Jain was third while host Mahatma Gandhi (Kottayam) finished fourth. All the four teams have qualified for the National varsities championship to be held at Sonepat.  The results (semifinal league): SRM, Chennai 61 (Rajeswari 21, Priyanka 12) bt Mahatma Gandhi, Kottayam 35 (Joma Gejo 16, Akshaya Philip 10).   Jain, Bengaluru 44 (Saryu 12, Sandhya 11) bt Madras 43 (Sruthi 16, Monica 13).   Madras 69 (Sruthi 19, J. Monica 15, Iswarya 12) bt SRM 60 (Rajeswari 24, Harshita 12, B. Pallavi 12).   Jain 57 (C.R. Sandhya 19, R. Mathuravani 12) bt MG 55 (Akshaya Philip 13, P.S. Jesly 10).      N. Afrad took six wickets while S.N. Ameersha and Vishnu Mohan scored half centuries as Swantos CC, Ernakulam, crushed Chennai's South Zone CC by eight wickets and entered the semifinals of the 71st Pooja all-India cricket tournament at the Tripunithura Palace Oval on Friday.  The scores: South Zone CC, Chennai 128 in 36 overs (V. Vishal 49, N. Afrad 6/36) lost to Swantons CC, Ekm 130/2 in 27.3 overs (S.N. Ameersha 50, Vishnu Mohan 50) .      Third seed J. Oges Theyjo (Tamil Nadu) won a double in the SBI-TTC S. Chidambara Iyer memorial AITA men’s tennis tournament at the TTC courts on Saturday. In the men’s singles final, Oges got the better of fourth-seeded Tarun Anirudh (Telangana) 6-4, 7-5. Oges won the doubles title along with K. Sivadeep (Telangana). The duo beat Sidharth Arya (TN) and Tarun Anirudh (TS) 6-4, 2-6, 10-8 in the final.  The results (finals):   Men: J. Oges Theyjo (TN) bt Tarun Anirudh (TS) 6-4, 7-5. Doubles: Oges & K. Sivadeep (TS) bt Sidharth Arya (TN) & Tarun 6-4, 2-6, 10-8 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/madras-triumphs-after-three-way-tie/article38084865.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:00 IST,||Rich haul for Tamil Nadu cueists||Tamil Nadu bagged four gold medals and one silver in the recently concluded National billiards and snooker championships 2021 held in Bhopal.  The TN medallists: Gold: S. Shrikrishna (men’s 6-red snooker); Snenthra Babu (sub-junior girls billiards); R. Anupama (junior billiards & snooker); Silver: R. Anupama (women’s 15-red snooker) .    W.I. Davaram and C. Latha were re-elected president and secretary of Tamil Nadu Athletics Association (for the year 2022-’25) in its AGM held here on Thursday.  The office bearers: President: W.I. Davaram; secretary: C. Latha; treasurer: C. Rajendran; senior vice-president: T.K. Rajendran; vice-president: Shiny Wilson, G. Anbalagan, D. Mathiyalagan, T. Krishnasamy Vandiar, E.V. Kamban, S. Mohandoss, G. Gopalakrishnan, Sripriya, R.B.R. Shanmuga Sundaram; senior joint secretary: K. Puhazendi; joint secretaries: S. Osman Ali, M. Govinda Raju, D. Mohan Babu, M. Sivakumar .      India’s 14-year-old H. Bharath Subramaniyam, with 7.5 points, clinched first place in the Open-A Vergani Cup held in Cattolica, Italy, recently. Arjun Kalyan came second, with seven points. P. Iniyan (7 points) finished third in the Lorca Open chess tournament in Lorca, Spain recently. The 19-year-old Indian scored seven points out of nine rounds. Fier Alexandr (7.5) of Brazil and Armenia’s H. Grigoryan Karen (7.5) came first and second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rich-haul-for-tamil-nadu-cueists/article38084603.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:51 IST,||Kumar excels with five-wicket haul||Medium pacer L.R. Kumar’s five for 49, helped RBNCC ‘A’ register a facile six-wicket win over Jawahar’s CC in the two-day KSCA Mysore zone first division league match played at the SDNR Wadayar Platinum Jubilee University grounds here recently.   The scores:   I Division: Jawahar’s CC 121 in 44 overs (B.N. Yashwant 48, L. Manvanth Kumar three for nine) & 141 in 42.4 overs (Vishnu Priyan 70, Mohammed Yameen 29, L.R. Kumar five for 49) lost to RBNCC ‘A’ 197 for eight decl. in 27.2 overs (M. Utham Aiyappa 59, B. Dheemath 56, S.J. Nikin Jose 31, Mohammed Yameen four for 34) & 69 for four in 15 overs (L. Hemanth Kumar 29 n.o., Mohammed Yameen four for 25).   RBNCC ‘A’, 5, Jawahar’s CC, -1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kumar-excels-with-five-wicket-haul/article38084942.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Bengaluru races cancelled||The Stewards of the Bangalore Turf Club, have decided to cancel the 16th day, Friday (Jan 7) races, due to administrative reasons. Except the New Year Cup and Indira Sagar Plate it has been postponed to 17th day, Saturday (Jan 8, 2022).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengaluru-races-cancelled/article38084563.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:10 IST,||Mumbai races cancelled||In view of the recent notification issued by the Government of Maharashtra, the Committee of the Royal Western India Turf Club (RWITC) has decided to cancel the races scheduled for Sunday, January 2, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-races-cancelled/article38084958.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:10 IST,||PCB has advertised for power-hitting batting coach||In a first, the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) has advertised for the post of a power-hitting batting coach for the national team and also sought applications for five other coaching positions at its High Performance Centre in Lahore. The five coaching positions also include the post of High-Performance coach.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pcb-has-advertised-for-power-hitting-batting-coach/article38084959.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 07:32 IST,||Krishna, the butter thief||Among Krishna’s leelas, three get special attention from the Azhvars — the killing of Putana, the killing of Sakatasura and Krishna stealing butter. No one enjoyed Krishna’s leelas the way the Azhvars did, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. Sages saw the Lord because of their tapas. But the Azhvars saw Him through His grace. So, they had experiences which even sages did not have. Azhvars described Krishna’s butter thieving with joy. Krishna wanted to show the world that He was ready to be even scolded by His devotees. The only way He could get punished by them was if He did something mischievous. So He decided to steal something and incur their anger. Milk and its by-products were available in plenty in Gokula, where He grew up. So Krishna decided to steal butter. Why not milk or curd? Krishna would stealthily take some butter and if about to be caught, He would run with butter in His hands and butter stuffed in His mouth. He could do so only with butter. One cannot run with curd or milk in one’s mouth, or hold them in one’s hands. So, butter became the chosen product. Once Krishna had decided what He must steal in order to get punished, there was no stopping Him. On the verge of being caught, He would smear butter over His face. He would say, “How can you say the butter on My face is proof of My deeds? I cannot see butter on My face!” This was a typically childish response, where a child assumed that if it could not see something, neither could others. The Supreme One displayed such innocence so that we should approach Him without fear. While Yasoda churned buttermilk to get butter, He would pretend to be asleep. The moment her back was turned, He would start eating the butter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/krishna-the-butter-thief/article38084262.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 10:02 IST,||Sudoku — January 1, 2022||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-1-2022/article38085127.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:47 IST,||Writing 2022 with a blade of grass||The reasonable question, ‘so what’s happening in Indian fashion?’ makes my mind go blank. Whether it is from apologists of fashion who know what is happening but dangle a bait anyway or from satirists emphasising fashion’s irrelevance — even philosopher Slavoj Žižek did that last year in an interview — the question provokes perplexity. Because it means pushing back the procession of bridal lehengas looming in the mind to fluidly describe the experimental, original, risqué work that co-exists in fashion.  Notice the hubris? Lament the regressive tide increasingly apparent in art, culture and comedy, following the course of politics, and then switch right back to writing on all these issues, business as usual. Gripe about the pandemic’s ravages and fashion’s supposed non-essentialism in the face of climate change, then argue for its growing importance as an interlocutor of our times.  My New Year detox begins with first dodging the influence of visual narratives as ‘what’s happening in India’. Or in Indian fashion. Especially on social media. The visuals create a deceptive cocktail of romantic nostalgia. When examined carefully, many just remix insular old ideas. For instance, the saturated coverage of the reign of red lehengas worn by actors Patralekha and Katrina Kaif for their recent weddings turned into a shindig on ‘women’s fashion’ and all its attendant “problems”. Those who derided their pretty sameness saw celebrity brides toeing time-worn ideas, unwilling to wear individuality. Those who applauded, hailed the girls for remaining true to tradition. Few noted that the bridegrooms — Rajkummar Rao and Vicky Kaushal in this case — too played willingly stereotypical parts in the syrupy, botanical sundowners.  Keep silent, keep the peace? The Old is New demon made stooges out of us in 2021 (and the year or two before). Sociologists may call it the moral price of an era as the right eclipses the left, but my discord is more mundane. It is about the conspicuous silence of fashion media when a group of decorated damsels in luxurious palaces wearing silken brocades, twittering over jewellery are sent out as “fashion” in videos on Indian couture. When influencers who unbox new products every day for a fee remind us to pay homage to our grandmother’s old saris and call themselves sustainability advocates. When a beautiful, young, tall girl from India is crowned Miss Universe after multiple rounds of body-beauty contests under the guise of empowerment and we are supposed to clap in the name of patriotism. Those who dissent are called entitled feminist “expletive”.  The pretense of Old as New isn’t as easy to duck perhaps. It even convinced the global, multi-hyphenate Priyanka Chopra Jonas to promote the Bulgari Hindu mangalsutra as emblematic of a financially independent woman’s purchasing power. Thus attempting to turn one of the oldest symbols of patriarchy into a feminist accessory. Then the same Chopra-Jonas broke old ground to admirably roast her husband Nick Jonas for TheJonas Brothers Family Roast on Netflix. Earlier this month, she slammed a reporter who called her the “wife of Nick Jonas”.   That was the time to ask why PC Jonas sold us an enslaving wedding ornament for women in the first place? Or why are we interested in the halwa Katrina Kaif made as her first bahurani cookout? Why do fashion designers believe that consumers will buy into their tokenism for inclusivity-diversity-disability-durability just because they rope in a constellation of short, dark, gay, plus-sized and salt-haired models?  Many such questions sit unasked in my notes: Are Banarasi weaves in fashion because tradition is the newest trend or because of new design interventions? Are crafts organically sustainable, or is this just a poorly investigated correlation? Are Ayurvedic beauty potions selling more because they are marketed in pretty ‘recyclable’ bottles? Make room for solutions These ideas confused me particularly in the last year. But they also open the potential of cultural reporting beyond the Old is New tyrant. To write sharply, freshly, with a blade of grass in 2022. By arguing for handloom weaving as a practical subject for schools. By questioning brands and designers who call their products sustainable without conforming to globally established guidelines that range from supply chain inspections to sourcing and manufacturing checks to gender parity and wage fairness. By calling out every couturier who perpetuates gilded maharani culture.  Let’s highlight new and emerging designers this year who create non-conformist fashion and represent youth culture beyond the Great Indian Wedding. And applaud genuine faces of newness like British diver Tom Daley who was seen publicly knitting between athletic events at Tokyo and knitted himself an Olympic- themed cardigan. Look beyond mainstream media’s selective engagement to highlight less publicised ideas like Shillong-based Youtuber duo CatxLizz who uses music and recycled fashion to comment on social issues. Dwell on the seductive relationship between publicity and anonymity through Kim Kardashian’s stark black Balenciaga dress for the Met Gala in October. It completely obscured her famous body and revenue generating face. Look for the new, new. Like Raw Mango founder Sanjay Garg’s recent collection Sher Bagh, handwoven in Banaras and conceptualised with Anjali Singh of SUJAN. Garg inverts the traditional shikargah (hunting lodge) vocabulary in Indian textile design by eliminating the hunter. Arguing thus for wildlife conservation.  Sustainability: not a white-collar indulgence  Writing in 2022 with a blade of grass will also mean challenging the impression that sustainability is the prerogative of the fashion industry. It is not. Nor is it a white-collar indulgence just as recycling is not only about buying vintage or repeating an expensive outfit on Instagram. So, unless goals of conservation, reuse and reassembling move beyond class issues or elitist trends, and fashion becomes humble enough to reach out to other industries for co-existence, cross pollinated action and awareness, our writing will indeed slip into lament. At the moment, most cultural reporting is in a state similar to what the greatest gymnast of all times, Simone Biles called “the twisties”. A mental hiccup that left her unsure, as she told Time magazine, of her whereabouts, while she was mid-air, high above the vault at the Olympics.  As a blade of grass intern, I turn for inspiration to Rest in Power designer Virgil Abloh who passed away in November. The Louis Vuitton artistic director and founder of Off-White tried to create a race-equal ecosystem. He also said: “I am not made for a podium. But I will design a podium that ushers in systemic change.” Shefalee Vasudev is editor-in chief, The Voice of Fashion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/writing-2022-with-a-blade-of-grass/article38084473.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:47 IST,||Rise of the content head in fashion||“The January 2022 issue of VogueIndia ushers in a new era, a new chapter,” begins Megha Kapoor in her first editor’s letter, as she announces a “Vogue Reset’ and plans to lead the magazine in a new direction. Kapoor is the new Head of Editorial Content at the magazine and her appointment to this role has sparked many conversations on the evolution of fashion journalism in the country.  Already on shaky ground after decades of being relegated to the entertainment and party pages, Indian fashion writing, coverage, and reporting didn’t really have much time to develop to its fullest even with the coming of foreign legacy titles in the first decade of the 2000s. Advertisers quickly owned the pages, and monthly magazines rarely, if ever, critiqued collections of products. Then came the slump of the mid-2010s, followed closely by the social media onslaught, and then the Covid pandemic. Not good. It is into this sorry state for print media that Kapoor, 35, steps up to the top job atVogue India, designations notwithstanding. Before moving to Mumbai a few weeks ago, Sydney-based Kapoor’s only connections to India seemed to be an internship atVogue Indiaover a decade ago, and that she is of Indian descent. A graduate of the University of Melbourne, it was her time atVogue Indiathat landed her a stint atVogue Australia’s fashion department. Since then, she has worked as fashion director at the indie Australian publicationOyster Magazine, and foundedInprint,her own luxury fashion glossy, in 2015. Six years later, Kapoor is ready to take charge of one of the youngestVoguesin the world — launched in October 2007,Vogue Indiais just about a year shy of its 15th anniversary. “It is kind of magical for me to be able to engage with India through this opportunity,” she says. “I think one has to be humble enough to [know] what one does and doesn’t understand, and I’m not going to pretend that I get every nuance. That said, there are over 36 million of us who have had the immigrant experience, and that does not make us any less Indian. I have a lot to learn, and I’m excited.” Meeting newer demands Her appointment followsVogue’s parent organisation’s global shakeup—Conde Nast’s reorganisation of the company’s content strategy, leadership teams, and structure. A similar exercise had taken place atThe New York TimesandWall Street Journaljust a few years ago. Gone are the powerful Editors-in-Chief of old; enter the Content Head, a hybrid entity who’s better placed to respond to newer demands from consumers as well as advertisers. The future, says Kapoor, lies in striking a balance between local and global content. “To me, it’s not a dichotomy. With every project I do, I want to ask myself who the audience is, and if we’re reflecting India’s modern and diverse voices.” She mentions the works of modern Indians like photographers Ashish Shah and Bharat Sikka, and adds that while she is loath to criticise what came before, she looks forward to evolving local content, talent, and image making for a platform that’s more 360-degrees in its outlook, and puts India on the world map. “I’m already working to get Indian designers on Vogue Runway [the title’s free app that covers global fashion] to ensure worldwide recognition.” No urban bias? When I ask what she thinks of exploring regional Indian languages, she says she is ready to take on every opportunity to connect with a diverse audience. And while it may take some time before we see fashion magazines offered in Punjabi, Bengali, or Tamil, it’s not as far-fetched a notion as it would have been even a few years ago. She wants to represent all of India, not just Delhi and Mumbai, which is encouraging in its intent. What will be truly interesting to see, though, is how well such developing editorial policies will work when it comes to advertisers, especially luxury brands, who have come to all but own the pages of Indian fashion magazines over the past decade. “There is definitely going to be a shift,” says Kapoor. “There will be more editorial solutions, and we are perhaps not going to be as dictated by brands.” Given Conde Nast’s influence over the magazine market, it is entirely possible that her outlook is quickly adopted across titles—those that still exist, of course. The author is a fashion commentator and creative director based in New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rise-of-the-content-head-in-fashion/article38084464.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:46 IST,||Think queer||Queer Made is offering India’s LGBTQIA+ community a platform to amplify their businesses. Introduced this July — in a partnership with Tinder, Little Black Book, and digital platform Gaysi Family — it features 22 businesses across diverse categories. “[You can also read about] 54 queer initiatives and entrepreneurs, including writers, social initiatives, and queer-led restaurants, on the LBB x Tinder microsite [queermade.lbb.in],” adds Aahana Dhar, Director - Communications, Tinder India. She picks three brands to try:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/think-queer/article38084459.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:47 IST,||Ring in the new festive year||As I write this, another Kolkata Christmas has drawn to a close. The city was gaiety incarnate, people and places togged out in red-and-green and the tiniest eateries boasting their version of roast duck. Park Street, the city’s famously festive heart, was jammed with people in silly hats and queues snaked in front of restaurants, Omicron be damned. Attending midnight mass in one of Kolkata’s picturesque churches has always been a de rigueur December ritual, like pandal -hopping in October, and onlookers often outnumber worshippers, but nobody seems to mind.  Like Diwali and Holi, there’s something very welcoming about Christmas. Like those two, it hasn’t got too many strictly religious markers and dissolves into easy-going, agnostic celebration. Everyone buys gifts, decorates trees, drinks punch, and parties till dawn. While believers worship the birth of Jesus, fun-lovers make merry, and everyone is happy. Or so we thought. Enter the party poopers. And New India has seen the blossoming of quite a few of those. In Agra, they burned an effigy of Santa Claus; in Karnataka, they stopped Christmas programmes in two schools; in Gurugram, right-wing intruders disrupted mass in at least two places; in Punjab, they vandalised a statue of Jesus Christ; in Assam, a group identifying itself as Bajrang Dal stopped Christmas service claiming there were Hindus in the church. In each of these places, the bogey of conversion was raised. In fact, this myth has become so popular that while everyone else is happily mulling wine, the Karnataka government is mulling an anti-conversion bill. Mind you, the Christian population has remained at around 2.3% of India’s population for the last decade now, but let facts not dim the spirit of the challenge.  In New India, competition between festivals is heating up as much as when two superstar rivals release their big-budget Diwali movies. A suitable plant to compete with the Christmas conifer has been introduced into the picture. December 25, it has been decreed, will be Tulsi Pujan Divas , set aside to worship the tulsi plant. This has made life easier for all those who want to celebrate Christmas but avoid the wrath of the right-wing. They can now pot a basil on the 25th, decorate it with baubles and lights, and then party — this way, they get to have their tree and keep it too.   The new festival even has its own old man origin story. Asaram might be a bit shop-soiled, what with being jailed for rape and all, but he has the requisite white beard and is a gift that keeps on giving. He gave us this unique Holy Basil (notbasilica) Day. And soon it will be February and we will be made to remember (sometimes with the aid of a baton) that it was Asaram who had decreed that February 14 should be Matru-Pitru Pujan Divas . If the Decadent West celebrates love (oh the horror), the Enlightened East will celebrate parents instead. Never mind if said parent one day takes a selfie with your decapitated head because you eloped. So long as head is still attached to body, parents will be worshipped. On Valentine’s Day.   Then April will come and bring Easter and that unmentionable ovoid food item with a yellow centre. The Easter Bunny might have had an early start, but a little bird tells me the Tandoori Terrier is close on its heels. Come April 17, and we will match equinox to equinox with Tamatar Divas . Instead of chocolate-filled white ovoids, we will distribute round red tomatoes. To celebrate the coming of spring rolls.  July will see the dawn of Bakr-id. On that day, everyone will suddenly become best friends with PETA and celebrate World Capra Rights Day with zeal and piety. The festivities will mostly consist of doing things aimed to get your neighbour’s goat.  As the year unwinds, there’ll be pandals to ban in October and prayers to disrupt on Fridays. Meanwhile, another December 31 just went by, and everyone partied to bring in a new year that is shockingly not even Indian but Gregorian.   Fear not. Even as we speak, the Department of Alternative Festival Terminology (DAFT) is working. Early indications are that the day will henceforth be called Dhaniya Patta Pujan Divas . It will be on top of everything.  Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ring-in-the-new-festive-year/article38084476.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:23 IST,||Understanding||The fear of food and festivals, taking to fad diets for weight loss, fasting for long hours, feeling guilty after a meal, seeking permission for cheat meals or holidaying at detox retreats — these are the new normals in today’s fitness-conscious world. When we fail to cope with the rigours of eating schedules and do not get dream results, depression strikes. “Wisdom is in understanding and following the three Cs — climate, culture and cuisine, to enjoy food without remorse,” says Delhi-based certified nutritionist, Madhavi Karmokar Sharma. She has creatively crafted a food planner for the new year hoping to clear confusion because she believes the root cause of ailments is unverified information. “Appetite is a moving entity; if we understand it, we don’t need to standardise our diet,” says Madhavi and adds, “When you eat the right type of traditional and seasonal food, the body knows how much is sufficient for you.” Making informed choices The festival recipes handed down by generations have stories of logical reasoning much like the seasonal fruits and vegetables. Madhavi is confident that the tool she has created will help people make informed choices and also become food intelligent.  Innate wisdom survives due to succession of knowledge and that is why she has named the planner Parampara. Brought up in a family that always ate what was available locally and cooked traditionally, in her role as a food educator now, she wants people to embrace food with joy.  “My mother would always say I do not count when I cook, nor should you when you eat,” says Madhavi, underlining that food is not a roadblock to health but has a purpose. She cautions against the ways of the food industry who use celebrities to promote certain diets. Food education, according to her, is about embracing food in harmony with nature and mindful eating. It is important for all, who do not wish to ruin their health. It pains Madhavi to see how people in cities homogenise breakfast with bread, eggs and cereal whereas it has been a tradition to eat paranthas in the north, idli and upma in the south or poha in the west. India is a diverse country and each culture has its indigenous culinary wisdom, which needs to be followed for sustainable health. Why should we randomly replace sugar with jaggery in everything, she asks, or believe raw food is always trusted to be beneficial? Sugar cools the body in summer and jaggery warms it in winters. The soup-and-salad combination backfires in the cold months but we do not give it a thought. Cucumber, a summer vegetable, or the high-fibre carrot, bitter and plain gourd, pumpkin and beetroot are consumed round the year. Many buy hybrid varieties or preserve them for the lean seasons. “These are warming foods that can cause inflammation and mucous formation, toxic for the body.”  Bajra is a winter grain while jowar is for summers and raagi during the rainy season, she says. Yet people choose multigrain atta for 365 days. If our ancestors had sweet potato and koottu ka atta during navaratri and sesame and walnuts for Lohri, it is not without a reason.  Health tracker Replete with such information, Madhavi has structured the planner with brief notes for each month that are broadly divided under six categories pertaining to the season and weather of the month, mood and celebrations, festive delicacies and rituals, seasonal foods and recipes and how they impact the body. It is also designed as a health tracker to record sleep, workout, breathing, hydration, self-discovery and positive communication. If we are vigilant about our food, it will boost our immunity. That is what we require during these pandemic days, she says. The Planner Parampara is available on www.informedhealth.in and amazon.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/understanding/article38084908.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:43 IST,||Days we need||Today we are all living in the era of social distancing. No, that’s not a viral joke. Okay, but that was! Get it? What I am talking about is how we are all so connected and yet so detached. We wish everyone on some online platform, even post a picture with them; we commemorate every festival from Thanksgiving to Diwali to Eid, even Valentine’s, all in an effort to be seen as woke and with it. But here are a few days we need to commemorate but don’t yet. Let’s give social media the real boost it needs by instituting some of these this year.  1. Porn Star Day: You know how they say, never meet your porn stars? Okay, they say heroes but is it really that different? Funny thing about porn is that it’s a billion dollar industry and yet I can never find more than two people in any room who admit to watching it! Maybe if we had a day for them, each one of them, it would feel a nobler act.   2. Alternate uses for a Tea Cosy Day: If this generation keeps draining tea by dunking bags of dust in hot water, tea as an art will be lost soon. Nobody does teapots anymore, it seems. Maybe having a day for tea cosies will rekindle that romance. I don’t want to live in a civilisation which is too crude for tea cosies.   3. MemorialDay for Lost Socks: This is more of a remembrance. I don’t know where they go or what route they take, all we can do is hope they are happy and find a new partner. While here, let’s add unfinished ChapSticks. In case you are the type who sees a ChapStick all the way through, please turn yourself in, you psychopath.   4. Troubling Your Pets Day: Why should Fido have all the fun? Just one day I want to give them a taste of their own regurgitated medicine. I want to make them feel squeamish and squirm where they stand, or sit, or stay. Pee on their beds, mess up their toys, chew up their favourite leash maybe… I don’t know, I’m spitballing here. What would you do that makes your pet think lowly of you? Voilà!   5. Cards for Hallmark Day: This is special, one where we thank the thank-ers. This day is when we shall send them cards in spite of knowing that they will (a) either be profiting from the thank you card sales already and/or (b) stealing our card ideas for their next print run.   6. Men’s Day Reminder Day: We need one day, just one, to remind all men (cis-, unspecified, or otherwise) that there is only one International Men’s Day and that the remaining 364 (well, now 363) certainly aren't theirs. On this day, like on Men’s Day, we can leave the seat up, not shut cupboards, forget things, mansplain, and maybe even man-spread on public transport all we want and nobody would be allowed to object.   7. One day for badly cooked meals: This deep and moving memorial day for slabs of meat that died twice, once when they were killed and once when they were massacred on a grill by some master chef wannabe. All food deserves respect, especially the one that wasn’t shown any while being prepared. Due to this precise sentiment of mine, many Indian restaurants are nothing but graveyards to me.  This column is for anyone who gives an existential toss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/days-we-need/article38084403.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:44 IST,||Here’s to all things negative||First and foremost, I hope more people pass on this year, having lived fully realised lives, of old age, by natural causes, celebrated by family and friends, than those who are taken away suddenly in their prime, leaving their loved ones in shock and grief. I wish more couples break up, divorce, and move on, to begin new journeys instead of staying in mutually destructive relationships. I hope more children grow up having a single parent who is responsible, loving and capable of providing them a stable, happy home than two parents who are permanently at each other’s throats. I hope there are more seniors living on their own, or in assisted-living facilities, fraternising with peers, having active, independent, fun lives than those who remain with children who don’t want them. I hope there are fewer books on bookshelves, less music to listen to, less art in galleries and fewer movies in theatres this year because quality wins over quantity. I wish that there are more negatives in this world, starting with Covid-19 test results. Also, the negative that has come to describe those who take it upon themselves to talk about all that is wrong around us. For how else can these wrongs be righted? Let’s go with that rather than the toxic positivity that insists that there are no problems at all in this world, and nothing needs to be changed except one’s attitude.  I wish there is far less grand celebration this year, less cake and champagne, less bell ringing and thali clanging, fewer serial lights and less drone-camera videos, and more intimacy with friends and family, marking each other’s special days and good fortune — one to one — with a kind deed or comforting word instead of showy, meaningless, public gestures.  This year, I hope children don’t do as well in school as their parents and teachers would like them to, and instead get to paint, play, climb trees, bond with animals, be bitten by bugs, express themselves, fight and make up with each other, and find their passion. I wish that children don’t obey parents, teachers and all elders blindly and question them because they have learnt to think for themselves, and figured out that all parents, teachers and elders can’t be right all the time. In 2022, I hope to see more grown-ups behaving like children by being less cynical, rediscovering their lost innocence and sense of wonder, their playfulness and, above all, the ability to share and trust one another. I hope people have more arguments this year, and that differences of opinion and divergent points of view are dealt with through dialogue, debate, discussion, and agreeing to disagree, instead of profanities, fists and clubs. I hope we have more intolerance this year: intolerance of hate, violence and inequality. Intolerance of abuse, bullying, misogyny, patriarchy, racism and bigotry. And, above all, intolerance of intolerance. I hope fewer names make it to theForbesList this year, and more children get eggs and milk for their midday meals. I wish there is less development this year and more forest. I wish there are fewer corridors for human-made things, and more corridors for elephants. I wish we start listening to godmen less, and start listening to our hearts more. I wish we start believing in gods less, and start believing in our fellow human a little more. You get my drift. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/heres-to-all-things-negative/article38084428.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:44 IST,||Plan, play & put aside||These are more than just for keeping track of days. Some double as notepads, others inspire with pithy quotes, and still others are works of art. Statement makers for 2022 include the Lavazza calendar shot by Emmanuel Lubezki — the Oscar-winning cinematographer addresses climate change by shooting six artists and activists “who are committed to change”. Here’s our pick of calendars and planners that not only help you keep track of the big days and events, but, often, are collectibles all on their own. With inputs from Shilpa Nair Anand and Medha Kartha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/plan-play-put-aside/article38084426.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:43 IST,||Don’t drop the vacay mood||After two years of beach closures and cancelled holidays, we can’t wait to make plans for sunnier climes. Global brands like Camilla from the Australian kaftan queen or newer pandemic-era discoveries like Seattleite Jackie Robinson’s Momma (they claim to run a ‘sleep-in-it’ test), all promote one feature in particular: sustainability. But our homegrown brands are looking out for women who are environmentally conscious as well. This is a good time to review some ‘made in India’ options, with sustainable attributes like recycled nylon and cotton or Econyl (made from fishing nets and carpet waste), and that are high on comfort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dont-drop-the-vacay-mood/article38084414.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:43 IST,||The Hollywood planner||As 2021 failed to end with the disappearance of Covid-19, instead letting loose a potentially devastating new strain of the virus, we can take solace in the fact that there will always be the movies. While there are indie films aplenty, in these trying times Hollywood appears to the panacea, as evidenced by the humongous box office performance of Spider-Man: No Way Home both in India and globally.   The January release I’m most looking forward to is The 355 . International agents on a quest to recover a top-secret weapon with a cast headlined by Jessica Chastain, Lupita Nyong’o, Penelope Cruz and Diane Kruger — what’s not to love? It’s releasing on the same day as SS Rajamouli’s RRR , so it may well be a double bill at the multiplex for me.   February brings Kenneth Branagh’s long-delayed Agatha Christie adaptation Death on the Nile , with Branagh himself as Poirot, held back thus far because of the scandal surrounding co-star Armie Hammer. While I watch it, I will ponder the existential questions, can I separate the actor from his alleged deeds, and should the work of hundreds of associates suffer because of one man?   March begins with the release of Covid-affected production The Batman , with Robert Pattinson donning the cowl this time, and ends with a film in my favourite genre — Romancing the Stone — if you can call it a genre that is. Sandra Bullock and Channing Tatum star in The Lost City , which promises to be every inch of film the title suggests.   While April has a slew of high-profile releases, I’m going to give them a miss or wait for them to stream, simply because my excitement levels aren’t high enough. May, on the other hand, is packed with releases, beginning with Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness , followed by Reese Witherspoon (if you haven’t watched The Morning Show , you really must) in Legally Blonde 3 and the delayed by two years blockbuster, Tom Cruise’s Top Gun: Maverick .   June brings the promise of another Covid-affected production Jurassic World: Dominion and Baz Luhrmann’s as-yet-untitled Elvis biopic with Tom Hanks as Colonel Tom Parker. Taika Waititi’s Thor: Ragnarok remains my favourite Marvel Cinematic Universe film to date, for its sheer irreverence, and its follow up Thor: Love and Thunder is due in July.   Sacrilegiously, I’ll give Hollywood a break for all of August and most of September, returning to the IMAX only for Mission Impossible: 7 at the end of the latter month. Some of the images released of Cruise’s stunts look breathtaking, and I’m there for it.   Animated sequel Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse - Part One is due in October, while November brings more superheroes in the shape ofThe FlashandBlack Panther: Wakanda Forever.  There’s only one game in town for me in December, James Cameron’s long-awaited Avatar 2 , which begs the question that since the first Avatar released back in 2009, have they left the sequels too long, in the face of a fickle public with short attention spans?   Some disappointing postponements, too — Indiana Jones 5 and John Wick 4 have been moved to 2023, but I think we have enough to get on with in 2022. Don’t you?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-hollywood-planner/article38084406.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:46 IST,||Simple, small, conscious: goal words for 2022||Some words are losing their charm. Pandemic pivot, for one. But what isn’t are goal words. With the new year, people are trying to put aside memories of the second wave and worry about the Omicron wave to bank on simple words — staying small, being sensitive, living consciously. “Covid has been a leveller in some ways, and I feel it has gently nudged people to being more empathetic,” feels writer Anindita Ghose. This is reflecting in how many want to live the next 364 days. We speak with creatives, from actors and authors to interior designers, to understand their takeaway from last year and what they hope will be important in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/simple-small-conscious-goal-words-for-2022/article38084455.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:43 IST,||the digest||Get a date this Sunday Dating Sunday is not a myth. The first Sunday of the new year (the 2nd for 2022) sees a significant spike in traffic, and people swiping right — and yes, it has everything to do with fresh starts and people feeling hopeful after the holidays. Tinder is expecting it to be its busiest day; in 2019, 44 million matches were made on Dating Sunday. Other online dating apps are looking forward to similar numbers, going by last year’s response (Bumble saw a 15% increase in matches, while Hinge saw 22.5%). Happy swiping!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-digest/article38084408.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Instapic||While the party crowd made a beeline for this French town to dodge curfews, and Indian Railways added to the mix with a Pondicherry Package till January 2, 2022, there is the promise of calm in a few days. Meditation, free yoga classes, a wellness exhibition and seminars are part of Puducherry’s 27th World Yoga Festival, from January 4-7 . @pondicherrytourism||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapic/article38084430.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Dance season begins||Leela Samson and her student, Bhavajan Kumar, will be opening the Natyavamsham Series — a showcase ofperformances by teachers and students. Presented by Guru GV Ramani Natya Kala Foundation. Jan 7, 6 pm, streaming on Tikkl, and available till Jan 10. @gvrnkfoundation on Instagram. Alarmel Valli begins the Music Academy’s digital dance festival on Jan 2, 5.30 pm. Tickets at Rs. 350 and Rs. 1750 (season pass). @madrasmusicacademy on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dance-season-begins/article38084432.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Après ski is trending||Après ski-inspired fashion has reached the streets. Swimwear experts Shivan & Narresh have caught on quickly with their ready-to-wear ski and après ski line ‘Farrago’. The kaleidoscopic grid of archival prints is synonymous with the quilts of Ralli - thepatchwork style of Jaisalmer.On shivanandnarresh.com, Rs. 17,000 onwards. Meanwhile, designer Mala Sinha showcases ‘Bodhi’, her collection of handpainted and hand block printed saris in tussars and linens at Amethyst. Jan 4-10. @amethystchennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/aprs-ski-is-trending/article38084434.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Cabinet of wonders||Around 250 items, that span 4,000 years of human history are on show at the New York Public Library. TheTreasuresexhibition, which is the library’s first-ever permanent installation, has been classified into nine themes. Big-ticket items such as aGutenberg Bible andShakespeare’s First Folio to lesser-known ones such as a ballet slipper designed by Coco Chanel and the stuffed toy that inspired Winnie the Pooh are on show. Access the free Treasures audio guide for more details. @nypl.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cabinet-of-wonders/article38084436.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Ladurée cart at parties||AfterLaduréelaunched in Khan Market. a few months ago, plans are underway to expand across the country, in Mumbai, Kolkata and Bengaluru. The 159-year-old iconic French patisserie brand is best known for its double decker macarons, but also has signatures like Rose Croissants and the Vanilla Saint Honore. This season, there is a way to bring the macarons to private events. The Laduree Macaron Cart can be hired forspecial occasionssuch as weddings and birthdays . @ladureeindia on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ladure-cart-at-parties/article38084438.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Chennai walking||Singara Chennai 2.0 Veedhi Vizha, thewalking and cycling challenge, returns. Download the Strava app to register. Jan 1-26. All that discipline must be rewarded, you say? For those planning a 2022 Goa trip, make room for foraging trails, mixology sessions or the ‘floating feni’ experience at Cazulo Feni. Hansel Vaz, who launched the world’s first feni cellar, has a shaded pond where you can dip your feet and enjoy Goan dishes, washed down with feni. Rs. 1,800 onwards. On urbanaut.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/chennai-walking/article38084440.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Travel in a tea box||If you have had to cancel NYE travel plans, bring Paris, New York, London and Singapore home with your cuppa. The five travel gift tea boxes by Vahdam India promise tocapture the mood of each city. The ‘Weekend at Paris’ box has rose, hibiscus, and classic chamomile, while black teas and masalachaisevoke London. Rs. 749 onwards on vahdamteas.in.New Year feastingcontinues at Anise, Taj Coromandel, where brunch with fusion cuisine and live stations is Rs. 3,500-Rs. 4,500. Details: 66002827||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/travel-in-a-tea-box/article38084442.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Art and movement||Apparao Art Gallery presentsHandmaid, a collection of artworks by theanonymous, female artistPrincess Pea. She questions notions of femininity and womanhood. The physical show is on at Apparao Galleries, Chennai. Rs. 4,760-Rs. 9,60,000. Tuesday-Saturday, it can be viewed at theartplatformindia.com. Till Jan 31. Elsewhere, the 10th edition of Attakkalari India Biennial opens at the Bangalore International Centre ina hybrid format. Jan 8 to Feb 2022. On attakkalaribiennial.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/art-and-movement/article38084444.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Talking point||The question now is if the Omicron variant has announced the arrival of the much-dreaded third wave of Covid-19. Delhi put restrictions in place, as have other states, and New Year parties were scrapped. A study by IIT Kanpur pointed out that the third wave in India may peak in February 2022. Meanwhile, in the US and the UK, Omicron has replaced Delta to be the dominant strain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article38084446.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:49 IST,||Bring that zing into your home||Looking back, 2021 has been a year full of extreme weather events ranging from intense rains and flooding to extreme heat waves and drought spread all over the world, largely fueled by climate change. In fact, a study by the World Weather Attribution Initiative found that the extremity of events such as flooding were about five times more due to human-caused climate change. As far as global temperature rise, 2021 was more than 0.4 degrees celsius hotter than 2000 indicating continuous temperature rise over the last 150 years caused by global warming. The 26th Conference of Parties (COP) international climate negotiations held in Glasgow in November 2021 was an important climate-related event this year. In the summit, India has pledged to power 50% of its electricity from renewables (currently it’s at 20%) and reduce carbon emissions by 45% by the year 2030 in addition to a few other longer term goals. As of 2021, India is one of the top greenhouse gas emitters, third after China and the U.S. This makes it even more imperative for each of us to take immediate action. Considering that the residential sector alone is responsible for 25% of the total electricity consumption, and the continuing need for housing in the country, one of the factors we can each look into is to reduce our electricity use and switch to renewable energy in order to help meet India’s COP26 goals. Due to the immense solar potential in India, solar energy is relatively easy to harness. Technology has evolved and is now available at a reasonable cost. Market growth has also ensured a variety of solar panel variants, manufacturers and dealers, giving us options to choose from. There are two primary ways to integrate solar energy into our homes - conventional roof top installation and ‘building integrated solar voltaics’ (BIPV) which essentially replaces a building material such as roofing tile, window glass and skylights with solar modules. Although most BIPV systems need to be integrated in the initial design and construction, one way to incorporate this into existing homes is to use solar modules as roof cover for parking spaces and add small solar gazebos on our terraces and gardens. A solar gazebo is a stand-alone structure with a roof of solar panels that act as a cover for the space below. Such gazebos provide a shaded space for multiple uses. Incorporated with roof gardens on terraces, a solar gazebo could become an interesting aesthetic feature, generating energy and providing additional usable space. 2022 will be another consequential year for Earth’s climate, as will be every year hereinafter. It is imperative that we all understand this and play our part to at least help alleviate the catastrophic effects of impending global warming and climate change. The author is the founder of Green Evolution, a sustainable architecture firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/bring-that-zing-into-your-home/article38084490.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:49 IST,||Embrace a clutter-free life||Ever walked into a spic-and-span home and wondered about how the residents keep it that way?  Japanese organisational and minimalist maven Marie Kondo may have achieved worldwide fame with her first book, The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up , and exhorted everyone to try her KonMari method to keep homes tidy and spark joy, but there’s a simpler way to go about things! It involves making cleanups a part of the everyday instead of dedicating specific hours or days to these can’t-get-away-from-them tasks.  People are the same the world over; it’s just their habits that keep their home clean and free of clutter. Try them, and you’ll see. They take off shoes at the door Turns out the age-old Indian habit of taking shoes off before entering a home is the most sanitary of them all. No dirt tracking in, no mud falling off. A shoe rack by the door ensures you put shoes in their place sooner rather than later. They don’t toss their clothes everywhere Sure, it’s your own room but tossing your clothes on a chair every time you change leads to a clothes mountain. Why not hang them up to air or fold them? A set of hooks behind bedroom and bathroom doors makes it easier to tuck things away. They don’t look for extra storage space Instead of buying new racks or baskets, we suggest you look for ways to lessen the things in your home. The lesser you have, the lesser the clutter. Edit, edit, edit ruthlessly till you only have things that you need and use; not things that are labelled “someday”. They edit their displays with unflinching regularity All designers worth their salt know that making under is often the best way to make over a room or space. That’s why the advice to purge what doesn’t seem to belong. A minimalistic look often does more for your spaces than a stuffed-to-the-gills setting. They don’t have a special cleanup day People who always have a clean home are doing small cleanup jobs on the go. Put things in their place as you go along, wipe down a drawer if free or arrange the bathroom shelf while brushing. They never neglect the kitchen sink This is where you get your dishes clean, so shouldn’t you make sure the sink is clean? Spray an antibacterial solution (even Dettol will do) every night and scrub clean till the steel is glistening. Don’t forget the taps. They look at how to value-add to their room It could be a small bud vase on the entryway table or a floor lamp in the corner that’s reeling on empty — a small touch can make a huge difference. Personal touches like books, photos, and souvenirs work better than store-bought props. They organise their kitchen for maximum efficiency Be it tapping the kitchen triangle or placing their spices/ condiments, organising the kitchen right is an art. One that people who live the clutter-free life know well. Organise your kitchen in a way that you know where everything is and can put a hand on the jar that’s needed even in your sleep. It won’t be easy, but it will make life oh-so-easy. They don’t wait for Diwali to give the home a cleanup If you don’t keep cleaning in small instalments, the clutter piles up into a monumental being — one that overwhelms you. Simple chores tackled everyday take the work out of cleanups. And it ensures that you don’t have to wait for the Festival of Lights to come round at the end of next year to get started.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/embrace-a-clutter-free-life/article38084486.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:48 IST,||Locked house, owner missing||We are a small apartment colony consisting of 18 flats. The construction is 25 years old and we are planning to go for redevelopment. However, the whereabouts of one of the flat owners is not known for the past 10 years and the flat is kept locked up. The kin of the owner is also not traceable. How do we proceed with redeveloping the apartment complex? Sundaresan N. At present, it is not possible for the majority of the owners to compel anyone to sell or develop their holding. Therefore, consent of all flat owners is essential. If one of the owners is not traceable but the remaining owners are of the opinion that the building has to be redeveloped on account of its age, as a first step, the structural stability of the building has to be assessed. In the event of the building being declared unsafe for occupation, an application can be made to Corporation of Chennai for demolition on that ground. Once the land becomes vacant, a suit for partition by metes and bounds can be filed against the non co-operating/ non-traceable owner and further course of action would depend on the orders of Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/locked-house-owner-missing/article38084492.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:48 IST,||A sustainable future with green buildings||The effect of climate change in India has been pronounced. Five of the warmest years occurred in the past 15 years. Heatwaves now last longer than before and are more intense. Himalayan glaciers are retreating. The frequency of cyclones is growing across the country’s 8,000 km coastline. The sea level has been rising at about an average of 1.7 mm. India is already the third-largest global emitter of carbon dioxide (CO2), even though the per capita emissions are well below the global averages. Emissions could rise exponentially with the economic growth if not kept in check. As the country develops, there will be a higher demand for energy, natural resources, vehicles, air conditioning and buildings. Buildings are one of the biggest consumers of energy and sources of CO2 emissions. According to a Global Alliance for Buildings and Construction (GlobalABC) report, the residential, non-residential and building construction industry accounted for 36% of the global energy consumption in 2020. The three segments were also responsible for 37% of global carbon dioxide emissions. But there’s growing evidence that controlling building emissions can help address climate change, create sustainable and thriving communities, and drive economic growth. The building sector has the most potential for delivering significant and cost-effective greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions, according to UN Environment Programme (UNEP). If countries don’t mitigate climate change risks, many parts could become inhabitable due to extreme weather and rising sea levels, displacing the inhabitants in these areas. The only option for such residents would be to head to the cities, putting pressure on the existing infrastructure. Rising temperatures and more frequent and intense droughts are already causing crop yield declines and failures, disrupting livelihoods and food security. The retreating Himalayan glaciers, which feed river systems, can impact water availability severely. The green concepts and techniques in the building sector can help address national issues like water efficiency, energy efficiency, reduction in fossil fuel use in commuting, handling of consumer waste and conserving natural resources.  Reducing emissions in buildings can lower air pollution which, according to a study published in The Lancet Planetary Health , was responsible for 1.67 million deaths in India in 2019. The economic loss due to the lost output from premature deaths and morbidity from air pollution was 1.4% of the GDP in India during this time, which was equivalent to $36.8 billion.  According to the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC), the energy savings from green buildings could range from 20-30% and water savings around 30-50%. The intangible benefits of new green buildings include enhanced air quality, excellent daylighting, health and well-being of the occupants, and conservation of scarce national resources. Green buildings have their economic benefits, too. They can improve employee productivity, health and safety and reduce energy, maintenance, and operational costs. They add to a country’s gross domestic product (GDP) as climate change leads to economic losses. Tackling the future India is yet to build most buildings that will exist in 2040. The country will need over 50 billion square metres of residential floor space in the next 20 years due to urbanisation, as per International Energy Agency’s (IEA’s) India Energy Outlook 2021 report. An estimated 270 million people are likely to be added to India’s urban population between now and 2040. At present, the residential space is less than 20 billion square metres. Add to this the requirement for commercial and industrial buildings — and there will be a massive use of building materials, significantly higher demand for energy and a multifold rise in emissions. Up until now, India’s economic growth has been driven mainly by the services sector rather than the more energy-intensive industry sector. The rate at which India has urbanised has been somewhat slower than other emerging countries. A lot depends on how fast India urbanises and industrialises over the coming decades and the policies that govern these processes. If the government and businesses push through the sustainability agenda, emission levels of new buildings could be far lower than the existing ones. Even though existing structures can be retrofitted with new-age devices and tech to reduce emissions, developers can use sustainable building materials, designs and construction techniques in newer buildings. According to GlobalABC, decarbonising the built environment requires a triple strategy. One, reduce energy demand and increase energy efficiency. Two, decarbonise the energy system and, three, address the embodied carbon stored in building materials. The future is not bleak At the COP26 UN climate conference, Prime Minister Narendra Modi pledged that India would achieve net-zero emissions by 2070. He also said that 50% of India’s total electricity would be generated from renewable energy sources by 2030. Most experts believe that the targets are achievable looking at the country’s track record. India has been decoupling its economic growth from greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The country’s emission intensity of GDP reduced by 12% between 2005 and 2010, and it achieved a reduction of 24% between 2005 and 2016, according to the Third Biennial Update Report by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. The prime minister said that emissions per unit GDP will be reduced by at least 45% by 2030 compared to the 2005 levels. The earlier target was 33-35%. The real estate industry has been doing its part. The green floor space in the country is on the rise. According to Indian Green Building Council, there are 7,002 registered projects and a 7.97 billion square feet green building footprint. Developers are opting for green buildings due to the rising demand from occupiers. It may take some time, but green buildings could become a norm for all new developments if things remain on track. The writer is CEO and Country Head, India, JLL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/a-sustainable-future-with-green-buildings/article38084480.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:48 IST,||Seal your safety||Häfele’s Reveal Digital Lock is a fully-loaded face-recognition lock that comes with the highest standards of technology that reads over 170 points on the user’s face. This means that it is highly sensitive to even the flinch of a nerve on your face and will only allow access if you exactly emulate the expression that was pre-set as your access recognition. The lock carefully scrutinises every need you may have regarding your home security system. With five different access modes — Face Recognition, Finger Print, Key Pad, RFID and Mechanical Key — Häfele’s Reveal Digital Lock is the authority in home security and access planning, say company sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/seal-your-safety/article38084482.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:48 IST,||FIVE YEAR FOCUS||REALTY RATES Segment 2017 2022 (INR per sq.ft.) Luxury 10,000 10,000 apartments Premium 7,800 8,100 apartments Budget 6,500 NA apartments Strategic Consulting, JLL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/five-year-focus/article38084488.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:15 IST,||Manjhi’s remarks stir caste pot||Former Bihar Chief Minister and president of Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) [HAM-S] Jitan Ram Manjhi, has hit headlines recently because of his remarks allegedly offending upper castes. In caste-ridden Bihar, Mr. Manjhi’s comments have evoked condemnation from Opposition parties for his “uncalled for utterances” but a curious silence from coalition allies.  Coming from the Dalit community, which comprises about 16% of the population in the State, Mr. Manjhi while addressing a gathering of his own Musahar caste on December 19, took on the upper caste Brahmin community. Members of the Brahmin community later protested against his remarks, with some sitting outside his residence to perform puja .  Leader’s U-turn As the protests grew shriller, Mr. Manjhi, in a U-turn said his remarks were meant for his own Musahar community and “not against Brahmins”. But he was forced to rescind the line facing a reaction from the Musahars. In another volte-face, he asserted that his cuss words were against those Brahmins who “eat meat and drink alcohol while pretending to be holier than thou”. A few days later Mr. Manjhi hosted a feast for Brahmins at his house attended by members of the upper caste community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/manjhis-remarks-stir-caste-pot/article38084678.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||Disorientation of crew in poor weather likely cause of crash||The tri-service inquiry ordered into the crash of an Indian Air Force helicopter which killed Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat and others is complete with officials indicating the probable cause to be “Controlled Flight into Terrain” (CFIT). The findings have been sent for legal review after which the report will be submitted to the Union government, a defence official said on condition of anonymity. “The findings have been sent for legal vetting. It will take about 10 to 15 days for finalisation,” the official said on Friday. Two officials in the know of the matter said CFIT was the most probable cause of the crash, and the inquiry report, once submitted, would throw more light on it.  The Mi-17V5 helicopter with Gen. Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 12 others including his staff, the pilots and crew was en route to the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, from Sulur on December 8 when it crashed in the Nilgiris close to the destination.  A tri-service inquiry was ordered by the IAF headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Training Command, to investigate the crash. As part of the inquiry, the flight data recorder (FDR) as well as the cockpit voice recorder (CVR) were recovered and sent for analysis to reconstruct the last moments before the crash. CFIT means that the pilot is in full control of the aircraft but due to faulty situational awareness, the aircraft strikes the terrain, explained Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd.), a former helicopter pilot. “An example could be of an aircraft doing low flying over a large expanse of water and striking it due to lack of depth perception. A similar strike could happen over snow,” he said elaborating on what CFIT means. Instruments in order A CFIT means the helicopter was fully serviceable and instruments are in order, a senior Army pilot who has flown extensively in the mountain said. The crash is likely due to loss of situational awareness and disorientation which in most cases is due to poor weather, he noted. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) defines CFIT as an unintentional collision with terrain (the ground, a mountain, a body of water, or an obstacle) while an aircraft is under positive control. “Most often, the pilot or crew is unaware of the looming disaster until it is too late. CFIT most commonly occurs in the approach or landing phase of flight,” an FAA fact sheet stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/disorientation-of-crew-in-poor-weather-likely-cause-of-crash/article38084530.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||GST Council defers tax rate increase on textiles||Hours before the new GST rate was to take effect, the GST Council on Friday decided to temporarily roll back the increase in tax rate for the textiles sector at an emergency meeting on Friday. The move follows demands from several States, including Gujarat, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said it was a brief meeting with just one item on the agenda. “The decision today was that we retain the status quo and not go to 12% from 5% in the case of textiles,” Ms. Sitharaman said after the meeting. She said the trigger to review the decision, announced in September, was a December 29 letter from the Gujarat Finance Minister requesting reconsideration of the same. Representations were also received from other stakeholders, Ms. Sitharaman said. Various States such as Gujarat, West Bengal, Delhi, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu had opposed the move to raise the Goods and Services Tax (GST) rate on textiles to 12% with effect from January 1, 2022. 12% for footwear However, a similar demand for footwear was not considered and the sector will attract GST of 12% from January 1, irrespective of prices. While the industry is perplexed over the last-minute holding off on the rate change, Ms. Sitharaman indicated the final decision on the rate would be taken a couple of months from now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gst-council-defers-tax-rate-increase-on-textiles/article38084532.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:06 IST,||State reports 44 more Omicron cases||Health Minister Veena George on Friday said 44 more persons have contracted the Omicron variant of COVID-19. Ernakulam reported 12 new cases, Kollam 10, Thiruvananthapuram 8, Thrissur 4, Kottayam, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kannur 2 each, and Alappuzha and Idukki 1 each. At least 10 infected persons arrived in Kerala from high-risk countries and 27 from low-risk nations: United Arab Emirates (UAE) 13, United Kingdom (U.K.) three, Qatar three, and one each from South Africa, Israel and Malta, Nigeria, Spain, Sweden. Local transmission Four persons in Kollam, two in Kottayam, and one in Thiruvananthapuram got Omicron via transmission. Ms. George said 107 persons had contracted Omicron in the State so far. Of the total Omicron cases, 41 infected persons reached Kerala from high-risk nations and 52 from low-risk countries. Most patients were from the UAE, 29, and the U.K., 23. The spread of Omicron is most in Ernakulam 37, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 26, Kollam 11, Thrissur 9, Pathanamthitta 5, Alappuzha 5, Kannur 4, Kottayam 3, Malappuram 3, Palakkad 2, Kozhikode 1, and Idukki 1. Ms. George urged the public to exercise extreme caution given the steady climb in Omicron infections. She counselled citizens to shun crowds, wear mask, and maintain physical distance. Ms. George announced a special drive to bridge the gaps in COVID-19 vaccination. The two-day programme will commence on Saturday. He urged unvaccinated persons and those due for their second shot to take advantage of the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-44-more-omicron-cases/article38084840.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||FCRA licences of NGOs extended by three months||The Union Home Ministry on Friday extended by another three months the validity of the licences of FCRA-registered NGOs which were not renewed by December 31. The extension in “public interest” will, however, bring no relief to Missionaries of Charities (MoC), founded by Mother Teresa, as the Ministry said non-governmental organisations (NGOs) whose request for renewal was turned down would not be eligible to receive or utilise the foreign contributions in their designated bank accounts. The Home Ministry had earlier said in a statement that it refused to renew the FCRA registration of the MoC on December 25 as “some adverse inputs were noticed”, adding that its registration was valid till October 31 and it was subsequently extended till December 31 along with that of other FCRA associations whose renewal applications are pending. According to returns filed by the MoC, the NGO has over Rs. 100 crore in its account. Registration mandatory A registration under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) is mandatory for any NGO or association to receive foreign funds and it is renewed every five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fcra-licences-of-ngos-extended-by-three-months/article38084568.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:25 IST,||Omicron surge stretches Central genome laboratory||The surge in coronavirus cases appears to be stretching the organisational capacity of labs tasked with sequencing virus genomes. The Delhi-based National Centres for Disease Control (NCDC), a Union Health Ministry laboratory and a key lab in India’s genome sequencing network, has asked States to pause sending COVID-19 positive samples to it. For the past year, labs have been sending the NCDC samples to check for key variants of concern and since December, Omicron.  In a note sent on Thursday to labs of State Health departments seen by The Hindu , an NCDC official says: “Keeping in view the surge in number of COVID-19 cases and increased flow of samples for next generation sequencing (genome sequencing) to NCDC has resulted in a situation wherein they (NCDC) are not in a position to accommodate samples further (for now).”  A scientist, who declined to be identified, said it was bewildering that despite the strain NCDC chose to continue expending effort in testing international travellers when the Omicron strain was clearly far widespread in the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-surge-stretches-central-genome-laboratory/article38084538.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:57 IST,||Daily case load of COVID-19 crosses 300-mark in Telangana||The daily reporting of COVID-19 positive cases in Telangana has crossed the 300-mark on December 31 after a gap of over three months as 311 positive cases were reported during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Friday. It was on September 15 the daily cases were reported over 300 the last time. According to a bulletin issued by the Directorate of Health on COVID-19 status in the State on Friday, no Omicron variant cases were reported during the day although samples of 7 out 159 air-passengers arrived at the RGI Airport from “at risk” countries were sent for genome sequencing after they were found positive for COVID-19. In all, reports of 27 samples sent for Omicron variant detection are awaited. Of the 67 Omicron variant cases reported in Telangana so far, 27 have already been declared recovered, including 5 on Friday. The cumulative number of COVID-19 cases in the State has reached 6,81,898 with 311 positive cases reported on Friday. With 222 infected persons declared recovered during the day, the number of recoveries has gone up to 6,74,221. The number of COVID-19 deaths have reached 4,027 so far with 2 more deaths reported on Friday. The bulletin put the active cases at 3,650, including 1,229 admitted to government and private hospitals for treatment. In all, 36,759 samples were tested for COVID-19 infection during the day with 4,498 reports still awaited. Of the 311 cases reported, nearly two-thirds - 198 - were from GHMC limits, followed by 32 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 28 from Rangareddy, 9 from Hanmakonda, 5 each from Siddipet and Yadadri-Bhongir districts. No (zero) positive cases were reported in 11 districts. Vaccination With 2,84,773 doses of COVID-19 vaccine administered to eligible persons in the State on Friday, the total doses given so far has reached 4,70,12,501, including 1,90,57,459 persons taking two doses each. Nearly 36.21 lakh doses of vaccine were available with the State as on Friday with 11 out 33 districts yet to achieve 100% coverage of first doses vaccination for eligible population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-case-load-of-covid-19-crosses-300-mark-in-state/article38084797.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:56 IST,||TAC favours stricter restrictions||Worried over the high transmissibility of Omicron, the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee has advised the Government to impose stricter curbs if the weekly test positivity rate (WTPR) goes above 2% as an early measure of mitigation. While recommending weekend and night curfews if the WTPR is between 1% and less than 2%, TAC said lockdown should be considered if the WTPR goes above 3%. If it’s between 2% and 3%, educational institutions will have to switch to remote learning, and offices to work from home. The committee had earlier fixed the threshold for lockdown as 5%. As of Dec. 30, the weekly TPR is 0.46%. At its 144th meeting held on Wednesday, TAC noted the situation is worrisome as there is a spurt in cases in Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, and Bengaluru. “From the previous experience in Karnataka, the case surge in Bengaluru/Karnataka was preceded by that in Mumbai/Maharashtra,” said the TAC report. “Hence, after detailed deliberations TAC makes the following recommendations as an early measure of mitigation: As Omicron is known to be more contagious, measures stricter than the second wave that was largely driven by Delta are contemplated. Districts should be classified into three colour codes based on the WTPR - Yellow if WTPR is less than 1%; Orange if WTPR is 1% to less than 2% and Red if WTPR is 2% and above, for imposing curbs in public activities,” the report said. Examining the third wave action plan put in place by the Delhi government, the TAC has formulated a table under the three colour codes. “In districts that come under the orange zone (where WTPR is between 1% and < 2%) there is a need to ensure cinemas and auditoria, schools and colleges, pubs and bars, restaurants, offices and factories, recreational clubs, public transport including Metro trains and salons/barber shops function with 50% capacity. In this scenario, malls and shopping complexes should function only between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m.,” according to the table in the report. In a scenario when the WTPR crosses 2% and districts fall into the red zone, schools and colleges should start online classes. “While offices and factories should allow work from home facility for their employees, cinemas and auditoria and public transport should be stopped. Pubs, bars and restaurants should be open only for take away. In this scenario, salons, barber shops, gyms and fitness centres, swimming pools, places of worship and parks should be closed,” according to the table. “In a scenario, when the WTPR crosses 3%, a total lockdown is recommended. These measures are required to be initiated early because as a measure of precaution. Although Omicron infection is said to be milder, we should try and cut transmission at an early stage. This will help reduce the burden on health facilities and save lives,” a TAC member said. He said the committee referred to IIT- Kanpur’s “Sutra model” that is backed by the Government of India. This model had predicted that the third wave of COVID-19 is expected in India in January - February, 2022. Based on this, the TAC has already given an advisory to the State Government and following that the government has imposed a 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. night curfew in the State from December 28 to January 7, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tac-favours-stricter-restrictions/article38084569.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:13 IST,||Delhi resident doctors call off strike||Resident doctors in Delhi, who have been protesting over the delay in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Postgraduate) counselling for the last 14 days, called off their strike on Friday. The doctors resumed services at 12 noon after receiving assurances from Delhi Police that the FIR registered against them would be cancelled. In a statement, the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association said Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had agreed to submit a report to the Supreme Court before January 6 and to publish the NEET-PG 2021 counselling schedule following the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-resident-doctors-call-off-strike/article38084694.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:07 IST,||PM likely to take part in ‘Modi Pongal’ event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to take part in an event named ‘Modi Pongal’ in Madurai on January 12. The BJP is making preparations for the event at Mandela Nagar near the Madurai airport, State general secretary Karu. Nagarajan said. A committee, led by Mr. Nagarajan, was announced by party president K. Annamalai to make the preparations.  Mr. Nagarajan told The Hindu that the Prime Minister is likely to attend the event after inaugurating 11 new medical colleges in the State during his visit to Virudhunagar on January 12.  Mr. Nagarajan said thousands of women would celebrate Pongal in accordance with the Tamil tradition at the event. Mr. Modi would deliver a short speech. He said the party has planned a series of events from January 7 to 12 to mark the festival on the lines of ‘Namma Ooru Pongal’ celebrated by the party last year. Mr. Modi is expected to take part in the valedictory event this year, he said. Asked whether the BJP was bringing in the Prime Minister to counter Congress MP Rahul Gandhi’s visit during the Pongal last year to witness ‘jallikattu’, Mr. Nagarajan disapproved of Mr. Gandhi’s visit. “Jallikattu is a violent sport and it was banned. It was the DMK and the Congress which brought it back...,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-likely-to-take-part-in-modi-pongal-event/article38084644.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:23 IST,||Delhi resident doctors call off strike||Hundreds of resident doctors, who had been boycotting work for 14 days to protest the delay in NEET-PG counselling, called off their strike on Friday. “The strike has been called off and the doctors will join duty at 12 p.m. today [Friday]. We had a detailed discussion with the police, and they assured us to withdraw all punitive actions, including the FIR,” Dr. Kulsaurabh Kaushik, general secretary of the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA), said. On Monday, the protesting doctors were marching towards the Supreme Court when they were stopped by the police near ITO. FORDA said that the doctors were “brutally thrashed, dragged, and detained” by the police, but the latter refuted the allegation. Later, the police registered an FIR of rioting, causing obstruction to duty of police personnel, and damaging public property against the doctors. Following this, FORDA demanded an apology from Delhi Police and also cancellation of the FIR. On Tuesday afternoon, members of FORDA met the Union Health Minister, but talks were inconclusive and the protest continued. The counselling is delayed as cases are pending in the Supreme Court over reservation for the economically weaker section. Announcing withdrawal of the protest, FORDA said in a statement that at Tuesday’s meeting the Minister had agreed to submit a report to the Supreme Court before January 6 when it will hear the matter and to publish the NEET-PG 2021 counselling schedule after the hearing. Despite this, the strike went on and the decision to end the boycott was taken after the Delhi police assured them to cancel the FIR. “A series of meetings of FORDA representatives with Delhi Police officials was held on Thursday. They police said that they were well aware of the hardships of doctors and as earlier, they were willing to cooperate with the medical fraternity in any issue. They also assured that the complaint against the resident doctors would be taken care of as per the legal procedure,” the statement said. Doctors had been boycotting work mainly at the Central Government-run Safdarjung Hospital, RML Hospital, and Lady Hardinge and the Delhi Government-run LNJP and GTB hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-resident-doctors-call-off-strike/article38084674.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Omicron surge stretches a Central genome lab||The surge in coronavirus cases appears to be stretching the capacity of labs tasked with sequencing virus genomes. The Delhi-based National Centres for Disease Control (NCDC), a Union Health Ministry laboratory and a key lab in India’s genome sequencing network, has asked States to temporarily pause sending COVID-19 positive samples to it. For the past year, labs have been sending the NCDC samples to check for the presence of variants of concern and since December, Omicron.  In a note sent on Thursday to labs of State Health departments seen by The Hindu , an NCDC official says: “Keeping in view the surge in cases and increased flow of samples for next generation sequencing to NCDC has resulted in a situation wherein they (NCDC) are not in a position to accommodate samples further (for now).”  “ ... All labs are requested to store all positive samples as per established protocol till further directions. However positive samples of individuals arriving at IGI Airport (New Delhi international airport) with a history of travel to country of concern/their contacts will continue to be sent to NCDC for sequencing,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-surge-stretches-a-central-genome-lab/article38084567.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:07 IST,||First Omicron case confirmed in Coimbatore||A COVID-19 positive senior citizen, who had recently returned to Coimbatore from the United Kingdom, has been confirmed to be the first patient to have contracted the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 in Coimbatore district. Sources in the Health Department said on Friday that the 69-year-old man had tested positive for COVID-19 on December 20, days after he arrived at the Coimbatore International Airport from the U.K. His swab samples were subsequently sent to the State Public Health Laboratory in Chennai for whole genomic sequencing. On Friday, the results from the laboratory confirmed the infection by the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2. The patient had taken both the doses of the Covishield vaccine, the sources said. The patient’s health condition was stable and he had mild throat irritation on Friday. After being under home isolation at his residence in Coimbatore, he was shifted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-omicron-case-confirmed-in-coimbatore/article38084651.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:11 IST,||Sun sets on 2021||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sun-sets-on-2021/article38084673.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:25 IST,||Three months’ FCRA nod for NGOs||The Union Home Ministry on Friday extended by another three months the validity of the licences of FCRA-registered NGOs which were not renewed by December 31. The extension in “public interest” will, however, bring no relief to Missionaries of Charities (MoC), founded by Mother Teresa, as the Ministry said non-governmental organisations (NGOs) whose request for renewal was turned down would not be eligible to either receive or utilise the foreign contributions in their designated bank accounts. The Home Ministry had earlier said that it refused to renew the FCRA registration of the MoC on December 25 as “some adverse inputs were noticed”, adding that its registration was valid till October 31 and it was subsequently extended till December 31 along with that of other FCRA associations whose renewals are pending. According to returns filed by the MoC, the NGO has over Rs. 100 crore in its account. A registration under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) is mandatory for any NGO or association to receive foreign funds and it is renewed every five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-months-fcra-nod-for-ngos/article38084537.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:14 IST,||Free Kalicharan Maharaj: plea by Hindutva groups||Members of right-wing groups on Friday took out a march seeking the release of Kalicharan Maharaj, who was arrested in Chhattisgarh for his derogatory remarks against Mahatma Gandhi, and said Nathram Godse was their “ideal”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/free-kalicharan-maharaj-plea-by-hindutva-groups/article38084695.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:14 IST,||‘Perfume war’ on, SP slams raids on MLC||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday accused the BJP government of roping in Central agencies as “allies” after I-T raids on locations linked to Pushpraj Jain ‘Pampi’, a party MLC and perfume trader from Kannauj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/perfume-war-on-sp-slams-raids-on-mlc/article38084696.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:56 IST,||23 new Omicron cases in State take tally to 66||Karnataka witnessed a spike in Omicron cases on the last day of the year 2021 with 23 new cases being reported. This took the tally of Omicron cases in the State to 66.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/23-new-omicron-cases-in-state-take-tally-to-66/article38084570.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:23 IST,||Free Kalicharan Maharaj: plea by Hindutva groups||Members of right-wing organisations on Friday took out a march seeking the release of Kalicharan Maharaj, who was arrested in Chhattisgarh over derogatory remarks against Mahatama Gandhi, and said Nathram Godse was their “ideal”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/free-kalicharan-maharaj-plea-by-hindutva-groups/article38084675.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:23 IST,||‘Perfume war’ on, SP slams raids on MLC||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday accused the BJP government of roping in Central agencies as “allies” after I-T raids on locations linked to Pushpraj Jain ‘Pampi’, a party MLC and perfume trader from Kannauj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/perfume-war-on-sp-slams-raids-on-mlc/article38084676.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:28 IST,||Rs. 3 crore for road development||The former Chief Minister and MLA Jagadish Shettar has said that main roads in Channapet, Arvind Nagar and Old Hubballi will be developed under the Rs. 3 crore grants extended under Urban Renewal Mission. He was speaking at a Jana Sampark Sabha at Diddi Oni on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-3-crore-for-road-development/article38084776.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:28 IST,||Group vandalises religious mutt||A group of men threw stones at the building of Siddlingeshwar Samsthan Mutt in Mashal village, Afzalpur taluk, in Kalaburagi district on Thursday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/group-vandalises-religious-mutt/article38084778.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:51 IST,||Another enclosure for orangutans||Help is pouring in for the Mysuru zoo as the Bank Note Paper Mill India Private Limited has agreed to donate a sum of Rs. 99.20 lakh for the construction of another enclosure for orangutans. It signed a memorandum of understanding in this regard with the Mysuru zoo, under its CSR initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/another-enclosure-for-orangutans/article38084978.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:51 IST,||Congress to organise convention in Mysuru||The Congress will be holding a convention in Mysuru on January 3 as a prelude to the January 9 padayatra from Mekedatu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-to-organise-convention-in-mysuru/article38084980.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||Tax anomalies found in 2 Chinese phone firms||The Income-Tax Department on Friday claimed to have detected multiple irregularities on the part of two companies manufacturing Chinese mobile phones, during the pan-India searches initiated on December 21. In the case involving certain foreign-controlled mobile communication and mobile phone manufacturing companies and their associated entities, the searches were carried out in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Assam, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Bihar, Rajasthan, and Delhi and its neighbouring cities. “The search has revealed that two major companies have made remittance in the nature of royalty, to and on behalf of its group companies located abroad, which aggregates to more than Rs. 5,500 crore. The claim of such expenses does not seem to be appropriate in light of the facts and evidence gathered...,” the agency said. According to the agency, both the companies had not complied with the regulatory mandate under the Income Tax Act, for disclosure of transactions with associated enterprises. “Such a lapse makes them liable for penal action under the Income Tax Act, the quantum of which could be in the range of more than Rs. 1,000 crore,” it said. The agency alleged that foreign funds were introduced in the books of the Indian company, but the source from which such funds had been received were of doubtful nature, purportedly with no credit worthiness of the lender. The quantum of such borrowings was about Rs. 5,000 crore, on which interest expenses had also been claimed. “Evidence with regard to the inflation of expenses, payments on behalf of the associated enterprises, etc., have also been noticed which led to the reduction of taxable profits of the Indian mobile handset manufacturing company. Such amount could be in excess of Rs. 1,400 crore,” said the I-T Department in its statement. One company allegedly used the services of another entity located in India, but did not comply with the provisions of tax deduction at source introduced with effect from April 2020. The quantum of liability on this account could be about Rs. 300 crore. In the case of another company, the control of its affairs was substantively “managed from a neighbouring country”, as alleged. ‘Dummy directors’ “The Indian directors of the said company admitted that they had no role in the management of the company and that they lent their names for directorship... evidence has been gathered on the attempt to transfer the entire reserves of the company to the tune of Rs. 42 crore out of India, without payment of due taxes,” it said. The searches on certain fintech and software services companies revealed that many such entities were created for inflating expenses and siphoning off funds. “Such companies have made payments for unrelated business purposes as also utilised the bills issued by a Tamil Nadu-based non-existent business concern. The quantum of such outflow is found to be about Rs. 50 crore,” the agency alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-detects-anomalies-in-2-chinese-mobile-firms/article38084240.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||‘Perfume war’ on; SP slams raids on MLC||As the Income-Tax Department searched multiple locations linked to a Samajwadi Party MLC and perfume trader from Kannauj, Pushpraj Jain ‘Pampi’, party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday accused the BJP government of roping in Central agencies as “allies” due to the “fear of losing” the 2022 Uttar Pradesh election and trying to defame his party as well as Kannauj, known country-wide for its perfume industry and a traditional Yadav family stronghold. Mr. Yadav claimed the searches were conducted to cover up and “rectify the mistake” made by the BJP government by earlier “accidentally raiding their own man”, Piyush Jain, from whom GST officials recovered over Rs. 197 crore in cash, 23 kg of gold with foreign markings and unaccounted-for perfumery raw material worth Rs. 6 crore. With the BJP linking the seized cash and goods and Piyush Jain himself to the SP in its election campaign, Mr. Yadav, who held a scheduled press conference in Kannauj hours after the fresh search began against the SP MLC, asked the BJP leadership to explain on what basis they were making such claims.  He reiterated that the SP had no connection to Piyush Jain and demanded that his CDR (call record details) be made public to expose his real link, which he said was with the BJP. “How come such large quantity of notes was recovered [from Piyush Jain]? The BJP had said there would be no black money after note bandi (demonetisation in 2016) and that people would not be able to hoard cash,” Mr. Yadav said.   Referring to the searches on the premises of Mr. Pushpraj, Mr. Yadav said the BJP was targeting the SP through the Central agencies as it had sensed it was losing the U.P. election. Mr. Pushpraj recently launched a Samajwadi Ittar or ‘Socialist Perfume’.  “The BJP is rattled,” said Mr. Yadav, accusing the BJP government of having an alliance with the Enforcement Directorate, Income Tax Department and the Central Bureau of Investigation. Mr. Yadav also appealed the Election Commission of India to stop searches by Central agencies in U.P. till the election was over. “[Adolf] Hitler had just one ministry for propaganda. This entire party, BJP, is for propaganda,” Mr. Yadav said. BJP charge  Meanwhile, top BJP leaders continue to link the SP with the cash recovery in the Piyush Jain and Pushpraj raids. Addressing a rally in Ayodhya, BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the “stench of the Samajwadi ittar ” was spread across U.P.   “Today, when raids are being carried out their belly is simmering,” Mr. Shah said. “Do you have a problem if there is a raid on those with black money,” Mr. Shah asked the public. “What problem do you have Akhilesh bhai ?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/perfume-war-on-sp-slams-raids-on-mlc/article38084259.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||Amid spike, Centre calls for more RATs||India saw the highest single-day rise of 309 cases of the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus, taking the country’s tally of such cases to 1,270, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. It also recorded 16,764 fresh COVID-19 cases and 220 more fatalities due to the viral disease. Taking cognisance of the surge, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Director-General, Indian Council of Medical Research, Balram Bhargava jointly wrote a letter to the States to “increase testing” by employing rapid antigen tests (RAT). The gold standard test for confirming COVID-19 is the RT-PCR. However, the RAT, though less accurate, gives results much faster. “Based on the previous experience, it has been observed that if the number of cases rise above a certain threshold, RT-PCR-based testing leads to delays in confirming diagnosis due to its turnaround time of five to eight hours. Therefore, you are encouraged to increase testing by widespread use of rapid antigen tests (RATs) in such specific situations where RT-PCR testing poses challenges,” the Friday letter notes. “ln addition to healthcare facilities, the States and Union Territories are encouraged to engage appropriate medical and paramedical staff and to set up and operationalise RAT booths, at convenient locations.” Of the 23 States and Union Territories that have recorded Omicron cases so far, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of 450, followed by Delhi (320), Kerala (109) and Gujarat (97). The daily rise in the number of coronavirus cases crossed the 16,000 mark after 64 days, taking the country’s COVID-19 tally to 3,48,38,804, while the number of active cases of the infection has gone up to 91,361, according to the data. On Friday, Maharashtra’s COVID-19 surge continued unabated with the State reporting 8,067 new cases on Friday as the active case tally soared to 24,509. There was also a decline in fatalities with eight deaths reported as opposed to the average figure of 20 deaths. Karnataka on Friday reported 832 new cases of COVID-19. Bengaluru Urban reported 656 cases and five deaths. With eight deaths, the State’s toll rose to 38,335. Kerala reported 2,676 new cases on Friday when 60,962 samples were tested. Of the 2,676 cases reported, 2,453 were infected through contact and 42 had arrived from outside the State while the source of infection was yet to be confirmed in 156 persons. As many as 1,399 were breakthrough infections in fully vaccinated citizens and 140 had received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine while 771 were unvaccinated. (With inputs from bureaus and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-spike-centre-urges-more-rats/article38084264.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||Chinese embassy writes to group of MPs||The Embassy of China has written to a group of MPs asking them to “refrain” from supporting the cause of Tibetan independence. The move, which is being interpreted as a rare and undiplomatic interference, came after six MPs from the All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet attended a meeting in a Delhi hotel. “As is known to all, the so-called ‘Tibetan Government-in-Exile’ is an out-and-out separatist political group and an illegal organisation completely in violation of China’s Constitution and laws. It is not recognised by any country in the world,” wrote Zhou Yongsheng, Political Counsellor of the Chinese Embassy in India. The meeting was attended by Congress MPs Jairam Ramesh and Manish Tewari, Sujeet Kumar of the BJD, Maneka Gandhi of the BJP, and K.C. Ramamurthy and Minister of State for Skill Development, Electronics & Technology Rajeev Chandrashekhar. The Forum on Tibet dates back to 1971 and has had a distinguished list of figures such as Atal Bihari Vajpayee, George Fernandes and Mohammadali Carim Chagla. An MP unwilling to be named said the participants had taken their political parties on board and they did not attend the meeting unilaterally, and added that the Chinese embassy often sent letters to politicians expressing its opinion on issues that were important to Beijing. Mr. Kumar, of the BJD, said the forum was a cultural outfit that promoted Tibetan heritage and issues relevant to Tibetan refugees. “I am not surprised by the Chinese reaction, it is pretty much on expected lines,” Mr. Kumar said. “This is not the first letter I have got from them. I have got four to five letters from them so far. Each time I have spoken or written on the Chinese connection to the COVID-19 pandemic or the Galwan incident, they have shot me a missive,” Mr. Kumar added.  The Chinese Embassy, he noted, had no locus standi to directly speak to an elected representative of India.  It must direct all communication via the Ministry of External Affairs, Mr. Kumar added. “I believe that cultural genocide has been going on in Tibet and the world has let it down,” Mr. Kumar, who visited the Tibet Autonomous Region in 2009, said. During the latest meeting too, he spoke about his travels to Lhasa and his sentiments on breaking up of ties between India and Tibet after the Chinese occupation. The MPs were outraged by the letter from the Chinese embassy. Mr. Ramesh said he had attended the function for three reasons, which he had outlined in his speech during dinner at the meeting.  “First, my profound fascination for Buddha. Second, my deep respect for the Dalai Lama. Third, my grateful recognition for the role Tibetan sources have played in the rediscovery of India’s Buddhist heritage. I said I was present culturally, philosophically and spiritually,” Mr. Ramesh told The Hindu , adding that he did not propose to respond to the letter.  Mr. Tewari, however, said that he did not receive any letter from the embassy. “Neither have I received any letter from the Chinese nor will I diminish myself by responding to such imbecile missives,” Mr. Tewari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-embassy-writes-to-group-of-mps/article38084252.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||Year of the Mathura experiment||As the Bharatiya Janta Party is on the verge of successfully closing the Ayodhya and Kashi chapters of its Hindutva syllabus, it opened the Mathura folder in 2021. With Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath visiting the pilgrimage centre 18 times and showering it with around 200 projects, some observers speculate that Mr. Adityanath might contest the upcoming Assembly election from there. This week, at a rally in Amroha, he said, “Magnificent temples were being built in Ayodhya and Kashi, how could Mathura-Vrindavan be left behind?”  It is not just the hints dropped on Twitter and in political rallies; observers said it is a multi-pronged campaign. In the past one year, multiple petitions have been filed in court seeking to “reclaim” the land being occupied by the Shahi Idgah Masjid, built during the reign of Aurangzeb, in the Krishna Janmabhoomi complex. Simultaneously, a call was made to do a jalabhishek and install a deity inside a mosque on December 6. The call was taken back but it led to tensions and massive security arrangements.  Around the same time, the political leadership of the party raised the pitch with the Rajya Sabha member from Uttar Pradesh Harnath Yadav making the demand for the repeal of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 in the winter session of Parliament. Meanwhile, at the executive level, in September, the municipal corporation of Mathura declared 22 wards of the city as pilgrimage centres, banning the sale of liquor and meat in the area. It rendered several people of different communities who indulged in the meat and liquor trade jobless. Locals said that they have withstood the attempts to polarise Mathura, but expressed apprehension over how long they will be able to hold on. According to old-timers, Mathura did not see communal flare-ups even at the time of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. Local economy The economic aspect reflected in a letter written by the Akhil Bhartiya Teerth Purohit Mahashabha to the U.P. government asking for action against right-wing elements who shouted slogans on December 6. The group of priests not only said any communal tension would have an adverse impact on the economy of the temple town but also sought to become a party to the suit, saying it did not want any change in the complex. “Similarly, Shri Mathur Chaturvedi Parishad resolved to maintain the status quo as decided by the 1968 settlement,” said Madhuvant Chaturvedi, advocate and convener of Qaumi Ekta Manch. Pavan Chaturvedi, a businessman who has worked with the BJP in the past, said Muslims constitute 15-17% of the population in the city and form a large section of workforce involved in making the headgear, clothes and rosaries used to decorate and worship Lord Krishna. “At least 40% of workforce in our business establishment are Muslims. Nobody raised a fuss when the SC delivered the Ram Janmabhoomi verdict,” he said.  Zaheer Hasan, president of the Shahi Idgah Masjid Committee, said Krishna is part of everybody’s life in Mathura. “After every Id namaaz , my Hindu friends and officials offer a cake that has Krishna’s flute and peacock feather embossed on it.” However, he said, a slow poison was being spread by Hindutva forces and its impact would be discerned soon. “When the December 6 call was made, the number of people going to offer namaaz in Shahi Masjid suddenly multiplied without any call from the committee. Usually, not more than 50-100 turn up in a day but at that time it increased to a few hundreds,” said Mr. Hasan, a retired professor of English.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/year-of-the-mathura-experiment/article38084256.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||Akhilesh scared and shaken over raids, says Sitharaman||Amid a face-off between the BJP and the Samajwadi Party over the income tax searches in U.P., Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday stressed that raids, including on the premises of perfume trader Piyush Jain, by law enforcing agencies were done on “actionable intelligence”. “When law enforcement agencies raid any place, they do so based on actionable intelligence... Did they come back empty-handed from the search? If they would have returned empty-handed, then they could have said that what happened was wrong... They went to the right house and the right house was searched... Do you get this kind of money in the wrong house,” Ms. Sitharaman said. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) raided properties related to Odochem Industries and its proprietor Piyush Jain, recovering cash of Rs. 197.49 crore, 23 kg of gold and other things. On allegations by former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav that the money belongs to the BJP, the Union Minister said, “How does he know whose money? How is he so sure it is BJP money… Is he his partner? That is why he knows. I am saying it is not BJP money. The former U.P. CM is shaken.”  Dismissing the charge that these raids were politically motivated given that U.P. elections are around the corner, Ms. Sitharaman said, “Should we wait for a muhurtam to catch the thief?”  “Politicisation of such a thing? What should I understand from this... that former CM of U.P. Akhilesh Yadav is scared? Is he shaken by this,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-scared-and-shaken-over-raids-says-sitharaman/article38084261.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||Winter of lively tourism warms Kashmir’s cockles||This December, the buzz on the famous Boulevard Road around the Dal lake here was louder than ever, not dying down even after sundown in the freezing temperatures. In Gulmarg and Pahalgam, most high-end hotels put up the “sold out” tags online. The reason for the busy streets here is that Kashmir, for the first time in over a decade, hosted over 2.5 lakh tourists in November and December, running most high-end hotels in tourist hotspots of Gulmarg and Pahalgam full. “Tourist footfall has been between 3,500 and 5,500 a day in the past two months. We recorded 1.27 lakh tourists in November, highest in the past one decade. The combined tourist figures of November-December are good omen for Kashmir’s tourism,” a senior tourism official said. Compared to the 4.1 lakh visitors last year in the middle of the pandemic, Kashmir has crossed the six-lakh mark already this year as foreign shores remain out of bounds for upper middle class tourists in the country. Healthy bookings  “Our hotels in Gulmarg and Pahalgam were sold out for the month of December. We are expecting healthy bookings for the coming months of January and February too. It’s rare that Pahalgam is also getting a healthy footfall this winter against Gulmarg, which otherwise had remained a preferred destination in winters,” Asif Iqbal Burza, who runs a chain of hotels in the Valley, told The Hindu .  Mr. Burza said one of the key reasons for tourists preferring Kashmir despite the pandemic was “higher levels of vaccination and lower trend of COVID-19 cases”. “The Tourism Department has treated workers associated with the hospitality business as the second preference after frontline workers for vaccination. It did help in infusing confidence among those who visit us,” Mr. Burza said. Pahalgam, around 90 km south of Srinagar, wears a festive look with illuminations, as the New Year approaches. The Jammu and Kashmir Tourism Department has arranged Rohanpreet Singh, a singer from Punjab and husband of popular performer Neha Kakar, to entertain the tourists on the eve of New Year. Skiing picks up In Gulmarg, which received fresh snowfall around Christmas, the ski slopes are full of domestic tourists. Officials said that all 1,300 rooms in Gulmarg were booked for January too. Komal, a resident of Gujarat, is part of a five-member all-woman group and practises six hours a day on the ski slopes. “We have registered with the Indian Institute of Skiing and Mountaineering, Gulmarg, for a skiing course. Two of our group members are aged eight and nine. It feels like heaven learning skiing on these slopes,” Ms. Komal said. Z-Morh tunnel Buoyed by the growing footfall of tourists, Sonamarg, which would remain closed during winters due to heavy snowfall, will also be made accessible this winter, as the government is working hard to complete the Z- Morh tunnel, which bypasses the snow-filled route to touch the tourist destination. The fresh push to complete the Z-Morh tunnel comes in the wake of the recent statement of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha who said, “I get three to four calls from people and friends to arrange hotels for them as all hotels are booked in Kashmir”. He added that there needed to be more hotels and guest houses in Kashmir to accommodate tourists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/winter-of-lively-tourism-warms-kashmirs-cockles/article38084267.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||Rahul fires year-ender salvos at Modi govt.||Former Congress party president Rahul Gandhi fired two year-ender salvos at the Narendra Modi government, questioning the pace of vaccination and falling behind its promise to administer both doses to the entire eligible population by the end of the year. He also hit out at the government on the Indo-China situation with Beijing renaming 15 places in Arunachal Pradesh. As per the CoWin website, nearly 85 crore people have got the first dose and 60 crore have got both doses. Overall 94 crore persons of the Indian population, who are above 18 years, are eligible for COVID vaccine till now. Mr. Gandhi tweeted, “The promise of the Central government was that by the end of 2021, everyone would get both doses of the vaccine. Today is the end of the year. The country is still away from the vaccine. Another rhetoric shattered!” Congress spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh pointed out that only 40% of the eligible population have received double doses. This is far behind the world average of 48% and the Asian average 55%. China, he said has administered two doses to 85% of its population. Mr .Vallabh said, “When rest of the world was busy framing its vaccination policy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was busy exhorting us to beat utensils. The government needs to tell us why it filed a wrong affidavit in the Supreme Court?” He also sought to corner the government over the Indo-China crisis especially in face of China renaming 15-places in Arunachal Pradesh. Mr. Gandhi tweeted, “Just a few days back we were remembering India’s glorious victory in 1971. For the security and victory of the country, wise and strong decisions are needed. Hollow words do not win!” Mr. Vallabh said on one hand China is renaming places in Arunachal Pradesh, setting up villages in Indian Territory and on the other, the government is still carrying on with 100-billion-dollar trade with China. ‘Muted reaction’ In the last 19 months, the Indian reaction to Chinese aggression has been to remain mute, Mr. Vallabh said. The nominal reaction to China’s incursion, Mr. Vallabh said, was to ban a few Chinese owned digital applications. Mr. Modi, the Congress said, did not talk about the Chinese incursions at any international forums that he attended over the last one-year. “We want a concrete strategy on China, if you can’t understand that we can assist you in forming one,” Mr. Vallabh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-fires-year-ender-salvos-at-modi-govt/article38084245.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||3 militants killed, 4 jawans injured in Srinagar encounter||Three more militants were killed and four security personnel injured in a fresh encounter in Srinagar on Thursday night, taking the number of militants killed to nine in the past 36 hours in three separate gunfights in the Kashmir Valley. “Three unidentified terrorists were killed at the encounter site in Srinagar. Incriminating materials including arms and ammunition recovered,” a police spokesman said. Preliminary reports suggested that the encounter broke out in the interiors of the Pathachowk area on the outskirts of Srinagar in the night. The operation is currently on in the area. Earlier, six Jaish-e-Muhammad militants were killed in two separate encounters in south Kashmir’s Anantnag and Kulgam districts. Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said that one of the dead was identified as a local militant Suhail Ahmed Rather of Jaish-e-Muhammad who was also involved in Zewan attack. The attack had left three policemen dead in December. He said two other slain militants seem to be foreigners “as no family has come forward.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-militants-killed-4-jawans-injured-in-srinagar-encounter/article38084247.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||NIA registers case against Sikhs for Justice operative||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has registered a case against Jaswinder Singh Multani, a Germany-based operative of Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), and his associates for allegedly attempting to revive terrorism in Punjab. Following a directive from the Central government, the agency has initiated the probe under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. An NIA team may soon visit Germany to pursue the leads in the case. “This case relates to a criminal conspiracy hatched by Jaswinder Singh Multani with several other pro-Khalistani elements located abroad for radicalising, motivating and recruiting youths in Punjab on the ground and online, through social media platforms, to propagate their ideology with the aim to secede Punjab from the Union of India,” the agency said. According to the NIA, the accused persons have been involved in raising funds to procure arms, ammunition and explosives by using smuggling networks in Punjab. Multani has also been in contact with Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence operatives for carrying out terror attacks in Mumbai and other parts of the country, it said. On Thursday, the Centre instructed the NIA to launch the probe against Multani and his associates from other banned outfits such as the Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) and the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF). Earlier this week, the German police had detained him for questioning on the basis of the inputs shared by the Indian agencies about his alleged involvement in terror activities. Earlier this year, the Punjab police registered two cases against Multani and others, in connection with the smuggling of arms, ammunition and explosives, and an alleged conspiracy to kill a farmer leader to trigger unrest during the anti-farm laws protests. He is suspected to be linked to the Ludhiana court complex blast last week. The NIA will also investigate several alleged associates of Multani, including Jagdish Singh Bhura of the KZF, his deputy Gurmeet Singh, who is also associated with the SFJ; Ranjeet Singh Pakhoke of the KTF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-registers-case-against-sikhs-for-justice-operative/article38084248.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||Hindutva groups demand release of Kalicharan Maharaj||Members of right-wing organisations on Friday took out a march seeking release of Kalicharan Maharaj arrested in Chhattisgarh for his derogatory remarks against Mahatama Gandhi, and said Nathuram Godse was their “ideal”. The protesters also submitted a memorandum demanding that the Chhattisgarh government be sacked for the arrest of the “godman”. Led by an advocate Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, the protesters raised slogans in support of Kalicharan and hailed Nathuram Godse. “Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Jhansi Ki Rani and Nathuram Godse are our ideals. The manner in which the Chhattisgarh government arrested Kalicharan Maharaj, we condemn it in the strongest words. We are going to submit a memorandum to the President through the Deputy Commissioner’s office, saying that the action against Kalicharan Maharaj was one-sided, and no arrests were made in connection with the indecent remarks made by Asaduddin Owaisi against the Hindus and the police,” Mr. Bhardwaj said. “We are not questioning the contribution of Mahatama Gandhi to the freedom struggle, and we respect him, but we are not ready to accept him as the Father of the Nation,” Mr. Bhardwaj said. Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti president Mahavir Bhardwaj said people like Kalicharan Bhardwaj had given a direction to the country. “It has been a Hindu Rashtra forever. If some people were forced to convert, it doesn’t mean that it is not a Hindu Rashtra. No one making a demand for Hindu Rashtra can be wrong. We demand the immediate release of the monk arrested,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hindutva-groups-demand-release-of-kalicharan-maharaj/article38084254.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||Letter urges President, PM to condemn violence incitement||Expressing concern at the recent events in Haridwar, Delhi and elsewhere openly calling for a “genocide of Indian Muslims” and the targeting of other minorities elsewhere, a group of over 200 concerned citizens, including five former Service Chiefs, in an open letter to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urged them to condemn such “incitement to violence in no uncertain terms” and “take immediate steps to curb such attempts.” “In view of the current situation on our borders, any breach of peace and harmony within the nation will embolden inimical external forces. The unity and cohesiveness of our men and women in uniform, including the Central Armed Police Forces [CAPF] and police forces, will be seriously affected by allowing such blatant calls for violence against one or the other community in our diverse and plural society,” the December 31 letter stated. The undersigned said in the letter they were “seriously perturbed” by the content of speeches made during a three-day religious conclave of Hindu sadhus and other leaders held at Haridwar between December 17 and 19. Also, a large number of persons gathered in Delhi and publicly took an oath resolving to make India a Hindu nation, by fighting and killing if necessary, and more such seditious meetings are being organised in other places, the letter noted. Stating that the Constitution provides for the free practice of religion across faiths, the letter strongly deplored such polarisation in the name of religion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-pm-urged-to-slam-incitement-to-violence/article38084268.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:40 IST,||Daily COVID caseload crosses 300-mark in TS||The cumulative number of COVID-19 cases in the State has reached 6,81,898 with 311 positive cases reported on Friday. With 222 infected persons declared recovered during the day, the number of recoveries has gone up to 6,74,221. The number of COVID-19 deaths have reached 4,027 so far with 2 more deaths reported on Friday. The bulletin put the active cases at 3,650, including 1,229 admitted to government and private hospitals for treatment. In all, 36,759 samples were tested for COVID-19 infection during the day with 4,498 reports still awaited. Of the 311 cases reported, nearly two-thirds - 198 - were from GHMC limits, followed by 32 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 28 from Rangareddy, 9 from Hanmakonda, 5 each from Siddipet and Yadadri-Bhongir districts. No (zero) positive cases were reported in 11 districts. With 2,84,773 doses of COVID-19 vaccine administered to eligible persons in the State on Friday, the total doses given so far has reached 4,70,12,501, including 1,90,57,459 persons taking two doses each. Nearly 36.21 lakh doses of vaccine were available with the State as on Friday with 11 out 33 districts yet to achieve 100% coverage of first doses vaccination for eligible population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/daily-covid-caseload-crosses-300-mark-in-ts/article38084801.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||Omicron surge stretches a Central genome lab||In a note sent on Thursday to labs of State Health departments seen by The Hindu , an NCDC official says: “Keeping in view the surge in cases and increased flow of samples for next generation sequencing to NCDC has resulted in a situation wherein they (NCDC) are not in a position to accommodate samples further (for now).”  “ ... All labs are requested to store all positive samples as per established protocol till further directions. However positive samples of individuals arriving at IGI Airport (New Delhi international airport) with a history of travel to country of concern/their contacts will continue to be sent to NCDC for sequencing,” the note said. NCDC, along with being a sequencing laboratory, is also a hub that coordinates with all regional labs as well as the India SARS-CoV2 Genome Consortium (INSACOG. The Delta variant, for instance, was first validated in India by INSACOG labs and was later linked to be the main culprit behind the lethal second wave. NCDC is also an INSACOG lab.  NCDC Director Sujeet Kumar Singh told The Hindu that this was a “partial” message and the request was that Delhi samples be diverted to other labs for quicker analysis to avoid delay. “The message is samples of Delhi may be kindly diverted to other genome sequencing laboratories for the time being as most samples are from Delhi to avoid delay in processing and reporting. Further, some States have been asked to send the samples to other nearby labs which have the capacity,” he told The Hindu in a text message.   The NCDC has an estimated sequencing capacity of 3,000 samples per month and Mr. Singh didn't clarify to The Hindu if the samples from Delhi exceeded this capacity.  “These 125 samples are from different labs in the city and not from the airport. This shows that there is transmission of the Omicron variant in the community and there is no point in sending all positive samples to check whether they are Omicron variant,” a Delhi government official had said. These samples were sent to another lab, the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, which too is part of the INSACOG network. Delhi, notably, has seen a rapid surge in cases with over 1,000 cases being reported since Thursday and 320 of them confirmed to be of the Omicron variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-surge-stretches-a-central-genome-lab/article38084241.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||CBI arrests NHAI official, five others in graft case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested a Bengaluru-based Regional Officer of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and five others, including four functionaries of a Bhopal-based private company, in an alleged bribery case. The NHAI official has been identified as Akil Ahmad, while the other arrestees are Dilip Buildcon Limited’s general manager Retnakaran Sajilal, executive director Devendra Jain, additional general manager Mahim Pratap Singh Tomar and another employee, Sunil Kumar, besides one Anuj Gupta. “During the searches being conducted in Delhi, Bengaluru, Cochin, Gurugram, Bhopal and other places, about Rs. 4 crore has been seized from the premises of private persons and Rs. 4 lakh from that of the Regional Officer,” said a CBI official. It is alleged that the NHAI official was a habitual offender when it came to demanding or accepting illegal gratification from private contractors for clearing their pending bills and issuing provisional commercial operations date for completed projects. The accused official also demanded bribe from Dilip Buildcon’s general manager for a project under Bengaluru-Chennai Expressway Package 1 & 2 executed by the company in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-arrests-nhai-official-five-others-in-graft-case/article38084242.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||FCRA licences of NGOs extended by 3 months||The extension in “public interest” will, however, bring no relief to Missionaries of Charities (MoC), founded by Mother Teresa, as the Ministry said non-governmental organisations (NGOs) whose request for renewal was turned down would not be eligible to receive or utilise the foreign contributions in their designated bank accounts. The Home Ministry had earlier said in a statement that it refused to renew the FCRA registration of the MoC on December 25 as “some adverse inputs were noticed”, adding that its registration was valid till October 31 and it was subsequently extended till December 31 along with that of other FCRA associations whose renewal applications are pending. According to returns filed by the MoC, the NGO has over Rs. 100 crore in its account. A registration under the FCRA is mandatory for any NGO or association to receive foreign funds and it is renewed every five years. According to Dhaval Udani, founder of DanaMojo, an online payment platform for NGOs, there are no set rules around what can be done on rejection of renewal. “The standard practice is to either ask for a review of the decision or re-apply for a fresh application. But for that, they would need to know the reason for the rejection of their renewal to correct any shortcomings. If the government does not share that, they may need to approach the courts,” Mr. Udani said. The Hindu reported on December 28 that the registration of thousands of non-governmental organisations (NGO) and associations that were up for renewal in October 2021 were stuck and the deadline for the same was December 31.  The Hindu reported that only around 5,000 renewal applications were processed so far while there are 22,762 NGOs registered under FCRA. Mr. Udani added, “As per a study done by AccountAid on the four Metros and Bangalore the renewal rate was so far 4% as of 21 December, 2021.”  In an order issued on Friday, the Ministry stated, “… the Central Government, in public interest, has decided to extend validity of FCRA registration certificates up to March 31, 2022 or till the date of disposal of the renewal application.” It added two conditions — the FCRA registration certificates of such entities is expiring between September 29, 2020 — March 31, 2022, and that they have applied or apply for renewal on the FCRA portal before expiry of certificate of registration. As per FCRA rules, an NGO has to apply for renewal within six months of expiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fcra-licences-of-ngos-extended-by-3-months/article38084249.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||GST Council defers tax rate increase on textiles||The Finance Minister added that the panel of State Finance Ministers looking into GST rate rationalisation had been asked to review the tax rate on textiles along with other items. The committee is likely to submit its report by February, the Minister said. After the report is submitted, the Council will meet to take it up for discussion. While welcoming the deferment, experts have, however, pointed out that the textiles sector hardly had any time left to make appropriate changes to their systems and software as the changes were to come into effect on January 1. “Textile industry will certainly have a sigh of relief. However, it may be noted that the rate revision was due right from January 1, and wholesalers / retailers would have already got their pricing tags changed to 12%, made necessary revisions to the billing systems to adhere to the rate change,” Saket Patawari, executive director - Indirect Tax, Nexdigm, said. Bimal Jain, chair, Indirect Tax Committee of PHDCCI, pointed out that the footwear sector, which is also an unorganised sector with small/ medium-scale traders “also needed support and sustainability but now, this hike in GST rates will make footwear expensive for the common man... to ensure sustainability of the footwear sector…the Council should have deferred hike in GST rate from 5% to 12% for this sector as well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gst-council-defers-tax-rate-increase-on-textiles/article38084250.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||Train18 engineer alleges conspiracy against him||Shubhranshu, the engineer who led Team ICF that made Train18, which was later flagged off as Vande Bharat Express, has formally written to the Railway Board alleging that a malicious campaign was on in the past two years to destroy his career.  With the Central Vigilance Commission exonerating him of all charges, the then Principal Chief Mechanical Engineer of the Integral Coach Factory (ICF) in Chennai has written to the Railway Ministry that he should be elevated as General Manager as per rules and then considered for promotion as Chairman of the Railway Board and Chief Executive Officer, sources in the Railways told The Hindu on Thursday.  Though his case was moved as per rules following the intervention of the Minister for Railways on January 11, 2021 for restoration of his name in the GM panel even as the vigilance cases existed, the file was shelved for reasons “unknown”. The self-propelled Trainset, India’s first semi-high speed train, was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as Vande Bharat Express in February 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/train18-engineer-alleges-conspiracy-against-him/article38084493.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||Muslim body moves SC against hate speeches||The Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind has approached the Supreme Court against the repeated instances of hate speeches against Muslims across the country, seeking immediate judicial intervention. The plea filed by Jamiat national president Maulana Mahmood A. Madani said hate speech feeds into a system of political and social discrimination and has a cumulative effect on the dignity of a group/community. In a statement released to the media about the filing of the petition, Jamiat, a socio-religious organisation, narrated various instances of derogatory remarks and calls for violence against the community since 2018. The petitioners voice concerns about law enforcement agencies “succumbing to non-state actors” and failing to protect the rights of the minorities. They have argued that the police authorities have failed to discharge their “duty to care” by failing to act against the anti-Muslim hate speeches. The petition placed reliance on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Tehseen Poonawalla v Union of India, where the Supreme Court passed elaborate directions to deal with mob crimes and lynching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/muslim-body-moves-sc-against-hate-speeches/article38084265.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:31 IST,||RS annual productivity drops to 59%||The Rajya Sabha reported the second lowest annual productivity at 59% in 2021 since its inception. The silver lining in the otherwise bleak picture is above average performance by the Parliamentary Standing Committees under the upper house. According to the Rajya Sabha secretariat, 2021 with 59% of annual productivity was second lowest. The lowest was reported in 2018 with 36% productivity. So far, with the BJP not enjoying a clear majority in Rajya Sabha it remains an arena of confrontation between the opposition and the government. The year 2021 saw passage of many controversial legislations which resulted in continued disruptions in the upper house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-annual-productivity-drops-to-59/article38084243.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||Dalai Lama’s guard in 1959 escape dead||The last surviving member of a small troop of Indian soldiers who escorted the Dalai Lama as he fled from Tibet in 1959 has died aged 85, his former regiment said on Friday. The Dalai Lama arrived in India as a young monk after a 13-day trek through the Himalayas disguised as a soldier to evade detection by Chinese troops. Naren Chandra Das, who died on Monday at his residence in Assam, was 22 at the time and had just completed his training with the Assam Rifles. Along with six other soldiers, he escorted the monk to Lumla in Arunachal Pradesh on March 31, 1959. Mr. Das in an interview last year described how the soldiers had walked through the mountainous region while the Dalai Lama was on a horse. He said they had not been allowed to talk to the Dalai Lama during the journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dalai-lamas-guard-in-1959-escape-dead/article38084527.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,||SII applies for full market authorisation||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawala on Friday said the vaccine major had applied to Indian authorities for full market authorisation of Covishield, stating supplies of the COVID-19 vaccine had exceeded 125 crore doses. The SII had partnered with AstraZeneca for the supply of the vaccine to the Indian government, which in January this year granted emergency use authorisation in the country. “Supplies of the COVISHIELD vaccine in India, have exceeded 1.25 billion doses. The Government of India now has enough data for full market authorisation, and therefore @SerumInstIndia has applied to the @CDSCO_INDIA_INF (DCGI) and @MoHFW_INDIA for this permission,” Mr. Poonawala said in a tweet tagging the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation and the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry. Covishield and Covaxin were the first two vaccines approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in January this year, under emergency use authorisation against the pandemic. Regulatory process In case of full market authorisation, the vaccines need to undergo the standard regulatory process for reviewing the quality, safety and effectiveness of medical products. Earlier this week, Covovax, Corbevax, and Molnupiravir were granted emergency use authorisation in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sii-applies-for-full-market-authorisation/article38084269.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 00:00 IST,||Adieu 2021||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adieu-2021/article38084274.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:16 IST,||Potency drugs not under NDPS Act: SC||Sexual enhancement drugs containing herbs and medicines are not covered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, the Supreme Court has observed in a recent order. The observation came in an appeal for bail by a man accused in a case involving the seizure of about 1,37,665 tablets of different types collectively weighing approximately 90 kg from four locations in Chennai in 2019. Forensic tests showed that a “large number” of tablets seized by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) contained herbs to enhance male potency. In its order granting bail and reversing a High Court order, a Bench led by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, pointed out that sexual enhancement pills do not come within the ambit of the NDPS law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/potency-drugs-not-under-ndps-act-sc/article38084257.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Normalcy returns gradually even as more rain lashes city||After intense and unexpected rain lashed Chennai on Thursday, the city gradually returned towards normalcy even as showers continued, though with far less intensity. Owing to efforts to dewater inundated areas throughout Thursday night by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), a majority of the areas were cleared of water on Friday morning. However, roads in some localities remained inundated with the situation worsened by rain on Friday. Officials said the city received an average of 40 mm rain till Friday evening with Perambur and Ayanavaram receiving the highest of 60 mm and 53 mm till evening. While traffic in the city came to a standstill for hours from Thursday evening till late night, it was largely smooth on Friday on all the major roads except in a few places such as Ashok Pillar that sections of the road inundated. Central region was the worst affected on Thursday, the officials said. Sections of low-lying areas like Bazullah Road, Seethammal Colony in Teynampet, West Mambalam, K.K. Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Tamil Salai and Raja Mannar Road continued to have inundation with GCC deploying additional pumps to dewater the areas. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the civic body had deployed 383 heavy duty pumps by Friday evening compared to 153 pumps deployed on Thursday night. He said that the Corporation managed to clear inundation from all major roads on Friday. “With the rain continuing, some traditionally flood-prone low-lying areas are facing inundation. However, we have deployed additional pumps in those localities,” he said. For instance, in Seethammal Colony, one of the localities inspected by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday, pumps with a cumulative capacity of 520 HP have been deployed, he said. He said that senior officers designated as monitoring officers for each of the 15 zones were closely monitoring the work in their respective zones. With rain continuing on Friday night and expected on Saturday as well, an adequate number of personnel have been deployed to dewater the areas as and when there was flooding, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/normalcy-returns-gradually-even-as-more-rain-lashes-city/article38084610.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||96 lakh due for second dose of vaccine||Nearly 96 lakh persons are due for their second dose of COVID-19 vaccines in Tamil Nadu. With nearly 59% of the eligible population fully vaccinated so far, the Health Department wants to improve the pace, especially because of the surge in fresh infections and the emergence of the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus. Right now, 86% of the State’s eligible population — 5,78,91,000 persons — have received at least one dose. As on December 29, 80,85,218 persons were due for the first dose and 96,71,007 persons for the second dose. One of the areas of concern was the low vaccination levels among the elderly. Among all age groups, the elderly continued to account for the lowest coverage. While 61% of the targeted 1,04,19,000 senior citizens have received the first dose, only 44% have been fully vaccinated. On the contrary, 95% of the population aged 45-59-have received the first dose and 72% have been fully vaccinated. The category of 18-44 years accounted for the first dose coverage of 81% and the second dose coverage of 51%. A challenge Noting that the vaccination of the elderly was the challenge, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine T.S. Selvavinayagam said, “Considering their age and probable co-morbidities, the 60-plus population are prone to additional/excessive mortality. So we request all to convince their 60-plus-old parents, relatives and friends to get vaccinated.” The Health Department wants to accelerate the pace of vaccination, and has been urging people to come forward. “Getting both doses is important,” he said. “The reality is that creating a wall of population immunity is the best deterrent against the third wave caused by Omicron. Worldwide, they are trying to do this,” said T. Jacob John, retired professor of virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore. People should know why they should take the second dose, he said, stressing the need for good messaging. “Tell people the importance of the second dose, particularly in the light of Omicron. Teach people the details. There are no concerted efforts to do this. This information-deficiency is the cause of the reluctance to get the second dose,” he said. He said that in all two-dose vaccines, there was clear evidence that a person would not be protected with the first dose. Vaccine-induced protection would kick in with the second dose. Even if delayed, the second dose would remain the second dose. E. Theranirajan, Dean, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, said the second dose would help to achieve immunological response, resulting in more antibody production. “Even now, in patients who test positive for COVID-19, we are seeing fully vaccinated persons being asymptomatic. Vaccination prevents severity of the disease. If we want to prevent mortality, vaccination is the only solution,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/96-lakh-due-for-second-dose-of-vaccine/article38084629.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||State sees 60 private equity and venture capital deals in 2021||Private equity and venture capital companies invested around $1.8 billion in Tamil Nadu based firms through 60 deals during 2021. Data collated by Venture Intelligence, a research firm focused on private company financials, transactions and their valuations, shows that in the first quarter of 2021, firms invested $510 million across 11 deals and during the second quarter around $323 million came through 11 deals. In September and December quarters, around $415 million (19 deals) and $585 million (19 deals) came into State-based firms. In 2020, PE-VC firms invested $690 million through 41 deals in State-based firms. Arun Natarajan, founder of Venture Intelligence, said: “PE-VC investments in Tamil Nadu-based companies zoomed 166% year-on-year in 2021 to over $1.8 billion (across 60 deals). Fintech start-ups from Chennai like M2P Fintech, CredAvenue and GuardianLink made a strong mark on the radar of Indian and international VC investors during 2021,” Mr. Natarajan said. “It was also interesting to see B2C brands from the State like Juicy Chemistry, TenderCuts and The Indus Valley attract VC investors from outside the State,” he added. The year 2021 saw established companies like TVS Logistics and IPO-bound financial services companies like Five Star Business Finance and Star Health Insurance attract mega investments (of over $100 million each). The traditional investor favoured sectors of enterprise technology and especially SaaS exemplified by Uniphore Software and ChargeBee continued to attract large size investments during 2021. “The Nasdaq IPO of SaaS unicorn Freshworks and exit of cross-border software start-up Ally (via acquisition by Microsoft) is only going to put more wind behind the sails of the enterprise technology start-ups in the State,” Mr. Natarajan said. Investments by Angel Networks and “Super Angels” in Tamil Nadu-based companies also grew by 46% year on year to 38 deals in 2021. The number of such investments registered a steady rise in each quarter during 2021, Mr. Natarajan said. Last year, the State saw 26 angel investment deals. Some of the firms that received angel investments were Blaer Motors (raised Rs.2.61 crore from The Chennai Angels), Planys Technologies (raised $1.6 million as part of its ongoing pre-series A round) and Agnikul (raised $11 million in a series A round led by Mayfield India). In February, Mahindra Group Chairman Anand Mahindra had invested in Agnikul. In 2021, two companies from Tamil Nadu, Chargebee Technologies and Five Star Business Finance turned Unicorns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-sees-60-private-equity-and-venture-capital-deals-in-2021/article38084646.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Some displaced dwellers get back their valuables||As the removal of debris from the collapsed Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board building in Tiruvottiyur began on Friday, a few residents were elated to find their valuables, including jewellery and cash. According to the officials, three families recovered their jewellery worth Rs. 4,50,000 on Friday. Some cash and government issued identity cards were also retrieved. One wing of a building at the board’s site in Village Street in Tiruvottiyur collapsed on Monday. Twenty eight of the 48 units in the building collapsed. The removal of debris, which began on Tuesday, was stopped immediately after the effects of the exercise were felt in adjacent buildings. It resumed on Friday after the technical committee finished inspecting all the board’s buildings at the site. “We are removing debris in a gradual manner with minimum use of earth-moving equipment. Our officials, along with personnel from Fire and Rescue Services and the police, are there to identify every item recovered and give it to the rightful owners, ” said M. Govinda Rao, Managing Director, TNUHDB. Santhi, a resident, said she could not believe that her jewellery was recovered intact from the debris. “It is my lifetime savings,” she said emotionally. Legis, a social development specialist with the board, said Rs. 6,500 saved by a senior citizen and his differently-abled wife in a piggy bank was recovered. “In another case, we managed to recover five tiny golden beads from the thali chain of a woman that were scattered in the debris,” she said. With the fear of losing identity cards gripping the residents, many were happy to get back their aadhaar cards, passbooks and smart cards issued by the Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection Department. “We are mainly identifying damaged cupboards used by each family. In that location, we then allow the family members to look for their belongings,” Ms. Legis said. Meanwhile, Mr. Rao said the board was in the process of identifying alternative housing for those who lost their houses. “Around 10 people have expressed willingness to move to another site where we have vacant houses,” he said. While a number of families from the adjacent buildings temporarily moved to their relatives’ houses or rental accommodation, many other families who could not find alternative accommodation continued to stay in the vacant space at the site with their belongings. The officials said they had asked them to move to a nearby community hall by leaving their belongings in their residences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/some-displaced-dwellers-get-back-their-valuables/article38084626.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 daily tally crosses 1,000 in T.N. after two months||Tamil Nadu reported a sharp rise in the number of new COVID-19 cases as the daily tally crossed 1,000 after two months on Friday. The State recorded 1,155 COVID-19 new cases. More than half of the cases were in Chennai. Meanwhile, another 74 persons tested positive for Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, taking the number of confirmed cases of the new variant to 120. Of these, 63 cases were not linked with international travellers. From 890 cases on Thursday, the number of new cases rose to 1,155. The number of daily cases dropped below 1,000 on November 1. Chennai, which reported 397 cases on Thursday, clocked 589 new cases on Friday. However, the city did not record any death due to COVID-19. Along with Chennai, the neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram took recorded a rise in the number of new cases. While 137 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Chengalpattu, there were 43 and 34 cases in Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram respectively. Tiruppur and Thoothukudi registered a marginal rise in cases as 43 and 30 persons tested positive for the infection respectively. There were 70 new cases in Coimbatore while Erode logged 22 cases. Two districts of Ariyalur and Mayiladuthurai had no new case of COVID-19. As many as 23 districts recorded fewer than 10 cases each. Ten international travellers — seven from the UAE and one each from Qatar, Sri Lanka and Oman — and a person who returned from West Bengal tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. With this, the State’s tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 27,48,045. New variant According to the bulletin issued by the Health Department, out of 117 samples sent for whole genomic sequencing earlier in the week, 115 results were received and two were pending validation. Of the results received, 74 were identified as Omicron variant and 41 as Delta variant. With this, the number of persons who have tested positive for Omicron variant stood at 120 in Tamil Nadu. Chennai had the most number of cases at 95. Of these, 57 were related to international travellers — 35 international travellers and 22 of their contacts. The remaining 63 persons were not linked to international travellers. So far, 66 persons have been discharged from hospitals. While two cases were cross-notified to Kerala and Puducherry, 52 patients were admitted to hospitals. This included 38 in Chennai. The State recorded 11 deaths, taking the toll to 36,776. While there were no deaths in 33 districts, Coimbatore reported four fatalities, while there were two deaths in Salem, Tiruvallur and Tiruchi and one in Tiruppur. Among the deceased were two persons aged in their 30s. While 603 persons were discharged, the number of active cases rose to 7,470. Chennai’s active caseload crossed 2,000 as 2,403 persons are under treatment. The State tested a total of 1,04,615 samples. 1.23 lakh vaccinated Another 1,23,261 persons were vaccinated in the State. Of these, 65,996 persons were aged 18 to 44 and 35,805 were aged 45 to 59. This took the total coverage of government vaccination centres so far to 8,11,21,160.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-daily-tally-crosses-1000-in-tn-after-two-months/article38084631.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Face contempt action if STF for eviction is not formed: HC||The Madras High Court has warned the State government of contempt of court proceedings if it had not complied with an April 2019 directive to constitute a Special Task Force, headed by an officer in the rank of Additional Chief Secretary, for conducting periodical inspections, field survey and removal of encroachments from government lands. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and A.A. Nakkiran recalled that another Bench led by Justice M. Venugopal (since retired) had on April 29, 2019 ordered that the STF should be constituted permanently and that it should be headed by an “efficient, devoted and honest” official who could crack down on large scale encroachments. “It is not known as to whether such a force has been constituted for the said purpose,” the Bench led by Justice Vaidyanathan said and warned that the court would pass stringent orders if any wilful and deliberate disobedience was noticed. It also made it clear that the court would not hesitate to order imprisonment of the officials concerned for their lapses. The warning was issued while disposing of a writ petition on an alleged illegal construction at Marshalls Road in Egmore. Passing orders, the Bench recalled the 2019 order which had not only conceived the constitution of a permanent STF, similar to the one in Karnataka, but also listed out its probable functions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/face-contempt-action-if-stf-for-eviction-is-not-formed-hc/article38084624.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Close or shift thermal power plants’||Fisherfolk of 32 hamlets in Ennore on Thursday called for shutting down or shifting the polluting thermal power stations that spread harmful fly ash in their area for over four decades now. They questioned the rationale behind allowing their area to be polluted by the power stations while generating power for the development of the rest of the State. “The fly ash is everywhere, in the air we breathe, the water we drink and even on the food we consume. When we dry fish outside, the ash forms a layer on it. When we return home from work, our people are covered with fly ash and even when it rains, the water washes down as a dark slurry due to ash deposited everywhere. Knowingly, we are feeding poison to our children,” said Rajathi of Sivanpadaiveedu while urging the government to provide them with safe drinking water. The residents were expressing their anguish at a public hearing convened by members of a joint expert committee constituted by the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal to prepare a detailed project report for remediation of fly ash from Ennore and to prepare a report detailing damages caused to the river basin. A resident of Kattupalli panchayat said that each time a project was proposed in the area, including the ports and thermal power plants, local people were always promised jobs and that their environment would be safeguarded. “They make this promise before the District Collector. But we do not get any jobs and our ecosystem is damaged. We keep filing cases and saying no to projects during public hearings. However, our voices remain unheard,” she said. Fisherfolk leader Ko. Su. Mani said they had been protesting since the 1990s. “People used to be affluent in Ennore and the prawns caught here used to be exported. However, now with hot water and fly ash let into the water, the fishermen are not able to net anything for their own consumption,” he said. Patient hearing Head of the committee Santha Sheela Nair and members Balaji Narasimhan and Indumathi Nambi of the Department of Civil Engineering, IIT- Madras; D. Narasimhan from the Madras Christian College; and Jayashree Venkatesan of Care Earth, heard the residents patiently. Ms. Nair said the committee had been formed to look at the possibilities of remediation of fly ash. She welcomed residents’ suggestions regarding how fly ash can be dealt with and said a fair report would be submitted to the NGT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/close-or-shift-thermal-power-plants-fisherfolk/article38084648.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||We will remind Centre to replace IMD equipment: CM||The Tamil Nadu government will remind the Union government of the need to replace the equipment at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) to ensure a better rain forecast, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Friday. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Stalin referred to the heavy rain that pounded the city on Thursday and said, “The IMD will generally provide us with a forecast. This time, even it could not make a prediction.” Asked whether the State would urge the Union government to replace the equipment, he said, “This is their job. Since you have mentioned it, the Tamil Nadu government will do so.” Mr. Stalin on Thursday night visited the flood control room of the Ripon Building, the headquarters of the Greater Chennai Corporation, to oversee the work on clearing stagnant water at various places. He went around the waterlogged areas on Friday. Asked whether there was any issue in the planning to eliminate water-logging, he reiterated his charge that the AIADMK government had ruined it [the system] over the past 10 years. “We are not prepared to criticise them now. We have to clear the stagnant water. I am confident we will set it right before the next monsoon. The work is under way.” The Chief Minister said various parts of the city recorded 20 cm of rain on Thursday alone and officials were working round the clock to clear the water. He said he was monitoring the situation and hoped it would improve soon. He visited the affected areas in Seethammal Colony, Dr. Giriappa Salai and the Tirumalaipillai Salai-Bazullah Salai junction. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru; Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi; MLAs Dha. Velu and J. Karunanithi; Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation Gagandeep Singh Bedi; Greater Chennai Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal; and senior officials accompanied him. Maran slams Centre Member of Parliament Dayanidhi Maran said in a tweet: “For over two years, I have repeatedly requested Union Government to expedite repair work on Chennai’s radars on war footing. The delay by the Union Government is solely responsible for putting Chennai in a situation where our technology is not sufficient to support the people in times of need.” According to sources in the IMD, the old radar on Rajaji Salai office was functioning but being operated with limitations because of its wear and tear. The IMD here had been requesting to replace some parts of the radar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-will-remind-centre-to-replace-imd-equipment-cm/article38084613.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM opens medical centres at 7 temples||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday virtually inaugurated medical centres at seven temples on behalf of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department for the benefit of devotees. The temples are Subramaniyaswamy Temple in Tiruchendur, Arunachaleswarar Temple in Tiruvannamalai, Angala Parameswari Temple in Melmalayanur, Lakshmi Narasimhaswamy Temple in Sholinghur, Subramaniyaswamy Temple in Maruthamalai, Subramaniyaswamy Temple at Tiruttani and Dhandayuthapaniswamy Temple at Palani. In these medical centres, besides basic amenities, first aid and basic treatment would be provided with oxygen cylinders, beds and life-saving medicines. Funds to the tune of Rs. 30 lakh to each of the temples would sanctioned from the temple funds for running these medical centres, an official release said. Each centre would have two doctors, two nurses and two multi-disciplinary medical staff. In the first phase, the centres have been inaugurated in seven temples. Three more temples would have these centres later, the release said. Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan, HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu and senior officials were present during the event in the Secretariat. Minister for Fisheries Anitha R. Radhakrishnan, Minister for Textiles R. Gandhi, Minister for Dairy Development S.M. Nasar and senior officials virtually took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-opens-medical-centres-at-7-temples/article38084621.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. against hike in GST on textile items||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday opposed the proposed increase in the Goods and Services Tax on some textile goods from 5% to 12%. It argued that the increase in the rate on fabrics, including handloom goods made from natural fibres, would dampen the demand, thus affecting farmers and small and medium enterprises. The GST Council later decided to put the decision on hold. At a special sitting of the Council in New Delhi with the sole agenda of discussing the increase, Tamil Nadu Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said, “Alternatively, ready-made garments, having a sale value of above Rs. 3,000 or Rs. 5,000, could be taxed at 12% and the present rate of 5% on goods below this level could be retained.” Human-made fibres were made through automated processes involving low labour and high capital. But the manufacture of goods from natural fibres was more labour-intensive and would have an impact on farmers. This sector was also run with a lower capital, mostly by micro, small and medium enterprises. “The proposed hike could not have come at a more inopportune time when the industry is limping back to normalcy from the onslaught of the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. Tamil Nadu is one of the major States making handloom, powerloom and hosiery goods, and this sector is next only to the agriculture in job creation, he said. Before the GST was introduced, textiles were given full exemption under Tamil Nadu’s VAT regime and readymade garments were taxed at 5%, he recalled. The textile industry in the State was a forerunner in job creation. “The handloom sector, which is barely surviving on the subsidies granted by the State government, will not be able to absorb the blow from the increase in the GST,” he said. In their representations, the associations representing this trade had highlighted that the GST increase would cause a large-scale unemployment in the weaving industry because of the non-availability of additional loans and working capital, he said. Mr. Rajan also reiterated that the current method of sharing of powers of direct taxation and indirect taxation was unfair as the direct taxation powers of the States had been limited. The situation was exacerbated by the curtailment of even the bulk of indirect taxation powers after the GST was introduced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-against-hike-in-gst-on-textile-items/article38084623.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK delegation meets Governor Ravi||A delegation of AIADMK leaders called on Governor R.N. Ravi at the Raj Bhavan here on Friday and submitted a petition alleging deterioration in law and order in Tamil Nadu and police harassment of the party cadre. “Law and order has broken down in the State,” former Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam alleged while talking to journalists after meeting the Governor. He said the situation resembled a “mini-undeclared emergency”. Crimes against women had increased, he said, referring to an incident in which a girl was found burnt in western Tamil Nadu recently. Under the pretext of reinvestigation of cases, the DMK government was trying to protect its Ministers. Mr. Shanmugam alleged that the police were being “used by the government” for its interests. He questioned whether the police, who were on the lookout for former Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, had the courage to arrest Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji since both faced complaints of the same nature. Asked whether the AIADMK enquired about the status of the legislation against NEET pending with the Governor, Mr. Shanmugam said the meeting dealt only with law and order. He blamed DMK MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin for making “misleading statements” against NEET during the Assembly election campaign. Since the Supreme Court had upheld NEET, either the court or Parliament alone could change the status, he said. Elaborating on the allegation of harassment of government servants by the ruling DMK, the former Minister said an audio clip in which a sub-inspector in Vellore had alleged harassment by DMK workers went viral, but he was transferred. ‘Workers went missing’ He said AIADMK workers went missing from Jolarpettai and Ramanathapuram and the Virudhunagar Superintendent of Police was responsible for it.  “But we are not afraid of any case. We have faced [former Chief Minister and DMK leader] Karunanidhi and we will face the cases legally as our Amma [late AIADMK leader Jayalalithaa] did.”  Mr. Shanmugam alleged that many Ministers in the DMK government had cases registered against them. Banned psychotropic substances were being sold in the State. Within 200 days of the new government, over 500 murders had occurred, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-delegation-meets-governor-ravi/article38084637.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Teenager arrested for death of student||The Government Railway Police (GRP), Tiruvallur, on Friday arrested an 18-year-old college student in connection with the death of a 20-year-old student of another college at Thiruninravur railway station. On Tuesday night, M. Kumar, a first-year student of M.A. History at Presidency College and a resident of Guruvarajapet near Arakkonam, ended his life. In a voice note, he said he faced humiliation from a group of students and did not want to live at the mercy of the students of another college. On Wednesday, his friends gathered in front of the Government General Hospital, Tiruvallur, and staged a protest demanding action against the students responsible for his death. The police suspected the death could be a fallout of a “route thala” clash among students to establish their supremacy in buses or trains. The GRP arrested V. Manoj, 18, a resident of Thiruninravur and a student of Pachaiyappa's College. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teenager-arrested-for-death-of-student/article38084617.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Postdoctoral fellow stabbed to death by woman colleague, her friend||A 45-year-old postdoctoral fellow of a private educational institution was stabbed by his woman colleague and her friend at Kalavakkam near Tiruporur in Chengalpattu district on Thursday, following a dispute over unrequited love and cheating. He was called by the duo for talks outside the campus and was stabbed on the road, the police said. The police identified the victim as K. Senthil, 45, a native of Melapuliyur in Perambalur district. He was a postdoctoral fellow, who stayed on the campus. One of the accused has been identified as J. Desapriya, 34, a native of Keezh Pennathur, Tiruvannamalai district. She has completed her Ph.D in physics and was working as a junior research assistant on the same campus. Her friend and the other accused S. Arun Pandian, 34, is a Ph. D scholar and a native of Ulundurpet. Upset over cheating Desapriya and Senthil were acquainted with each other while pursuing Ph.D at a private university in Ramapuram a couple of years ago. The police said they were in a relationship. Later Senthil married another woman, leaving Desapriya upset. Senthil brought her to the campus, where he was working, and got her the post of junior research assistant a few months ago, the police said. Desapriya repeatedly asked Senthil to marry her and brought Arun Pandian to mediate between them. At 3 p.m. on Thursday, she and her friend came to the campus at Kalavakkam. They invited Senthil outside and had talks near a culvert on Tiruporur Road. Since he would not agree to their terms, they stabbed him to death, the police said. They fled on a bike and while driving the wrong way, they hit an auto-rickshaw and fell down. The auto-rickshaw driver and other motorists nabbed them as the police from Kelambakkam rushed to the spot. Senthil died on the spot. His body was taken to the Government General Hospital for post-mortem. Kelambakkam inspector V. Radhakrishnan registered a case against Desapriya and Arun Pandian for the murder. They were arrested on Thursday and remanded in judicial custody on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postdoctoral-fellow-murdered-by-woman-colleague-her-friend/article38084615.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Academic bodies to check quality of flats||Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUHDB) has signed memoranda of understanding (MoU) with two organisations for third party assessment of the quality of its projects. The move followed the demand for stringent quality control measures in the board in the wake of the collapse of one of its buildings in Tiruvottiyur recently and the poor quality observed in its recently constructed flats in K.P. Park in Pulianthope. The two institutions are Centre for Urbanisation, Building and Environment (CUBE), an organisation formed in collaboration between IIT-Madras and the Government of Tamil Nadu, and the University College of Engineering, a constituent college of Anna University. M. Govinda Rao, Managing Director, TNUHDB, said the Board had written to 21 institutions across the State seeking their help in independent quality assessment work. He said that nine of them had responded and MoUs would be signed with them soon. One of the organisations would be assigned to carry out third party quality assessment work for every project to be implemented by the Board. “They will perform the quality monitoring while the construction work is under way so that any problems can be rectified soon,” he said. He said engaging these organisations as third party to carry out quality monitoring would encourage the contractors and the board’s staff to work diligently. CUBE was engaged to assess the quality of the K.P. Park tenements after complaints of poor construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/academic-bodies-to-check-quality-of-flats/article38084627.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain forecast for Chennai, other districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued heavy rainfall warning on Saturday for coastal regions, including Chennai, and other districts of Tamil Nadu. IMD’s Deputy Director General of Meteorology S. Balachandran said the coastal regions, including Chennai, were likely to receive heavy rainfall for two days because of the system caused by the convergence of easterly winds and westerly winds. On Friday, Nungambakkam received 32 mm of rain, Ennore Port 40 mm, Cheyyur (Chengalpattu) 31 mm, Tirur (Tiruvallur) 43 mm, and Good Will School, Villivakkam (Tiruvallur) 40.5 mm. Rains are expected to cause localised flooding of susceptible settlements or roads, and low-lying areas. Localised and short term disruption to public services such as electricity, road transport are expected in the next two days. As per observations on Friday, intense convective clouds were present over Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Chennai, Vellore, Villupuram, Cuddalore, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur, Kallakurichi, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet, Salem, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Tiruchi, Madurai, Namakkal, Karur, Tiruppur, Dindigul, Pudukottai, Thoothukudi and Sivaganga districts and in Puducherry, including Karaikal. Blogger Pradeep John on Friday tweeted: “One more band of clouds to move in and all these will be short intense spells, enjoy these rains for two more days then we go into break from January 2. These are normal common rains from easterly wave unlike the freak one yesterday.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/imd-predicts-heavy-rain-today/article38084606.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sivarajah Ramanathan is TANSIM CEO||The State government has appointed Sivarajah Ramanathan as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Tamil Nadu Start-up and Innovation Mission (TANSIM) with a mandate to enhance the start-up ecosystem in the State. He is expected to take charge in the first week of January. Mr. Ramanathan is the founder and CEO of Nativelead Foundation, which has mentored hundreds of start-ups from tier-2 and tier-3 towns. It has also provided funding to innovative start-ups through its Native Angels Network and in September, The Chennai Angels struck a deal with Native Angels Network to co-invest in start-ups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sivarajah-ramanathan-is-tansim-ceo/article38084619.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||PM to take part in ‘Modi Pongal’ event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will take part in an event called ‘Modi Pongal’, to be organised by the Tamil Nadu BJP in Madurai on January 12, State BJP president K. Annamalai said on Friday. Mr. Modi will visit Virudhunagar on January 12 to inaugurate 11 new medical colleges in the State. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will also participate in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-to-take-part-in-modi-pongal-event/article38084941.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Chief Minister violated his own orders, says OPS||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Friday alleged that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin violated COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, advocated by him to the people, during his public events in Thanjavur and Tiruchi on Thursday. In a statement, Mr. Panneerselvam quoted from Mr. Stalin’s speech in Tiruchi, where he said Minister K.N. Nehru had organised the event for a sea of people and it did not need much effort for the Minister to mobilise people, and said this incident made it clear the Chief Minister did not respect his own orders. “If the Chief Minister himself violated the norms, how would the people be? When the gathering is termed ‘a sea of people,’ definitely wearing of face masks and enforcing social distancing norms would not have been complied with,” Mr. Panneerselvam contended. Organising such public events, especially during the pandemic amounted to spreading the virus. “So, considering the increasing number of COVID-19 cases and the spread of the Omicron variant of the virus, all public events such as social, cultural, political and government functions should be entirely banned,” Mr. Panneerselvam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-violated-his-own-orders-says-ops/article38084633.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami criticises govt. over flooding||Strongly criticising the DMK government over flooding at several places in Chennai, AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday asked what had the ruling party achieved in the past eight months. In a statement, he condoled the death of three persons, who died of electrocution on Thursday and further sought a solatium of Rs. 20 lakh to the families. “The Northeast monsoon had slowed down some 20 days ago. If only the defective equipment, roads and drains had been repaired, the damage could have been avoided, he said. If Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had implemented the ideas he had suggested as an Opposition leader, three deaths could have been avoided, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-criticises-govt-over-flooding/article38084635.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man posing as inspector arrested for cheating||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Friday arrested a 42-year-old man who posed as a police inspector and allegedly cheated an estranged woman and her father on the pretext of remarrying her. The police said that two months ago, the accused, A. Siva alias Sivaji, of Tiruvottriyur, approached Mohandoss, 60, of Rajakilpakkam after learning that the latter was wealthy, and that his only daughter Reka was estranged from her husband. The accused claimed to be a police inspector and member of a special investigation team and pretended to help Reka get a divorce from her husband, and proposed to marry her. He collected Rs. 85.80 lakh from Mr. Mohandoss to meet the legal expenses. One day, he drove away in a sedan belonging to Mr. Mohandoss. On a complaint from Mr. Mohandoss, the Entrustment Document Fraud Wing of CCB arrested Siva alias Sivaji, who was hiding at another woman’s house in Coimbatore. The police suspect that the accused had cheated a couple of women in a similar manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-posing-as-policeman-arrested-for-cheating-woman-her-father/article38084616.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||34 school students test positive||A total of 34 school students who were undergoing a residential training programme at the Greater Chennai Corporation-run Model School at Saidapet have tested positive for COVID-19. All of them remained mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic, officials said. Two girls in hospitals While one girl, who was anaemic, was taken to hospital as a precautionary measure, another girl was taken to a private hospital by her parents. The remaining 32 have been admitted to the COVID-19 care centre at Injambakkam, said a senior official of the Corporation. Of the 34 students who were in Class 12, there were 24 boys and 10 girls. They were from different city schools and staying at the school’s hostel for the programme. All of them were tested after one of the boys, who developed fever, tested positive, the official said. Preparations for NEET The official said they were part of a programme run by the School Education Department at select schools across Tamil Nadu to prepare the students for competitive examinations, including NEET. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, Sholinganallur MLA S. Aravind Ramesh and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan visited the students at the COVID-19 care centres and enquired about their health. The Minister said the students were doing well and the Greater Chennai Corporation was taking care of their needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/34-school-students-test-positive-for-covid-19/article38084641.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Felicitation centre||The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has opened a Taxpayer Facilitation Centre on the premises of New Custom House, Air Cargo Complex, Meenambakkam at Chennai airport. This is to mark 75 years of the country’s Independence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/felicitation-centre/article38084614.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees 11.6% rise in POCSO cases in 2021||The number of cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act within the limits of Coimbatore City Police saw a slight increase of 11.6% in 2021 in comparison to the previous year as 77 cases were registered in 2021 while 69 cases were registered in 2020. As per data provided by the police on Friday, the 77 POCSO cases registered till December 30, 2021 comprised 51 cases of rape and 26 cases of other sexual offences against minors. In 2020, the 69 POCSO cases comprised 46 rape cases and 23 other sexual offences. In both the years, all the accused booked under the POCSO Act were remanded in judicial custody. Crimes against women saw an increase of 48.7% in 2021 than the previous year as 235 cases were registered in 2021, while in 2020 it was 158 cases. The 235 cases comprised 13 rape cases, eight molestation cases, five abductions, 22 cases of cruelty by husband or relatives, 132 cases registered under the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act and 55 cases under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. No dowry deaths were reported in the city police limits in both the years and all the accused were remanded, according to the data. At a press conference on Friday, Commissioner of Police Pradip Kumar said that the Coimbatore City Police will adopt a “prevention and punishment strategy” for crimes against women and children. Preventive measures will be intensified and punishment for criminals will be ensured without delays in these cases, he said, adding that safety of women and children will be prioritised in the New Year.  Mr. Kumar told The Hindu that the police will adopt a three-level strategy to scale-up awareness to prevent crimes against children in Coimbatore in the New Year. This would involve interaction with children, staff members of educational institutions and parents of the children through awareness programmes. The total number of murder cases reported in the city police limits were 27 for both the years, he said. A total of 1,872 CCTV cameras were installed in the city in 2021, taking the total number of CCTV cameras installed in collaboration with private players to 24,415.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-116-rise-in-pocso-cases-in-2021/article38084662.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Maruthamalai temple gets first aid centre||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday virtually inaugurated a first aid centre on the premises of the Subramaniyaswami Temple in Maruthamalai to cater to the devotees visiting the temple. He inaugurated the centre through videoconferencing from the Secretariat in the presence of Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan and Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu. At Maruthamalai, District Collector G.S. Sameeran, Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan, HR&CE Joint Commissioner for Coimbatore Zone R. Senthilvelavan and HR&CE Assistant Commissioner for the temple K. Vimala were present during the inauguration. Officials from the HR&CE Department said that 10 temples have been chosen across the State for the initiative, among which Subramaniyaswami Temple is the only temple from Coimbatore district. With four beds, the first aid centre will be located next to the stairway that leads to the temple from the vehicle parking area. Minor health issues such as giddiness or small injuries faced by devotees visiting the temple will be treated at the facility, the officials said. There will be two doctors, two nurses and two attenders at the centre and they will work in two shifts in mornings and evenings. The temple will soon get its own ambulance to shift patients to hospitals from the centre, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maruthamalai-temple-gets-first-aid-centre/article38084664.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 400 species of birds, butterflies recorded||The annual Birds and Butterflies Survey, which was held across Coimbatore Forest Division recently, has recorded 238 species of birds and 185 species of butterflies in seven forest ranges in Coimbatore district, according to the Forest Department. In a press release, District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar said that the annual survey was conducted from December 24 to 26 in the seven forest ranges namely Sirumugai, Mettupalayam, Karamadai, Periyanaickenpalayam, Coimbatore, Boluvampatti and Madukkarai. The Forest Department collaborated with three organisations – Coimbatore Nature Society (CNS), The Nature and Butterfly Society (TNBS), and the World Wide Fund for Nature-India (WWF-India) – to carry out the survey to assess the presence of birds and butterflies in the forest ranges, he said. President of CNS P.R. Selvaraj said in a release that out of the 238 bird species, 122 were from the Passerine bird group, indicating that most of these forest-dwelling birds thrive well across the Coimbatore Forest Division. Echoing similar sentiments, Landscape Coordinator of WWF-India D. Boominathan noted that the results of the survey for three consecutive years have been consistent in both birds and butterflies, which “reflects the healthy state of the [Coimbatore Forest] Division.” He added that this year’s survey recorded 34 migratory species of birds and most of them are forest-dependent. Some of the bird species recorded were Bar-headed Goose, Oriental Turtle-Dove, Lesser Fish Eagle, Legge’s Hawk Eagle, Spot-bellied Eagle Owl, Malabar Trogon, Great Hornbill, Malabar Barbet, Peregrine Falcon, Indian Pitta, Grey-headed Canary Flycatcher, Hill Swallow, Grey-headed Bulbul, White-bellied Treepie, Blue-throated Flycatcher, Verditer Flycatcher, Forest Wagtail, Tawny Pipit and Buntings.  Regarding butterflies, TNBS president A. Pavendhan said in a release that the butterfly Common Tinsel was recorded for the first time in Coimbatore Forest Divison at Boluvampatti Forest Range during the survey. Among the 185 butterfly species recorded, 55 were from Lycaenidae and Riodinidae families, 54 from the Nymphalidae family and 38 species were from Hesperiidae family, also known as the Skippers.  Common Mime, Nilgiri Grass Yellow, Chocolate Albatross, Nilgiri Tiger, Tawny Rajah, Colour Sergeant, Short-banded Sailer, Blue Oakleaf, Centaur Oakblue, Silver-streaked Acacia Blue, Banded Royal, Silver Royal, Malabar Flash, Madras Ace, Wax Dart, and Philippine Swift were some of the butterfly species that were recorded. A total of 14 teams (two per forest range) were deployed for the survey that comprised 68 naturalists and 42 forest officials. Assistant Conservators of Forest C. Dinesh Kumar and M. Senthil Kumar along with the Forest Range Officers from the Forest Department supervised the exercise, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-400-species-of-birds-butterflies-recorded-during-annual-survey/article38084655.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Muted New Year celebration in city||Brightly lit churches, bakery and confectionery shops, ice cream parlours and hotels were the indicators welcoming the New Year 2022 in Coimbatore city. Occasional firework that lit the winter sky also indicated the arrival of New Year. People wanting to celebrate the arrival of 2022 could be seen at sweet sand savoury shops. They were also seen at bakeries shopping for cakes. Youngsters were seen at ice cream parlours and hotels. Coimbatore City Police personnel and Traffic Police personnel were at vantage points regulating traffic and checking on revelry, which the district administration had banned. Earlier on Friday, Pradip Kumar, Coimbatore City Commissioner of Police, told mediapersons that the police will have “zero tolerance to drunk driving.” Out of the 11 check-posts on the borders of the city, seven were linked directly to the control room of the City Police to monitor violations, he said. Over 1,000 police personnel were deployed and 44 two-wheeler patrols were arranged to ensure maintenance of law and order and adherence to COVID-19 safety protocols, Mr. Kumar said. Over 1,300 police personnel were deployed within the limits of Coimbatore District Police on Friday, said Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/muted-new-year-celebration-in-city/article38084659.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Vizha to take off on Jan. 2||Coimbatore Vizha, an annual event anchored by Young Indians (Yi), will take off on January 2 with “Symphony by the Lake” at Valankulam. With more than 100 organisations coming together for the events that will go on till January 9, the public can participate in cooking contest, marathon, cyclathon, treasure hunt on electric vehicles, meetings on agriculture, music events, etc. The focus this year will be on the water bodies in the city. Valankulam and the pavement around it will be decorated and events will be organised there. According to the organisers, in an effort to celebrate the lakes in Coimbatore, a water screen laser, sound and light show called Symphony by the Lake will be held from January 2 to 9 at 6.30 p.m. every day at Valankulam. Minister V. Senthilbalaji will inaugurate it on Sunday. Further, the whole stretch of the Valankulam will be filled with a touch of Coimbatore’s most favourite - from food stalls to hand-made products. The lane will have an amazing selfie spot depicting Coimbatore. Another unique event is Isai Mazhai in which music bands from colleges in the city will perform at the Corporation parks (Gandhipark, Valankulam, VOC Park and Bharathi Park) on January 8. Art Street will be on January 8 and 9 at Race Course Road. A virtual and live cooking contest will be organised as part of the vizha and the finals will be on January 9 at PSG College of Arts and Science. The Pitch is for start-ups and it will be held at PSG STEP. A treasure hunt will be organised on January 9. Meetings and events related to agriculture will also be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-vizha-to-take-off-on-jan-2/article38084660.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore girls shine in cycling event||Two girls from Coimbatore district have won gold medals in the National Track Cycling Championship that was organised by the Cycling Federation of India at Jaipur, Rajasthan recently. M. Pooja Swetha, a Class X student of a private school at R.S. Puram in the city, and J.P. Dhanyadha, a Class X student from a private school at Karamadai, won two medals each at the national-level event held from December 24 to 28. Both were part of the team that won the gold medal in Team Sprint category. While the former won a bronze medal at the five-km Scratch Race category, the latter won a gold medal in the two-km Individual Pursuit category.  Speaking to The Hindu on Friday, Ms. Swetha said that she began cycling from the age of 11 and had trained for two months at a training institute in Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala. “So far, I have won two silver, two bronze and one gold at the national level,” she said.  Having been cycling since 2018, Ms. Dhanyadha said that she was trained by her school to participate in the national-level championships. “I want to get a medal in Olympics 2028,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-girls-shine-in-cycling-event/article38084657.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for burglary||The Coimbatore City Police on Friday arrested a man on charges of stealing Rs. 20 lakh cash along with two smartphones and a laptop from two mobile phone showrooms in Gandhipuram earlier in December. According to the police, Prithvi Bharti (27) from Rajasthan committed the burglary along with another man in the early hours of December 14. The Kattoor police, who arrested the accused after over two weeks of searches, recovered Rs. 9,48,800. He was booked under Sections 457 (Lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night) and 380 (Theft in dwelling house, etc.) of the Indian Penal Code and was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-burglary/article38084665.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Powerloom units to go on strike from January 9||Powerloom units that do job work in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts will stop production from January 9. This was decided at a meeting of the job working powerloom unit associations in the two districts on Thursday. According to C. Palanisamy, president of the Somanur job working powerloom unit owners association, the government issued an order on November 24, revising upwards the wages paid by master weavers to the job working units. The new wages were to be implemented from December 1 -- but this has not happened. Though orders slowed down in November, there was a revival in December. The master weavers were distributing yarn to the job working units but were paying the earlier wages and were not implementing the new wages. “They buy yarn at higher prices and pay more to the sizing units too. But, the master weavers are not willing to increase the wages for the job working units. The wages have not been revised for seven years now. Since it is unviable for the job working units to continue to accept orders at the old rates, we have decided to go on strike from January 9,” he said. The job working unit associations met the joint commissioner of labour and discussed the issue as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/powerloom-units-to-go-on-strike-from-january-9/article38084670.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Facilities for sanitary workers reviewed||Chairperson of National Commission for Safai Karamcharis M. Venkatesan held a review meeting under the aegis of Collector S. Dhivyadarshini at the Collectorate. Later, Mr. Venkatesan interacted with sanitation workers and ascertained the facilities available for them in their housing units. He also sought information on the welfare deductions made to their salary, ESI protection among others. Mr. Venkatesan also held a meeting with the representatives of sanitation workers and officials. The chairperson ascertained information on the pay for workers and, if there were arrears to be paid to them. Avail loans He urged sanitation workers to avail the various schemes drawn up for the benefit of the workers. He called upon the workers to avail loan for self-employment for their wards. The chairperson also urged the administration to monitor the working conditions of sanitation workers employed by private firms. Safety gear The authorities were called upon to ensure compliance by private firms and the local bodies in providing safety gear to workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/facilities-for-sanitary-workers-reviewed/article38084763.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Report on probe into jewellery loan irregularities awaited’||Despite a severe financial crunch, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had kept his promise to the people to waive gold loans for people belonging to below povert line (BPL) category, said Cooperation Minister I. Periyasamy here on Friday. Speaking to reporters, he said that during electioneering, the DMK had indeed said that it would waive loans to eligible people - for the needy and whose annual income was very less. Those who had pledged gold jewellery up to a maximum of 40 grams (five sovereigns) - with one Aadhaar card and one name - were eligible. Knowing for sure that the AIADMK would lose the Assembly elections, the then CM Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O. Panneerselvam had also announced the waiver scheme with a malicious intent. Now, the officials have unearthed a scam wherein a majority of the borrowers of jewel loans during the AIADMK rule were neither farmers nor had any cultivable lands. Mr. Periyasamy said that the government had ordered a thorough probe and was waiting for the report. It is learnt that even some pawn brokers had pledged gold jewellery. For instance, a pawn broker in Tiruvannamalai had taken 622 loans by pledging five sovereigns of gold for each loan. In many cases, people had taken loans after pledging fake jewellery. While the AIADMK claimed to have issued gold loans to 48 lakh borrowers across Tamil Nadu (40 grams each), only 22 lakh among them appeared genuine. The AIADMK is duty-bound to answer people as most of the beneficiaries belonged to their party. Worried about the exposure, the AIADMK has started blaming the DMK and Mr. Stalin for the fiasco. In crop loans too Likewise, in crop loans issued during the AIADMK rule, there were many malpractice. For instance, by submitting documents for one acre, the borrowers had taken loans for seven acres and so on. The then government had issued Rs. 2,000-crore crop loans, which would also be probed, Mr Periyasamy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/report-on-probe-into-jewellery-loan-irregularities-awaited/article38084749.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring officers appointed to check distribution of Pongal gifts||The Erode district administration has appointed monitoring officers and has set up a control room to ensure error-free distribution of Pongal gift kits announced by the State government. District Collector H.Krishnanunni said in a release that 7.39 lakh rice card holders and 1,382 rice card holders in Sri Lankan refugee camps would receive the kits in the district. The Collector advised the public to follow COVID-19 safety protocols while collecting the kits from ration shops. He said that ration shops would function on January 7 and a holiday has been provided on January 15. Mobile monitoring teams have been deployed to check the distribution of kits. Public can also contact the control room at District Civil Supplies office at 0424-2252052.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-officers-appointed-to-check-distribution-of-pongal-gifts/article38084767.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode police recovered stolen goods worth over Rs. 1.59 crore in 2021||Of the 422 theft and burglary cases reported in the district in 2021, the police have recovered stolen goods in 322 cases, a release from the Erode District Police said. According to a release from the police, a total of 73 persons have been arrested in connection with 40 murder cases. Stolen goods worth Rs. 1,59,89,768 were recovered in 322 cases. Accused in 118 POCSO cases have been arrested and 6,03,086 cases were registered against traffic rule violations and Rs. 1,24,04,320 was collected as fine. A total of 22,151 driving licences were temporarily suspended. As many as 11,567 CCTV cameras were installed in the district to prevent crimes. The police recovered 240 mobile phones worth Rs. .4.5 lakh and a sum of Rs. 16.24 lakh was recovered in online fraud cases. Police have registered 71,957 cases for violating mask norm, 2,504 cases for violation of COVID-19 protocols and Rs. 1.56 crore was collected as fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-police-recovered-stolen-goods-worth-over-rs-159-crore-in-2021/article38084769.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murder in Erode||The Arachalur police on Friday arrested a man on charges of murder. The police identified the deceased as Vadivel (54), a tailor from Nagarajapuram who was working in a private textile firm. Vadivel, along with a few others, was taking rest on the premises of a temple during the late hours of Thursday. Eswaramoorthi, a tailor from the same locality, tried to turn on the lights at the temple. This ensued in a quarrel between Vadivel and Eswaramoorthi. Eswaramoorthi allegedly attacked Vadivel with a log. Passers-by intervened and Vadivel went home. Next morning, Vadivel was found dead by his brother Shanmugham. Aracahlur police have registered a case. Eswaramoorthi was arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-murder-in-erode/article38084766.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power entrepreneurs chase their dreams||Three buddies, Jith George, Rohit Govinda, and Vijesh Sam Sanoop, are chasing their dreams. BTech graduates, employed with a consultancy, are into the rough and tumble of setting up their own project. For, they have ventured into power generation. Driving their entrepreneurial spirit is their firm Suiso Energy, which they set up three years ago. The Kerala State Electricity Board welcoming independent power producers has come at an opportune time, they think. Suiso Energy recently got permission for a 350-kW mini-hydroelectric project on one acre at Ezhamkadavu, near Iritty, in Kannur. Mr. George, 30, says they work together in a firm that outsourced engineering design and consultancy work dealing with oil and gas. Four years ago they received consultancy work for a project associated with the KSEB and the Energy Management Centre that helped them understand the potential of the sector. “We decided to look at options in the power-generation sector after we took up consultancy work for a mini-hydropower project to generate 100 kW at Vellakayam in Idukki,” says Mr. George, who is from Ernakulam. Two options Mr. Sanoop, 35, says the government allowed private participation for such projects under two categories, ‘built operate and transfer’ and ‘own land’. The former are bigger ones, where tenders are called for. Under the latter, hydel projects are allowed where there is a feasibility of generating power in own land. “After searching many locations we identified the land at Ezhamkadavu and the company purchased the land, where we can set up the plant under the run-of-river scheme,” says Mr. Sanoop, who hails from Kannur. As per the project, water from the Kundur stream, a tributary of the Valapattanam river, will be channelled, about 150 metres, to the power plant at Ezhamkadavu. After generating electricity, the water flows back into the river. He says as per the Central government norms, there is no need for environmental impact assessment for projects below 10 MW. Feasibility study However, they carried out a techno-economic feasibility study for setting up the plant. Mr. Govinda, 36, says it is a conventional project and the plant will be set up at Rs. 3 crore and they expect to generate 10 lakh units per year, with maximum generation expected between June and December. “Once the work is over, we plan to ink an agreement with the KSEB to supply power,” says Mr. Govinda, from Alappuzha. They have identified sites in Kannur, Palakkad and Pathanamthitta to set up similar projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-entrepreneurs-chase-their-dreams/article38084501.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||First Water Metro ferry handed over to Kochi Metro Rail||The first of the 23 fully air-conditioned, battery-powered electric ferries of the Rs. 747-crore Kochi Water Metro project was handed over by Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) to the Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) here on Friday morning.  The 50-seater ferry is christened Muziris , after the thriving BC-era port said to have been located at Pattanam, 25 km from Kochi.  Madhumita Behera, wife of KMRL managing director Loknath Behera, was the chief guest at the handing over function. Mr. Behera; CSL chairman and managing director Madhu S. Nair; and general manager (GM) of Water Metro Shaji Janardhanan; additional GM Sajan P. John; KMRL directors K.R. Kumar and D.K. Sinha, CSL directors Bijoy Bhaskar and V.J. Jose; and CSL GM Shivakumar were present. Four other Water Metro ferries are expected to be launched in the coming months. They will join the first vessel in conducting trial runs, mainly in the Vyttila-Kakkanad corridor, following which their commercial operation is expected latest from April. Each ferry is priced over Rs. 7.30 crore. The 23 ferries will be complemented by another 55 smaller ones — each having a seating capacity of 25 — in the coming years. This will be the first time in the world that a centrally controlled integrated water transport system comprising a large fleet will be battery-powered. The ferries use lithium titanate oxide (LTO) batteries — considered the latest and safest in battery technology and capable of fast charging. They can be charged in 10 to 15 minutes, while passengers are alighting/boarding. The ferries will have generator backup, which will take over their operation automatically in the event of any failure of the battery system. Faster travel Floating jetties will be set up at the 38 ferry terminals, making the ferries disabled- and elderly-friendly. The energy-efficient hull is designed for 10-knot speed (18 kmph), which is considerably faster than conventional ferries in operation in Kerala. The ferries have wide windows to provide an exotic view of the backwaters and the banks. The interiors are designed in the same colour scheme of the Kochi metro. The ferries are designed to create very less waves over the narrow channels even at high speed and would be a silent mode of transport. An automatic boat location system will continuously monitor their position from the Operating Control Centre (OCC) at the Vyttila Mobility Hub. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the Water Metro ferries would benefit over one lakh islanders. The project will provide direct waterway connectivity from, among other places, the isles off Kochi and the mainland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-water-metro-ferry-handed-over-to-kochi-metro-rail/article38084495.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Centre submits status report on 68 fishers held in Sri Lanka||The Centre on Friday told the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that Indian consular officials in Jaffna had met the 68 fishermen who were arrested and remanded in Sri Lanka. It was submitted that the officials had provided basic relief items to them, including clothes, toiletries, masks and snacks. The fishermen also made phone calls to their family members in India. In the status report, the Centre said the consular officials and the High Commission in Colombo were providing medical and legal assistance to the fishermen. Among the 68 fishermen, two were juveniles. One of them, as per his request, was remanded alongside the others instead of being sent to a juvenile home. The other was kept separately. Further, it was submitted that one of the fishermen was hospitalised due to high blood pressure. After treatment, he was remanded in a local prison. Assistant Solicitor General L. Victoria Gowri submitted that the High Commission in Colombo had taken up the matter with the Sri Lankan Government. The Indian authorities had conveyed to the Sri Lankan authorities that the matter should be handled in a humanitarian manner as per the existing bilateral understanding, she submitted. The authorities were following the matter regularly to ensure the early release of the fisherman and their boats. The fishermen had tested negative for COVID-19, the ASG said. Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram submitted that the State had already sent a communication to the Centre, which he had submitted to the court during the previous hearing. Taking note of the status report, a Division Bench of Justices C.V. Karthikeyan and S. Srimathy hoped that the fishermen would be brought back to India by Pongal. Further, the court directed the authorities to ensure that the two juveniles were given proper treatment in accordance with their age and principles followed in India and Sri Lanka. The court urged the Centre to continue its efforts through the diplomatic channel and directed the State to provide necessary assistance in this regard. The court appreciated the authorities for facilitating phone calls between the fishermen and their family members. The court was hearing the petition filed by G. Thirumurugan of Ramanathapuram district, coordinator of Tamil Nadu Meenavar Padhugappu Urimai Iyakkam. The case was adjourned till January 7. A total of 43 fishermen were taken into custody by Sri Lankan Navy on December 18. The next day, 12 fishermen were taken into custody and 13 more fishermen were arrested on December 20.  Court appreciated the authorities for facilitating phone calls between the fishermen and their family members||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-submits-report-on-68-fishers-held-in-sl/article38084643.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Effective policing made Madurai peaceful in 2021’||A combination of effective policing, usage of advanced technologies, deployment of adequate precautionary measures, and stringent action against anti-social elements has ensured lesser number of murders, with no revenge murders in the city during 2021, according to Madurai City Police. While 1,550 history-sheeted rowdy elements were kept under a close watch and 1,024 were arrested, 569 of them were bound over under Section 110 of Code of Criminal Procedure. The sustained action against the anti-social elements resulted in only 35 murders, two lesser than previous year. “None of them was revenge murder or murder among rowdy elements,” the Commissioner of Police, Prem Anand Sinha, said in a statement. He added that all those murders were due to family disputes, petty quarrels in neighbours. Out of the 37 murders reported in 2020, three were revenge murders and two rowdy murders. Similarly out of 42 murders in 2019, five were revenge murders and four revenge murders. Visible policing also resulted in no case of murder for gain in 2021. The city police were able to detect 481 out of 733 robbery and theft cases and properties worth Rs. 2 crore were recovered. Effective policing has made the city peaceful in 2021, he said. A total of 179 two-wheelers and 500 mobile phones, which were reported stolen and missed during the year, were detected and handed over to the owners. Around 1,000 kg of ganja was seized and 587 drug pedlars were arrested. A total of 81 rowdy elements were detained under the Goondas Act, the statement said. Increased patrolling and sustained vigil on city roads with 11,500 CCTV cameras at 2,500 important junctions and public places have ensured effective surveillance round the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/effective-policing-made-madurai-peaceful-in-2021/article38084935.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||College Principal elected as forum chief||M. Davamani Christober, the Principal and secretary of The American College here, has been elected as the president of All India Christian Higher Education Conference (AIACHE). The 19th general council meeting of the AIACHE was held in Kanniyakumari for three days from December 27. More than 200 colleges participated in the meet, which was inaugurated by Justice Narendra Kumar Jain, Chairman of National Commission of Minorities. Information Technology Minister Mano Thangaraj, Tamil Maiyam Founder Jegath Gaspar Raj, Advocate Isaac Mohanlal, and Kottar Diocese Bishop Nazarene Soosai offered felicitations. Former Haryana Governor Devasahayam addressed at the close of the meeting which deliberated on role of Christian organisations in higher education and their working. George Abraham, Principal, YMCA College of Physical Education, Chennai, and Rev. M. Arockiasamy Xavier SJ, Principal, St. Joseph’s College, Tiruchi, were elected as vice-presidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-principal-elected-as-forum-chief/article38084751.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM is aware of issues of tiny and small-scale units: Minister||The four-day fifth edition of Made in Madurai exhibition commenced here at the MADITSSIA auditorium in the city on Friday. Speaking at the inaugural function, Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said that such expo would give a fillip to the tiny, small and medium scale entrepreneurs. By participating in the exhibition, not only the public benefit, but also the entrepreneurs, since they can share the use of technology by the sector among others. Appreciating the MADITSSIA for conducting such an expo, he said that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin is aware of the issues concerning the tiny and small scale units. “The small entrepreneurs need great help...” and gave an assurance that the State government would do its best for the uplift of the sector in phases. In his presidential address, Legislative Assembly Speaker M. Appavoo said that within a few months of assuming office, Mr. Stalin had arranged a mega conference in Coimbatore and signed up MoUs worth Rs. 35,000 crore. The government, he said, is here to encourage the MSME sector and assured that the State would very soon witness a tangible change for better. The Speaker also recalled how the DMK government had in the past helped the MSME sector and pointed out the efforts put in by late Speaker P.T.R. Palanivelrajan, with whose efforts, the MADITSSIA had constructed its building on the Corporation of Madurai’s land on a private-public partnership programme. Offering felicitation, Collector S. Aneesh Shekhar said that the Master Plan for Madurai was on the cards. The district administration would give all possible assistance in providing infrastructure to the industry. Under the New Entrepreneur cum Enterprise Development Scheme (NEEDS), the district had made inroads as many young and neo-entrepreneurs had benefited. “I was happy to see a few of them participating in the expo here,” he added. MADITSSIA president M.S. Sampath in his welcome address said that 130 stalls — all from Madurai — have put up their stalls which include from the auto sector, engineering, food processing, textile and garments among others. The MADITSSIA procured three acres of land near Kappalur and proposed to build a convention centre soon, he said. Former president KR Gnanasambandan said that the Union and State governments should give more sops to the MSME units as entrepreneurs in Tier-2 cities. The expo chairman R.S. Gunamalai gave an outline of the features of the expo and seminars to be conducted in the next three days. MADITSSIA secretary RM. Lakshminarayanan proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-is-aware-of-issues-of-tiny-and-small-scale-units-minister/article38084937.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Number of murders down in Madurai||Madurai rural district police had registered 63 murder cases, four less than the figure reported in 2020, said Madurai Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran. In a statement issued here on Friday, Mr. Baskaran said that 162 accused were arrested in the 63 murder cases registered in 2021. Last year, the district police had arrested 232 accused in 67 murder cases. Out of the 709 crime cases, including robbery and theft, the police were able to crack 444 cases and 938 accused were arrested and properties worth Rs. 2.10 crore recovered. While 63% of the crime cases were solved in 2021, the police managed to crack only 43% of the crime cases in 2020. The district police registered 113 cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and arrested 148 accused. The police registered 240 cases of smuggling of narcotic substances and 1,098 kg of ganja worth Rs. 1.0 9 crore was seized from 344 persons. The police detained 34 persons under the Goondas Act as against 32 detentions in the previous year. In 419 cases with regard to crime against women, 585 persons were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-murders-down-in-madurai/article38084757.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Parents held for female infanticide||Madurai district police have arrested O. Muthupandi and his wife Kausalya, who were absconding after the death of their third baby girl, on Friday on a charge of female infanticide. Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said the couple had admitted to the crime after the post-mortem conducted on the baby’s exhumed body revealed that it died due to an injury on its head. Kausalya had delivered the baby on December 21 at Sedapatti primary health centre. After the baby ‘went missing’ from the house within six days after the delivery, the police were alerted. The couple, who claimed that they had buried the infant after it died, fled the village. The police filed a case under Section 318 of the IPC for secretly burying the body of the baby. Later, the body was exhumed and the post-mortem conducted. In her confession, Kausalya had reportedly told the police that the couple killed the baby as they were not in a position to raise the third female child. They were remanded in judicial custody. In a statement, the SP said that those who could not raise children could hand them over to the government homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parents-held-for-female-infanticide/article38084726.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Control room set up to check irregularities at DPCs: Collector||Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar has set up a control room to check irregularities at direct purchase centres (DPCs). Farmers can lodge their complaints through the WhatsApp number 99949-09000 and also can call 0452-252 -6888. They can alert the district officials if any person other than farmers attempting to directly or indirectly sell paddy at the DPCs. At the monthly farmers’ grievances redressal meeting held here on Friday, M. Tirupati, a farmer from Kulamangalam, raised the issue of farmers being forced to pay Rs. 50 to Rs. 60 per bag of paddy being sold at the DPCs. The money was demanded for loading and weighing of each bag, containing 40 kg of paddy. Many other farmers also made similar complaints. They claimed that they could not refuse to pay the money as otherwise their paddy would not be procured at the DPCs. The Collector said that the farmers need not pay any money for selling their produce at the DPCs. “Even on Thursday, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced increasing the paddy handling charges from Rs. 3.50 a bag to Rs. 10,” he said. When the farmers claimed that repeated complaints on this issue had not been addressed to, the Collector said that they could call the control room instead of paying bribes at the DPCs. The district administration that had planned to open around 80 DPCs has so far opened 30 centres to buy paddy from the farmers. Both Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation and Department of Cooperation will procure paddy. To a request from farmers, the Collector said that Farmers Producers Organisations would be allowed to buy the paddy with a tie-up with TNCSC. When a farmer complained that payment for the paddy sold at the DPCs was being delayed for as long as 15 days, the officials assured that steps would be taken to make the payment within one or two days. Farmers also raised the issue of wild boars damaging agricultural crops and demanded that the forest department would issue an order permitting the farmers to shoot down wild animals as done in other parts of the State. A forest official clarified that as of now wild boars that stray into farmlands from reserve forest are only allowed to be shot down. A proposal to permit shooting down wild boars in Madurai district has been sent to the State government for clearance. Farmers also sought solar fencing in vulnerable areas for protecting farms from invasion of wild animals. District Revenue Officer G. Senthilkumari, Joint Director (Agriculture) T. Vivekanandan, Joint Registrar of Cooperatives Gurumoorthi and Regional Manage of TNCSC Sugumaran were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/control-room-set-up-to-check-irregularities-at-direct-purchase-centres/article38084756.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Mullaperiyar dam stood at 141.15 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 244 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 68.83 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 518 cusecs and a discharge of 869 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,521 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday was (in mm): Pulipatti 14.6, Mettupatti 10.2, Melur 10, Andipatti 9.6, Peranai 9, Veerapandi 8, Maruthanadhi dam and Sathiyar dam 5 each, Kallandiri 4.6, Chittampatti and Shanmuganadhi dam 4.2 each, Gudalur 3.8, Uthamapalayam 3.6, Kodaikanal 3, Vaigai dam 2.8, Madurai 2.4, Thekkadi 1.2 and Thaniyamangalam 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38084754.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry govt. extends COVID-19 curbs till January 31||The Puducherry government has decided to extend COVID-19 night-time restrictions till January 31 following the detection of two cases of the Omicron variant of the virus in the Union Territory. The restrictions will be in place from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. In an order issued on December 30, Revenue Secretary Ashok Kumar said that earlier, the plan was to keep the curfew in place till January 2. “Though the number of fresh cases has come down, Omicron, a variant of concern, has been detected in the samples from Puducherry. Accordingly, measures have been put in place till midnight of January 31,” he said. Social and cultural gatherings are permitted, subject to COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. Action would be initiated if markets, malls, restaurants and theatres violate the restrictions, the release said. The order issued by the Health Department on December 4, making vaccination mandatory, should be complied with by all. Those violating the order will be liable for penal action, the release said. “The Health Department should step up efforts to enforce compulsory vaccination besides carrying out door-to-door vaccination in the Union Territory. The region is lagging in vaccination when compared to many other States and Union Territories,” the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-govt-extends-covid-19-curbs-till-january-31/article38085029.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||17 new COVID-19 cases in U.T.||The Union Territory has recorded 17 new cases of COVID 19 from 2,021 tests. Of the fresh cases, 11 are from Puducherry and 6 from Karaikal. No COVID-19-associated death was reported in the 24 hours ending at 10 a.m on Friday. As per data released by the Health Department, there are 127 active cases, including 94 under home isolation. The overall tallies are 1,881 deaths, 1,29,478 cases and 1,27,470 recoveries. According to a Health Department official, two persons who earlier tested positive for the Omicron variant have since tested negative. The patients, a 20-year-old woman who was in home isolation, and an 80-year-old man who was admitted to the Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases Hospital, had tested negative and recovered, the official said. The samples collected from 70 contacts of the two patients had also tested negative. Meanwhile, the Health Department is geared up for the vaccination of teenagers. Vaccination of children aged 15 to 18 will start on January 3. Around 80,000 doses of Covaxin reached Puducherry on December 30, the official said. “This will be the first time that Covaxin is used in the Union Territory. We are coordinating with the Education Department to work out the modalities. Chief Minister N. Rangasamy will inaugurate the vaccination programme at a school in Kadirgamam on Monday,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-covid-19-cases-in-puducherry/article38084725.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two deaths, 25 new cases in Salem||Salem district on Friday reported two deaths and 25 new cases of COVID-19. According to the Health Department officials, 25 cases were indigenous and 10 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Erode district reported 22 new cases. According to the bulletin, there were 426 active cases in the district. Namakkal reported 18 fresh cases. Eight cases were reported in Dharmapuri, and three in Krishnagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-deaths-25-new-cases-in-salem/article38084765.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Palm jaggery marketers’ plea to District Collector||Palm jaggery marketers have demanded the district administration to take measures to prevent police intervention while collecting palm sap for manufacturing palm jaggery. In a petition submitted by the members of the Salem District Palymrah Jaggery Co-Op Marketing Federation, they alleged that the police were stopping them from collecting sap. The tree climbers were tapping sap after due permission from the authorities. Their livelihood would be affected for two years if sap was not tapped between December and June, they said. Sap has to be collected during the said months for manufacture of jaggery during the rest of the year. The petitioners demanded the district administration to take necessary measures to help them collect palm sap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palm-jaggery-marketers-plea-to-district-collector/article38084768.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Procure sugarcane directly from farmers for Pongal gift kits’||Farmers on Friday requested the State government to procure sugarcane directly from them for Pongal gift kits. At the monthly agriculture grievances redress meeting held in Salem, the farmers urged the State government to procure sugarcane directly from them or through Uzhavar mandrams and farmer producer companies. The government marketing agencies could be engaged for the purpose. Based on the orders this year, farmers would be able cultivate sugarcane in the coming years, they said. The farmers also demanded that vegetables for government-run hostels should be procured directly from them. They also requested the district administration to take necessary measures to remove encroachments in water bodies in the district. Shoumita Biswas, Joint Secretary, Union Ministry of Agriculture, attended the meeting. In Krishnagiri, District Collector V.Jayachandra Banu Reddy heard the grievances of farmers and received 180 petitions. Dr. Reddy said measures were being taken to remove encroachments in water bodies in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/procure-sugarcane-directly-from-farmers-for-pongal-gift-kits/article38084771.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level at Mettur dam||The water level at Mettur dam was 115.95ft against a total scale of 120ft on Friday. According to officials from the Public Works Department, at 8 a.m on Friday, the water level at the dam was 115.95ft and the dam had stored capacity of 87,156 mcft. The inflow was reduced from 4,098 cusecs on Thursday to 3,843 cusecs on Friday. The outflow was increased to 10,000 cusecs on Thursday evening. About 600 cusecs was released through East-West canal. However, owing to reduction in demand from delta region, the outflow was reduced to 1,000 cusecs by 5 p.m. At Bhavani Sagar dam, the water level was 102.93ft against a total scale of 105ft. The dam received an inflow of 667 cusecs. The discharge was 2,300 cusecs through Lower Bhavani canal, 500 cusecs through Arakkankottai and Thadapalli canals and 100 cusecs was released into River Bhavani for drinking water purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-at-mettur-dam/article38084772.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police seize emerald lingam||The Idol Wing police have confiscated an emerald lingam from a family residing at Arulananda Nagar in Thanjavur on Thursday.  According to an official release, the Idol Wing recently received information that temple idols were hoarded at a house in Arulananda Nagar. A team of police personnel landed at the house on December 30 and conducted enquiries with its occupants.  Responding to the query, members of the family told the police that they did possess an emerald lingam and it had been kept in a bank locker.   Low-lying areas like Sampath Nagar and Kansalpet in Vellore were inundated with knee-deep water logging disrupting daily lives of residents in these areasThe family, which could not throw light on the manner it got hold of the idol, made of a precious stone, produced it before the investigating team. As the family was not able to substantiate its claim over the property with documentary evidence, the team confiscated the lingam , the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/idol-wing-police-seize-emerald-lingam/article38084638.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Governor’s comment puts govt. in the dock||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan’s contentious “revelation” that he had flagged his concern about an issue related to “national dignity and prestige” in a missive to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan seems to have put the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in a spot. Mr. Khan’s cryptic but politically stormy comment came when he interacted with reporters at Sivagiri on Thursday against the backdrop of his decision not to discharge his duties as Chancellor of universities citing political cronyism in varsity appointments. In Kollam, Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala on Friday sought to know whether the Governor had recommended to confer Kerala University’s honorary DLitt on President Ram Nath Kovind and whether it was rejected by its Vice Chancellor as per the direction of the government. The Governor’s recent revelation about the conflict between himself and the State government has exposed only the tip of the iceberg. “According to the Governor, he has revealed only very few things to the public and there are even disputes over issues affecting the dignity of the nation. Did the Governor, who is also the Chancellor, direct the Vice Chancellor of the university to take steps to award the honorary DLitt to the President of India? Did the Vice Chancellor reject the proposal following government intervention,” Mr. Chennithala asked, demanding clarity in the matter. Sanskrit varsity list He asked if the Vice Chancellor had sought the opinion of the government instead of presenting it before the Syndicate. Mr. Chennithala wanted to know whether the Vice Chancellor of the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady, who resigned last month, had submitted for the Governor’s approval a decision to award honorary DLitt to three persons. “If so, when was the list submitted and who are the three persons on the list? This list has not yet been approved by the Governor,” he said. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said Mr. Khan’s averments against the government were severe. Minister denies it Rubbishing the allegations of Mr. Chennithala, Higher Education Minister R. Bindu maintained that the government had no role in deciding the recipients of honorary doctorates awarded by universities. Speaking to mediapersons on the sidelines of a function at Calicut University in Tenhipalam, Dr. Bindu denied having thwarted any attempt by Kerala University to award Mr. Kovind with DLitt. “Universities hold autonomous powers to decide on awarding honorary degrees. Such decisions are taken by Syndicates and senates. The government neither has any role in the process nor would intervene in such decisions,” she said, adding no university has sought her opinion regarding any such proposal. The government too has not offered any suggestion in the matter.  ( With input from Kollam bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governors-comment-puts-govt-in-the-dock/article38084499.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||With major civic projects set to roll, there is much to cheer||The year that has ended has not brought in major development in terms of civic infrastructure in Tiruchi, but the year ahead holds much promise as a slew of projects are in the pipeline. Barring a few projects such as the renovation of the Chathiram Bus Stand, the Uyyakondan river front development and the illumination of the Rockfort under the Smart Cities Mission, important ongoing infrastructure projects such as the construction of the Junction Road Over Bridge, extension of the underground sewer system, the new drinking water projects for the five wards off the Thanjavur Road and development of roads have dragged on. Major pending proposals such as the building of the service lanes along the Tiruchi-Thanjavur Highway, renovation/redevelopment of the Gandhi Market, reconstruction of the Salai Road overbridge and construction of a new bridge across the Cauvery river continue to remain on paper. The State government seems to have had a rethink on the vexed issue of building service lanes along Thanjavur Road and the State Highways Minister had requested the Centre to sanction an elevated corridor on the stretch instead. With the land acquisition for the service lanes yet to be completed, the matter continues to drag on. However, the new government has come up with a series of announcements and follow up measures. The government has already sanctioned the preparation of Detailed Project Reports (DPRs) for building elevated corridors between the Anna Statue in Chinthamani to the Railway Junction and between Odathurai and Mallatchipuram in an attempt to reduce congestion within the city. New bridges are also proposed across the Cauvery in the city and the railway line near the Fort Railway Station on Salai Road. City residents hope the projects gain shape during the year. Much hope stems from Municipal Administration Minister K. N. Nehru’s repeat assurances on various aspects of development for the city. Speaking at the government function to lay the foundation stone for the integrated bus stand attended by Chief Minister M. K. Stalin on Thursday, Mr. Nehru reaffirmed the government’s commitment to strengthen the city’s civic infrastructure. “The work has already begun,” he said responding to Tiruchi MP Su.Thirunavukkarasar’s plea to scale up the infrastructure of Tiruchi. Some of the city’s civic activists are optimistic over the city’s prospects in the coming. “The move to establish the IBT after all these years has made people happy. The area around Panchapur is all set for much development. It augurs well for the city,” said C. Balasubramanian, a senior activist of the District Exnora. Echoing similar views, K. Sakthivel, organiser, Federation of Tiruchi City Residents Welfare Associations, which has been seeking to highlight some of the long pending projects in the city, observed that though the IBT proposal has taken shape after long years, it has brought much cheer. Citing the incomplete Junction road overbridge as one such prominent pending projects, Mr.Sakthivel hoped that the bridge will completed in the coming year as some vital stages have been crossed towards getting the Defence land for the project in recent months. He also hoped that the government would execute a project to clean up the Uyyakondan river in the city by preventing sewage flow into it. “Mr. Nehru has already promised that steps would be taken towards this end; we hope the pollution of the canal will be stopped soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-major-civic-projects-set-to-roll-there-is-much-to-cheer/article38084731.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Garbage dumped near Gandhi Market causes traffic snarl||Garbage strewn along the back entrance of the Gandhi Market caused a traffic snarl on Friday morning. Vendors had dumped fruit and vegetable waste onto the road leaving it to the sanitary workers of the civic body to clean up. Rotten vegetables, fruit and other waste were piled up at the crossroad between East Boulevard Road and Thanjavur Road where trucks, buses and two-wheelers ply throughout the day. “The road is already small and the garbage dump has taken up more than half the space, forcing vehicles to manoeuvre through the available space”, a traffic policeman stationed at the spot said. A sanitary worker of the Tiruchi Corporation said that while there existed some space for the vendors to dump waste within the market complex, it often overflows, because of which they dump it here. “At night when the load-carrying trucks bring the fruit and vegetables, the vendors sort them and dump them here on the spot. It is our headache to clean it after that,” she said. Some vendors were seen bringing waste and dumping it even as vehicles criss-crossed behind them. “We have nowhere else to put the waste. The civic body must allot a specific place where we can put the waste, and from where their workers can collect it. We need the workers to collect the waste at least twice in a day,” Murugesan, a vegetable vendor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garbage-dumped-near-gandhi-market-causes-traffic-snarl/article38084742.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||28 COVID-19 cases in central region||The central region reported 28 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday. Meanwhile, two patients succumbed to the illness – both in Tiruchi district. All nine districts in the central region reported less than 10 COVID-19 cases. A total of eight patients each were reported positive for the viral infection in both Thanjavur and Tiruchi. Four patients were reported COVID-19 positive in Karur while three each were registered in Tiruvarur and Perambalur. In Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts, one patient each tested positive for the virus. No fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in two districts- Ariyalur and Mayiladuthurai. Three patients- one each from Thanjavur, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur – were undergoing treatment for Omicron variant of the viral infection, according to the bulletin issued by the State Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/28-covid-19-cases-in-central-region/article38084727.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Trichy Rifle Club aims to promote shooting as sport||A sophisticated premises to promote air rifle and pistol shooting as a sport was inaugurated during Chief Minister M. K. Stalin’s recent visit to the city. The Trichy Rifle Club (TRC) facility, built at a cost of about Rs. 10 crore at the City Police Armed Reserve Ground in K.K. Nagar, was declared open by Mr. Stalin on Thursday. The building has shooting ranges that allows members to practice at distances of 10, 25 and 50 metres set up in a campus of approximately 27,000 sq ft. While the 10m range is an indoor facility, the 25m and 50m ranges are open-air with protective structures to minimise damage caused by misfiring. Around 205 people (two of them women) have enrolled as lifetime members from all over the State at TRC so far. A dedicated subscription drive for students and annual users would be held after the upcoming Pongal festival, said club authorities. The club is expected to help aspirants to train for district, regional, national and international shooting competitions. Fees for lifetime membership have been pegged at Rs. 2.5 lakh. Senior range officers and shooters will be available for coaching. The club would function under the guidance of an executive committee, led by the City Commissioner of Police as president. Collector and Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, Tiruchi, would be TRC’s patrons. Members of the public who are 18 years and above, and students who have completed 12 years, are eligible to apply for the lifetime and student subscriptions respectively. For more details, call (Mob) 9942988642.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trichy-rifle-club-aims-to-promote-shooting-as-sport/article38084740.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi GH sets up new facilities amid pandemic||Although a large part of the year and available manpower was taken over by the treatment of COVID-19 patients, the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital introduced Emergency Care and Rescue Centre (ECRC) and a post-natal depression counselling centre. C-sections were successfully performed on 466 COVID-19-positive pregnant women, while the newborns remained unaffected. While all services at the GH had been suspended during the first wave of COVID-19, departments continued to treat patients during the second wave in May 2021. Apart from providing emergency care, doctors also performed the first live kidney transplant, implanted a dual-chambered pacemaker and got various high-end equipment to treat patients for free.  Speaking to The Hindu , Dean K. Vanitha said that the Department of Psychiatry introduced ECRC and post-natal depression counselling recently. “We found that many distressed patients required immediate care, which we will be able to provide through ECRC. Meanwhile, the counselling will help treat women suffering from postnatal depression,” she said. At the counselling centre, new mothers will be screened, provided therapy including yoga, and other relaxation techniques.  The Directorate of Medical Education is looking to increase the student intake for M.B.B.S. from 150 to 250 at the K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College this upcoming academic year, Dr. Vanitha said. A new mucormycosis treating facility was set up in June. A total of 130 patients were treated, with all of them recovering well. The Special Newborn Care Unit treated 11,000 infants, of which 450 required Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP), and 550 were underweight, below 1.5 kgs. The 24-hour vaccination clinic set up at the GH has inoculated a total of 61,085 people. “We are prepared to inoculate the booster dose and vaccination for children as soon as the instructions are given,” the Dean said. While around 5,000 nasal swabs were being tested during the peak of the second wave, around 2,500 to 3,000 swabs are being processed over the last month. “We have also been processing 200 samples from the Tiruchi International Airport. These have to be given within four hours,” Gnanaguru Pichaimani, Head, Department of Microbiology said. While three oxygen-producing plants and other necessary infrastructure to tackle COVID-19 have been installed at the hospital, there is a need for a new hospital block to accommodate an increasing number of patients. “We have submitted a proposal to demolish the old block and construct a new building,” Dr. Vanitha said. The doctors also intend to create a radiotherapy clinic and also begin conducting liver transplants in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-gh-sets-up-new-facilities-amid-pandemic/article38084737.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Trade Centre project gathers momentum||The long-felt dream of the industry in Tiruchi region to have a trade centre to invigorate the culture of entrepreneurship has gathered momentum with the laying of foundation stone for the project by Chief Minister M. K. Stalin. The project gained traction last year after the land transfer was effected by Small Industries Development Corporation to the consortium of MSME entrepreneurs. The Rs. 11 crore project is to come up on a 9.42-acre expanse close to Tiruchi- Madurai National Highway under the purview of Tiruchi Trade Centre Private Limited, a private limited company, formed by the Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Limited to mobilise the share of the industrialists. The company was registered on February 21, 2020, with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. It has been classified as Non-Government Company, and duly registered under Registrar of Companies, Tamil Nadu. There are about 200 members who have invested Rs. 3 lakh each as their shareholder contribution in the project of the Tiruchi Trade Centre Private Limited, it's Chairman N. Kanagasabapathy said. The TIDITSSIA has, for long, been looking at ways to accord a thrust for food processing and textile sectors in region which already has the distinction of being known as the fabrication hub of Asia. The Government’s grant for the project amounts to Rs. 5 crore. The project, in all likelihood, will take complete shape within two years, Mr. Kanagasabapathy said. The vantage location of the trade centre will be advantageous to involve industrialists in the neighbouring districts of Karur and Dindigul also to promote entrepreneurship and infuse vibrancy into the local economy, according to officials. The trade centre is located at a distance of around 9 km from the Tiruchi Junction and Central Bus Stand, and just 12 km away from the Tiruchi International Airport. A convention centre with a 4,000 seating capacity is one of the main highlights of the project that also features a large parking space and a landscaped court. A provision has also been made for further expansions in phases, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-trade-centre-project-gathers-momentum/article38084729.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||OFT employees hopeful of getting orders to manufacture AK-203 Rifles||Employee unions in Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, are hopeful that the newly-incorporated Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited (AWEIL), of which it is a part, will take it on board execution of orders for AK-203 Rifles to be manufactured with Russian technical know-how. Engaged in manufacture and supply of weapon systems, small arms, tank gun articles and ammunition components, the AWEIL, one of the seven Defence Public Sector Undertakings that were formed after dismantling Ordnance Factory Board with 41 production units across the country, is reportedly poised to execute a major order of the Defence Ministry for manufacture of AK-203 Rifles for use by the Indian Army, under Make in India campaign. A major order to manufacture over six lakh rifles will start off with assembling parts of 70,000 rifles, the Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh has learnt. Earlier this week, General Secretary of BPMS Mukesh Singh called on Officer In-Charge of Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, Rajiv Jain, and sought the unit's pro-active lobbying with the AWEIL for securing a portion of the orders that have been planned to be placed with the two other ordnance units under its purview at Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh. Involved in manufacture of Tiruchi Asasult Rifles that are highly patronised by the Central para-military forces and police forces, OFT has the Research and Development expertise and skilled workforce to manufacture the AK.203 Rifles, Mr. Mukesh Singh emphasised. The OFT has been urging the Defence Ministry to utilise TAR for the Army, which places orders in high quantum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oft-employees-hopeful-of-getting-orders-to-manufacture-ak-203-rifles/article38084739.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plan to promote palm cultivation in a big way||With a view to promoting palm cultivation, the Agriculture Department would distribute two lakh palm seedlings to farmers, said Collector V. Vishnu. Presiding over the monthly farmers’ meeting at the Collectorate, he said that there were tremendous business opportunities in the palm sector. There was a good market for palm products and byproducts in Tamil Nadu and other States. The government would be happy to guide interested farmers in these ventures. Farmers could approach Assistant Directors in their blocks for more details, he said. When farmers raised issues on fertilizer shortage and high prices, officials informed that they had conducted checks on 55 outlets and nine licences were cancelled. P. Perumpadayar, a farmer, said that the price of urea and potash had gone up manifold. In six months, potash price had gone up from Rs. 1,040 to Rs. 1,690. Moreover, many dealers forced the farmers to buy commodities which were never needed. The Collector assured that he would look into the issue and ensure that fertilizers were available at prices fixed by the government. Another farmer said that when the government was keen on increasing the acreage under plough, it must ensure easy availability of fertilizers. The farmers were encouraged to take up alternative crops such as teak and gooseberry to supplement their income. The government had 2.19 lakh saplings for distribution. After testing the soil and other parameters, farmers can opt for the crop which suits their terrain, officials said. Seed quality Responding to a volley of questions over poor quality of seeds, the officials said that there were 268 licensed seed dealers/depots in the district. During this month alone, they took 1,344 seed samples. Out of 1,305 seeds tested, 42 were found to be sub-standard and 78.58 tonnes of such seeds worth Rs. 51,98 lakh were seized. Good rainfall The district benefited much from the rains this year, the Joint Director of Agriculture said at the meeting and gave a detailed account on month-on-month rain details. He said that against the annual average of 814.80 mm, 1471.02 mm rain was received - an excess of 80.5%. The district’s average for January is 50.2 mm, while it was 349.91 mm in 2021 and 22.47 mm in 2020. Similarly, in May, against the average of 38 mm, Tirunelveli received 122.08 mm (2021) and 37.05 mm (2020). For November, the average was 208.20 mm, but the district received 463.04 mm (2021) and 259.47 mm (2020). A majority of the tanks had water to last three more months and more, he said.  Good scope||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-promote-palm-cultivation-in-a-big-way/article38085063.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Friday was 134.55 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 447.69 cusecs and discharge of 1,104.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 116.40 ft (118 ft) with an inflow of 285 cusecs and discharge of 285 cusecs. The rainfall (in mm) recorded during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Friday was: Manimuthar: 18.4, Nambiaru: 7, Kodumudiyar: 2, Cheranmahadevi: 7, Nanguneri: 9, Palayamkottai: 1 and Tirunelveli 0.2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38085061.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Foundation stone laid for new bridge||Decades-long wait for better connectivity of residents, who are mostly farmers, in Avarankuppam village near Vaniyambadi in Tirupattur will soon come to an end as the foundation stone was laid for the construction of a high-level bridge across the Palar river at a cost of Rs. 18.40 crore on Friday connecting several villages to rest of Tirupattur district. Accompanied by Tirupattur Collector Amar Kushwaha, Minister for Public Works, Highways and Minor Ports E.V. Velu laid the foundation stone for the bridge bringing hope to thousands of farmers in over dozen villages along the river. The new bridge will be built by NABARD and Rural Roads (RR) wing of the State Highways Department, Vellore region, in 18 months. “The new bridge will be a lifeline for the residents. Based on availability of funds, long-pending demands for such public facilities will be given priority,” said Mr. Kushwaha. As per estimates, the new two-lane bridge will be 236 metres long and 12 metres with 10 concrete pillars on the river bed to provide stability, especially during floods and release of excess rainwater from reservoirs upstream. The bridge will connect Avarankuppan and Narayanapuram villages on either side of the facility. Approach roads, tiled footpath on the bridge, LED street lights, drains to discharge rainwater on the bridge to the river, crash barriers and hand railings would be in place. Villages including Avarankuppam, Thumberi, Narayanapuram, Thimmampet, Pullur, Kanaganachiammankoil, Gollapalli in Natrampalli panchayat union of Tirupattur district will be connected with rest of the district and neighbouring Andhra Pradesh (A.P.). The villagers would now be able to transport agro products like paddy, vegetables, and handmade household items to the weekly markets in big towns using the new bridge. More importantly, the bridge will end the de-tour of 15 km they take to get their essential commodities and transport the sick during emergencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foundation-stone-laid-for-new-bridge/article38085068.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Weighing scales seized in Tiruppur||Officials from the Labour Department seized 19 unapproved weighing scales that were found to be used at shops selling vegetables, fruits and meat during a surprise inspection here on December 29. A press release issued here said that 16 electronic weighing scales and three manual scales that were not duly stamped by the department were seized under the Standard of Weights and Measures Act during raids conducted by the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weighing-scales-seized-in-tiruppur/article38084652.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Procure sugarcane at price fixed by govt.’||The Coordination Committee of All Farmers Associations of Tamil Nadu has urged the State government to ensure that the sugarcane for Pongal gift hamper be purchased at the rate of Rs. 33 per cane, fixed by it. Addressing the media at Mannargudi on Thursday, the Coordination Committee president, P. R. Pandian alleged that though the unit rate had been fixed at Rs. 33 per sugarcane, the Cooperative Department officials force the cultivators to sell their produce at a rate of Rs. 15 per cane. Farmers, particularly in the Mayiladuthurai district in Delta region, were being coerced to dispose of their produce at a low price, he charged and urged the State government to intervene in the issue and save the farmers. Regretting the manner in which the jewellery loan waiver assurance was being implemented by the DMK government, Mr. Pandian said had the party made it clear during the election itself that only one jewellery loan availed by a family, which was not able to source funds at that time, would be waived if the party comes to power, then the 3.50 lakh farmers would not have found themselves in this piquant situation. Instead of pledging all their jewellery at the Cooperative institutions, they could have availed the 4 per cent interest jewellery loan from nationalised banks. Now, they have to face the heat as the Cooperative institutions would be charging 13 per cent interest for their loans. Hence, the State government should at least waive the interest portion of the loans to help the farmers reclaim their pledged jewellery by remitting the loan amount only, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-procurement-of-sugarcane-at-price-fixed-by-government/article38084738.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two months on, tiger MDT23 recuperating well in Mysuru||More than two months after he was captured by the Forest Department from the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), tiger MDT23 is recuperating well at the rescue and rehabilitation centre for wildlife, in Mysuru. Shekar Kumar Niraj, Chief Wildlife Warden of Tamil Nadu, said the condition of the tiger, which had killed two people in Gudalur and the MTR, had “improved a lot and [it had] gained weight to touch approximately 200 kg.” The tiger was very frail when he was captured, after being darted by the Forest Department. His chances of survival at the time of his capture were put at 50/50. However, from the time he was taken to Mysuru, his condition has gradually improved, with his abscesses and around 7-8 injuries which he sustained, having fully healed, said Mr. Niraj. MDT23 is consuming around 10 kg of beef a week and his tested stool samples are devoid of pathogenic infections. “The injury near the eye has been a long-time problem with the tissue being absent. The tiger’s sleep cycle has become normal and the posture more firm. It seems MDT23 will require daily care for five to six months more,” he said. “The tiger is eating well but still has a lot of wild behaviour left in him. He is being kept in the smaller day enclosure, while the bigger enclosure measuring 2,200 to 2,400 square feet with trees, sunlight, open sky and natural conditions, is still not open to him as he might not return to his cell due to his wild instincts,” said Mr. Niraj.  The tiger is eating well but still has a lot of wild behaviour left in him. He is being kept in the smaller day enclosure||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-months-on-tiger-mdt23-recuperating-well-in-mysuru/article38084634.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Public gatherings on New Year banned||All gatherings in public places in the Nilgiris from Friday to Sunday for New Year celebrations are being banned, said District Collector S.P. Amrith on Friday. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Amrith said that the number of visitors to the district had increased in view of the New Year and also for the weekend. He said that the government had issued instructions prohibiting gatherings in hotels, resorts, clubs, recreational spaces, tourist spots and public places due to the spread of the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. He said that the steps were being taken to discourage large gatherings to minimise the chance of risk of spread of COVID-19. Teams from the Health Department have also been deputed at all the border check-posts and random samples are being collected and people are being tested. Officials were also checking whether visitors have COVID-19 vaccination certificates, failing which, they are being turned back at the check-posts. Resorts, hotels and guest houses have been issued with standard operating procedures, to ensure that guests and staff wear masks, use hand sanitisers and maintain personal distancing, while these spaces will also be closed after 11 p.m., he said. Teams of Revenue Department staff have been formed to ensure compliance among the public, with strict vigil being kept to ensure COVID appropriate behaviour and to also prevent littering. District superintendent of police Ashish Rawat will be in-charge of police personnel, who will keep tab on movement of vehicles and prevent drunk and reckless driving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-gatherings-on-new-year-banned/article38084668.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rain disrupts normal life in Vellore||Rain lashed many parts of Vellore and neighbouring towns of Ambur, Arani, Arcot, Wallajah, Arakkonam, Cheyyar and Gudiyatham on Friday. Low-lying areas like Sampath Nagar and Kansalpet in Vellore were inundated with knee-deep water disrupting daily lives of residents in these areas. Power was shut down to prune overgrown trees and fallen branches on key stretches in the district. Clogged stormwater drains were cleaned to ensure free flow of rainwater from the streets. “Drains are being desilted to prevent waterlogging. On the other hand, adequate police personnel have been deployed at key spots to prevent crowd for New Year celebrations as part of COVID-19 restrictions,” said Collector P. Kumaraval Pandian. The downpour that began on Thursday night continued on Friday with several areas, especially those along the Bengaluru Highway (NH 48), like Sathuvachari, Rangapuram, Kagithapattarai, CMC, facing severe waterlogging. Areas like Gudiyatham (12mm), Katpadi (14 mm) and Vellore's Old Town (22 mm) received heavy rain with the district recording an average rainfall of 14 mm. Ranipet received the highest rainfall of 28.57 mm since Thursday night, followed by Tiruvannamalai district with 15.13 mm. Among major towns, Arakkonam in Ranipet district got the highest rainfall of 47.80 mm, followed by Cheyyar (Tiruvannamalai) with 43 mm rainfall as of 8.30 a.m. on Friday. Wallajah, Arcot, Kaveripakkam in Ranipet, Arani and Chetpet in Tiruvannamalai, Gudiyatham and Katpadi in Vellore and Ambur in Tirupattur received good rainfall since Thursday night. Meanwhile, the police in these districts made elaborate arrangements to handle traffic and prevent crowd during New Year celebrations, as places of worship are expected to attract thousands of people. Around 3,000 police personnel were deployed in these districts to prevent crowding in public places for new year celebrations. In order to ensure smooth flow of vehicles, the police have made several traffic arrangements. Additional check-posts have been erected to check drunken driving, over-speeding vehicles and more than two people travelling in two-wheelers. Superintendent of Police S. Rajesh Kannan, reviewed the security arrangements at key spots like Green Circle, Fort complex and Bengaluru Highway (NH 48) in the district as part of COVID-19 protocol On Friday, Deepa Satyan, SP (Ranipet) inspected additional check-posts on arterial roads such as the Chennai-Bengaluru National Highway, Kaveripakkam-Arakkonam Road, Ocheri-Arakkonam Road, Walajapet-Chittoor Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-disrupts-normal-life-in-vellore/article38085066.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 14 fresh cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,514 with 14 new cases reported on Friday. While 49,240 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 133. The district's death toll is 1,141. In Ranipet district, 14 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,709. In Tirupattur district, two cases were reported on Friday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,476. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases stood at 2, taking the overall tally to 55,359. Out of these, 54,645 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 41.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-14-fresh-cases/article38085069.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram sees dip in heinous crimes||Strict surveillance and shadowing of rowdies and history-sheeters by the Villupuram district police has brought down the number of heinous crimes, especially murders in the district this year. According to Superintendent of Police N. Shreenatha, as many as 23 murder cases were reported till December 28 this year as against 43 in the previous year. “This was possible thanks to the strict surveillance by the police against the anti-social gangs and history-sheeters. Special teams were deployed to keep close surveillance on the activities of rowdies and to curtail them. The teams had been maintaining a tab on the movement of gangsters and this was directly monitored by senior police officers in the district,” he said. The number of heinous crimes, including murder, attempted murder, robbery, rape and molestation of women in 2021 was 201 as against 225 in 2020. Sixty-five habitual offenders and history-sheeters have been detained under the Goondas Act this year as against 53 the previous year. 53% recovery The district police recovered property worth Rs. 1.82 crore of the Rs. 3.45 crore worth stolen property in 2021 and closed the year with figures of 55% detection and 53% recovery. However, the number of fatal accidents increased for the first time in four years. In 2021, the number of fatal accidents increased to 430 as against 420 the previous year, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villupuram-sees-dip-in-heinous-crimes/article38085027.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Register your names to sell paddy at DPC’||Farmers have been asked to register themselves on the websites of Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) for selling their paddy at direct purchase centres (DPCs). In a statement, Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that permission had been given to open 22 DPCs in the district. Farmers could register their names on www.tncsc.tn.gov.in and www.tn csc-edpc.in After logging into the websites using their mobile phone number, farmers should enter the one-time password and register themselves with their name, Aadhaar number, survey number, land details, variety of paddy, expected yield of the crop, date of selling paddy at the DPC, and the details of farmer’s bank account. Upon verification of these details, the village administrative officer concerned would give his online consent for the same and SMS with time and date for the farmer to bring the paddy to the DPC will be sent to the farmer’s mobile number. Further details can be obtained from Regional Manager, TNCSC, Virudhunagar over 94421 32016, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/register-your-names-to-sell-paddy-at-dpc/article38084755.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Prices of flowers high on New Year’s eve||Ahead of New Year celebrations, prices of flowers have increased manifold in Thoothukudi. Jasmine was sold at Rs. 4,000 a kg. With many people buying flowers for New Year, there was a good crowd of buyers at the flower market here on Saturday. Flowers come from Ottapidaram, Deivaseyalpuram, Chekkarakudi in Thoothukudi district, and Sankarankoil and Aruppukottai in neighbouring Tenkasi and Virudhunagar districts, respectively. While prices of jasmine ruled high, peaking at Rs. 4,000 a kg, ‘pichi’ was sold for Rs. 2,000. The flower market receives roses come Ooty, Kodaikanal, Bengalurur and Hosur. There was a good arrival of red and yellow roses on Saturday. The roses were sold for Rs. 25 to Rs. 30 a piece and Rs. 400 for a bouquet. Traders at the market said that since the supply outstripped demand and because of frost in the flower-growing regions, the prices were high. Still, there were many buyers, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prices-of-flowers-high-on-new-years-eve/article38084747.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||New Year begins with fresh curbs||Only 50% of customers will be allowed to dine in at a given point of time at restaurants, hotels and bakeries. Only 50% of patrons will be allowed at entertainment and amusement parks. The number of guests at wedding and related events has been capped at 100. Only 50 persons will be allowed at funerals. At jewellery and textile shops and at gyms, yoga centres and clubs, only 50% customers and patrons are to be allowed at any given time. ‘No standees’ No standees will be allowed in public transport buses, while only 50% passengers are to be allowed in Chennai Metro Rail. Likewise, mutiplex/cinemas/theatres can fill only 50% of their seats. At beauty parlours, salons and spas, only 50% customers will be allowed. Sports events will be allowed on open grounds in compliance with the norms, while only 50% of the seats could be filled at indoor stadia. The current restriction on social, cultural and political events will continue. Since there are “higher chances” of the unvaccinated population aged above 60 getting infected by the Omicron variant, the Chief Minister requested them to take the vaccine. Those who had taken only the first dose should take the second, he insisted. “The proprietors and employees of commercial establishments must have been vaccinated,” Mr. Stalin said, urging all establishments to avoid air-conditioning and ensure physical distancing among the customers. Only essential activities would be allowed in the containment zones, he said. House-to-house surveys would be undertaken in areas having a high rate of infection. Earlier, Mr. Stalin chaired a meeting at the Secretariat to review the COVID-19 situation and the spread of the Omicron variant. Ministers and senior officials took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-year-begins-with-fresh-curbs/article38084640.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||For the harvest festival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-the-harvest-festival/article38084774.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Strict vigil||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strict-vigil/article38084507.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 70 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 70 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Friday. The Health Department reported four new deaths. The toll increased to 2,515. As many as 93 persons recovered on Friday and the district had 904 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 43 new cases. The district had 424 active cases and 35 persons recovered. The Health Department reported one new death as the toll increased to 1,026. In the Nilgiris, two persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 54,559. The number of deaths from COVID-19 in the district stood at 219 on Friday while 70 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-70-new-covid-19-cases/article38084666.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||CORRECTION||In the report “On a mission to encourage women pursue their dreams in STEM” that appeared on Page 5 of The Hindu Coimbatore edition dated December 31, 2021, the last line should read as “Ms. Rutherford will fly to Mumbai on Friday” and not as published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article38084653.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal Temple: Thirukarthigai and Markazhi mahotsavam, chanting of Thiruppavai, Kovaipudur temple, 5.20 a.m. onwards.    New Century Book House: Book Exhibition cum sale, 3 & 4, Nehru Staidum, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article38084667.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||01-01-2022-city cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA ABBAS CULTURAL HAPPY NEW YEAR!! 30th Year Annual Art Festival SHRIRAM PROPERTIES presents KALAI VIZHA 2022 powered by APOLLO HOSPITALS. Venue Partner BHARAT KALACHAR. From TODAY till 16th January 2022, continuously for 16 days - 30 performances @ YGP Auditorium, PSBB School, Thirumalai Road, T.Nagar. Daily two performances@ 4.30pm & 7.00pm.Today 6.30pm - Grand Inauguration by Padmabushan Sangeetha Kalanidhi SUDHA RAGUNATHAN & Kalaimamani Y.Gee MAHENDRA Followed by Y Gee M in UAA'S CHARUKESI - A Singers Lifes S(R)aga. Partly in aid of LAKSHMI PAIN & PALLIATIVE CARE TRUST, Print Partner-DINAMALAR, Magazine Partner-ANANDA VIKATAN, Co-Sponsors-INDIAN BANK, KOTAK LIFE, LIC HFL, LIC, SBI, IOC, T.NAGAR LKS, ADITYA BIRLA, GIRI TRADING, GOPURAM, METAL PRODUCTS,TVS JUPITER. Detailed Schedule & Tickets @ bookmyshow.com. Season/Daily Tickets@ Hall : 9710 633633. NEW MEMBERSHIP ENROLLED. COVID SOP Followed.  CROTCHETS BAND EVENT. 9444110717  In the mood for a 07.01.2022 Musical Friday at 6.30 p.m. Head to Raja Annamalai Mandram A/c Chennai. for an Evening of Music and Fun Vijay TV Super Singer Priyanka NK's Crotchet's Band Tickets @ bookmyshow.com Kartik Fine Arts 24997788 / 9840928049 WISHES ITS MEMBERS AND PATRONS A VERY HAPPY NEW YEAR 2022 Programmes for January - LIVE PROGRAMMES 2nd 6pm at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Mini Hall (2nd Floor) 47th Year Art Festival 2021 - Endowment Awards presentation & CD release 5th 6.45pm Narada Gana Sabha Main Hall in association with Narada Gana Sabha and Sri Parthasarathy Swami Sabha 'Kalai Ilamani' S Sruuthi's Naatya Naadha Nataka Sangamam inaugurates 'MEENAKSHI SUNDARESWARAR THIRUKKALYANAM' (by K.P.Arivanandham), Produced & Directed by S. Sruuthi 23rd 7pm in association with Narada Gana Sabha and Brahma Gana Sabha Stage Creations presents ATM (A Fantasy Comedy by S.L. Naanu) 21st to 26th 6pm Narada Gana Sabha Mini Hall in association with Saba Foundation (in memory of Shri L. Sabaretnam, Former Chairman, KFA) Natya Darshan Mini Dance Festival. Namasankerrthana Vizha - 2021 - 22 Integrated Academy for Performing Arts, Sri Krishna Gana Sabha & Bhagavatha Seva Trust presents Namasankeerthana Vizha 2021 - 22 from 31st December 2021 to 09th January 2022.Today 10.30 AM Namasankeerthanam by Sri Bhaktha Smarana Bhajana Mandali, Chennai. 12.00 Noon - Namasankeerthanam by Sri Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan School Students, KK Nagar, Chennai. 02.30 PM - Namasankeerthanam by Sri Vishwa Vidhyalaya Matriculation School Students, Vandalur, Chennai. 04.00 PM - Namasankeerthanam by SASTRA Deemed University. 06.00 PM - Namasankeerthanam by Sengottai Sri. Harihara Subramanian Bhagavathar. Venue: Sri Krishna Gana Sabha, T. Nagar. The programme will be Telecast on the website https://namasan keerthanavizha.com & Facebook Page - "namasankeerthanavizha" - - ALL ARE WELCOME - - ENTRY FREE - - Programs sponsored by Integrated Enterprises (India) Pvt. Limited, Shriram Group of Companies and City Union Bank Limited. Narada Gana Sabha (Regd) Phone: 24993201,24990850 WISH YOU ALL A VERY HAPPY NEW YEAR. Today - 7.30 am-Mini Hall - Thiruppavai - Dr. M.A.Venkatakrishnan. Main Hall - 7 AM - Radha Kalyanam by Bhagavatha Sammelana Samajam led by H.H.Ramananda Saraswathi Swamigal. Programmes for January 2022. 5th-Nataka Kavalar, Chennai R.S.Manohar's NXGS inaugurates 'MEENAKSHI SUNDARESWARAR THIRUKALYANAM". 6th- G.N.B.Day - T V Gopakrishnan, S Varadarajan, Thiruvarur Bakthavathsalam & V Suresh. 18th Lecture -"Thaipoosathil Tamizh Murugan" by Thirupugazh Mathivannan. 23rd - Stage Creations present Kathadi Ramamurthy in " ATM" by S.L.Naanu. The Mylapore Fine Arts Club(Regd.) Phone 24997755/42607755 Program for January 2022 - 26.01.2022 SRI THIAGARAJA ARADHANA CELEBRATIONS - 9.30 AM Group Singing of Pancharatna Krithis by Vidwans and Vidhushis - 6.00 PM Music Concert by CARNATICA BROTHERS - 29.01.2022 Drama Dharini Komal Presents EN VEEDU EN KANAVAN EN KUZANTHAI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/01-01-2022-city-cinema/article38084618.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Vaccine for 3,01,828 adolescents in Belagavi||Vaccination for teenagers will start in Belagavi district soon. Acting on the advice of National Technical Advisory Group of Immunisation (NTAGI), children in the 15-18 age group will be vaccinated in schools and colleges starting Saturday. Officials have fixed a target covering 3,01,828 adolescents. These include students of nineth, 10th, 11th and 12th standards. Health and Education department officers will coordinate the vaccination drive. The district administration is taking all steps to control the spread of COVID-19 infection and the Omicron variant, the State Government said on Friday. The government is ensuring universal coverage of COVID-19 vaccination and is taking steps such as strict checking on the inter-State border with Maharashtra, Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar said. COVID-19 warriors have received preferential doses. They include personnel of Health, Police, Revenue and other departments and anganwadi and ASHAs. A total of 44,442 personnel have received their first dose and 44,117 their second. Belagavi received the single largest number of doses in the country, on September 17, when it clocked 2.99 lakh doses in a day. Per day vaccination is in the range of 15,000-24,000, say officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccine-for-301828-adolescents-in-belagavi/article38084782.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Additional tahsildars, ACs to be deployed to clear pending cases||In a bid to clear pendency of cases in revenue courts in the next one year, the State Government will provide additional tahsildars and Assistant Commissioners along with support staff to districts where pendency of revenue cases are high. “In many districts, 3,000 to 5,000 cases that are 10 to 15 years old are still pending. At the current rate, it may take more than four to five years to address the cases and many may not get justice,” Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said after chairing a meeting of Deputy Commissioners here. After a comprehensive review of districts, the Chief Minister said 48 urban centres are yet to get their master plans, which was hindering land conversions among others. “The Deputy Commissioners have been told to complete the process in three months or master plans will be done through the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Department.” To hasten the survey process in rural areas for the purpose of Podi, Mr. Bommai said the State Government will spend Rs. 20 crore to hire private drones to complete surveys.” With as many as 4,370 urban and rural areas requiring burial grounds, he said instructions had been given to utilise government land or purchase land from private individuals. In terms of flood/rain relief, Mr. Bommai, while appreciating the good work of the Deputy Commissioners during the crisis, set a deadline of January 7 to make data entry for providing crop compensation. “More than 14 lakh farmers are to receive compensation and additional relief has to be provided yet.” In terms of houses that were damaged in 2019-2020, he said the government was informed about several house owners yet to start construction. “In such cases, the Deputy Commissioners have been asked to verify using GPS if house construction has started, and issue notices to such owners and give them 10 days to start.” He also said that some house owners have sought change of location, and the government has allowed such requests if the other property also belonged to them. The Chief Minister said several other pressing issues, including Akrama Sakrama scheme in rural areas, were discussed. “We will seek legal opinion from the Law Department on regularising the properties in gomala land. Deputy Commissioners have been directed to order a fresh survey to identify deemed forest land.” Mr. Bommai said Deputy Commissioners have been directed to hasten the process of linking Aadhaar cards of the remaining three lakh beneficiaries of Social Security schemes such as Sandhya Suraksha, widow pension, and disabled pension among others in which 65 lakh beneficiaries are receiving benefits. “I have told them that if you work in the interest of certain persons and not in the interest of the people, you will lose eligibility to be a Deputy Commissioner.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/additional-tahsildars-acs-to-be-deployed-to-clear-pending-cases/article38084594.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Congress fares well in many ULBs represented by BJP legislators||The Congress seems to have performed better in many Assembly constituencies currently represented by the BJP legislators, including Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, in the elections to 58 Urban Local Bodies, the results of which were out on Thursday. While in many places, the ruling BJP ceded ground to the Congress in the ULBs, in some urban pockets currently represented by the BJP, mixed results have come up. In all, of the 1,184 seats in 58 ULBs for which polls were held, the Congress registered victories in 501 seats while the BJP won in 433 seats. JD(S) managed just 45 seats, and 195 Independents won. A closer look at the Congress’ performance shows that it managed well in constituencies such as Kanakagiri, Hungund, Harihar, Nippani, Shiggaon, Navalgund, Kagwad, Arabhavi, and Muddebihal, among others, that are represented by the BJP. In Rayabagh, Kittur, Saundatti, Nippani, and Kittur also represented by the BJP, the poll results have thrown hung results that can also tilt in the favour of the Congress. In some ULBs in Kittur and Arabhavi, represented by legislators from the ruling BJP, all seats have been won by Independents. In Hospet Municipal Council, the BJP failed to register majority, while in Sira where the BJP registered victory in the high-profile byelections fought bitterly after the demise of JD(S) legislator Satyanarayana, the BJP managed just four seats as the municipal council returned with mixed results. The support of JD(S) is crucial to any party to come to power. Of the five City Municipal Councils that went to polls, the BJP managed to win three, while two are hanging. Of the 19 Town Municipal Councils, the BJP and the Congress won seven each, while four are hanging with the JD(S) winning one. In the 34 town panchayats that faced polls, the Congress registered victory in 13, while the BJP won nine, and 12 town panchayats reported mixed results. However, in the midst of success, Congress lost ground to BJP in Anekal, Koppal, and Basavana Bagewadi. In Maski, where the party won the bypolls, it ceded ground to the BJP. Tavargera town panchayat in Kushthagi saw mixed results though Congress is likely to come to power with the support of Independents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-fares-well-in-many-ulbs-represented-by-bjp-legislators/article38084597.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Wanted: An elected body for BBMP||Potholed roads, water-logging, encroachments — Bengaluru’s list of problems has not seen any major changes in the recent past. Yet, the city has been without an elected body since September 10, 2020, when the five-year term of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike came to an end. Elections to the local body have been put off owing to a “confusion” on whether the polls have to be conducted for 198 wards or 243 wards, as per the new BBMP Act, 2020. After the term of the BBMP council ended, when the BJP government showed no signs of holding polls, the matter went to the High Court of Karnataka. Though the court directed the State Government to hold polls within six weeks to 198 wards, the Government appealed against it in the Supreme Court stating that the number of wards had been increased to 243. The case is still being heard in the apex court. However, sources claim that the Government is now all set to submit an affidavit in the apex court with regard to holding polls for the 243 wards. “In all likelihood, the polls may be held in either April or May 2022,” sources said. Abdul Wajid, former Congress floor leader in the BBMP council and one of the petitioners before the apex court, underscored the need for an elected body. “With no councillors, the citizens have no one to approach for redressal of their grievances. One cannot expect the MLA to attend to local problems. That is the role of the councillor,” he pointed out, and said that if the elected body were present, the pandemic management in the city could have been better. He also alleged that BBMP had used the pandemic outbreak as a ruse for not taking up any development work over the past two years. “The projects mentioned in the Budget have not been implemented since 2019,” he said. Srinivas Alavilli from Janaagraha said that having an elected body in place was at the top of the wish list of many citizens. “It is difficult to imagine that 13 million citizens don’t have a democratic forum to raise issues of the city. Unfortunately, citizens are resorting to social media to air their problems. We can’t go on like this,” he said and added that citizens must participate in local governance, for which an elected body is essential. Concurring, N.S. Mukunda, founder member Bengaluru Praja Vedike, pointed out that with no elected body in BBMP, issues of the city are in the hands of the state government. “This is against the spirit of the 74th Amendment of the Constitution. Along with the elected body, the ward committees are the checks and balances of a democratic system,” he said and added that only through these could citizens be part of planning and governance. With polls to the Assembly likely in 2023, the MLAs need foot soldiers. “The MLAs will need councillors. We are hoping at least because of this, the polls to the civic body will be held,” said Mr. Wajid. For now, all eyes are looking at the Supreme Court, which is likely to pronounce its judgement in the ongoing case early this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wanted-an-elected-body-for-bbmp/article38084576.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Second year of subdued NY celebrations||In what has now become a familiar scene, the city ushered in New year’s Eve in a subdued manner for the second year in a row since the COVID-19 pandemic struck. Amidst a strict night curfew and government guidelines to keep a check on the rising number of infections and the Omicron scare, most of Bengaluru wore a deserted look as the clock struck midnight signalling the arrival of 2022. The city police imposed Section 144 from 6 p.m. onwards and started ensuring that people did not gather outside. By 9 p.m, announcements to shut shop by the 10 p.m. deadline began. Roads were barricaded and strict drunk driving tests were carried out. Brigade Road was blocked before 10 p.m. Most of the restaurants and pubs in the city, especially in the Central Business District, were full to the allowed capacity Friday evening. Only those who had got two doses of the vaccine were allowed in after checking their certificates. There was also a 50% occupancy restriction. “The business we did this New Year’s Eve is not even a fraction of what we used to do before the pandemic. But with the Omicron scare, we understand the situation,” the manager of a restaurant in Indiranagar said. However, within the ambit of restrictions, most establishments were full on Friday evening. “Within permitted levels, patrons did turn up and most establishments were full and it was almost impossible to get a reservation at the last minute,” said Adit Gowda from a popular restaurant in North Bengaluru. Crowds started thinning out starting from 8:30 p.m., given the 10 p.m. deadline for night curfew. Scenes of revellers sprinting away from the police in popular destinations such as Koramangala as the deadline was up were also seen. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra went on city rounds, including the Central Business District, and oversaw the implementation of the deadline. City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said the New Year’s Eve passed off without any major untoward incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-year-of-subdued-ny-celebrations/article38084578.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Year-end excise revenue increases by 10.5%||The rise in sale of liquor in the last week of 2021 led to increase in collection of excise duty by 10.5% compared to the corresponding period in 2020. A total of Rs. 974 crore worth of liquor was sold during the period. The data released by the Excise Department on New Year’s eve shows that Indian Made Liquor (IML) sales saw an increase by 21.22 % and beer sales saw increase by 12.11% in the period between December 24 and 31 over the previous year. As much as 17.14 lakh carton boxes of IML were sold this year as against 14.14 lakh carton boxes sold last year. In terms of beer, 10.09 lakh carton boxes were sold this year as against 9 lakh carton boxes sold last year. In terms of sale volume, Rs. 974.58 crore worth of liquor was sold in the last week of this year when compared to Rs. 844.59 crore worth of liquor sold last year, a growth of 15.39%. Similarly, the excise duty collection went up from Rs. 519.21 crore to Rs. 573.75 crore this year, a growth by 10.5%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/year-end-excise-revenue-increases-by-105/article38084595.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Light rain likely in some parts of city||As the city bid adieu to 2021 on a cold and wet Friday, forecast by the Meteorological Centre suggested that some areas in the city are likely to receive light rain in the next two days. The forecast for the next 24 hours state that fog and mist are very likely during morning hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/light-rain-likely-in-some-parts-of-city/article38084582.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||NHAI official arrested in bribery case||Sleuths from the Central Bureau of Investigation arrested a Regional Officer of National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), Bengaluru, in a bribery case. Acting on a tip-off that the officer, Akil Ahmed, had allegedly demanded an illegal gratification from a firm working on a Bengaluru-Chennai Expressway project, CBI officials laid a trap on Friday. They arrested Anuj Gupta in Delhi while allegedly receiving Rs. 20 lakh on behalf of Akil Ahmed from representatives of Bhopal-based firm M/s Dilip Buildcon Ltd., with a branch office in Bengaluru. Following the arrest of Anuj Gupta, CBI also arrested the Regional Officer Akil Ahmed and four officials of the private firm - Retnakaran Sajilal, Devendra Jain, Mahim Pratap Singh Tomar, and Sunil Kumar Verma, a statement said. CBI raided the premises linked to the firm and the Regional Officer of NHAI in New Delhi, Bengaluru, Kochi, Gurugram and Bhopal. They recovered cash Rs. 4 crore from the premises of private persons and cash of Rs. 4 lakh from the premises of regional officer of NHAI, CBI said in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nhai-official-arrested-in-bribery-case/article38084571.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||64% more narcotics cases booked in 2021||The year gone by was marked by an escalation of “war on drugs” in the city. The police booked 64% more narcotics cases in 2021, compared to the previous year. There has been a significant increase in recovery of narcotics, and the number of foreign nationals arrested in connection with these cases as well. However, it was also marked by a slight dip in detection of crimes, such as robbery and chain snatchings. The city police booked 4,547 narcotics cases and arrested 5,741 persons, including 176 foreign nationals, in connection with these cases, compared to 2,766 cases in 2020. They recovered 3,589 kg of ganja, 48.61 kg of hashish, 8,206 ecstacy tablets and 12,451 strips of LSD - significantly higher than the previous two years. “Not just in terms of quantity; this year, we were able to bust some key narcotic networks and arrest the key suppliers, and not just peddlers,” a senior official said. The number of preventive cases booked against rowdy sheeters has also taken a giant leap. Apart from an increase in the number of rowdy sheeters booked under the Goonda Act, 10 of them have also been banned from entry into the city. “Rooting out the drug and rowdy menaces from the city has been our top focus and the numbers clearly indicate more preventive action from our side,” said City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. Meanwhile, the pandemic has caused a dip in crime rate, a trend observed in 2020 and seen in 2021 as well. The number of crimes reported in both years is lesser than in pre-pandemic 2019. However, there is a dip in detection of these cases. “With the economy in a slump, fresh offenders with no history of crime are committing crimes making it tough to crack,” a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/64-more-narcotics-cases-booked-in-2021/article38084573.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Rowdy-sheeter shot in leg, held||A rowdy-sheeter, Divakar Urs, 24, wanted in a dacoity case, who had allegedly stabbed a sub-inspector and fled two days ago, was shot in the leg and apprehended on Friday morning when he allegedly tried to attack the police again resisting arrest. He is being treated at a hospital in the city. Yeshwantpur police, while investigating a dacoity case, in which a gang of men barged into a house where two women lived and robbed them at gunpoint, had arrested several persons involved and were searching for Divakar, the prime accused. Acting on a tip-off of his whereabouts, sub-inspector Vinod Rathod and his team went to arrest him from a farm near Hebbal on Wednesday night. Divakar allegedly stabbed the sub-inspector in the shoulder and fled from the scene. The police caught him near HMT quarters in Jalahalli on Friday morning, when he again tried to again attack constable Pradeep and flee. Inspector Balaraju then fired at him in self-defence and apprehended him, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rowdy-sheeter-shot-in-leg-held/article38084579.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||23 new Omicron cases in State take tally to 66||Karnataka witnessed a spike in Omicron cases on the last day of the year 2021 with 23 new cases being reported. This took the tally of Omicron cases in the State to 66. India’s first two cases were reported from Karnataka. Health and Medical Education Minister Dr. K. Sudhakar, who confirmed the new cases in a tweet, said 19 of the 23 cases are international travellers from the USA, Europe, Middle East and Africa." Of these, five are children, including a two-year-old male baby, who are not eligible for vaccination. Among the others, all of whom except two were vaccinated, one had also taken a booster shot. Only one of the 23 infected people had taken one dose. V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said 80% of Omicron cases being reported are among the fully vaccinated individuals. “People should keep in mind that all are at risk irrespective of vaccination. We are seeing the spread of Omicron mainly in cities where people have become complacent. There is no replacement for responsible behaviour and people should follow COVID appropriate behaviour,” he said. The State Health Department has directed all hospitals not to test admitted international passengers prior to the 10-day timeline mentioned in the discharge policy. Patients can be discharged only after ten days from the date of testing RTPCR positive and not from the date of symptoms onset, stated a circular. “It has been noticed that international passengers testing positive for COVID on arrival at airports and isolated at various healthcare institutions (both public and private) are being tested for COVID prior to the 10-day timeline mentioned in the discharge policy. Such testing and the consequent results have no significance and only cause confusion regarding discharge date. Hence, it is reiterated that the prescribed norms for follow up RTPCR as on designated date, before discharging from the hospitals, should be strictly complied with,” stated the circular. Meanwhile, Sir C.V. Raman General Hospital has been turned into a designated COVID hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/23-new-omicron-cases-in-state-take-tally-to-66/article38084584.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||832 new cases, eight deaths in State; 656 cases reported in Bengaluru Urban||Karnataka on Friday reported 832 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 30,07,337. Bengaluru Urban reported 656 cases and five deaths. With the eight deaths, the State's toll rose to 38,335. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 335 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 29,60,261. The State now has 8,712 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.70%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 0.96%. As many as 1,17,917 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 95,815 RT-PCR tests. The State has geared up to start paediatric vaccinations from January 3. Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission, said as many as 31.75 lakh children in the 15 years to 17 years age group have been identified as the target population for this drive. Only Covaxin will be administered in doses of 0.5 ml. It will be given free of cost in all schools. “Teams of vaccinators will go to schools and PU/paramedical colleges to administer the jab from January 3. Those who are still having online classes, especially private schools, have been directed to schedule a particular day and ask their students to come to schools to take the jab,” she said. “We intend to take up the programme intially in schools and colleges. Only if required we will open up the sessions in hospitals. However, private hospitals are free to start child vaccinations provided they have separate sessions for this group as only Covaxin has to be administred,” she explained. Children who have taken other routine vaccines are eligible for COVID vaccination after a gap of 15 days. The second COVID dose will be administered after a gap of 28 days. Registration on the CoWIN portal can be done using the parents or school principal’s number, she said. Appealing to people to get their children vaccinated, she said there is no need to worry about the safety and efficacy of the vaccines. “The government has rolled out vaccines for children after a lot of research,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-sees-832-new-cases/article38084586.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Border districts told to step up testing||In the light of increasing Omicron cases, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday directed the Deputy Commissioners of border districts to step up testing. “Border districts of Kodagu, Dakshin Kannada, Udupi, Chamarajanagar, and Belagavi have been asked to increase testing. District administrations have been asked to keep beds and oxygen plants ready. Deputy Commissioners have been directed to coordinate with medical colleges and private hospitals in their respective districts.” While 97% have received the first dose of vaccination, 76 % have received the second dose. “I have instructed officials to complete the first dose for all by the end of January and second dose coverage has to reach 80%.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/border-districts-told-to-step-up-testing/article38084590.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Belagavi city gets new Police Commissioner||Days after unrest in the city during the recently-concluded legislature session, K. Thiyagarajan has been transferred and M.B. Boralingaiah has been promoted and posted as new Commissioner of Belagavi city. The city saw vandalism by MES during the session, prompting Kannada outfits to demand the organisation be banned and even call for a State bandh that was withdrawn in the last minute. Meanwhile, the second line of leadership of Bengaluru City Police has undergone a complete change due to promotions of IPS officers and consequential transfers on Friday. While A. Subramanyeshwara Rao will be Additional Commissioner (East), Sandeep Patil will be Additional Commissioner (West), and Raman Gupta will be the new CCB chief as Joint Commissioner (Crime). Though there were speculations that the Bengaluru City Police Commissioner may be changed, the government has not affected a change of leadership in the city police. S. Murugan, who was Additional Commissioner (East) has been promoted and posted as ADGP, Communication, Logistics and Modernisation. Soumendu Mukherjee who was Additional Commissioner (West) has been posted to Intelligence. K.V. Sharath Chandra and M. Najundaswamy have been promoted as ADGP and posted as ADGP, CID, and ADGP, Home Guards and Ex-Officio Additional Director, Civil Defence. Labhu Ram, P.S. Harsha and Vikash Kumar Vikash have been promoted and continued in their postings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-city-gets-new-police-commissioner/article38084599.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Appeal to children||Hassan district administration has appealed to children between the ages of 15 and 18 to get vaccinated for COVID-19 from January 3, 2022. In a press release issued here on Friday, Hassan ZP CEO Kantharaj said the children could get vaccinated by visiting the nearest health centres. As per the guidelines issued by the State Government, the children would be administered a Covaxin dose. Helpline For more details the public can contact health centres, health workers and Asha workers or call up the helpline 104, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appeal-to-children/article38084984.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Mekedatu: Revanna hits out at Congress, BJP leaders||Former Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna has demanded the Congress and the BJP place before the public their prompt efforts to implement the Mekedatu project in the years they ruled the State. Speaking to presspersons in Hassan on Friday, Mr. Revanna said his father and former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda had tried to execute the project as early as 1987 itself. “Since then the Congress and the BJP have ruled. Their leaders held the Water Resources portfolio. Why could they not take up the project? Who stopped them from taking up the project all these years?” he wanted to know. The JD(S) leader also criticised the Congress for preparing the draft of the anti-conversion law. “What the Congress drafted, the same has been tabled by the BJP in its Bill. Let the Congress people go before the minorities to seek apology for their role in bringing in this Bill”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mekedatu-revanna-hits-out-at-congress-bjp-leaders/article38084987.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Miscreants cut 600 areca trees on farm; loss put at Rs. 10 lakh||Unknown miscreants cut around 600 areca trees in a farm at Ajjenahalli village in Belur taluk on Thursday night, causing a loss of over Rs. 10 lakh to the farm owners. Veeralinge Gowda and Kamalamma, who had spent their savings and put in hard work to grow the farm in the last six years, were in a shock on Friday morning when they came to know about the incident. The couple suspected it to be an act by people with personal enmity. Belur tahsildar Mohan Kumar visited the spot. The farm owners appealed to the officers to provide them with compensation for the loss they suffered. “The miscreants have ruined the hard work of the farmers. The efforts they had put in all these years had gone in vain”, the tahsildar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/miscreants-cut-600-areca-trees-on-farm-loss-put-at-rs-10-lakh/article38084983.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Three held, girl rescued||Kadur Police rescued a minor girl after arresting three accused, who allegedly kidnapped her from Maradihalli in Kadur taluk on December 27. In a press release on Friday, Chikkamagaluru Superintendent of Police Akshay M. Hakay said the 17-year-old girl was kidnapped by a group of people early morning on December 27. Acting upon the complaing filed by the girl’s father, Kadur police succeeded to trace the accused at Sagani Basavanahalli village and rescued the girl on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-held-girl-rescued/article38084990.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Life term for murder||A Hassan court convicted a person accused of murder and sentenced him to life imprisonment, besides a penalty of Rs. 45,000. Rajashekhar of Gundkanahalli in Arsikere taluk murdered Lathamani of Giribommanahalli on July 23, 2014. They were in a relationship and when differences broke out, Rajashekhar took Lathamani to Mullayyanagiri in Chikkamagaluru taluk, where he murdered her. The incidnet came to light after Lathamani’s parents filed a missing complaint with Arsikere police. The police during the investigation found that Rajashekhar murdered her and took away her jewellery worth over Rs. 40,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/life-term-for-murder/article38084991.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Rs. 3 crore for road development in Old Hubballi||The former Chief Minister and MLA Jagadish Shettar has said that main roads in Channapet, Arvind Nagar and Old Hubballi will be developed under the Rs. 3 crore grants extended under Urban Renewal Mission. Speaking at a Jana Sampark Sabha at Diddi Oni in Old Hubballi on Friday, Mr. Shettar said that the State Government has released Rs. 1 crore for the underground drainage system and drains in Ward No 55 and work will be initiated soon. Pointing out that storm-water drains in Dalimbarpet and surrounding areas overflow during the rainy season inundating houses, Mr. Shettar asked the officials to conduct a detailed survey of the areas and come out with a plan for providing a permanent solution to this. On complants from residents about increasing number of thefts in the locality, he assured them of taking up the issue with the Police Commissioner. He also told them that he will take steps to get CCTV cameras installed at strategic locations in the area. He said that funds are available for the purpose under various Union Government schemes and that he will take up the issue with Union Minister Pralhad Joshi. Mr. Shettar took the officials to task for the delay in issuing death certificates, when a resident brought the issue to his notice. Residents submitted a memorandum on various issues, including construction of community halls and houses for slum-dwellers. On the occasion, identity cards for workers of the unorganised sector were distributed. Director of Mysore Soaps and Detergents Limited Mallikarjun Savakar, HDMC councillor Santosh Chavan, the former Mayors Pandurang Patil and D.K. Chavan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-3-crore-for-road-development-in-old-hubballi/article38084790.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||KRV launches letter campaign seeking ban on MES||Alleging that Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) were behind the desecration of statues of national heroes, the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (raita faction) launched a letter campaign on Friday seeking ban on MES. The members of KRV staged a demonstration outside the office of Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad before launching the letter campaign. They alleged that MES activists were behind the acts of desecrating statue of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna, and defacement of portrait of social reformer Basaveshwara in Belagavi district. ‘Indulging in mischief’ Addressing the protesters, KRV office-bearer Papu Dhare said MES had been unnecessarily raking up the border row and deliberately trying to hurt feelings of the Kannadigas by torching Kannada flags and indulging in mischief. He alleged that the Maharashtra Government was supporting Shiv Sena and MES activists who had torched vehicles belonging to Kannadigas and for threatening Kannada-speaking people living along the State border. The MES had been indulging in vandalism and had even tried to disrupt the Winter session of the legislature in Belagavi. The MES activists were trying to test the patience of Kannadigas and the government should not tolerate them anymore, he said. Mr. Dhare said the letters would be sent to the Chief Minister and the Governor of Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/letter-campaign-seeking-ban-on-mes-launched/article38084598.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Minister visits HESCOM Transformer Bank||Minister for Power V. Sunil Kumar has lauded the steps taken by Hubballi Electricity Supply Company (HESCOM) to replace failed transformers with alternative transformers within 24 hours. The Minister, who visited the Transformer Bank set up by HESCOM on Karwar Road on Wednesday, appreciated the initiative taken by HESCOM for providing timely replacement of transformers. Mr. Sunil Kumar inspected the various facilities at the Transformer Bank and also sought details on the repair mechanism of transformers. Managing Director of HESCOM D. Bharati and other officials briefed the Minister about the various facilities at the bank. She told him that the requirement of transformers in Hubballi division was comparatively less and within 24 hours, replacement was being provided where required. Senior HESCOM officials A.H. Kamble, Ramesh Bendigeri, M.R. Shanbhag, Krishnappa, HDMC councillor Santosh Chavan and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-visits-hescom-transformer-bank/article38084787.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Award for IIT Dharwad campus project||Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Dharwad, which is building a smart eco-friendly permanent campus, has received an award with its campus project being declared the first runner-up at the national level. IIT Dharwad’s campus project has been declared runner-up under Exemplary Performance Awards by Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment (GRIHA) Council under Passive Architecture Design Category, Director of IIT-Dh P. Seshu has said in a press release. Mr. Seshu has said: “In the campus project, energy consumption is being minimised by designing buildings to minimise air-conditioning requirements and maximise daylight with use of solar passive architecture, effective insulation, effective use of glass, shading devices, etc.” “Lighting loads are further decreased by use of energy efficient light fixtures both inside and outside buildings. The minimum efficiencies of utility equipment are chosen and designed to comply with ECBC-2017 standards,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/award-for-iit-dharwad-campus-project/article38084788.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Farmers can save Rs. 180 crore through zero tillage||Farmers across the State can save about Rs. 180 crore by following zero tillage technology in the coming summer season if they go for irrigated and dry (ID) crops where only paddy was harvested. This experiment conducted at village in Kangti mandal of Sangareddy district and the yield by the farmer who experimented in his filed was same like other farmers. The saving per acre will be around Rs. 3,000 per acre. Dry crops Amid crisis on growing paddy in the coming summer season, the farmers are looking at alternative crops that would offer them good remuneration. Majority farmer are looking at irrigated and dry (ID) crops maize, jowar and sun flower. However, agriculture experts suggests that without tilling operations of farm lands, where paddy was cultivated as previous crop, farmer can grow one of these three crops. Tilling operation involves ploughing, using cultivator and levelling. This will save about Rs. 3,000 per acre to the farmer. An experiment was conducted in one of the farms in Kangti mandal where maize seeds were directly sown in the paddy wet lands. Once paddy was harvested, one irrigation was supplied and then after 24 hours the maize seed was directly dibbling in soil. This experiment conducted in a field at Tadkal village of Kangti mandal in Sangareddy district in 2019 has not only saved money for farmer but also time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-can-save-rs-180-crore-through-zero-tillage/article38084589.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Mutt premises vandalised||A group of men threw stones at the building of Siddlingeshwar Samsthan Mutt in Mashal village, Afzalpur taluk, in Kalaburagi district on Thursday night. The group vandalised the mutt with stones causing damage to windowpanes even as seer Kedar Swami was sleeping inside. On December 28, 2021, Kedar Swami had participated in an event organised by Hindu Jagruthi Sene in Kalaburagi and spoke against cow slaughter and Love Jihad. Now, the police have expressed the suspicion that people who were angry with his speech could be involved in vandalising the mutt and stone-throwing. Condemned Condemning the act, the Hindu Jagruthi Sene demanded action against the culprits for vandalising the mutt. The police have tightened security around the mutt building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/religious-mutt-vandalised/article38084783.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||With Hosapete win, AAP opens account in ULBs||The efforts by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to enter the Urban Local Bodies has finally yielded result with its candidate winning in Hosapete City Municipal Council in the newly formed Vijayanagara district. In the elections held to 58 urban local bodies (ULBs) in 20 districts of the State, the AAP secured the lone seat at Hospet with its candidate Shaikh Shah Wali winning in ward no. 22 of Hosapete CMC. Mr. Wali secured 703 votes and registered a win against the Congress candidate by a margin of 71 votes. Among other candidates in the fray, three Independents secured 381, 359, and 293 votes respectively, pushing the BJP candidate, with 61 votes, to the last position. While there were 4,515 voters in the ward, only 61% (2,759) voted. Mr. Wali secured 25% (703 votes) of the votes cast.  Mohammad Nasir, a local AAP member, told The Hindu that Mr. Wali, who belongs to the semi-nomadic tribe Helavaru, was chosen by community elders to contest as the AAP candidate largely because development issues in their area were ignored.  Successive governments have neglected the Helavaru community. Due to the alleged failure of the State Government in providing facilities and amenities to the tribal community, they decided to vote collectively for the AAP candidate, he said. A farmer, Mr. Wali joined the AAP eight months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-hosapete-win-aap-opens-account-in-ulbs/article38084592.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||Relief in the offing for power consumers in Sullia, Kadaba||Residents of Sullia and Kadaba taluks are likely to get some relief with regard to quality power supply when Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar inaugurates a few power infrastructure in these taluks on Monday. Yet, the long-pending demand for a 110 kV Madavu (Puttur)-Sullia Series Compensation (SC) Direct Current (DC) line that can mitigate the woes of energy consumers in Sullia region is still awaiting forest clearance. Mangalore Electricity Supply Company (MESCOM) has added additional 8 Mega Volt Amp (MVA) transformer at the 33/11 kV power sub-station in Kukke Subrahmanya. Some new 11 kV feeder lines have been formed from this sub-station, while conductors of some feeders have been upgraded. With an expenditure of Rs. 2.2 crore on this project, about 20,000 energy consumers in and around Subrahmanya will get quality power supply for almost round-the-clock, the company said. The power supply company will also save about 6.7 lakh units of power annually with the upgradation. This facility is being backed up by laying a 33 kV underground power cable from 33 kV Guttigaru sub-station to Subrahmanya sub-station at a cost of Rs. 7.8 crore. Meanwhile, MESCOM has constructed a new 33 kV line from Bolubailu in Sullia taluk to Sullia power sub-station with a 4.3-km-long Coyote conductor line and a 1.2-km underground line. It has constructed a 33 kV terminal bay at the Sullia sub-station, all at a cost of Rs. 3 crore. The company has also erected a 12.5 MVA additional transformer at Sullia sub-station, which, put together, can ensure quality power supply to about 40,000 consumers. The works can also help save about 2 lakh units of power every year, MESCOM said. Mr. Kumar will inaugurate these facilities on Monday. An engineer said that the Chief Minister will convene a meeting shortly to sort out the Madavu-Sullia 110 kV line to be constructed by Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Ltd. (KPTCL). The transmission company has said that the Beeline between Madavu and Sullia was 16.9 km long, while the proposed route is about 20 km long avoiding forest areas. It requires about 8 hectares of forest land, KPTCL has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relief-in-the-offing-for-power-consumers-in-sullia-kadaba/article38084946.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||Seer-in-waiting for Paryaya says age-old traditions will continue||Sri Vidyasagara Tirtha Swami of Udupi Krishnapura Mutt, seer-in-waiting to ascend the Sarvajna Peetha at Udupi Sri Krishna Temple/Mutt during the Paryaya this month, on Friday said that he will continue the practices and rituals being followed at the mutt for public good. He said that he does not propose any major projects either. Interacting with reporters after a felicitation programme at the residence of the former district Kannada Sahitya Parishat president Pradeep Kumar Kalkura here, Sri Vidyasagara Tirtha said that the Anna Daana and Janna Daana that are being followed since the time of Sri Madhwacharya and Sri Vadiraja Tirtha will continue to be followed during his Paryaya, beginning January 18, too. These practices are very close to the Lord, he added. Sri Vidyasagara Tirtha, who will be performing the Paryaya for the fourth term, said that he is not stickler for rules and that he is flexible if any changes will result in the larger good of people and society. He was responding to a query regarding the reported inconvenience being caused to devotees while entering Sri Krishna Temple/Mutt through the Vishwa Patha, a circumventing path introduced during the current Paryaya, led by Udupi Admar Mutt seer Sri Ishapriya Tirtha Swami. Preparations The swamiji said that preparations for the Paryaya ceremony are going on in full swing so as to hold it with usual fervour. However, changes will be made if the government imposes restrictions to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He said, “We do not want to inconvenience devotees; the Paryaya rituals will be tweaked, if necessary.” Pura Pravesha As a norm, the seer visited many places, including pilgrim places in the run-up to the Paryaya and his Pura Pravesha (entry into the town) of Udupi was held on December 16. The eldest of all the seers of the Ashta Mutts, Sri Vidyasagara Tirtha urged devotees to keep in mind government restrictions before visiting the Paryaya ceremony where he will ascend the Sarvajna Peetha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seer-in-waiting-for-paryaya-says-age-old-traditions-will-continue/article38084948.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||‘An elaborate process is involved before B reports are filed in courts’||Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police Rishiskesh Sonawane on Friday said that cases are scrutinised in length before approval is granted to file B reports in courts saying there is no evidence to prove a charge made in a complaint. Denying the charge that the District Police are being influenced to file B reports in cases related to atrocities on Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, Mr. Sonawane said that charge-sheets are being filed in most of the cases. Only in a few cases, B reports are filed and they are done after approval by Inspector-General of Police (Western Range) Devajyoti Ray. During the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes grievance redressal meeting held at the office of Mr. Sonawane, convenor of Dalit Hakkugala Samanvya Samiti Shekar Laila said that B reports are being filed in many cases of atrocities on Dalits as they are incapable of challenging the decision. Another activist said that the police are not getting approval of the District Level Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes grievance cell before filing the reports. The activist said that the police are being bribed for filing B reports. Mr. Sonawane said that it is easy for the police to file charge-sheets and difficult to get approval for B reports. After a detailed scrutiny by him, the file goes to Mr. Devajyoti Ray, who also looks at such files closely, before granting approval. There is no question of taking bribe for filing B reports, he said. Moreover, Mr. Sonawane said, complainants get notice from courts after B reports are submitted. “If discrepancies are found (in B reports), courts pass strictures against the investigation officer,” he said. When activist S.P. Anand pointed to continued harassment of a complainant by an accused in an atrocity case registered in Venur Police Station in 2019, Mr. Sonawane directed the jurisdictional police officer to book another case against the accused and seek cancellation of bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/an-elaborate-process-is-involved-before-b-reports-are-filed-in-courts/article38084955.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||College refutes charge by students||A few girl students in the Government PU College for Girls in Udupi have said that they are not being allowed to attend classes for wearing hijab (head scarf). Talking to reporters on Friday, a group of six PU students said that they were not allowed to attend classes for the last three days. The students said that while students from other communities are being allowed to follow their religious practices, they are being denied it. Denying the charge, college principal Rudre Gowda told reporters that only a few among the 40 Muslim students are sporting hijab. He has spoken to parents of those children, Mr. Gowda said and added that the parents have agreed that their wards will not wear hijab in classrooms. Deputy Director of PU Education Maruthi said that the college administration has called for a meeting of parents and teachers on Saturday. Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao said that he has sought a report from Mr. Maruthi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/college-refutes-charge-by-students/article38084949.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Ethanol policy soon: Minister||Minister for Handlooms, Textiles, Sugar and Cane Development Shankar Patil Munenakoppa on Friday said that the BJP Government will soon bring out Ethanol Policy so as to boost ethanol production in sugar factories across the State. Speaking to reporters during his visit to Udupi, Mr. Munekoppa said that ethanol production needs a massive boost as the Union Government has proposed to blend petrol and diesel with 20% of ethanol by 2025. Having extensively toured Uttar Pradesh where sugarcane is cultivated in a large scale, Mr. Munenakoppa said that mere production of sugar will not be sustainable for factories. Ethanol production thus will become a win-win situation for sugar factories as well as the government. The Minister said that the State Government will also encourage ethanol production from maize and paddy so as to ensure more income to farmers. Soon, a research team will visit Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra to study modalities of ethanol production, the Minister said and added that the State Government will approve proposals from sugar factories to set up ethanol production units. The State Government itself will buy ethanol from them and sell to oil marketing companies, he added. Looms modernisation After visiting Udupi Weavers Primary Cooperative Society whose members produce Udupi Handloom Saris, Mr. Munenakoppa said that the department will soon send an expert team to Udupi to suggest ways to modernise handlooms. Youngsters are hesitant in undertaking weaving as it is economically unviable; the State Government will make every effort to make the profession viable, he said. Mr. Munenakoppa said that the State Government will also open a training institute for weaving to provide professional training at the proposed Textile Park in Karkala. Weavers will be categorised as agriculturists to provide various facilities and incentives to them. Funds have already been released for Nekara Sammana Scheme and Rs. 122 crore subsidy has been paid to weavers. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat urged the Minister to reduce GST on handloom products from 12% to 5% and pay 10% incentive on the wages being paid to weavers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ethanol-policy-soon-minister/article38084791.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||All set for vaccination for 15-18 age group||The Department of Health and Family Welfare is all set for the roll out of vaccination for those aged between 15 and 18 years, with the Centre announcing vaccination for the teens. This comes amidst the threat of a spike in cases from Omicron variant of COVID-19 whose numbers are on the rise in the country. As many as 1.47 lakh beneficiaries – school and college students put together – have been identified based on the data sourced from the Departments of Public Instruction and Pre-University Education. The entire vaccination drive will be done only in schools and colleges and as many as 400 teams will carry out the task. Mysuru district has around 1,500 schools and colleges. The district administration had a meeting ahead of the roll out collecting the statistics from the departments on the numbers. Mysuru also got fresh stocks of Covaxin, the vaccine that has been approved for administering to the age group.  District Health Officer K.H. Prasad told The Hindu that the idea is to carry out vaccination in each school and college simultaneously. “If this is achieved as planned, we are in a position to vaccinate the population in a span of five days. We are yet to finalise the schedule and the teams had discussions with the staff of the departments. Another 30,000-plus students are expected to be added to the list and the final list would be ready by Saturday.”  The DHO said around 2 lakh doses are available in the district. Vaccine is not an issue as more stocks are expected in the days ahead. The vaccination drive will be launched on January 3 at Maharani’s College at 8.30 a.m. On the proof of identity for the vaccination, he said the schools are being asked whether the students can get their parents’ phones for receiving the OTPs for facilitating immunisation. If they cannot bring the phones, then we will consider alternative methods to ensure the vaccination as registration is a must in the CoWIN portal. In Mysuru district, 84 per cent of people have got their second dose. In November this year, vaccine hesitancy had worried the district administration as over two lakh people were found to have skipped their second dose of vaccination for no reason after completing 84-day gap from the first dose. As many as one lakh people who are delaying their second dose are from Mysuru city alone. There used to be long queues before the vaccination centers here barely a few months ago but now people are not ready to take their second dose even though the health workers are going to their doorsteps to vaccinate them. However, after the Omicron threat and decision on making vaccination certificates mandatory, the vaccination got some pace, narrowing the gap of those who missed the second dose. Now the number of people who need to take their second dose has come down to one lakh from 2 lakh, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-set-for-vaccination-for-15-18-age-group/article38084988.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Congress plans convention in Mysuru on January 3||The Congress party will be holding a convention in Mysuru on January 3 as a prelude to the padayatra from Mekedatu. The padayatra from January 9 is to bring pressure on the BJP Government in Karnataka to begin the project, which envisages the construction of a balancing reservoir, generate power and provide drinking water to Bengaluru. Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D.K. Shivakumar are expected to participate in the convention. The Congress party, which is buoyed by its performance in the recently held elections to Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) and the Legislative Council from local area constituencies, will also kickstart its membership drive in Mysuru region during the convention. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Friday, former MP and Working President of KPCC R. Dhruvanarayan hit out at BJP MP Pratap Simha as well as JD(S) leaders, who had criticised the padayatra. He said they were opposing it out of sheer desperation. Mr. Dhruvanarayan said the Congress had established an upper hand in the recently-held elections to the Legislative Council as wells the urban local bodies. This proved that there was a wave in favour of the party in the State. The Congress had performed well even in parts of the State that were considered to be BJP strongholds. The people of the State were upset with the “anti-people” policies of the BJP Government and ,disappointed due to the price rise and difficulties they faced during COVID-19, besides the internal squabbles in the ruling party. Mr. Dhruvanarayan expressed confidence that the Congress will return to power in the State by securing a majority in the next Assembly elections. He said the JD(S) had lost support of the people even in Old Mysore regions of Mandya, Tumakuru and Bengaluru rural. The party had won a seat from Mysuru-Chamarajanagar constituency due to the second preference votes cast by Congress voters, he claimed. Mr. Dhruvanarayan opposed the BJP’s decision to liberate temples from Government control. Arguing that it was better if the temples remained under the control of Muzrai Department, he said there could a “hidden agenda” behind the move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-plans-convention-in-mysuru-on-january-3/article38084989.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Active cases fall below 100, recovery rate improving||The active case tally in Mysuru has fallen below 100 with the drop in number of new cases. As on Thursday, the active cases stood at 97 with about 60 patients admitted in government as well as private hospitals, and the rest are home isolated. The recovery rate is also faster as 21 patients were discharged even as 16 were tested positive to the infection on Thursday. The testing target fixed for the district is around 6,000 daily. However, around 4,000 tests are being done every day with the numbers on some days falling below 4,000. But, on an average, around 4,000 tests are being done. Around 26 lakh tests have been done in Mysuru district since the first and second waves. Effective As the cases in the country have started to inch up because of Omicron, the cases in Mysuru continue to remain lesser and one of the crucial reasons has been the effective vaccination coverage. Though Omicron cases have also been reported among the vaccinated populations, the people are being urged to go for vaccination to minimise the threat and follow precautions such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance in public places for keeping the guard against the pandemic. DHO K.H. Prasad said, “Our teams are ready for 6,000 tests a day but we are not getting the numbers for doing the tests though we have been conducting tests randomly covering schools, colleges, factories and so on. We have been told that all SARI and ILI patients must get tested.” Random testing of shopkeepers and salespersons at malls and markets, staff of hotels and restaurants, students, teachers and other staff in colleges among others is being done. The increase in daily testing target is as part of the State Government’s direction for stepping up the surveillance by revising the daily target for the State with new clusters of COVID-19 cases being reported in different parts of Karnataka. Testing children Besides covering the targeted testing of cases of ILI (Influenza-like Illness), SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection), contacts of positive cases and high-risk groups, fortnightly random testing of selected groups like students and teachers of colleges and high schools is being carried out to reach the daily target. The government has also asked the officials to ensure that at least 10 per cent of samples are taken from children. The teams have been asked to test at least 5 per cent of the children in schools every week for their safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/active-cases-fall-below-100-recovery-rate-improving/article38084986.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Activists petition Forest Minister over tree-felling||A group of citizens, who are the members of Mysore Grahakara Parishat (MGP), has urged Forest Minister Umesh Katti to institute a high-powered committee to inquire into the persons responsible for the irresponsible act of felling 20 trees here. The committee should also look into the action that can be taken against the guilty and institutional changes that can be brought to prevent such acts in the future in the State, it suggested. In a letter to the Minister, they urged the Minister to ask the Forest Department officials to immediately act on their complaint over the two recent incidents of tree felling here. They said on the night of December 13, three fully grown trees in front of a hospital in Yadavagiri were felled. “When some of us complained to the forest officer, he was unfriendly. He told us that he could act only if we could give details about who did it. Further, he asked us to complain in writing. We were surprised why he could not take action suo motu,” they said. To highlight the problem of tree felling and dereliction on the part of the Forest Department, Mysureans organised“last rites” (the way it is done on the death of near and dear ones) for the tree on the thirteenth day – on December 26. Priests performed the usual rites chanting mantras. People offered flowers and prayed for the dead trees. The solemn function attracted the attention of Mysureans. “As we were reflecting on what to do next to preserve trees, we came to know 20 trees were felled in another part of Mysuru - Vijayanagar first stage. While no permission was given for tree felling in Yadavagiri, there was official permission in the case of Vijayanagar,” said Bhamy V. Shenoy and other members in the letter. The MUDA/PWD had initially asked for the felling of 57 trees and finally only when it was reduced to 20, permission was given by the Forest Department here. “We learnt that former DCF Prashanth had not given permission even after the number of trees was reduced to 20. When the previous DCF had refused permission, what was the new development to change the earlier decision,” they asked. When 20 activists met ACF, Rangaswamy (the DCF was away), the officer said he visited the site and was convinced that there is a need for widening the road. His observation was based on a few minutes of observing the traffic on the stretch of the road. “When we asked whether a survey was done to assess traffic density, the response was ‘no’. How can the Forest Department give permission without any analysis especially when the previous DCF had refused permission?” they question. Asked why there was no public hearing, the ACF’s response was that it would be held only when 50 trees or more are involved. Since there was no Tree Authority in Mysuru, he could not seek its permission. Why did he not wait for the constitution of the Authority and then follow the procedure, the activists asked. The petition is signed by Maj-Gen (retired) Sudhir Vombatkere, S. Shobana (retired principal of Teachers’ Training College), Nanjapur Yaduraju (retired agricultural scientist), Usha Subramanium (retired scientist, Ministry of Environment), Venkatesh Kharidi (entrepreneur) and Bhamy V. Shenoy (international energy expert).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activists-petition-forest-minister-over-tree-felling/article38084982.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||A common man now a leader||A 26-year-old Parashuram Hulagappa Govindar, fielded by the Congress, has created record of sorts by winning an election to the Kakkera Town Municipal Council (TMC) in Shorapur taluk with a margin of 51 votes against BJP’s Shivaraj showing once again that people can help make a common man without any political background a leader. Mr. Govindar is a worker in a petrol pump in Kakkera. He joined there for a small salary and after serving eight years, his salary went up to Rs. 8,000 per month. Ward No 6 has the highest number of voters in the Kakkera TMC limits. There were 1,634 voters and Mr. Govindar secured 467 votes, while his opponent from the BJP secured 416 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-common-man-now-a-leader/article38084785.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||TAC favours stricter curbs than 2nd wave||“Hence, after detailed deliberations TAC makes the following recommendations as an early measure of mitigation: As Omicron is known to be more contagious, measures stricter than the second wave that was largely driven by Delta are contemplated. Districts should be classified into three colour codes based on the WTPR - Yellow if WTPR is less than 1%; Orange if WTPR is 1% to less than 2% and Red if WTPR is 2% and above, for imposing curbs in public activities,” the report said. Examining the third wave action plan put in place by the Delhi government, the TAC has formulated a table under the three colour codes. “In districts that come under the orange zone (where WTPR is between 1% and < 2%) there is a need to ensure cinemas and auditoria, schools and colleges, pubs and bars, restaurants, offices and factories, recreational clubs, public transport including Metro trains and salons/barber shops function with 50% capacity. In this scenario, malls and shopping complexes should function only between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m.,” according to the table in the report. In a scenario when the WTPR crosses 2% and districts fall into the red zone, schools and colleges should start online classes. “While offices and factories should allow work-from-home for staff, cinemas and auditoria and public transport should be stopped. Pubs, bars and restaurants should be open only for takeaway. In this scenario, salons, barber shops, gyms and fitness centres, swimming pools, places of worship, and parks should be closed,” according to the table. “In a scenario, when the WTPR crosses 3%, a total lockdown is recommended. These measures are required to be initiated early because as a measure of precaution. Although Omicron infection is said to be milder, we should try and cut transmission at an early stage. This will help reduce the burden on health facilities and save lives,” a TAC member said. He said the committee referred to IIT- Kanpur’s “Sutra model” that is backed by the Government of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tac-favours-stricter-curbs-than-2nd-wave/article38084587.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||Saying it with flowers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/saying-it-with-flowers/article38084951.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||With full of hopes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-full-of-hopes/article38084781.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Continuing protest||ranga||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/continuing-protest/article38084994.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||Three from Alappuzha killed in accident in Goa||Three Alappuzha natives were killed in a road accident at Sancoale in Goa on Thursday night. The deceased were identified as Nidhin Das, 24, of Valiyazheekkal, Vishnu, 27, and his brother Kannan, 24, of Perumbilly in Arattupuzha grama panchayat. Two others Akhil, 26, and Vinod Kumar, 25, who sustained injuries in the accident were admitted to a hospital. The car they were travelling in overturned after hitting a road divider. Vishnu and Nidhin were working in Goa for an Indian Navy-related entity and the Dabolim airport respectively. “Vishnu, who was in Alappuzha on leave, left for Goa along with three others earlier this week. They joined Nidhin there. They rented a car for sightseeing and it met with the accident,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-from-alappuzha-killed-in-accident-in-goa/article38084927.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||On a mission to popularise Kalaripayattu||Harikrishnan S. was only 10 when he was introduced to the traditional martial art form Kalaripayattu. Now 26, the Punnapra native is an expert in several styles of Kalaripayattu, including Thekkan (south), Vadakkan (north), Madhyakeralam (central) and Thulunadan Lahalamura. He has numerous records to his name, including a Guinness World record. “My grandfather, an army man, was a Kalaripayattu practitioner. I first heard about the martial art form from my mother who used to tell me about my grandfather and his skills. I began learning Thekkan kalari under the tutelage of Sylvas Gurukkal,” says Mr. Harikrishnan.  In a relatively short span of 16 years, he has etched his name in the field of Kalaripayattu. In December 2019, he got into the Guinness World Records for chopping off 61 pineapples placed on the heads of people in 30 seconds using a sword. He entered the Arabian Book of World Records in 2018 by performing the highest number of strokes using both hands with the sword-like weapon Urumi. He performed 230 strokes in 37 seconds in the feat.  His other achievements include winning gold medal thrice in a row at the Kalaripayattu national championship between 2013 and 2015. Harikrishnan is also an exponent of Silambam, a traditional martial art form of Tamil Nadu. The young kalari gurukkal is on a mission to popularise the ancient martial art form. Prior to COVID-19, his Ekaveera Kalaripayattu Academy once had 16 branches in four districts where around 1,600 students were practising. However, the pandemic forced him to close all the branches outside Alappuzha. Now, he imparts training to 600 students in four branches in the district. Harikrishnan also conducts online classes. “I started conducting online Kalaripayattu classes during the lockdown. It has turned out to be a big success,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-a-mission-to-popularise-kalaripayattu/article38084890.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:58 IST,KERALA||He taps bamboo for music||For D. Kuttappan, a resident of Ramakkalmedu here, bamboo spells music since he fashions unique musical instruments out of it. “When a simple flute is made from bamboo culm, the craftsman turns into a musician with a keen sense of rhyme. He will feel music the instrument produces,” says Kuttappan. The craft provided him with a livelihood since there were many takers for the musical instruments. However, COVID-19 threw his life out of gear and he altered his expertise to meet the demand. He now makes bamboo huts or other crafts as demanded by the customer. But his heart is with the musical instruments, the common ones being Kallanmula chenda, Kinneeram, Ekadhari, Mazhathullikilukkam, Karu, Maram Jambu, Thudi, Mulam Thudi, and Udukku. He can make 20 musical instruments from bamboo culms and play them too. “All musical instruments are tailor-made for the customer. I usually work in front of the customer so that they can try out the instrument on the spot,” he says. Utmost care “Western musical instruments adhere to certain universal criteria on quality. For bamboo instruments, utmost care is needed from selection of the bamboo culms to their treatment,” he said. Kallanmula and Olamula are used for making most of the instruments. Anamula, a variety found in Wayanad, is also put to use, he said. A few saplings are planted near his house. “The bamboo culm is naturally treated to make musical instruments. Otherwise its bio-content will be lost and it will affect the sound quality,” he says. Troupe disbanded Kuttappan had a 17-member folklore troupe ‘Uthimalakkoottam’ that performed stage programmes using bamboo instruments in connection with temple festivals. They had performed folk songs throughout the State. However, the band was disbanded and the other artistes now work as daily wage earners. Youth stay away The craft too is slowly dying out, with the youngsters keeping off it. “It needs taste and dedication, rather than profit motive,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/he-taps-bamboo-for-music/article38084920.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Scientists propose treatment for COVID-19 complications||At a time when COVID-19 has become a potential threat to global public health, an interdisciplinary team of researchers has proposed a new line of treatment for the disease. “Through our study, we hope to find a remedy for COVID-19-associated life-threatening complications,” said Punnoth Poonkuzhi Naseef, the first author of the publication and professor, department of pharmaceutics, Moulana College of Pharmacy, Perinthalmanna, Malappuram.  The research article was published in the recent edition of Elsevier, Saudi Journal of Biological Sciences .  “Iron metabolism plays a key role in determining the severity of COVID-19. Ferritin is a compound that regulates iron metabolism in the body,” said Muhammed Elayadeth Meethal, lead author and assistant professor, department of animal breeding and genetics, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, said. “Hyperferritinemia, an increase in ferritin content in blood, has been associated with life-threatening complications due to COVID-19. We propose ferritin as a therapeutic target to combat COVID-19,” Dr. Muhammed said. In COVID-19, identifying the biological pathways leading to complications and death was a puzzle for health professionals. There are several pathways that explain how COVID-19 showed severe morbidity, he added. Iron metabolism imbalance has been linked to immune-mediated COVID-19 complications. Nine publications The research team integrated protocols from multiple disciplines through interdisciplinary collaborations. The team has compiled nine publications so far. Interestingly, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has already featured two of their COVID-19 publications. “The next step in the research will be to identify therapeutic molecules that target ferritin-mediated pathways in COVID-19 disease severity,” Dr. Naseef said. Collaboration “Researchers now plan to expand studies in the area through wider collaborations. Our research plans include optimising, validating, and characterising therapeutic molecules and patenting them,” Dr. Muhammed said. Besides researchers from Indian institutions, Dr. Muhammed Saheer Kuruniyan of King Khalid University, Saudi Arabia, who made major contributions to the study, also participated in the research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scientists-propose-treatment-for-covid-19-complications/article38084842.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Package sought||The Wayanad District Development Committee (DDC) meeting, chaired by District Collector A. Geetha, here on Friday urged the State government to set apart a special compensation package for farmers of Kurukkanmoola and nearby places, where domestic animals were reportedly killed by a tiger recently. A special sub-committee, chaired by the Wayanad Sub-Collector, too had recommended that the case be considered as special, and that the farmers be granted adequate compensation. As many as 16 domestic animals owned by 13 farmers were reportedly killed. O.R. Kelu, MLA, urged the Forest department to adopt effective measures to prevent wild animals from straying into human habitats. Owners of private estates on the forest fringes should clear undergrowth, as bushes and plants become hideouts of wild animals, he said. The meet decided to submit a proposal for allotment of funds for the renovation of houses of tribespeople in the district. T. Siddique, MLA, demanded the reopening of the ICU unit at the General Hospital at Kainatty. The meet also called upon the government to allot more seats for Plus Two humanities batches in the district to accommodate tribal students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-package-sought-for-farmers-of-kurukkanmoola/article38084857.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Congress to launch campaign against K-Rail||KPCC president K. Sudhakaram on Friday demanded that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should apologise to the people of Kerala for the delay in conducting an environmental study on the K-Rail project. Mass agitation He said the Congress was all set to launch a mass agitation against the government as more details of the K-Rail project were coming out. He said Congress workers would go door-to-door campaigning with leaflets exposing the K-Rail project from next week. Public opinion Mr. Sudhakaran said K-Rail was a Rs. 2-lakh-crore project. Despite everyone saying that public opinion should be sought on the project, the government was reluctant. The KPCC chief demanded that CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury state his position on the K-Rail project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-to-launch-campaign-against-k-rail/article38084859.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Night curfew, low-key carnival dampen New Year’s eve revelry||The clamping of night curfew from December 31 to January 2 dampened New Year revelry in Kochi, what with agencies in charge of grounds and other public spaces being forced to turn down requests to host musical nights and other events. This resulted in the Ernakulam DTPC having to turn down requests to host musical events at the otherwise crowded Durbar Hall Ground and at Vasco da Gama Square in Fort Kochi which generally see huge crowds. Even before the announcement of the night curfew, organisers of the Cochin Carnival had cancelled the “burning of Papanji” annual event at midnight on New Year Eve in Fort Kochi, the carnival rally that is generally held on January 1 and a beach-bike race, foreseeing huge crowd turnout and the potential of these events to become a trigger for yet another wave of the pandemic. “We also wanted to prevent large-scale peddling of narcotic drugs during such events. All through rest of the carnival, mike announcements were made exhorting people to maintain social distancing,” said an office-bearer of the organising committee. Rushing back home Friday evening saw people rushing back home or to their hometowns for the weekend, to arrive at their destinations before the 10 p.m. curfew took effect. Police personnel were present along arterial roads to ensure that New Year revelry went on without law and order problems and to enforce curfew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/night-curfew-low-key-carnival-dampen-new-years-eve-revelry/article38084869.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||COVID duty, criminal cases make year eventful for police in district||After a relatively uneventful 2020 when pandemic disrupted criminal activities as well, the world of crime in Ernakulam district sprang back to life last year, leaving the police stretched between law and order maintenance and enforcement of the COVID-19 protocol. Monson case Monson Mavunkal, the self-styled “antique” dealer and confidence trickster, hogged the headlines for days, as he took several victims for a ride, allegedly cheating them of crores, besides putting the police force itself on the defensive with social media awash with images of senior officers and not less than a former State Police Chief posing with his “antiquities”. At last count, the Crime Branch have registered 12 cases against him, including a couple of cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, and filed the charge sheet in four cases. The Enforcement Directorate has also launched a parallel investigation into his financial dealings. The death of a 24-year-old dental student who was shot dead by a stalker at Nellikuzhi near Kothamangalam in July sent shock waves across the district. Since the accused also killed himself, the Ernakulam Rural police were left to arrest two from Bihar from where the accused procured the gun, and a friend of the accused. The death of two aspiring young models in what initially looked like a tragic accident at Chakkaraparambu in the early morning hours of November 1 soon morphed into an act of crime as the Crime Branch arrested a man who allegedly chased the victims’ car from the hotel where they had partied. He was slapped him with several charges, including stalking and culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Multiple cases were registered against him across the State under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Drug seizure The Excise department was pressed into action in the days leading up to Onam as over 1 kg of drugs, initially suspected to be MDMA but later identified as methamphetamine, was seized from an apartment in Thrikkakara. Out of the 21 accused, the excise could not arrest two as they fled abroad. Two cases were registered in connection with the seizure and the charge sheet in one case will be registered shortly. Aluva witnessed a day-long pitched battle between the police and Congress activists after a young law student allegedly took her own life owing to domestic violence and dowry-related harassment and left behind a suicide note naming among others the inspector of Aluva East police. The Congress launched a protest over the delay in suspending the officer, a demand which the government eventually conceded. The police also arrested the woman’s husband and his parents. The year-end was marked by violence when a group of migrant workers and police clashed at Kizhakkambalam on the night of Christmas, leaving the Kunnathunadu inspector grievously hurt. The police registered two First Information Reports and arrested 174 accused who were since then remanded in judicial custody.  The death of a 24-year-old dental student who was shot dead by a stalker at Nellikuzhi in July sent shock waves across the district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-duty-criminal-cases-make-year-eventful-for-police-in-district/article38084874.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Fort Kochi misses its date with Carnival Pappanji again||Fort Kochi’s unique year-end tradition of burning the effigy of an old man, the Pappanji, has been cancelled by the government-imposed night curfew fearing a rise in COVID-19 cases again. A Portuguese relic, this is one of the highlights of the Cochin Carnival, which engages local clubs and families in creating and burning effigies at midnight. “The Pappanji is the focus of merriment,” says K.J. Sohan, former Mayor, explaining that it is not an effigy of Santa Claus that is torched but is a way of saying goodbye to the old year. Eye-catching installation Unlike 2020, when the lockdown put paid to even the creation of Pappanji, this year has seen the installation of a few effigies. At the entrance of K.B. Jacob Road is an almost six-foot one created by Lyson and Vimal Paul of Parapally House. The family has done this annually for the past three decades and has also painted the road with graffiti, the most prominent being ‘Welcome 2022’. Another eye-catching installation is at the Manthra Bridge where six medium-to-small Pappanjis, each with a musical instrument, are grouped together. Made by the local club, Manthra Brothers, the figures will not be burnt and will be on display for a week, says Bristo Fernandez, one of the organisers. “Manthra Bridge is the entrance to Fort Kochi so it is important that we welcome visitors to our area. In better times, there used to be over 100 Pappanjis in Fort Kochi but, from last year, there are just a few.” Mr. Fernandez adds that a few small figures can be seen seated on chairs or propped against lamp posts in the pocket roads of Fort Kochi. “The appearance of a few Pappanjis this year is a sign of revival,” he says, hoping for a better year ahead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fort-kochi-misses-its-date-with-the-carnival-pappanji-again/article38084872.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Phase two: joint team checking specifications||The handing over of the first of the 23 Water Metro ferries (each capable of carrying 100 passengers) on Friday to Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) by the Cochin Shipyard and another four in the first quarter of 2022, would be followed by the delivery of the rest of the 18 ferries the very same year, said sources. KMRL placing orders for the second lot of 55 ferries (each capable of carrying 50 passengers) will be based on feedback from the commercial operation of the 23 ferries across 38 ferry terminals. According to sources, the smaller vessels will be able to operate through narrower waterbodies like the once-navigable Edappally Canal (which is among the canals that KMRL will clear of encroachments and rejuvenate under the Rs. 1,528-crore Integrated Urban Regeneration and Water Transport System project). A team of engineers of KMRL and the Cochin Shipyard are engaged in examining a checklist of 91 points, based on which the specifications of the second phase roll-out of 55 vessels will be finalised. This is because technical specifications, based on technological advancements, have changed drastically over the past couple of years. A decision on whether to construct the hull using aluminium that is being used for the 23 ferries in phase one, or any other material, too will be taken based on joint consultations, it is learnt. Meanwhile, KMRL is readying to recruit personnel based on expert advice, to maintain the fleet of 23 ferries that will be procured by 2022-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/phase-two-joint-team-checking-specifications/article38084875.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||HC’s e-initiatives to be inaugurated today||The e-filing, paperless court and e-office projects of the High Court of Kerala will be inaugurated on January 1. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Supreme Court judge Justice D.Y. Chandrachud (who is also chairperson of e-committee of the court), and Kerala High Court Chief Justice S. Manikumar will inaugurate the paperless court, e-filing modules for High Court and the State judiciary, and e-office in courts, respectively. Industries Minister P. Rajeeve will be among those who will offer felicitations. Aid of technology The justice delivery system in the State is all set for a quantum jump with the aid of technology, an official communication said. There will be a paradigm shift in the process of filing and processing of cases. Cases e-filed will be processed, verified and cured through e-mode. Stakeholders will have the option of hearing of cases in hybrid mode, involving physical hearing and videoconferencing. Delivering judgments Orders and judgments will also be delivered through e-mode. Every part of the process can be viewed, processed through the dashboard or virtual box of individual stakeholders and participants. All stakeholders, including litigants, could access, work and update cases from their homes, offices or in transit, added the communication.  Stakeholders will have the option of a hybrid mode of hearing involving physical hearing, videoconferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hcs-e-initiatives-to-be-rolled-out-today/article38084846.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Police to enforce security measures for apartments||The city police are set to enforce a slew of measures to enhance the security of apartment complexes in the wake of a spate of incidents, including hosting of drug parties and even the operation of a gambling centre, in apartments. Apartment associations will be alerted in view of the recent developments during the monthly meetings of Janamaithri police and residents’ associations. “We will be asking associations and owners to at least collect proper identity documents of new tenants since police verification cannot be insisted upon. Besides, a day of the household visits being undertaken by Janamaithri beat officers as part of the M-Beat [Mobile Beat] system will now be dedicated to residential flats,” said Aishwarya Dongre, Deputy Police Commissioner (Law and Order and Traffic), Kochi City. Apartment associations will also be asked to maintain high-quality CCTV networks and proper backup of footage so that they come in handy in the aftermath of any untoward incident. “Night patrolling officers will also drop in at apartment complexes to ensure that the security guards are on alert and that the guest register is maintained properly,” said Ms. Dongre. Recently, the police had stumbled across a gambling centre operating out of a premium duplex apartment on the 18th floor of a major apartment complex at Chilavannoor during the course of an inspection in connection with the cases being registered against Syju Thankachan, one of the accused in the Chakkaraparambu accident, under the NDPS Act. The tenant operating the centre was arrested invoking charges under the NDPS Act, since he was allegedly found in possession of 5 grams of ganja, and the Kerala Gaming Act. He had allegedly custom-built a gaming table, while the other paraphernalia was bought online, besides creating the ambience go with it. He had taken the luxury apartment at a monthly rent of Rs. 60,000, which was more than covered by the commission of between Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 40,000 he earned during every day of gambling, said police sources. “The owner was probably lured by the rent and had no clue about the happenings in the apartment, while the apartment association was also in the dark. The security guard, who was handsomely tipped, fudged the entries in the guest register. It is important that owners verify the credentials of tenants and ensure the proper upkeep of CCTV networks and guest registers. They should also be proactive about alerting the police in the event of an untoward incident. Often, associations are reluctant to inform the police for fear of damaging the reputation of the apartment,” said M.S. Faisal, Inspector, South Police. V.S. Somanathan, general secretary, All Kerala Flat Owners’ Association, said that the government should bring in common guidelines for the apartment associations to follow so that needless arguments between tenants and their guests and association staff are averted. “Also, apartment owners should also ensure the credentials of tenants rather than simply renting out apartments to the biggest bidder. Once the apartment is rented out, there is hardly any contact between the tenant and the owner, since everything happens online these days, making it easier for tenants to indulge in nefarious activities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-to-enforce-security-measures-for-flats/article38084878.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||96 kg of ganja seized, one held in Kochi||Excise sleuths seized over 96 kg of ganja from Edappally and arrested a man in this connection on Friday. A man was arrested with 2 kg of ganja while the rest was recovered from his car and the rented house of another accused, who allegedly supplied him the narcotic. The arrested man was identified as Libin, 30, of Chendamangalam, North Paravur. He had only recently managed to secure bail after being arrested in another ganja-related case. Another person escape Another accused, Babykunju aka Baby, of Cheranalloor, who allegedly supplied the ganja to Libin fled the scene on noticing the excise team. A hunt has been launched for him. The excise team also seized the car used to smuggle the ganja. The huge quantity of ganja brought form outside the State was stored anticipating high demand during the New Year celebrations. The seizure was made on a tip-off received by T. Anilkumar, Inspector of the excise enforcement squad. A team led by North Paravur excise Circle Inspector S. Nijumon, preventive officer V.S. Haneesh, and civil excise officers M.M. Arunkumar, P.S. Basanthkumar, N.K. Sabu, Binu Manual, C.G. Dhabu, Raji Jose, and M.A. Dhanya made the seizure. The accused was produced in the court, which remanded him in judicial custody. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/96-kg-of-ganja-seized/article38084880.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Woman’s death: sister in judicial custody||The police on Friday recorded the arrest of a 22-year-old woman on charge of murdering her elder sister at their home near North Paravur where the victim’s body was found in a charred state on Tuesday afternoon. A case has been registered invoking Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The woman was produced before court, which remanded her in judicial custody. She had gone missing from the house since the incident. Initially, the police had registered a case for unnatural death. Though the accused reportedly had mental health issues and had gone missing twice in the past, the police found her to be in a stable condition when her statement was recorded. The accused was taken into custody on Thursday evening from a shelter home in Kakkanad where she was lodged after being spotted by a patrolling squad at Menaka Junction the previous night. Fight with victim According to the police, she confessed to have had a fight with the victim following which she stabbed her and then set her on fire. The parents of the women were reportedly away when the incident took place. The accused used to be tied up on account of her tendency to flee home. On Tuesday, she was freed to go to the bathroom when she turned violent, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womans-death-sister-in-judicial-custody/article38084876.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Naidu arrives on visit to Kerala, Lakshadweep||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu, who had a brief stopover at the naval airport here en route to Lakshadweep, was accorded a warm reception on Friday. Dignitaries including Industries Minister P. Rajeeve, Mayor M. Anil Kumar, K.J. Maxi, MLA, and Chief of Staff of the Southern Naval Command, Rear Admiral Antony George, received Mr. Naidu who arrived by a special aircraft from Delhi. Many events The Vice President is slated to attend various events at Androth, Kadmat, and Agatti islands in Lakshadweep over two days before returning to Kochi on January 2. In Kochi, he is scheduled to visit thesoon-to-be commissioned indigenous aircraft carrier of the Navy, which is undergoing a series of sea trials. Mr. Naidu will also make a visit to the Naval Physical and Oceanographic Laboratory, the only DRDO facility in Kerala. He will lay the foundation for a towed array integration centre at the laboratory. He is also slated to take part in an event held in connection with the 150th death anniversary of Fr. Kuriakose Elias Chavara at Mannanam, Kottayam.  He will make a visit to the Naval Physical and Oceanographic Laboratory||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vice-president-arrives-on-visit-to-kerala/article38084848.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||SilverLine only for the elite: Satheesan||V.D. Satheesan, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, on Friday said that how anti-people was the SilverLine railway project became apparent when some pages of the detailed project report (DPR) appeared in the public domain. The DPR, he told the media here, was against developing the national highways in order to make the railway project successful. It also was in favour of increasing the fare of second and third A/C tickets in regular trains. The DPR, he said, also pointed to the need to increase toll charges on roads besides increasing bus fare. It all showed that the SilverLine project was for an elite class of people, Mr. Satheesan alleged. How would a government that claimed itself to be a Communists-led government implement such an anti-people project, he asked. Mr. Satheesan also accused the State Government of copying the Narendra Modi-led Union Government’s approach of moving away from planning process-led development to just implementing “projects”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/silverline-only-for-the-elite-says-satheesan/article38084851.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Pandemic still a challenge for cops||The pandemic that imposed a hitherto unprecedented job profile on the police continued to challenge the force in the district in 2021 with an intense second wave in the first half of the year. Then after the near normalisation of life for months, the police have now again been put on alert with the Omicron variant of the virus threatening another wave. “The second wave posed an immense challenge in enforcing home quarantine since the numbers were huge. We also had to strictly enforce social distancing and wearing of masks. Later, crowd management at vaccination centres in coordination with various departments assumed priority,” said C.H. Nagaraju, District Police Chief (Kochi City). By the time things settled down on the pandemic front, crime rate started getting back to the pre-COVID level. Mr. Nagaraju cited the arrest of Sanu Mohan, accused of killing his young daughter, from Karnataka after being on the run for days, as one of the major achievements of the city police. The arrest of Martin Joseph on the charge of confining a costume-designer from Kannur at an apartment at Marine Drive and brutally assaulting her was another major case. “Thereafter there was a real surge in the reporting of domestic violence,” said Mr. Nagaraju. Then came the case related to the death of two models. The arrest of the accused again put the focus back on drugs. “Going into the New Year, imposing restrictions and avoiding crowding remain our priority in view of the threat posed by Omicron,” said Mr. Nagaraju. The Ernakulam Rural police have prioritised the safety of women and children in 2022. “The year that went by was a challenging one as we had to deal with the enforcement of the pandemic protocol, maintain law and order, and manage problems posed by rain fury,” said K. Karthick, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). Of late, huge drug hauls, including those of ganja and synthetic drugs, has soared in rural police limits. Mr. Karthick, however, said that in majority of cases, the seizures were made along the national highway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-still-a-challenge-for-cops/article38084873.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Rs. 1-cr. COVID ward being set up at MCH||In the face of the rising threat from the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV2 virus, a makeshift COVID-19 ward costing Rs. 1 crore is being readied at the Government Medical College Hospital at Kalamassery. The ward is being equipped using CSR funds made available by LG Electronics. A press release said it would have an isolation ward with remote patient monitoring facility. During non-COVID times, it could be used as a post-operative facility, said MCH Superintendent Ganesh Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-1-cr-covid-ward-being-set-up-at-mch/article38084881.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||BJP trying to alter history, says SRP||The three-day Kollam district conference of the Communist Party of India (M) started with Polit Bureau member S. Ramachandran Pillai inaugurating the delegate meet at B. Raghavan Nagar at Valakam here on Friday. “What Modi is doing in Kashmir is similar to what Israel is doing in Palestine. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government is trying to sabotage the country’s democratic system. Laws like the Unlawful (Activities) Prevention Act (UAPA) are being widely used against political opponents to silence the voices of dissent,” said Mr. Pillai. He said the Prime Minister terming the cow ‘sacred’ was an embarrassment to the nation. “They are trying to alter history and showcase mythology as part of history.” Mr. Pillai added that the Communist party has stood with commoners trying to address their issues all these years. ‘Strong secular stand’ “It has made consistent interventions to improve the social, political, economic and cultural fabric of Kerala. At present only the Left can protect democracy and prevent privatisation. While all other political outfits are wavering, only the Left is taking a strong secular stand,” he said. While K. Somaprasad, MP, presided, senior leaders P.K. Gurudasan and N. Padmalochanan were honoured at the conference. George Mathew, Tulasidhara Kurup, and P.A. Abraham spoke. A total of 242 delegates, including 42 district committee members, will be part of the conference to be held from December 31 to January 2. Central Committee members T.M. Thomas Isaac, P.K. Sreemathi, Vaikom Viswan, and M.V. Govindan and State Secretariat members Ananthalavattom Anandan, M.M. Mani, and K.J. Thomas will attend the conference. Defeat in the Karunagapally and Kundara constituencies in the last Assembly will be a main topic of discussion at the conference. The conference will conclude on Sunday and State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan will inaugurate a public meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-trying-to-alter-history-says-srp/article38084929.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||Vacancies at primary health centre||The Thevalakkara Primary Health Centre has invited applications for the vacancies (temporary) of staff nurse and cleaning staff. Application written on white paper along with self-attested copies of certificates should reach Medical Officer, Primary Health Center, Thevalakkara P.O., Kollam 690 524, by 5 p.m. on January 1. For details, contact 0476 2877933.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacancies-at-primary-health-centre/article38084930.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||Vacancy at IHRD college||There is a temporary vacancy for the post of assistant professor in the Department of Mathematics at Karunagapally Engineering College under the IHRD. Interested candidates can walk in for an interview with certificates proving eligibility on January 3 at 10.30. a.m. For details, call 0476 2666160, 940042308.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacancy-at-ihrd-college/article38084931.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Tourist spots see huge turnout despite curbs||Despite strict regulations in view of Omicron threat, Kozhikode district witnessed huge turnout at prominent tourist destinations and shopping centres on New Year’s eve. Visitors crowded the Kozhikode beach and other eco-tourism spots to greet the New Year. Anticipating traffic regulations, people flocked the beach by noon. Traffic snarls The police had blocked entry of vehicles to the beach side by 5 p.m. as part of crowd-control measures. Though several urban link roads were blocked, it was a challenge for the police to regulate visitor turnout. Moreover, haphazard parking chocked several narrow roads causing severe traffic snarl. Meanwhile, celebrations shifted to restricted mode late in the evening thanks to intensified enforcement. Event planners had called off programmes in view of the pandemic threat and in compliance with government guidelines for public safety. Virtual events turned a hit with the active participation of guests on social media platforms. ‘Share Love, Not Drugs’, an online celebration hosted by the Kozhikode district administration on Instagram, drew the participation of many youths. Family gatherings with minimal attendance were held. Malls and other shopping centres remained closed after 10 p.m. Visitors were not allowed to enter beach tourism spots after the permitted hours. Surprise checks As part of enforcement measures in the city, police and Excise squads conducted surprise inspections at hotels and homestays. Though there was a total ban on outdoor celebrations, it did not affect small family gatherings held in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourist-spots-see-huge-turnout-despite-curbs/article38084863.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||Two floors of Shathabdi Bhavan for sale||Two floors of Shathabdi Bhavan (centenary complex) of the defunct Nedungadi Bank Limited (NBL) on the mini bypass road at Govindapuram in the city have been put up for sale with a reserve price of Rs. 4.26 crore and Rs. 4.12 crore respectively. The NBL, with its headquarters in Kozhikode, was one of the first private sector commercial bank established by Appu Nedungadi in South India in 1899. It was taken over by the Punjab National Bank (PNB) in 2003 after the Reserve Bank of India declared a moratorium on the bank. Confirming the development, PNB Kozhikode circle head N. Ramchandran said the complex was the headquarters of NBL once.  “It is a huge building. Now we don’t require seven floors for a circle office. That is why we decided to sell two floors,” he told The Hindu on Friday.  The bank has decided to sell the fifth and sixth floors measuring 606.08 sq m and 583.82 sq m respectively. The last date to submit earnest deposit money and documents for e-auction sale of the property is January 22. As part of the centenary celebrations, NBL constructed the seven-storey complex in 1.12 acres of land in 1999. At the time of the amalgamation with PNB, NBL had established 174 branches across the country. The Kozhikode circle of PNB has 60 branches in five districts in north Kerala. Initially PNB had plans to sell the complex and the land. But the management felt that none would purchase the assets at a huge price. After it took over NBL, PNB now owns assets worth crores of rupees in various towns and cities in the State, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-floors-of-shathabdi-bhavan-for-sale/article38084885.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Corpn. Council’s first anniversary fete to kick off today||Mayor Beena Philip on Friday refuted allegations raised by Opposition councillors earlier this week, terming them far-fetched and baseless. Speaking to reporters on the first anniversary of the corporation council, she said the previous year had left her extremely satisfied and proud of the achievements the council, despite battling the pandemic. “We cannot show you anything tangible. But we have worked relentlessly and have been able to resolve many issues through discussions and meetings, which counts too,” she said. She added that the Corporation had stood first in the State in tax collection, contrary to the Opposition’s claim, and that it had spent its own funds to tackle the pandemic and implement the LIFE Mission project. She pointed out that the civic body had resolved the issue between the Army and residents of the barracks area regarding building permits. The Hygiene Protocol that the Corporation had implemented was a cultural movement too. “It was aimed at improving the happiness quotient of city residents,” she said, adding that it could not be implemented in a hurry, as it needed time to convince people. The Mayor said the drainage near Arayidathupalam was being extended to the Conolly Canal to address waterlogging on Mavoor Road, with the help of the Public Works Department. Work on parking plazas at Kidson Corner and stadium will begin soon, while the one on Link Road is delayed due to technical problems. The Corporation has lined up several plans for the tourism sector, including a food street at Valiyangadi and the Vaikom Muhammed Basheer museum, which are being implemented with the help of the Tourism Department. The Palayam subway, which was turned into an art gallery, was opened for the public recently. Museum The old Corporation building will be handed over to the Department of Museums to be converted into a museum on the confluence of cultures in Kozhikode. Adalats every six months The Mayor also plans to hold adalats every six months to resolve complex issues. The smart parking system, expected to be implemented in a month, will alleviate parking issues in the city to a great extent, she said. The system is based on a computer application through which anyone coming to the city can book parking slots for a specific period of time based on availability. Meanwhile, the first anniversary celebrations of the council will begin on Saturday. Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas will launch the celebrations at 4 p.m. at the Kozhikode Town Hall. Minister for Museums and Ports Ahammad Devarkovil will inaugurate the smart parking system in the city on the occasion. The 100-day action plan of the corporation council will also be launched on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-councils-first-anniversary-fete-to-kick-off-today/article38084854.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Beyond the boundaries of mural painting||It is the same old Kerala mural painting, but with a touch of modernity. Sagara Neelima, an exhibition of mural paintings at the Simon Britto Memorial Art Gallery at Kappad here, is notable for the variety of themes and selection of colours. Sagara Neelima is the result of year-long planning by students and faculty members of the department of mural painting at Pookkad Kalalayam in Chemancheri grama panchayat. The team of 26 artists is led by well-known mural artist and trainer Satheesh Thayat. The set of around 30 paintings was made with the ocean as the theme, quite a contrast with the traditional mural style that uses themes from mythology. Here, the characters are common people who have some connection with the sea, such as fishermen, sellers of groundnuts and ice cream on the beach, historical figures like Vasco da Gama, and even fantasy creatures like mermaids. The use of colours is also different. While in traditional mural art, only basic colours like red, yellow, green, black, and blue are employed, any number of shades of those colours have been used for paintings at Sagara Neelima. However, the mural style of characterisation has been followed in all paintings. The exhibition was opened on December 27 by K.U. Krishna Kumar, principal, National Mural Art Institute, Guruvayur. The exhibition is the first to be held at the Simon Britto Memorial Art Gallery of Chemancheri grama panchayat after it was opened a few months ago. It will conclude on January 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beyond-the-boundaries-of-mural-painting/article38084856.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Gold worth Rs. 2.25 crore seized at Calicut airport||In separate incidents, the air intelligence unit of the Customs department seized over 5 kg of gold valued at Rs. 2.25 crore at the Calicut international airport on Friday. Based on input received from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Customs sleuths seized 1.19 kg of gold from a passenger, Mohammed Ajaz of Kannur, who arrived from Sharjah. He had concealed the contraband in small capsules in his rectum. In another case, 1.08 kg of gold in compound form was recovered from a passenger, Hussain Menattil of Malappuram, from Sharjah. As much as 958 gm gold was seized from Mohammed Safvan of Perinthalmanna who arrived from Jeddah. From Sharjah Gold weighing 890 gm was seized from a passenger, Shihabudheen of Malappuram, who arrived from Sharjah. The Customs also effected a seizure of 164 gm of 24 carat of gold from Yahiya Phawz of Kasaragod who arrived from Dubai. The Customs team also seized three capsules weighing 871.6 gm of gold from Shuhaib of Malappuram who arrived from Dubai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-worth-rs-225-crore-seized-at-calicut-airport/article38084894.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Flash checks after recovery of crude bomb materials||The bomb detection and disposal squad completed its first round of flash inspections in Thuneri panchayat in Kozhikode district to trace the source of a bundle of 21 steel bomb containers. It was on December 22 that the containers were recovered by the police. The search on Thursday was on a directive from District Police Chief (Kozhikode Rural) A. Sreenivas. A dog squad also accompanied the police. According to police sources, there were suspected attempts to make crude bombs in a village near Mudavantheri. Though the statements of a few local residents were recorded, the squads could not make any clear lead, they said. Police sources said the seized containers were suspected to be an indication of preparations to trigger unrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flash-checks-after-recovery-of-crude-bomb-materials/article38084852.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||3 held in gold snatching case||The Kasaba police on Friday arrested three persons suspected of having involvement in a major gold snatching case in the city. The accused- T.K. Padmesh, 40, N. Mohammed Sharooq, 34, Niyakath-were nabbed after a three-month-long investigation into the incident. According to police sources, the three were part of an eight-member gang that snatched gold ornaments weighing 1.2 kg on September 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-held-in-gold-snatching-case/article38084861.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Body of missing boy found||Rescue squads recovered the body of a 10-year-old boy, who went missing in the sea near the Kozhikode beach on Friday. The victim was identified as Shamnas, son of Shifas. The boy met with the accident while bathing in the area. Police sources said the body was recovered after several hours of search.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/body-of-missing-boy-found/article38084860.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||Spanish sparrow spotted at Ponnani||Spanish sparrow, a passerine bird found in the Mediterranean region, was spotted at Ponnani the other day. It was the first sighting of the exotic bird in South India. A migrant bird, the Spanish sparrow used to be seen in the northern parts of India during winter. “But it was the first time that we could spot the bird in Kerala,” said Jayan Thomas, an ophthalmologist from Kannur whose love of bird-watching brought him to Ponnani. Dr. Thomas reached Ponnani along with Aswin Janardhan in search of Ortolan bunting, a Eurasian bird belonging to the passerine family, after news spread about the presence of that bird at Ponnani. “But what we could see was even more exciting. The Spanish sparrow was perched on a branch in the bushes, where we had found so many friendly jackals as well,” he said. The bird was sighted in the bush between the shore and the road. “During our observation, we saw a bird of the size of a sparrow but with a different look. The upper parts were more streaked than the domestic sparrow, with streaks along the flanks. Its head and nape was brown. The head showed a supercilium, and the base of the bill was yellow,” Dr. Thomas said. Dr. Thomas took enough pictures of the bird and soon shared them in the birding groups as part of an authentication procedure. Experts said that it was a Spanish sparrow and was sighted for the first time in South India. Dr. Thomas said the Spanish sparrow he spotted was a male.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spanish-sparrow-spotted-at-ponnani/article38084888.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Quiet turnaround for IT sector||Just as most other sectors, things did not really look up for the information technology (IT) sector in the State in 2020. However, a combination of factors has led to a quiet turnaround in 2021, which is reflected in the increased recruitments and the opening of new companies. As many as 143 firms, big and small, started functioning in 2021 across the State’s three IT parks — Technopark in Thiruvananthapuram, Infopark in Kochi and Cyberpark in Kozhikode. New firms The companies that newly opened operations include Testhouse, AOT Technologies, Seqato Software Solutions, Kennedys Kognitive Computing and Airpay Payment Services. Many existing companies are expanding their operations as well. The total employment in the IT sector stands at 1.5 lakh across the State, out of which 1.15 lakh are concentrated in the three IT parks and the rest in firms located outside these. Job additions While 2020 was a year of job losses, there has been a demand for more resources. The number of jobs newly added in 2021 is estimated to be around 8,000. At Kochi Infopark, the number of employees went up from 47,000 to 51,000 in the past one year. The total employee strength at Technopark stands at 63,000, while it is around 1,000 at Cyberpark. There are a total of 973 companies now functioning across the three IT parks. The total IT export from these parks alone stood at Rs. 14,837 crores in 2021. The figure could be much more if all IT companies, including those outside the parks, were factored in. “The performance in 2021 was strong, with a double digit growth in exports. More mega projects are becoming live. Now, perhaps anybody who is qualified can get a job. But the problem is in getting the right talent as there is a shortage. Campus recruitment has also been strong in the past one year. There has been a lot of interest from funders in investing in start-ups in the State. For instance, a medical start-up that received investments from the funding agency Y Combinator, has decided to relocate from Bengaluru to Kerala. The Kerala Startup Mission has also been doing a good job in promoting brand Kerala. The newly opened digital hub in Kochi is focussing on specialised incubators and accelerators in healthcare, design and fintech sectors. We also have a plan for a similar facility in Thiruvananthapuram,” says John M. Thomas, CEO, IT Parks, Kerala. Digital shift With the technological shift in several sectors, accelerated by the COVID-19 outbreak, new businesses are coming up, focussing on edutech, health and digital payments. “Due to the digital shift, there is high growth in the sector and a huge demand for employees. Since operations are digital, with most employees working from home, many companies do not face any constraints to scale up. To address the lack of quality among graduates, steps have been initiated for industry-institution linkages to upskill students and make them employable. As many as 134 colleges under the Kerala Technological University have signed up for the programme,” says Binu Jacob, secretary, Group of Technology Companies (GTech), and managing director and CEO of Experion Technologies.  143 firms, big and small, started functioning across Kerala’s three IT parks in 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-quiet-turnaround-for-it-sector-last-year/article38084845.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||A cautious start to New Year||The State rang in the New Year with scaled-down celebrations amid growing restrictions necessitated by the Omicron variant of COVID-19. Concerns sparked by yet another surge in COVID-19 cases put paid to hopes of returning back to normalcy after two years of restricted movement and public activity. With the night curfew coming into effect at 10 p.m. on Friday, revellers had little option but to return to their houses hours before the clock struck 12. The famed Kovalam beach, which typically attracts a huge number of people on the New Year’s eve, witnessed a largely deserted look around 8.30 p.m. by when the local police began to send back the visitors. With DJ parties and other celebrations in hotels coming under the close watch of the police and the Excise department, the hospitality industry too opted low-key programmes. The capital city that has come under a tight security blanket with over 100 checking points set up to enforce the night curfew did not bear resemblance to the festive mood seen during the New Year’s eves of the past. The Arts and Crafts Village at Vellar, near Kovalam, however, witnessed a festive mood, with the organisers hosting a musical evening that featured popular singers and music bands. Kochi buzz People from within Ernakulam district and domestic tourists earlier poured into the famed Fort Kochi beach and the walkway of the locale, despite both being in not so good a condition due to sea erosion. The crowd was evenly matched at Veli Ground in Fort Kochi and roads leading to the locale, thanks to a host of activities that included rides such as giant wheel, demonstration by vehicles in ‘a well of death’ and football matches held as part of Cochin Carnival. The adjacent Pallathu Raman Square too turned into an activity hub. Kozhikode frenzy Curbs on movement of people after 10 p.m. till January 2, however, proved to be a dampener in the New Year celebrations in the region and also in Kochi city. The celebrations in Kochi city were mellowed down in comparison, although streets were decked up with lights Kozhikode bustled with excitement as a huge turnout was witnessed at tourist destinations and commercial areas. The Kozhikode beach remained the hotspot of celebrations as several flocked to the area by noon. While the festivities wound up by the evening in view of the Statewide restrictions, there were many takers for the virtual events, especially the online celebration organised by the Kozhikode district administration. (with inputs from Kochi and Kozhikode bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-cautious-start-to-new-year/article38085047.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||More takers for circular service||The occupancy levels in the city circular bus services launched by the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) recently have shown signs of marginal improvement. From an average daily passenger count of 3,200 across 66 buses in the initial week, the numbers have now gone up to 16,000 a day. The average ticket collection is around Rs. 19 per kilometre, with KSRTC officials maintaining that it should reach at least Rs. 35 for the service to become sustainable. The circular services, formally launched in November-end, are aimed at expanding public transportation in the city to more areas, and linking government offices, hospitals, shopping centres and other major institutions. In the initial phase, the service is being conducted along seven circles, each designated with separate colours – red, blue, brown, yellow, violet, magenta and orange. Buses ply the designated routes in the clockwise and anti-clockwise directions, ensuring availability of transport at regular intervals of about 15 minutes at most places. Lack of awareness However, in the initial days, many of the buses were seen plying with just a handful of passengers. The low patronage was mainly attributed to a lack of awareness. Following this, the KSRTC launched the Rs. 10 ticket offer to travel anywhere in the city. The introductory offer, which will be effective till January 15, seems to have somewhat paid off. The Good Day ticket of Rs. 50, with which a person can travel in any circular service anywhere in the city for a whole day, was aimed especially at those visiting the city from elsewhere and those having to take multiple trips during the day. As per the KSRTC’s analysis, the brown circle service, which takes the East Fort-Thampanoor- Killippalam-Jagathy-Thirumala-Valiyavila route is the most popular one. On Thursday, the brown circle service was used by 1,753 persons in the clockwise direction and 1,594 in the anti-clockwise throughout the day. The green circle service covering the East Fort-Uppidamoodu-Pettah-Medical College route too is witnessing a considerable number of passengers. The route recording the least patronage is the red circle service that covers East Fort-PMG-Vikas Bhavan-Nandavanam camp-Bakery junction-Thycaud route. According to KSRTC officials, those travelling shorter distances within the city might not choose this service due to the roundabout route via Vikas Bhavan. Extension plans “As per our analysis, we need to reach ticket sales of Rs. 35 per km to meet diesel cost, depreciation of buses and crew wages. We are studying occupancy patterns, but there won’t be any changes soon. There are plans to extend it to eight more routes, including coastal areas, for which a survey is being conducted. To increase awareness about the services, we are distributing booklets about its advantages,” said a KSRTC official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-takers-for-circular-service/article38084925.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||State posts highest annual rainfall in 60 years in 2021||If anything, Kerala was the playground of the rain gods in 2021. The year, which came to a close on Friday, will be remembered as one of the wettest for Kerala, setting new rainfall records in the southern State even as an increase in unruly weather systems over the Arabian Sea added fuel to the debate on climate-change impacts. In 2021, the State logged its highest annual rainfall in 60 years and the sixth highest annual rainfall in the past 120 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The State recorded an annual rainfall of 3,610.2 mm during the 12-month period against the ‘normal’ of 2,924.7 mm, an excess of 23.4%. There is more. The winter rainfall (January-February) and the northeast monsoon rainfall (October-December) in 2021 were the highest ever recorded in the State, while the pre-monsoon rainfall (March-May) was the sixth highest in 120 years, according to the IMD. Kerala recorded percentage departures of 409% above the normal in winter rainfall, 108% in pre-monsoon rainfall and 109% in the northeast monsoon rainfall. Southwest monsoon On the other hand, the southwest monsoon, which contributes most of the State’s annual rainfall quota, was ‘normal’. Although the season’s rainfall (June-September) recorded a 16% deficit, percentage departures ranging between -19% and +19% are classified ‘normal’ by the IMD. To compare, in 2018 and 2019 when the State was subjected to devastating floods and landslips, the surplus in annual rainfall had stood at 20% and 7%/ respectively. In 2020, the annual rainfall exceeded the normal by 2%. Of the five cyclones that formed in the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal in 2021, two — Tauktae in the Arabian Sea and Yaas in the Bay of Bengal — brought more rainfall to Kerala. In October, powered by a low pressure area over the Arabian Sea, torrential rainfall pounded central Kerala districts, triggering landslips in Kottayam and Idukki districts leaving several dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-posts-highest-annual-rainfall-in-60-years-in-2021/article38084901.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Vigil against Omicron community spread||With Omicron cases reported in 12 districts in the State, the government on Friday upped the vigil against community transmission of the new variant of coronavirus. The medical administration prepared itself for a two-day intensive vaccination drive even as Health Minister Veena George hinted at imposing more restrictions after assessing the pandemic situation. Of the total 107 Omicron cases in the State, 41 were in international travellers from high-risk countries and 52 from low-risk nations while 14 had picked up the infection through contact. Two of the Omicron cases were detected through sentinel surveillance. However, those on their contact list had tested negative. The government has advised travellers from low-risk nations to take self-observation seriously and avoid mixing with people. The intensive vaccination drive would be held on Saturday and Sunday, ahead of the vaccination for children starting Monday. Ms. George appealed to all citizens to make use of the opportunity to get themselves inoculated. Centres for children Meanwhile, arrangements have been made for special vaccination centres for children in the 15-18 age group. The government has issued directions for schools to help children register for vaccination. As many as 5,00,000 doses of Covaxin are expected to reach State on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigil-against-omicron-community-spread/article38084902.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Expo of alternatives to plastic begins||Minister for Tourism and Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas inaugurated the city Corporation’s exhibition of environment-friendly alternatives to plastic carry bags and other disposable items at the Putharikkandam Maidan on Friday. Around 25 stalls showcasing plastic alternatives have been set up as part of the exhibition, which will be open till January 2. Mayor Arya Rajendran, who presided over the function, said the cooperation of the public was important in the activities being organised as part of implementing a ban on plastic carry bags. V.K. Prasanth, MLA, later inaugurated a discussion on upcycling. On Saturday, Nava Keralam Mission coordinator T.N. Seema will interact with Haritha Karma Sena workers on the subject of recycling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alternatives-to-plastic-at-expo/article38084933.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Swedish tourist faces raw deal at Kovalam||A Swedish tourist’s plans of a New Year’s toast turned sour thanks to alleged high-handed approach of a few policemen that led the former to empty three bottles of alcohol on the road side at Kovalam on Friday. The incident occurred when Swedish native Stig Stephen Asberg was travelling along the Kovalam beach road on a scooter after purchasing Indian-made foreign liquor from an outlet of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) nearby. At a checking point, some police officers tasked with security checks stopped the motorist and sought the bills for the alcohol in his bag. While he did not possess the bill, he insisted that Bevco seals were intact on the bottles. While the police remained adamant that the tourist could not carry them without producing the bills, they were taken by surprise when the Swede walked towards a vacant plot to drain out the liquor. The incident was captured in a mobile phone by a passer-by who could be heard asking the police team: “Isn’t this a bad thing to do to a foreigner who has come here to enjoy?” Before he could empty the third bottle, he was told by the police that he could keep it if he managed to retrieve the bill from the Bevco outlet. He produced the bill at the police station. City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay, however, denied reports that the police compelled the tourist to discard the liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/swedish-tourist-faces-raw-deal-at-kovalam/article38085045.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Govt. effects reshuffle in top echelons of police||The State government has engineered a reshuffle in the top echelons of the police. It has posted G. Sparjan Kumar as the new Inspector General of Police & Commissioner of Police, Thiruvananthapuram City. P. Prakash has been posted as Inspector General of Police, South Zone. R. Nishanthini has been made Deputy Inspector General of Police, Thiruvananthapuram Range. Ankit Asokan is the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Thiruvananthapuram City. Divya V. Gopinath is the new District Police Chief, Thiruvananthapuram Rural. A.V. George has been posted as Inspector General of Police & Commissioner of Police, Kozhikode. Kuriakose V.U. is the new Deputy Commissioner of Police, Kochi City. Aishwarya Prasanth Dongre has been posted as Superintendent of Police, Thrissur Rural. Rahul R. Nair is posted as Deputy Inspector General of Police, Kannur Range. Vaibhav Saxena is the new Superintendent of Police, Kasaragod. Amose Mammen is the new Deputy Commissioner of Police, Kozhikode City. Madhukar Mahajan has been posted as Superintendent of Police, Pathanamthitta. Harshita Attaluri, Inspector General of Police, is posted as IG, Intelligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-effects-reshuffle-in-top-echelons-of-police/article38084899.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||2,676 fresh cases in State||Kerala recorded 2,676 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 60,962 samples were tested. Ernakulam with 503 cases registered the highest number of infections followed by Thiruvananthapuram (500) and Kozhikode (249). The State’s death toll due to the pandemic rose to 47,794 with 11 recent deaths and 342 mortalities attributed to COVID-19 as per the Supreme Court guidelines added to the list. Of the 2,676 cases, 2,453 were attributed to contact and 42 people arrived from outside the State. The source of infection of 156 persons was yet to be identified. As many as 1,399 were breakthrough infections and 140 had received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine while 771 were unvaccinated. The active caseload in the State as on Friday was 19,416, of which 10.4% were admitted to hospitals. A total of 1,11,110 persons were under surveillance in various districts, with 1,07,564 in home/ institutional quarantine and 3,546 under observation in hospitals. The authorities have imposed strict restrictions in six wards where the Weekly Infection Population ratio is higher than 10. An official press note here said 2,742 COVID patients were discharged from hospitals after they tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2676-fresh-cases-in-state/article38084904.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||5 held for attack on boy||The Neyyar Dam police on Friday arrested five persons in connection with an assault on a minor boy at Amboori a few days ago. The arrested were identified as Rahul (19), Vishnu (24), Subin (24), Vineesh (19) and Akshay 20, all hailing from Amboori. According to the police, they have been held for the assault on a Plus One student on December 26. The gang has been accused of torturing the 17-year-old when he had gone to bathe in a waterfall at Amboori. Besides injuring him using a knife, the accused allegedly assaulted him. The gang also forcibly fed him alcohol before setting him free, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5-held-for-attack-on-boy/article38085048.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Vaccination for teens in district begins on Jan. 3||Vaccination for teenagers between the ages of 15 and 18 will begin at all government hospitals and health centres in the district on January 3. Vaccines will be available at the centres on the following Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. The District Medical Officer said that vaccination will be exclusively provided for the 15-18 age group in 10 select health centres in the district on all days. The select centres are the General Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram; Government Ayurveda colleges; IFHC, Pangappara; Fort Taluk Hospital; General Hospital, Neyyattinkara; CHC, Kesavapuram; Taluk Hospital, Chirayinkeezhu; Taluk hospital, Attingal; Taluk hospital, Varkala; and Taluk hospital, Vithura. In all the other health centres except these 10, vaccine will be available for those above the age of 18 on Mondays and Fridays.  Online registration for vaccination for the 15-18 age group will begin on January 1 on the website www.cowin.gov.in . The registration can be done using an account created earlier as well. Registration can also be done directly at the vaccination centre, subject to availability of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-for-teens-in-district-begins-on-jan-3/article38085050.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Pettah murder: police seek custody of accused||The Pettah police on Friday sought custody of Simon Lalan who allegedly murdered a teenager few days ago. According to Pettah station house officer (SHO) Riyas Raja M.B., the accused will be taken to the scene of the crime again to strengthen circumstantial evidence. The police remained firm on its belief that the murder was not pre-meditated. However, the accused harboured hatred towards the 19-year-old victim, Aneesh George, for his relationship with the former’s elder daughter. The investigation team recovered the weapon from within a water meter box at Simon’s house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pettah-murder-police-seek-custody-of-accused/article38085044.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||500 new COVID-19 cases||The capital district recorded 500 COVID-19 cases and 541 recoveries on Friday as the number of active cases stood at 3,150. A test positivity rate (TPR) of 6.1% was recorded on the day in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/500-new-covid-19-cases/article38085049.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||CM greets people on New Year||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the New Year will usher in an era of development and prosperity for Kerala. In a New Year’s eve message to citizens on Friday, Mr. Vijayan reminded citizens to exercise caution while ringing in 2022, given the threat posed by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. He urged people to isolate forces that attempted to divide society on religious lines and incite enmity between communities. Kerala had emerged at the top in various national-level indexes relating to law and order, health, poverty eradication and economic growth. The government was committed to social welfare and development. Kerala had successfully braved several adversities in 2021, including floods and the pandemic. It would continue to surge ahead in 2022, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-greets-people-on-new-year/article38084897.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||CPI(M) protest against bid to ‘polarise’ State||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] will muster the masses against a bid by Hindu majoritarian outfits and Islamist forces to create a communal divide in the State. It will organise marches across the State on January 4 on the death anniversary of CPI(M) worker U.K. Kunjuraman “who fell to Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) swords” while protecting a mosque during the Thalassery riots. In 2,273 centres The marches will commence at 5 p.m. and conclude at 7 p.m. in 2,273 centres across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-protest-against-bid-to-polarise-state/article38084898.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Mission for organic farming||The Agriculture department will give shape to an organic farming mission in 2022 for guaranteeing production of safe food, Minister for Agriculture P. Prasad has said. Food production in 2022 will give emphasis to the protection of health, Mr. Prasad said while briefing the media as part of a two-day workshop on ‘Carbon Neutral Agriculture in Kerala’ organised by the Agriculture department on Thursday and Friday. The department will give shape to projects aimed at achieving carbon neutrality in the farm sector by including the recommendations and suggestions made at the workshop. Farmers will be trained in agricultural practices that help reduce carbon emissions. Workshops will be held in all panchayats on the theme of carbon neutral agriculture. The department also plans to introduce benchmarks at the unit level (individual farm holdings) as part of assessing the emission levels, he added. Carbon balance Experts who attended the workshop opined that an assessment of carbon balance is the first step towards achieving carbon-neutral farming in the State. How to go about reducing carbon dioxide emissions forms the second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mission-for-organic-farming/article38084905.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Couple in adoption row get married||Anupama S. Chandran and Ajith Kumar B., the city couple who waged a successful battle to get back their biological child, ended the year on a high note when they got married here on Friday. Just over a month after being given custody of their one-year-old son by the Family Court here, Anupama and Ajith tied the knot at a local registrar office here in the presence of the little one. The couple had submitted papers for making their union legal a month ago and were allotted the last day of the year to begin a fresh chapter in their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/couple-in-adoption-row-get-married/article38085043.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Drive against TB to be ramped up||Activities aimed at eradicating tuberculosis (TB) completely from the district by 2025 will be intensified, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. She was speaking at an event in connection with National TB Elimination Programme here on Friday. Ms. Khosa said the objective would be achieved through measures in association with the Health, Labour and Fisheries department, Kudumbashree volunteers, ASHA workers and anganwadi workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drive-against-tb-to-be-ramped-up/article38085051.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Kala Utsav begins today||Eighteen students from the State will participate in the Kala Utsav 2021 organised by the National Council of Educational Research and Training from Saturday. The seven-day online fete, in which competitions will be held in real time, will see students participate in nine events. Contests will be held separately for boys and girls who will showcase their talents in events such as classical and folk dance and music, painting, sculpture, indigenous toy making and so on. The events for the State will be organised in Kozhikode district this time as well. Music and dance events will be held at a specially arranged studio hall, while painting, sculpture and similar events will be held at Karaparamba Higher Secondary School. The performances will be adjudged virtually by judges in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kala-utsav-2021-kicks-off-today/article38084850.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||IGNITE 2022 to be inaugurated today||Higher Education Minister R. Bindu will inaugurate IGNITE 2022, a competition for promoting the spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship among students, on Saturday. The programme is organised under the aegis of Darsana, a charitable organisation run by the alumni of NSS College of Engineering, Palakkad. The competition themes include accessibility, inclusion, rural well-being and micro enterprises. APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajasree will deliver the felicitation address. The university is associating with the programme as ‘University Partner’ along with Digital University Kerala, Kerala Startup Mission and K-DISC, an official release here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-to-inaugurate-ignite-2022-today/article38084849.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||MSP for copra increased for 2022||The minimum support price (MSP) for fair average quality milling copra has been hiked to Rs. 10,590 a quintal for the 2022 season from Rs. 10,335. The MSP for ball copra has been hiked to Rs. 11,000 a quintal from Rs. 10,600.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/msp-for-copra-increased-for-2022/article38084891.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Tracing the roots through folklore||Forgotten trails often take us to our roots. Shilpa Mudbi and team are on a mission to keep the folklore alive by telling the lesser-known folk stories to urban audiences.  Co-founder of the Urban Folk Project, Shilpa Mudbi introduced the audience at the HOPE Fest to the mythology of Yellamma through a music and storytelling performance - Yellamma and other stories on Thursday night.  In her captivating style, she narrated the transformation of young beautiful princess Renuka to powerful Goddess Yellamma. Scope for research The Urban Folk Project was started by Shilpa Mudbi Kothakota and Adithya Kothakota to bring to the fore lesser-known folk forms by creating scope for research, documentation, archiving, and ultimately experimenting with these knowledge systems.  “We started our journey researching and documenting Yellammanaata , which is a ritualistic overnight play hosted mostly during Dussehra by marginal communities around north Karnataka.”  Yellamma’s temples are across southern India, even in Sri Lanka. Her following across Karnataka and Maharashtra consists of the Jogathi (transgender women disciples), Jogamma, Jogappa, and the devadasi communities. The Urban Folk Project followed these communities to document rare and dying forms related to ‘Yellammanaata’ like ‘Chowdki Pada’ and ‘Jogathi Nritya’. Yellamma and other stories is the contemporary version of Yellamma’s myth. “We could trace many versions of Yellamma stories during our research. Every community tailor-made the experience according to their needs and styles. Its is a collective telling of experience of so many women,” says Ms. Mudbi. The performance raises pertinent questions about gender, patriarchy, purity and power structures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tracing-the-roots-through-folklore/article38084923.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||HOPE festival concludes with Kabir Project||The three-day HOPE Fest organised by the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi concluded here on Friday with the soulful Kabir Project by Mooralala Marwada, the celebrated Sufi folk singer from Kutch, Gujarat. Ungala Neenga Yeppadi Paakka Virumbareenga?, a solo in Tamil by Anandsami, inspired by Sizwe Bansi is Dead by Athol Fugard, John Kani and Winston Ntshona, was performed in the Black Box on the concluding day.  Branthu (madness), a mediated performance based on Malayali Dalit writer C Ayyappan’s short story, was performed on Thursday and Friday. In the play, the performer and collective use affective technologies, material, and an Ambassador car to generate experiences. The play starts when four of the audience starts a journey in an Ambassador car. The central character starts communicating with the travellers through virtual media and takes them into the intricacies of life. It communicates with the audience how colour, religion, and illness influence personal life. At a time only four people can watch the 40-minute play directed by Abheesh Sasidharan. The play was performed many times in the two days. Velichenna performed by Sudhi Panur was another play staged at the festival.  The festival had a screening of videos from ITFoK archives. It also had a digital theatre performance. A compilation of films from the Belfast International Art Festival was broadcast at the fest. Eminent poet P.P. Ramachandran was in conversation with theatre person Sreeja Arangottukara on ‘Grameena Nataka Vedi (village theatre) on Friday. Ramachandran spoke about evolving contemporary theatre with strong women presence from a male-centric era in the past. Village theatres Sreeja Arangottukara noted that village theatres were different in process of conceptualising, making and evolving of performances compared to academic theatres. “Largely it will be a group activity with its own merits and demerits. However, it is surely a democratic process.” Diversity in making, scripts, approach and terotechnology have to be experimented and welcomed in the theatre, she said. She called for drama theatres in the State to make theatre more popular.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hope-festival-concludes-with-kabir-project/article38084844.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Onto new beginnings||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/onto-new-beginnings/article38084883.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Driven by devotion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/driven-by-devotion/article38084893.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:21 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||350 students bag jobs in recruitment drive at JNTUA||As many as 350 students of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Anantapur College of Engineering secured placements in the 2021-22 academic year with 15 companies conducting recruitment tests, said JNTUA Vice-Chancellor G. Ranga Janardhana and Registrar C. Sashidhar here on Friday. At a press conference, they said the pandemic had come as a boon for students with some of the companies, which could not have come to the college here for conducting the physical recruitment process, chose to club the students along with students of other colleges and make them compete at the national level,” said Mr. Janardhana. Meanwhile, Srinivasa Ramanujan Institute Of Technology director Aluru Sambasiva Reddy said the total number of students getting placed in the 2021-22 academic year was 544 (TCS - 119, Wipro - 172, CTS - 180).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/350-students-bag-jobs-in-recruitment-drive-at-jntua/article38084541.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Belagavi school closed for ‘conversion’; reopened||Officials of Education Department, Belagavi, closed St. Paul Higher Primary School in Ilkal near Hungund in Bagalkot district on Thursday on the charge of trying to convert students and their parents. Block Education Officer (BEO) of Hungund issued an order on December 26 after a complaint by some right wing organisations and an inspection that was carried out in the school by an officer. The State Government is yet to enact a law against forcible or fradulent conversion. The government did not table the Anti Conversion Bill in the Legislative Council, though it was passed by the Legislative Assembly during the Winter Session in Belagavi recently. Officers withdrew the order to close the school after news spread in the media on Friday. The school effectively remained closed for four days, as the order was issued on December 26, which was a school holiday. Deputy Director of Public Instructions, Bagalkot, Shreeshail Biradar confirmed that the order was withdrawn by the BEO who earlier issued the order. “The school reopened on Friday,’’ he added. In his earlier order, the BEO had said that the school was being closed indefinitely for celebrating Christmas in violation of rules. However, he did not cite the rules in the order. “You have served meat in the classrooms during Christmas celebrations on December 25. This led to embarrassment to the public and the department. You have to keep the school closed till further orders. Legal action will be taken if you reopen the school without permission,’’ the BEO said in the order. Meanwhile, convenor of pro-Hindu organisations Pradeep Amarannanavar gave a complaint to Tahsildar K. Rathna saying that the school was trying to convert students and their parents. “The management invited students and parents to school on Christmas Day and offered them lunch with meat, wine and Satya Veda, a Kannada translation of the Bible. This is nothing but an attempt at converting Hindus to Christianity, by allurement and force,” the organsations said. The complaint named principal Silvia D’Marck and members of school management committee Jackson D. Marck and Umesh Nayak of Harapanahalli and others. “Since inception of the school, these persons are converting members of the poor and backward communities, including Banjara, Ambiger and other caste groups,” he said. “They are insulting Hindu Gods and converting the vulnerable groups of the Hindu. Once they are converted, they force the converted to throw out statues and images of Hindu Gods from their homes. This is against the law. What is more, the school’s licence is getting renewed annually, as the school management bribes some Education Department officials. The authorities should close down the school and cancel its license,’’ the complaint said. After the complaint came, Education Department’s Block Resource Centre Coordinator I.M. Angadi inspected the school and submitted a report. The BEO acted on the report and issued orders for closure. Mr. Jackson D Marck told journalists in Ilkal on Wednesday that the allegations were baseless. “We are not converting anyone. First of all, the school is not run by Christian missionaries. It is run by some interested residents of Ilkal. The school committee includes members of all faiths. The school has students of all religions studying. The lunch was not held in the school. The school is run on a rented premises,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/belagavi-school-closed-for-conversion-reopened/article38084275.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New Year begins with fresh curbs in Tamil Nadu||New Year will begin with fresh lockdown restrictions in Tamil Nadu amid growing concerns over the sharp rise in the novel coronavirus cases, including those of the Omicron variant. On Friday, when the daily case count touched 1,155, crossing the 1,000-mark after months, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin chaired a review meeting and announced the restrictions that will be in force till January 10. According to the announcement, physical classes cannot be held for students of Std. I-VIII, and play schools and kindergartens will be closed. Physical classes for Std. IX-XII and colleges and ITIs will be allowed with the standard operating procedures. The existing norms will have to be followed at the places of worship. All exhibitions and book fairs (including the Chennai Book Fair which is scheduled to start on January 6) have been postponed, Mr. Stalin said. 50% capacity Only 50% of customers will be allowed to dine in at a given point of time at restaurants, hotels and bakeries. Only 50% of patrons will be allowed at entertainment and amusement parks. The number of guests at wedding and related events has been capped at 100. Only 50 persons will be allowed at funerals. At jewellery and textile shops, owners will have to ensure that only 50% of the customers are allowed in at any given time. At gyms, yoga centres and clubs too, only 50% patrons are to be allowed at any given time. No standees will be allowed in public transport buses, while only 50% passengers are to be allowed in Chennai Metro Rail. Likewise, mutiplex/cinemas/theatres can fill only 50% of their seats. At beauty parlours, salons and spas, only 50% of customers will be allowed. Sports events will be allowed in open grounds in compliance with the norms, while only 50% of the audience could be let into indoor stadia. The current restriction on social, cultural and political events will continue. Since there are “higher chances” of the unvaccinated population aged above 60 getting infected by the Omicron variant, the Chief Minister requested them to take the vaccine. Those who have taken only the first dose should take the second, he insisted. “The proprietors and employees of commercial establishments must have been vaccinated,” Mr. Stalin said, urging all establishments to avoid air-conditioning and ensure physical distancing among the customers. Essential activities Only essential activities would be allowed in the containment zones, he said. A house-to-house survey would be undertaken in areas having a high rate of infection. “COVID appropriate behaviour and norms would be monitored and penalty would be imposed on those who violate these norms,” Mr. Stalin said. Earlier in the day, Mr. Stalin chaired a meeting at the Secretariat to review the COVID-19 situation, the spread of the Omicron variant and the lockdown restrictions. Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan, Minister for Municipal Administration and Water Supply K.N. Nehru were among those who took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-year-begins-with-fresh-curbs/article38084604.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:21 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shortage of teachers takes a political turn in Kuppam||The Kuppam Assembly constituency, represented by former Chief Minister and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, is at the centre of a new controversy as primary school students went on a protest demanding the appointment of more teachers. While there is a shortage of teachers at government-run schools, the protest by children has raked up a controversy with Education Department officials and ruling party cadres terming it the ‘handiwork of TDP cadres’. Kuppam Assembly constituency, which is aloof from the rest of the district, has remained a bone of contention when it comes to the posting of teachers for decades. A majority of the teachers in government schools reportedly leave no stone unturned to get transferred to other mandals, which enjoy better connectivity, admit senior education officials in Chittoor. Against this backdrop, the lone mandal of Kuppam is said to be hit by a dearth of over a hundred teachers in government schools, with 40 schools reportedly manned by only one teacher and four schools having no teachers. Thursday’s incident at Gundlamadugu village of Kotalur panchayat in Kuppam mandal has left officials ruffled, who are at their wits’ end over who was behind the protest which saw primary school children blocking a rural road — something never witnessed before in the district.  District Educational Officer (DEO) Shriram Purushottam told The Hindu that a thorough inquiry was under way into the episode. “The primary school at Gundlamadugu has four teachers. On Thursday, one teacher was sent to handle a no-staff school in the neighborhood. Another teacher was on leave. We are ascertaining how the children were allowed to stage a protest on a public road. A detailed report would be submitted to the Collector,” the official said.  The DEO said that currently, there is a dearth of over 2,500 teachers in Chittoor district, with primary and upper primary schools the most affected. “With the new education policy, we are all set to chalk out a suitable action plan to overcome the shortage of teachers. However, this deficit of teachers will in no way affect Class X, as high schools are well-staffed with experienced teachers,” Mr. Purushottam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shortage-of-teachers-takes-a-political-turn-in-kuppam/article38084543.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police rescue kidnapped boy, arrest 3 persons||The West Godavari district police rescued a six-year-old boy who was kidnapped four days ago, and arrested three persons for the crime on Friday. The boy was reunited safely with his parents. On receiving a complaint from Akhil’s parents, Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma formed special teams to detect the case. The accused demanded Rs. 10 lakh ransom in exchange for setting the boy free. The accused were identified as Rangababu, M. Ramanamma, and K. Eshwar. “The boy was studying in UKG at a school in Eluru. The accused took the boy to East Godavari district and kept him in a house,” Mr. Rahul Dev Sharma said. Eluru Town Deputy Superintendent of Police O. Dileep Kiran, who investigated the case, said that Akhil’s parents lodged a kidnapping complaint with Eluru Rural police on December 27. During investigation, it was revealed that the boy’s father, A. Shankar Rao, had a financial dispute with the main accused Rangababu, who had roped in two others to assist him in kidnapping the six-year-old. “After tracking the movements of the accused, police rescued the boy from the house of a woman named M. Ramanamma. Another accused, K. Eshwar, who abetted the crime, was also arrested,” Mr. Dileep Kiran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-rescue-kidnapped-boy-arrest-3-persons/article38085077.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jinnah Tower in the eye of a storm||The Jinnah Tower Centre is a prominent landmark in the city’s bustling commercial centre. It is the only edifice in the country erected in memory of the founder of Pakistan, Mohammad Ali Jinnah, and is one of the few heritage structures in the city. The Jinnah Tower was built in 1972 by Lal Jan Basha, the grandfather of former MLA and Adviser, Minority Affairs, Sk. Ziauddin, in memory of Jinnah following a goodwill visit by Jinnah’s emissary Judaliyaquat Ali Khan. The tower erected on six pillars of cement opens to a tall dome, typical of the Mughal architecture. A tweet by Telangana’s BJP MLA Raja Singh that the tower should be renamed either after A.P.J. Abul Kalam or Telugu verse poet Gurram Jashuva has created a commotion. “How can a prominent centre in Guntur be allowed to be named after Jinnah, who was responsible for the partition of the country?” questioned Mr. Raja Singh. Two other leaders, BJP State president Somu Veeraju and Y. Satya Kumar, have retweeted the content sparking a protest from the YSRCP. A delegation of the BJP leaders has met GMC Commissioner C. Anuradha and submitted a representation seeking that the tower be renamed. BJP Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimnha Rao has also supported the plea, and said he has submitted a representation to rename the tower. The YSRCP leaders have alleged that the BJP is trying to create communal discord in the city, which has been a symbol of peace and harmony over the years. “There has never been such a demand in the history of the city. The party will lodge a strong protest over the issue,” MLC party secretary Lella Appireddy has asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jinnah-tower-in-the-eye-of-a-storm/article38085008.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to launch enhanced pensions today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the YSR Pension Kanuka distribution programme at Prathipadu village on the New Year day on Saturday. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised that the monthly pension would be enhanced from Rs. 2,250 to Rs. 2,500, and later to Rs. 3,000 in a phased manner in the State. According to the schedule from the Chief Minister’s Office, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy will leave Tadepalli at 10.30 a.m. and arrive at the helipad at Prathipadu at 10.55 a.m., where he will interact with local leaders. Public meeting At 11.15 a.m., he will address a public meeting and launch the programme. Home Minister M. Sucharitha, Members of Legislative Counicl Talasila Raghuram and Lella Appireddy, and District Collector Vivek Yadav supervised the arrangements for the Chief Minister’s visit. A crowd of 10,000 people is expected to attend the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-launch-enhanced-pensions-today/article38085006.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shock as BJP loses in Bommai’s home turf||The results of elections to local bodies in Dharwad and Haveri districts have put Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in an embarrassing position as his party has lost to the Congress in both the districts where he has been politically active for few decades. While Haveri district is where Mr. Bommai’s constituency Shiggaon is located, Dharwad district is where he began his political career as a member of the Janata Parivar and went on to become an MLC. In Haveri district, the elections were held to the Bankapur Town Municipal Council and the Guttal Town Panchayat. In both places, the BJP failed to come to power, despite being the home district of the Chief Minister. In Bankapur, thr Congress secured 14 seats, while the BJP managed to get seven seats. Two Independents tasted victory. In Guttal, the Congress emerged the clear winner with 11 seats, while the BJP won six and an Independent won in one ward. Minority population Political observers feel that in Bankapur, where there is sizeable minority population, a clear win for the right-wing party was not expected. However, insiders feel that the BJP could have done better had there been more efforts from the local leaders, especially because the Bankapur Town Municipal Council comes under the Chief Minister’s constituency. Soon after the results, Mr. Bommai said the BJP had never won in Bankapur because the minorities accounted for 65% of the population and added that the situation was similar in Guttal. However, insiders differ even on Guttal. According to them, the Chief Minister’s reluctance to intervene in any issue related to Haveri and the alleged high-handedness of BJP MLA Nehru Olekar had more to do with the Guttal results. To add to the embarrassment, Mr. Bommai received setback in Anniger Town Municipal Council, which comes under the Navalgund constituency represented by Cabinet colleague Shankar Patil Munenakoppa. The Congress emerged the single largest party with 12 seats, the BJP won five, while six candidates contested as Independents. After the Hangal Assembly debacle in which the BJP lost despite working hard, these results are certainly cause of embarrassment to Mr. Bommai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shock-as-bjp-loses-in-bommais-home-turf/article38084277.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:47 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A murder every week in E. Godavari||Belying its reputation as one of the most liveable places in the State, East Godavari district has witnessed a spurt in crimes in the year gone by. In 2021, the district has reported at least one murder every week. The total murders reported in 2021 are 83; 22 in Rajamahendravaram city alone and 61 in the rest of the district including the Konaseema region. At least eight women were murdered in Rajamahendravaram city. , “Of the 132 rape cases reported in 2021, at least 120 cases were those where the accused happened to be the victim’s boyfriend,” East Godavari SP M. Raveendranath Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-murder-every-week-in-e-godavari/article38085031.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:47 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB lauded for taking steps to curb ganja, liquor trade||East Godavari Superintendent of Police M. Raveendranath Babu on Friday said that the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) has played a key role in tracing and eradicating ganja and illicit liquor smuggling activities in the district in the year gone by. The SEB has conducted large-scale raids on the mangrove cover in the Godavari estuary, and eradicated the flourishing ID liquor production cycles, Mr. Raveendranath Babu said. On many occasions, the SEB personnel braved challenging terrain and mangrove patches during the raids on the ganja and ID liquor production locations both along the coastal belt and the Agency areas. In a special meeting with SEB officials, Mr. Raveendranath Babu expressed confidence that the initiative of reforming those involved in ganja cultivation and trade and ID liquor trade would succeed with the support of the SEB. “SEB personnel would be roped in for the ‘Parivarthana’ programme, ” said Mr. Raveendranath Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seb-lauded-for-taking-steps-to-curb-ganja-liquor-trade/article38085032.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A towering presence in Malayalam cinema for seven decades||G.K. Pillai, who died in Thiruvananthapuram on Friday at age 97, has been a towering presence in Malayalam cinema for the last seven decades. He may have been often typecast as a villain, but he was a talented character actor.  After making his debut in Snehaseema in 1954, in which he played a 65-year-old man, he went on to act in over 300 films and several television serials. It was during the 1960s and 70s that he attained popularity as a villain. He was a regular presence in Malayalam cinema of that time. With his tall frame and powerful voice, it was a formidable presence too.  Born in 1924 at Chirayinkeezhu in Thiruvananthapuram district, he had left home and joined the Indian Army when he was 16. He had taken part in the Indo-Pak War of 1947-48 and had served as a soldier in Kolkata during the communal riots of 1946. He returned home after serving the army for 14 years and wanted to act in cinema. In an interview, he said he had found from a newspaper report that his schoolmate Abdul Khader (Prem Nazir) had become a star in Malayalam cinema. If Nazir could, he felt, he too could. But it was not easy. He was not only rejected, but also insulted. And it took a letter of recommendation from his friend to land his first role. Sudden impact  He made a sudden impact and Snehaseema did well at the box office. He did the role of sage Vishwamithra in his second film Harishchandra.  A few films later, he played the villain in Nairu Pidicha Pulivalu (1958) and that proved a turning point. He established himself as one of the most popular villains in Malayalam cinema.   He was also an integral part of Vadakkan Pattu films, which became sort of a genre in Malayalam cinema. He acted in several such films namely Othenante Makan, Ponnapuram Kotta, Kadathanattu Makkam, Thumbolarcha, Thacholi Ambu,Kadathanattu Makkam and Palattu Kunjikkannan. Karyasthan (2010) was his last major film. He had been active in television serials for the last couple of decades. He was part of some popular serials, like Kumkumapoovu (Asianet).  Passion for acting Remarkably, he retained his passion for acting even into his late 90s. He was, in fact, one of the oldest actors working in Indian cinema.  “He was among the finest character actors in Malayalam cinema,” director Hariharan told The Hindu. “I have known him right from the time I worked as an assistant director. He acted in my films Valarthumrugangal, Vellam and Lava . He didn’t get the recognition he deserved.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-towering-presence-in-malayalam-cinema-for-seven-decades/article38084505.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six Maoists arrested in Telangana||Six Maoist militia members, who were planning to carry out a landmine blast targeting combing police parties, were arrested by the Venkatapuram police in the Thippapuram forest area near the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border, the police said. Two tiffin boxes, two detonators and 11 metres of wire were seized from the possession of the arrested militia members, a press release issued here on Friday said. Acting on credible inputs, a combing operation was launched by Venkatapuram police along with CRPF team in the Thippapuram-Pedda Utlapally forest area in the wee hours of Thursday. Five of the arrested militia members hail from Penkavagu village of Venkatapuram mandal and one from Pedda Utlapally in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district., The militia members were trained by Maoist leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-maoists-arrested-in-telangana/article38084504.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala CM condemns Sangh Parivar for attack on Christians||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan lashed out at the Sangh Parivar for attacks on Christians even while trying to pamper the community in Kerala. Inaugurating the CPI(M) district conference here on Friday, Mr. Vijayan said the Sangh Parivar had unleashed widespread attacks on minorities, including Christians and scheduled communities. He said Hindutva extremists had unleashed many attacks during Christmas celebrations. “Shouting ‘Santa Claus murdabad’, they burnt the effigies in Andhra Pradesh. They attacked Christians at a Varanasi hospital during the celebration. They destroyed a statue of Jesus at Ambala. They made attacks in Kurukshetra and Assam.” The Chief Minister said when there were 142 attacks against Christians in 2015, it increased manifold to 478 in 2021. “The highest number of attacks was reported from Uttar Pradesh,” he said. He said the Sangh Parivar was accosting Christians in Kerala because of the State’s secular nature. “Our warnings against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) policies have become a reality. Only corporates are supporting the BJP policies,” he said. SilverLine project He accused the BJP of trying to use the Centre against the State government in connection with the SilverLine project. The Congress, BJP and the Jamat-e-Islami were conspiring against the State government, he said. “The Congress is becoming a B-team of the BJP,” he said. Senior party leader C.T. Krishnan hoisted the flag. Apart from Mr. Vijayan, central committee members A.K. Balan, K.K. Shailaja, Josephine, K. Radhakrishnan and E.P. Jayarajan were present. N.N. Krishnadas welcomed the gathering. V.K. Chandran presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-cm-condemns-sangh-parivar-for-attack-on-christians/article38084503.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remove Jinnah Tower or rename it by Jan. 24: BJP||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Friday served an ultimatum on the YSRCP government to either remove the Jinnah Tower (a popular landmark in Guntur named after founder of Pakistan Mohammad Ali Jinnah), or rename it by January 24. Addressing the media here, Mr. Veerraju said, “If the government is not willing to do any of these, it should allow our party to remove the structure.” “The BJP will anyway remove it whenever it comes to power in the State,” Mr. Veerraju added. The BJP leader also demanded that the King George Hospital (KGH) in Visakhapatnam be also renamed. “Name KGH either after Gowthu Latchanna or Tenneti Viswanadham. Both the leaders are freedom fighters from coastal Andhra Pradesh,” Mr. Veerraju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remove-jinnah-tower-or-rename-it-by-jan-24-bjp/article38085010.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala hundi earns Rs. 833.41 crore in 2021||The hundi at the temple of Lord Venkateswara registered an income of Rs. 833.41 crore in 2021. The collections are significant, coming at a time of reduced footfalls at the hill temple owing to the impact of COVID-19. Against an average footfall of 75,000 on normal days, only a third of them were allowed for darshan this year, according to temple officials. Last year, the income was only around Rs. 510 crore as the hill temple was closed for several months on account of the pandemic. The TTD earned Rs. 298 crore through the sale of laddus. Around 5.96 crore laddus were sold in 2021, temple officials said. Meanwhile, 1.37 crore devotees availed free meals under the Nitya Annadanam scheme, and 48.75 lakh devotees got their heads tonsured at the Kalyanakatta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirumala-hundi-earns-rs-83341-crore-in-2021/article38084544.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Now, ‘immunity booster bouquets’ to tackle Omicron!||When the emergence of Omicron variant at the fag end of 2021 challenges the very purpose of COVID-19 vaccination, the importance of developing a strong immunity comes to the fore yet again. Laying emphasis on this aspect while ushering in the New Year with open hands, the ‘immunity booster’ series of bouquets have entered the Tirupati market, with the ingredients being tender coconuts, watermelon, citrus fruits, dry fruits and nuts. Of all these, the tender coconut seems to be the ‘in thing’ for the season, which is selling like hot cakes. “Presenting coconuts to guests is an age-old Indian custom, which has faded of late as many think it is not modern. This is why we have combined this traditional element into the modern culture of presenting bouquets,” says C.B.V. Saikumar Reddy of Blue Petals, a florist who has come up with the novel idea. Tender coconut contains potassium, manganese, copper, selenium and magnesium. Similarly, watermelon contains potassium, copper, Vitamins B5 and A, apart from Vitamin C. The selling price of coconut bouquets is Rs. 300, while fruit baskets are available from Rs. 150. The idea has caught up among the denizens and the concept is going viral on social media. Focus on fluid intake “The prevalence of dengue and other viral fevers after the devastating floods in and around Tirupati underline the importance of fluid intake, which prompted us to offer gift-wrapped tender coconuts,” says Mr. Saikumar, adding that the ‘immunity booster’ series was launched in consultation with medical practitioners and nutritional experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/now-immunity-booster-bouquets-in-market-to-tackle-omicron/article38084551.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD identifies vendor ‘selling’ products online at higher price||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has identified an individual vendor, who has reportedly misused the Amazon platform by selling its products at prices higher than the fixed tariff, and has taken up the issue with the company. The TTD had tied up with the online portal, Amazon India, as well as India Post for getting better reach for its New Year products such as 2022 calendars and diaries, besides ensuring physical distancing during the COVID-19 times through door delivery. This was apart from the TTD’s own sale counters at its Kalyana Mandapams and information centres spread across the country. Upon observing that an individual had misused the Amazon platform by selling the TTD products at a premium price, the TTD appealed to the company to initiate stringent action against such vendors exploiting the devotees. Similarly, the temple management also cautioned the devotees to deal directly with the portal and not through other vendors. 3D calendar Meanwhile, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Friday unveiled a special six-page calendar, comprising 3D and silver coated portraits of Sri Venkateswara and Goddess Padmavathi. Only 25,000 copies of this ‘limited edition’ series are available for sale at Tirupati, Tirumala, Chennai, Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-identifies-vendor-selling-products-online-at-higher-price/article38085013.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sahitya Akademi award for NSU academic||Kendra Sahitya Akademi has announced its ‘Yuva Puraskar’ in Sanskrit to Swetapadma Satapathy, a senior assistant professor of Sahitya at the National Sanskrit University (NSU), Tirupati. She has been selected for her book, ‘Katha Kalpalata’, containing 42 short stories dealing with a variety of issues having contemporary relevance. The book has been unanimously adjudged the best by a jury of three eminent scholars and academic awardees. The book highlights the moral teachings in verse form at the end of each story in a simple and lucid style. Dr. Satapathy is a winner of four gold medals in the All India Sanskrit Talent Festival organised in Tirupati and has received the title, ‘Vanita Baijayanti’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sahitya-akademi-award-for-nsu-academic/article38085012.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shuttler seeks MP’s support for badminton academy||After the State government offered to allot land to Srikanth Kidambi for setting up a badminton academy in Tirupati, the ace shuttler initiated the process of identifying the land. Mr. Srikanth, who reached Tirupati along with family members on a pilgrimage on Friday, called on MP M. Gurumoorthy at his camp office and discussed his plans for the academy and sought the latter’s support. While thanking the Chief Minister for the offer, Mr. Srikanth likened his proposed academy to the Pullela Gopichand Badminton Academy. “I want my academy to be developed on an international platform so as to meet the coaching needs of aspirants,” he told the media. The sportsman said he had recovered from his previous injuries and is now aiming a gold medal at the World Badminton Championship slated for next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shuttler-seeks-mps-support-for-badminton-academy/article38084546.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Myntra CEO is now TTD advisor||E-commerce website Myntra’s chief executive officer Amar Nagaram took charge as an advisor to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) here on Friday, which was also his last working day in his current position. Mr. Nagaram, it is learnt, will provide counsel to the TTD on its futuristic projects, including and involving online registration of sevas and e-commerce platforms. The TTD had recently tied up with Jio platform to ensure hassle-free booking of darshan and accommodation online. Mr. Nagaram hails from Tirupati and joined the e-commerce company as its chief in January 2019. Earlier, he was chief technology and product officer at Flipkart.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/myntra-ceo-is-now-ttd-advisor/article38084533.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:21 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Robot to aid SVIMS in medical field||Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) has received a robot developed by the Technology Business Incubator (TBI) of Sri Padmavati Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV), expected to complement human performance by reaching the inaccessible areas of operation. SVIMS Director and Vice-Chancellor B. Vengamma formally accepted the ‘Robo’ from Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) trust board Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, at a function held on SPMVV campus on Friday. According to TBI chief executive officer Surya Kumar, ‘Robo’ was developed with a budget of Rs. 50,000 by K.Pavan, an innovator hailing from Palamaner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/robot-to-aid-svims-in-medical-field/article38084547.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. opposed hike in GST on handloom sector: Buggana||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council has decided to defer the hike in tax rate on textiles from 5% to 12%. Andhra Pradesh and several other States opposed the hike at the 46th GST Council meeting chaired by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, State Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said that any hike in GST on textiles would impact Andhra Pradesh the most. There are about 3 lakh handloom weavers and most people wear cotton clothes unlike nylon in other States. Andhra Pradesh has requested the Council to take a call on increasing the GST on textiles after conducting a comprehensive study. A.P. pointed out there was no clarity on GST to be imposed on apparel, clothing and textile products. There was no clarity on the rate of GST that would be imposed on nylon and cotton fabric as well as manmade and natural textiles. There were also no estimates available with the Council on any possible increase in refund, he said. Polavaram Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said issues arising out of bifurcation of the State were also discussed at the meeting. “The cost of the Polavaram project is on the rise due to the Land Acquisition Act enacted in 2013. About Rs. 20,000 crore would be the escalation in cost. The Centre is requested to approve the latest estimates,” the Finance Minister said said. Kadapa steel plant The Centre was also requested to take steps to implement Dugarajapatnam Port, Kadapa Steel Plant, petrochemical complex and other projects as per the Bifurcation Act. The Centre was also requested to make necessary allocations for these projects in the ensuing budget, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-opposed-hike-in-gst-on-handloom-sector-buggana/article38085017.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘A.P. in list of States not implementing RTE Act’||The School Education Department in the State is working on the modalities for implementing reservation of 25% seats in private schools for children belonging to the Economically Weaker Sections as stipulated by the Right to Education (RTE) Act, from the next academic year. Sources in the department said that a meeting held recently and attended by all the allied departments, discussed threadbare key aspects like identification of the beneficiary children, collection of the data and the cost incurred by the State government on each child’s education. “We have asked the IT wing to develop a web portal for the purpose,” said an official. What the Act says Section 12 (1) (c) of the RTE Act mandates that private unaided schools reserve 25% seats for children from the EWS. However, a recent report compiled by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) revealed that only 16 States across the country were implementing this rule and the name of Andhra Pradesh figures in the list of non-implementing states. A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by an advocate in the State High Court came up for hearing recently. Principal Secretary, School Education, B. Rajasekhar, in an affidavit submitted to the court, informed that the beneficiary students were being identified and a web portal was being developed for the purpose. Informing the court that a meeting was held to discuss the modalities of the implementation of RTE Act, he said the government had finalised fee structure for private schools and issued orders in August. Under the RTE Act, children in the 6-14 age group are entitled to free and compulsory education in the country. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) prepared by the NCPCR for better implementation defines the children who can be considered under disadvantaged groups and weaker sections. According to it, children from the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes (non-creamy layer), de-notified tribes and nomadic tribes, children with disabilities/special needs, children suffering from HIV/AIDS, children of martyred soldiers/ Central Armed Police Forces personnel or those killed in the line of duty and children of deprived communities such as traditional sex workers make up the disadvantaged groups. Under weaker sections come children from families that are registered under Antyodaya Anna Yojana, families included in the State’s Below Poverty Line list and children belong to parents/guardians whose annual income is lower than the minimum limit prescribed by the government. Implementation of the new initiative amidst the existing financial turmoil is bound to be an uphill task for the government. “Sending children from economically weaker background to private schools after spending huge money on giving facelift to government schools seems like an irony,” said representative of a private and unaided schools’ union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-in-list-of-states-not-implementing-rte-act/article38085023.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘308 persons held, ganja worth Rs. 1.52 cr. seized’||Police registered 145 cases against ganja smugglers and peddlers in Vijayawada Police Commissionerate, arrested 308 persons and seized marijuana worth Rs. 1.52 crore in 2021. The total conviction rate this year was 63.82%. Raids were conducted at different places, and police seized liquor worth Rs. 74.44 lakh and arrested 360 smugglers. Similarly, gutkha worth Rs. 5.55 lakh was seized in 139 cases and 236 persons persons, Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata said. Releasing the annual crime data for the year 2021 at a press conference here on Friday, the Police Commissioner said there was a rise in registration of cases by 23.29% and focus would be laid on blade batch gangs, ganja and gutkha smuggling and crimes against women. In 2021, police registered 1,358 property offences while people lost property worth Rs. 12.88 crore. Police arrested the accused in 61.65% cases. Rise in crimes against women In all, 1,384 cases of crime against women were booked in the police commissionerate in 2021, up from 831 last year, registering an increase of 39.95%. Through Disha Police Stations, 512 cases were booked and 91 cases were registered through Disha SoS calls. People lost property worth Rs. 5.13 crore in 126 cybercrime cases and police recovered property worth Rs. 2.20 crore (42.92%). In 2020, 166 cybercrime cases were registered, Mr. Kanthi Rana explained. Police registered 3,506 lockdown cases, of which 3,080 cases were settled, 73 were in different stages in courts and 353 were under investigation. As many as 277 persons were arrested in 1,121 road accidents in the Police Commissionerate limits. New sheets opened To control crime, police expelled 13 rowdy-sheeters, and opened 238 suspect-sheets. New rowdy sheets were opened against 40 criminals and DC and KD sheets were opened against two criminals. Police detected several sensational cases including the theft of silver lion idols from the Sri Durga Malleswaraswamy Devasthanam. A notorious temple offender involved in about 18 cases was arrested and stolen items worth Rs. 60 lakh was recovered. Three members of an inter-State gang were arrested and the robbery in Attica Gold Showroom was detected in just a few hours, Mr. Kanthi Rana said, adding that ABCD Awards were given away to police personnel for swift resolution of cases. Focus is being laid on visible, community and friendly policing and awareness drives are being launched against consumption of drugs and other banned products, the Police Commissioner said. Deputy Commissioners of Police V. Harshavardhan Raju, D. Mary Prasanthi and A.B.T.S. Udaya Rani were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/308-persons-held-ganja-worth-rs-152-cr-seized/article38085083.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Healthy food habits, exercise will help fight cancer’||Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata has said that regular medical check-up, good food habits, yoga and physical exercises can cure cancer. “The word ‘cancer’ creates panic. But advanced treatment is available for the disease and there is no need for worry. Police Department will be there for all its staff at all times,” he said and told the staff to take care of the health and their families.  He thanked HCG and The Hindu managements for organising an awareness camp for police at the AR Grounds here on Friday.  HCG Cancer Centre medical director Dr. M. Gopichand said about eight lakh patients were losing their lives due to cancer and about 12 lakh were getting affected by the disease every year. “Cancer is curable if detected at an early stage. People are requested to change their lifestyles, avoid outside food and go for health check-ups every year,” he said. Consumption of alcohol, chewing and smoking of tobacco and unhealthy food habits were the main cause of the disease while the role of genetic factors was only 10%, he said. Early detection “Cancer can be detected five years in advance. Cervix and breast cancers are common in females, which can be detected at an early stage. External radiation treatment is vital, which doesn’t have any side effects. Medical Oncology and Chemotherapy are the other types of treatments,” said hematologist P. Amarnath. “CBC test can detect blood cancer. It is advisable for people who crossed age 40 to undergo the test or consult a doctor for early detection of cancer. CML and CLL are the two types of blood cancers,” he said. The HCG Centre conducted a screening camp and medical tests for the police personnel. The doctors answered the queries raised by the police on cancer and its treatment. The Police Commissioner presented mementos to Dr. Sridhar, Dr. Gopichand, Dr. Amarnath and other police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/healthy-food-habits-exercise-will-help-fight-cancer/article38085076.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mahila panel received 1,274 petitions in 2021: Chairperson||The Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission has received 1,274 petitions seeking justice in the year 2021, according to its Chairperson Vasireddy Padma. The commission had provided treatment to many pregnant, migrant and orphan women during the COVID-19 crisis, Ms. Padma told the media on Friday. The commission had taken suo motu cognisance of 72 cases. It had received 63 petitions from NRIs on domestic violence, sexual harassment, torture, property disputes and other issues. Complaint cells “In cases of sexual harassment at work places, the commission is planning to book the staff of the departments or wings concerned,” Ms. Padma said. The heads and managements of all the organisations had been directed to set up complaint cells immediately. “The commission will soon visit the government and private organisations and enquire about the functioning of the complaint cells, including the number of petitions received, action taken and the cases forwarded to higher authorities, or to the police,” Ms. Padma said. “In cases pertaining to sexual assault of minors and grave offences, members of the commission had called on the victims at their homes and hospitals in Visakhapatnam, Guntur and other districts, and provided them financial and medical aid,” she said. The commission, in association with the colleges and university management, was organising awareness programmes on cybercrimes, trafficking, child marriages, online frauds and other crimes. “We request the managements to form Anti-Trafficking Clubs and conduct programmes in villages to prevent trafficking,” she said. The commission members had supplied food, medicines and necessary aid to the migrant women stranded in the State during the pandemic, she said. Later, Ms. Padma, along with the commission’s officers, cut the New Year cake. Commission members K. Jayasri and G. Jaya Lakshmi, Director R. Suez, Secretary Sailaja and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mahila-panel-received-1274-petitions-in-2021-chairperson/article38085004.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD seeing temple as a source of income: BJP||BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy has criticised the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) for “seeing the temple as a revenue generating source.” “The government has nominated several members to the TTD board only to meet its political necessities,” Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy alleged in a tweet on Friday. “The TTD gives discounts on its calendars and diaries for bulk orders. Amazon, an e-commerce portal, however, is looting the people by hiking the prices,” the BJP leader alleged. “While the calendar costs Rs. 15, Amazon is selling it for Rs. 199. Similarly, the diary, which costs Rs. 150, is priced at Rs. 799, and with a discount of 38%, it is sold at Rs. 499. Another Rs. 61 is being charged as delivery charges,” he said. “Amazon is selling the TTD products at exorbitant prices on the one hand and looting the devotees in the name of discounts on the other,” he alleged. “The TTD is hurting the sentiments of the devout. It should reconsider its decisions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-seeing-temple-as-a-source-of-income-bjp/article38085015.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||2021 a nightmare for people: TDP||The year 2021 was a nightmare for the people of the State as it was marked by “ruthless suppression, false cases and arrests,” TDP MLC Paruchuri Ashok Babu alleged here on Friday. Addressing the media, Mr. Ashok Babu said the year was witness to “indiscriminate exploitation of sand and unchecked frauds in liquor, land, cement, mining, and drugs.” He attributed the “decline in the education, health, financial and socio-economic sectors” to the government’s lopsided policies. The YSRCP government had pushed a progressive Andhra Pradesh into a situation far worse than Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Hoping that the New Year 2022 would bring a change for the better in the lives of the people, the TDP leader said farmers, students, employees, workers, traders, BCs, and weaker sections were waiting for relief sooner than later. Mr. Ashok Babu said that the people, who had given 151 out of 175 MLAs to the YSRCP, were cursing themselves now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2021-a-nightmare-for-people-tdp/article38085018.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. warns BJP against ‘divisive’ politics||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president S. Sailajanath on Friday accused the BJP of polarising people in the State under the guise of ‘Hindutva’. Taking strong exception to what he called “BJP’s divisive politics”, he said the party’s State president Somu Veerraju should stop making statements that would disturb communal harmony. He said India was known for its unity in diversity. Referring to the BJP demand on the Jinnah Tower in Guntur district, he said let people decide what they want. He said people would not remain silent if the BJP continued its divisive politics. New Year greetings Extending New Year greetings to the people of the State, he expressed the hope that year 2022 brings light into people’s lives and ward off the darkness spread by the COVID gloom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-warns-bjp-against-divisive-politics/article38085021.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book festival from today||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan will inaugurate the the 32nd edition of the Vijayawada Book Festival virtually here on Saturday evening. The annual event, being organised by the Vijayawada Book Festival Society at the PWD Grounds (Swaraj Maidan), will feature over 176 publishers and sellers up to January 11. At a press conference on Friday, society president T. Manohar Naidu, secretary K. Lakshmaiah, honorary president B. Babjee and others said various new books would be launched at the literary dais every day. Competitions would be held while career talks would be hosted for youth. Walk for Books, a book-lovers’ walkathon, would be organised on January 4 from Gandhi Nagar Press Club to Swaraj Maidan, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-festival-from-today/article38085019.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC cargo services cheaper than other States: corporation official||The cargo sector of the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has come in handy to the officials at the helm of the public sector giant to shore up its revenues even in the pandemic times. In a statement on Friday, the corporation’s Executive Director (Administration) K.S. Brahmananda Reddy said despite constant increase in the price of diesel, the RTC did not raise its service rates and continued to deliver parcels and couriers at an affordable price. “The rates charged by the road transport corporations in the neighbouring States are almost double the rates of APSRTC,” said Mr. Reddy. He said the APSRTC charges Rs. 120 for delivery of a 40-kg parcel covering a distance of 300 km, while the same service would cost Rs. 270 in a neighbouring State. He said unlike the private cargo sector, the APSRTC delivers 70% of the cargo material within 24 hours after the booking. Under the recently-introduced door delivery services, on an average, the corporation delivers 2,000 parcels daily to 84 different destinations. Contact number People seeking RTC cargo services could visit the website apsrtclogistics.in or call 0866 2570006, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-cargo-services-cheaper-than-other-states-corporation-official/article38085081.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 held for ‘robbery bid’ in retired IPS officer’s house||The Penamaluru police on Friday arrested two persons, T. Vikram of Ramthapur, Hyderabad, and V. Gopichand of Sangameswaram village, Avanigadda mandal, Krishna district, who allegedly tried to commit robbery in the house of a retired IPS officer T. Yoganand. The accused entered the officer’s house at Tulsi Nagar at Penamaluru on December 25 and attacked Mr. Yoganand’s father T. Venkata Thata Rao. They threatened him to hand over valuables but fled after seeing their domestic help, Sathipandu. The Penamaluru police, who registered a case, arrested the accused after observing the CCTV footages and other evidences, said Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-held-for-robbery-bid-in-retired-ips-officers-house/article38085078.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, CM extend New Year greetings||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday greeted people of the State on the eve of the New Year. In a statement, Mr. Harichandan hoped that the year 2022 would bring cheer, happiness, peace and prosperity to the citizens across the State. ‘Follow COVID norms’ “The New Year gives us a hope to look forward to a bright future, to explore new opportunities and an inspiration to achieve new goals,” he said, and made an appeal to the people to celebrate the New Year at home with their family members and follow the mandatory COVID-19 protocols. In view of the prevailing COVID-19 situation, the customary practice of prominent persons of the civil society and the general public meeting the Governor in the Raj Bhavan is being done away with this year also. Inclusive growth Wishing people a very happy and prosperous New Year, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy hoped that New Year would ring in the chimes of health, happiness and wellness in every family and the State will continue its welfare and development policies for a better future and inclusive growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-cm-extend-new-year-greetings/article38085022.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six Addl. DGPs promoted||The State government on Friday issued orders promoting seven IPS officers to above super time scale in the rank of Director General of Police (DGP). Additional DGP rank officers belonging to 1990, 1991 and 1992 batches Anjana Sinha, Madireddy Pratap, Mohd. Ahsan Reza, Harish Kumar Gupta, P. Sitarama Anjaneyulu, Kasi Reddy, V.R.N. Reddy and Nalin Prabath were promoted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-addl-dgps-promoted/article38085005.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Aim to bridge gender gap in workforce’||Lohiya Edible Oil Pvt. Ltd., manufacturer of Gold Drop Sunflower oil at Kakinada industrial area, has been striving to improve the lives of women and their families by providing an inclusive workforce, said its director, Sales and Marketing, Mitesh Lohiya. In a statement, Mr. Lohiya, referring to the gender parity issue in the labour workforce across the country, said the firm had been doing its best to bridge the gap, which would only lead to greater economic output. “A majority of our workforce comprises women from the neighbourhood and this improves the community through useful economic activity. We have women in our packing line in a noise, heat and dust-free environment, which allows them to pay attention at the workplace” he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aim-to-bridge-gender-gap-in-workforce/article38084540.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor releases grant for book fest||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has sanctioned Rs. 5 lakh from his discretionary grant funds to the Vijayawada Book Festival Society for organising the 32nd Vijayawada Book Festival to be held from January 1 at Swaraj Maidan. Mr. Harichandan will inaugurate the book festival in virtual mode from Raj Bhavan on Saturday. Special Chief Secretary to the Governor R. P. Sisodia said the grant of funds, given for the first time, would encourage the organisers to hold such events on a regular basis and promote the habit of book-reading among youth and the general public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-releases-grant-for-book-fest/article38085080.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to conduct cleanliness survey in all wards: Lakshmisha||On the lines of Swachh Survekshan Survey(SSS), the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is mulling to organise a survey in the 98 wards of the corporation to assess cleanliness in the wards in the New Year - WINGS (Ward Improvement Goal For Swacch Survekshan), said GVMC Commissioner G. Lakshmisha. He said that such initiatives would give overview of the cleanliness in the wards, ways to improve sanitation. The ward winng first prize will receive Rs. 1 crore, while the ward standing second would be sanctioned Rs. 50 lakh for ward development. The poster for the initiative was also released by Municipal Minister Bocha Satyanarayana, GVMC officials on Friday. The Commissioner was speaking during the annual press conference and announced his ideas for 2022. Mr. Lakshmisha said that he was planning to make himself available to public every day from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. Plans were being made to construct a park, exclusively for women, in all the zones. He also instructed the Sachivalayam/Secretariat staff to organise New Year celebrations in the office involving all staff and sanitary workers and also adopt a New Year resolution to strive hard and make efforts to make Visakhapatnam the cleanest city in the coming Swachh Survekshan Survey 2022. He said that medical camps will be conducted for the sanitary workers in all the wards very soon. Earlier, Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari read out the progress made by the corporation this year. The civic body had taken up 2,703 development works with a budget of Rs. 40,969 lakh. Of them, 1,554 works were completed, while 231 works were in progress. While 306 works were about to start, as many as 612 were still at the tender-stage. She said that as part of Clean Andhra Pradesh, the GVMC has received about 361 garbage collection vehicles in the first phase. About Rs. 2.10 lakh dustbins were provided to BPL families in the city. As part of ward development plan, the GVMC has sanctioned about Rs. 1.50 crore to each ward. As per the estimates, 923 works would be taken up in all the 98 wards, which requires an amount of Rs. 140.14 crore. The works include, 402 road works to be taken up with Rs. 59.87 crore and 250 drainage works at a cost of Rs. 37.32 crore, she said. Tenders would be called soon in this regard, she said. The Mayor said that the GVMC has planted about 2.21 lakh saplings this year. About 42 new health centres would be constructed in the city as per the plan of the government to establish a Community Health Centre (CHC) for every 30,000 population. There were already 30 health centres in the city. As part of Nadu-Nedu, the GVMC had developed 59 schools and in second stage, 40 schools would be developed. She said that the Waste-to-Energy Plant at Kapuluppada would start functioning soon. Deputy Mayor J. Sridhar and Chief Medical Officer K.S.L.G. Sastry were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plan-to-conduct-cleanliness-survey-in-all-wards-lakshmisha/article38085089.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remove encroachments on roads, MP tells officials||District Road Safety Committee Chairman and MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana has called for coordinated efforts by all departments to bring down road accidents in the district. Addressing the participants at the road safety meeting here on Friday, Mr. Satyanarayana said that encroachments on roads, which connect to the National and State Highways, should be identified and removed. He said that the government was apprised on the need to construct 12 flyovers at major junctions in the city. Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam suggested that that the Police Department and the GVMC officials should ensure synchronisation of traffic signals to reduce the waiting time for motorists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remove-encroachments-on-roads-mp-tells-officials/article38085088.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Works worth Rs. 337 crore under progress, says VMRDA chief||Several development works worth Rs. 337 crore taken up by the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) are in different stages of completion. These include the Multi-Level Car Parking Project (MLCP) at Siripuram and the Natural History Park and Museum, VMRDA Chairperson A Vijaya Nirmala has said. The Chairperson along with VMRDA Commissioner K. Venkat Reddy spoke to the media at the annual press conference here on Friday.Ms. Vijaya Nirmala said that the MLCP was being constructed with a budget of Rs. 80 crore over 1.35 acres. The 11-storied building would have five blocks for parking and six blocks for commercial space. Natural History Park and Museum and Integrated Museum and Tourism Complex were being taken up with a budget of Rs. 88 crore and Rs. 40 crore respectively. Kailasagiri development plan, with World Bank funds of Rs. 55 crore, was already started, she said. Apart from these, three Master Plan roads and commercial complexes were being constructed, she added. Mr. Venkat Reddy said that this year the VMRDA has completed works worth about Rs. 160 crore worth works, including the Rs. 122 crore NAD flyover project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/works-worth-rs-337-crore-under-progress-says-vmrda-chief/article38085092.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drop Ministers abusing Somu, BJP urges CM||BJP State vice president P. Vishnu Kumar Raju has appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to drop the Ministers and control YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) MLAs, who, he alleged were using abusive language against BJP State president Somu Veerraju. Addressing a media conference here on Friday, Mr. Raju said that the YSR Congress Party government should reduce the prices of liquor, if possible, instead of criticising Mr. Veerraju. He alleged that the State has witnessed despotic rule for the past two-and-a-half years and hoped that YSR Congress Party Ministers and MLAs would change their attitude at least in the New Year. He said that the roads in the State were in bad shape but contractors were not evincing interest in taking up the works as they were not paid their dues by the government. He said that if the same trend continued the YSRCP would not get any seats in the next elections. He challenged the Chief Minister to win at least 15 seats, without luring voters with liquor and money. The YSR Congress Party government gave assurances of total prohibition but was now allowing wine shops to function as usual on the New Year Eve, he said. He said that the ‘Praja agraha sabha’ in Vijayawada had revealed that the people were opposing the YSR Congress Party rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drop-ministers-abusing-somu-bjp-urges-cm/article38085087.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 arrested for ‘circulating’ fake currency notes||The city police on Friday arrested a two-member gang, which was circulating fake currency notes here on Friday. The police have seized fake currency notes of the value of Rs. 7.22 lakh in the denominations of Rs. 100, Rs. 200 and Rs. 500 from the accused. The arrested were identified as Yagati Eswara Rao and R. Vishnu, both friends hailing from Vizianagaram district. Based on credible information, Inspector of MVP Police Station P. Ramanayya and staff arrested two persons at Sivajipalem area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-arrested-for-circulating-fake-currency-notes/article38085090.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||HSL delivers tug to Navy on time||Hindustan Shipyard Ltd delivered the third of the four 50-Ton Bollard Pull Tug( Balraj) to Indian Navy on Friday. Tug Balraj was delivered on schedule despite COVID-19 pandemic situation. Earlier, HSL had delivered a tug each to ND (Mumbai) and ND (Visakhapatnam) on October 22 and 30, 2021 respectively. This tug is the 199th vessel built and delivered by the shipyard. The fourth tug of the series is also ready for delivery and with this delivery in January 2022, the HSL will achieve a milestone of 200th vessel built since inception in 1941. The tug, designed and built by the HSL, is capable of producing 50 Ton Bollard Pull and can achieve a speed of upto12 knots. The ship has proved her capabilities and achieved performance greater than the contractual requirements during the sea trials. HSL Chairman and Managing Director Hemant Khatri congratulated all the officers, staff and workmen for their professionalism and commended all stakeholders, including the Indian Navy, for extending their support for successful completion of the project .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hsl-delivers-tug-to-navy-on-time/article38085086.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tailor killed after scuffle with his customer||A 61-year-old tailor was reportedly killed after a scuffle with his customer, when the latter took offence to his failure to stitch his clothes as per his measurements at Marikavalasa here on Thursday. According to Inspector of PM Palem Police Station Ravi Kumar, a person named Ganesh reportedly complained to tailor G. Leema that his shirt was not stitched as per his size and demanded him to restitch it. Leema reportedly declined . Irked by this, Ganesh came along with his friends Surya Narayana and Clinton and attacked him. On a complaint, the police arrested Ganesh, Surya Narayana and Clinton, all aged between 20 and 30 years. The police registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tailor-killed-after-scuffle-with-his-customer/article38085091.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:47 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||PM urged to lay focus on State’s backward areas||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) senior leader and former State treasurer of the party Pakalapati Sanyasi Raju on Friday urged the Union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take necessary steps for quick progress and economic development of North Andhra region, Rayalaseema and other parts of the State. He alleged that the three regions were neglected by successive governments since Independence. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Sanyasi Raju said that people with little income continued to depend on the government’s welfare schemes in the absence of opportunities to make themselves financially self-reliant. “Except Visakhapatnam city, the entire region including Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts is among the most backward region of the country. Almost all the governments treated people as vote banks by luring them with welfare schemes which would not benefit them in the long run,” said Mr. Sanyasi Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pm-urged-to-lay-focus-on-states-backward-areas/article38085034.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-first/article38085085.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||On guard||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/on-guard/article38085073.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||119 Maoists surrendered in Bhadradri||The relentless efforts of the district police in weaning innocent tribal people away from the ideology of extremists paid off and as many as 119 Maoists surrendered in the district during 2021, said Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt. Speaking to reporters after releasing the district police annual report-2021 in Kothagudem on Friday, he said the district police excelled in all spheres of policing including the anti-extremist front, crime prevention and detection. In a significant move, the police vigorously conducted outreach activities forging strong bonds with people living in remote tribal pockets by identifying their needs and distributing 2500 water filters, distributing sports kits, organising medical camps, among other community policing programmes. The SP said around 510 booby traps were unearthed and a huge haul of explosive materials were seized by the police during the anti-Maoist operations in the district. A total of 62 Maoists were arrested in various cases of extremist offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/119-maoists-surrendered-in-bhadradri/article38084839.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||HC declines to impose restrictions on NY revelry||Instructing the State government to file a compliance report over the Union government’s guidelines to check spread of COVID-19 within four days, the Telangana High Court on Friday declined to impose restrictions on New Year celebrations in the State. After hearing a batch of PIL and writ petitions related to COVID, a bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice N. Tukaramji said that imposing restrictions depended on the situation prevailing in the State. “The situation in the State is normal,” the bench said and declined to pass any interim restrictions on New Year events. The bench, however, made it clear that managements of clubs, pubs, bars and hotels should allow only those persons who were fully vaccinated. Staff members working at these places should get COVID-19 tests conducted 48 hours prior to attending to duties. Earlier, lawyers Chikkudu Prabhakar and K. Pawan Kumar appearing for petitioners contended that the Telangana government issued orders relaxing rules pertaining to sale of liquor for New Year celebrations. If persons attending parties at these places contract COVID, the likelihood of the virus spreading further would be high when they return home where their respective parents and children live. This might lead to community infection as well as Omicron that is reportedly spreading quickly, they said. They stated that Delhi and Maharashtra governments had already issued stringent restrictions on gatherings of people for NY celebrations. The High Court bench, however, said that the status report filed by the State Public Health Director (DPH) claimed that the first dose vaccination was 100% completed covering all people. Even the second dose was completed 66%. The High Court bench also differed with the contentions of the counsels that containment zones should be created for isolation of persons testing positive for COVID-19. Containment zones would be required only when the number of infected persons was high. Such alarming situation was not prevalent in the State, the bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-declines-to-impose-restrictions-on-ny-revelry/article38084815.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||Crime graph up, police achieve ‘better conviction rate’||The Telangana police accomplished successes on many fronts like better conviction rate in the year 2021, notwithstanding 4.6% rise in overall crimes compared to previous year, DGP M. Mahender Reddy said on Friday. Sharing details of the accomplishments of police in 2021 at a press conference, the DGP exuded the confidence that the prestigious multi-storied State police command and control centre coming up at Banjara Hills in Hyderabad would emerge a role model for other States. Though 70% of the centre’s work was completed, COVID-19 pandemic slowed its construction a bit. “In next three to four months, Chief Minister would inaugurate the command centre,” Mr. Reddy announced. The centre has multiple back-end technologies with state-of-the-art equipment and tools to improve all spheres of policing. Initiatives like Citizen Financial Cyber Fraud Reporting and Management System (CFCFRMS), part of National Crime Reporting Portal (NCRP), came to the help of people losing money in cyber crimes. This system’s helpline No. 155260 (to which calls received on 100, 112 can be routed) was introduced on trial basis in Cyberabad police commissionerate. While 45,893 calls relating to financial frauds were received at this helpline, 9,644 complaints landed through NCRP. Victims lost Rs. 95.71 crore in these frauds. Authorities withheld fraudulent transfer of Rs. 5.11 crore by alerting different financial entities. The Director-General of Police said eight lakh surveillance cameras installed all over the State acted as force multipliers helping police detect crimes. Referring to allegations that cameras were invading privacy of the public, Mr. Mahender Reddy said “it is a motivated, malafide campaign by vested interests”. Entire video footage of the camera systems would be stored with the community (who installed the cameras) and only for crime detection purpose would the footage be accessed by the police. “The false campaign is part of organised effort to derail safety and security systems,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crime-graph-up-police-achieve-better-conviction-rate/article38084833.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||GHMC on the backfoot in the bygone year||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has little to boast of as achievements in the bygone calendar year, partly due to the raging pandemic in the first half and debilitating financial difficulties throughout. It has largely been a hand-to-mouth existence for the corporation, as it had to depend on property tax and building fee collections every month even to pay salaries to its employees. Delayed payment to the contractors has been a rankling issue. The year began on a note of alarm for the TRS party with regard to its sway on GHMC, as the council elections held at the end of 2020 just out of the devastating October floods, yielded substantial number of seats to its rival party, BJP. However, the ruling party could win both Mayor and Deputy Mayor posts effortlessly in the council. Delta variant of the coronavirus left a trail of destruction starting from March up to June, during which the civic body could not even carry out its regular activities let alone take up any new plans or proposals. Even the high priority SRDP works had to be practically put on hold for lack of funds and labour. Except launch of the flyover at the Owaisi Junction towards the year end, and RUBs in Hi-Tech City and Anandbagh, not much has been achieved on SRDP front. While the Strategic Nala Development Programme (SNDP) announced by the government post last year’s deluge experienced hiccups due to lack of funds, floods struck yet again towards October, though not with the ferocity of the previous year, leaving countless colonies inundated yet again. Tenders for SNDP works received pathetic response, due to GHMC’s financial straits and non-payment of bills to contractors. For 32 works for which bids have been invited, tender process has been finished only for 17 works after repeated calls. Issue of building permissions through TS-bPASS has been rolled out for GHMC this year, by the Town Planning department. Instant building permissions have been granted for 2,241 applicants for residential construction within 75 square yards of land, a statement from GHMC informed. Similarly, 8,534 applicants for construction ground-plus-two floors within 600 square yards have been given the nod without scrutiny. Single-window permissions have been granted for 1,335 structures built in over 600 square yards and with over 10 metres height. Enforcement system has been overhauled through constitution of the zonal level enforcement committees, but without much avail. A total 416 notices have been issued for illegal constructions on the whole, and the structures have been pulled down, the statement said. A total 22.84 kilometres of major link and slip roads have been built during the year, it said. On the vaccination front against COVID-19, first dose of vaccination has been completed in 4,846 colonies in coordination with the Medical & Health department. Drive for second dose has begun on December 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-on-the-backfoot-in-the-bygone-year/article38084810.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Will change the face of Nalgonda’||As part of the roadmap for comprehensive development of Telangana, Nalgonda town will be sanctioned about Rs. 100 crore worth programmes and witness a fast-paced progress soon, Minister for Municipal Administration K.T. Rama Rao said on Friday. Joining Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy and Minister for Roads & Building V. Prashant Reddy, he toured Nalgonda town, held reviews with officials and participated in a series of inaugurations and foundation-laying ceremonies. Mr. Rama Rao led a town padayatra, interacted with general public and took stock of the ground situation. Along with District Collector Prashant J Patil and local legislator K. Bhupal Reddy, he inaugurated the newly-constructed hostel for boys at the Polytechnic College and at the beat market laid the stone for the integrated vegetarian and non-vegetarian market. Putting the town in the league of IT hubs in towns such as Warangal, Karimnagar, Khammam, Mahabubnagar and Nizamabad, Minister KTR laid the foundation stone for IT hub at Nalgonda. He said nine companies had already signed the memorandum to set up their offices in Nalgonda. The hub would achieve a full shape and be inaugurated in about 18 months, he said. He announced five basti dawakhanas for Nalgonda town, skilling programmes leading to jobs for youth and construction of Vaikunta Dhamam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-change-the-face-of-nalgonda/article38084827.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Killers known to victims in 55% murder-for-gain cases||In 55% cases, out of the total 85 murders for gain reported in the State in the year 2021, the killers were known to the victims. Lured by the financial resources of the victims, persons having proximity to them executed the murders. In the remaining 45% cases, the murderers were strangers or not connected to the victims, an analysis of the motives behind these grave crimes revealed. Presenting a study of the crimes, DGP M. Mahender Reddy observed that 743 murders out of the 838 reported in 2021 were due to property fight, land dispute, family feud, discord within family members over some personal matters or strained relations. Other factors like sudden provocation, emotional issues too drove individuals to murder, the DGP explained. The analysis, however, did not explain if extra-marital relations resulted in any killing. Out of 1,218 kidnaps reported, only in nine cases ransom was demanded for release of the abducted persons. In 90% of the these instances, elopement for marriage (love, illicit relations) emerged the prime factors. Some of these cases were registered as abduction in compliance with Supreme Court guidelines pertaining to missing children. In 2,382 cases of sexual assault, the accused were known to the victims in 2,356 cases. Close family members, friends, lovers, colleagues and acquaintances of the victims emerged offender in these cases. Only in 26 rape cases, the accused were strangers or not known to the victims. Telangana police began registering cases of road accident deaths caused by drunk drivers as culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Section 304 Part-II of Indian Penal Code. Out of 389 culpable homicide cases, 159 were registered in cases of drunk driving resulting in death of people. Frauds relating to fake customer care centre calls, advertisement portals, jobs, loans and bank transactions accounted for nearly 66% of 8,828 cyber crimes. Online impersonation, cyber stalking, phishing and posting obscene content and other factors resulted in the remaining online offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/killers-known-to-victims-in-55-murder-for-gain-cases/article38084830.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:42 IST,TELANGANA||City ushers in 2022||With closed flyovers, strict drunk driving checks and party restrictions in public places, Hyderabad ushered in the New Year of 2022 with a glimmer of hope on Friday midnight. While a certain population welcomed the New Year amid prayers at churches and temples, many others kept it quiet. Parties, long drives around the city and DJs were images from virtual memory. City traffic reduced gradually towards the evening and the night was quieter with ‘roads’ curfew’. For residents of colonies and apartments, grand ‘rangoli kolams’ were show-off artistry followed by countdown timing and cutting cakes. Several liquor shops across the city witnessed queues that stood for at least an hour. While liquor stores were open until midnight, police were ready with breath analysers since 10 p.m. The all-attractive Tank Bund was a vibrant spot for revellers on their way back home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-ushers-in-2022/article38084813.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Check posts at all main roads||Equipped with body cameras and breath analysers, a large number of police personnel were deployed on New Year’s eve, with a smattering of check posts all across the main roads to curb drunk driving and rash driving that results in ghastly road accidents. Telangana police had earlier issued strict instructions to hotels and pubs on New Year celebrations, with the onus on restaurant managements to ensure that their staff have been vaccinated and to allow only those customers who were fully vaccinated. Check posts were set up at every main road and within distances of hardly two km of each other. Police said this was done to make sure that even if some revellers take alternative routes, they still get caught if drunk driving or rash driving. Commissioner of Police C.V. Anand said that they have tightened the movement of New Year revellers by taking all important arterial roads under control. He said that they expect people to be individually responsible and not to endanger their and others’ lives. “From a home guard to myself, we will be manning the roads for the safety of citizens and curb triple riding, rash driving and of course, stringent action will be taken against those who indulge in drunk driving,” Mr. Anand said. “Law and order police will be patrolling outside pubs and hotels,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/check-posts-at-all-main-roads/article38084811.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Water Board aiming to complete 31 STPs by Dasara||Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is aiming to complete construction of the 31 sewage treatment plants (STPs) by Dasara this year to achieve 100% sewage treatment in the city. The government had, in September, sanctioned Rs. 3,866 crore for upgrading the STPs to handle 1,259 million litres more of sewage per day over and above the existing capacity of 772 MLD. A study report by the government appointed consultant projected generation of 1,950 MLD of sewage in 10 years. Plans are to expand the STPs up to ORR, a statement from the Board said. Besides, the government has sanctioned Rs. 1,200 crore for addressing drinking water needs of the areas within ORR. Orders have been issued for construction of reservoirs with combined capacity of 137 million litres and laying of pipelines for 2,100 kilometres to benefit a total of 20 lakh families. The works are targeted to be complete by the end of the year. The year started for the Board with implementation hiccups of the 20 kilo litres monthly free water supply scheme, an election promise by the TRS government. The mandatory Aadhaar linkage for availing the free water scheme could not be completed in the city even by the year-end, forcing the government to announce demand waiver for the year for all domestic consumers. This decision could prove to be an albatross around the neck of the Board already reeling under severe financial crisis. Anxious moments The Board officials had spent several anxious moments during monsoons this year, as they had to open the gates of the twin reservoirs repeatedly whenever it rained heavy to release flood water into Musi river. Flood alert had been sounded to all the residential areas on the banks of the river, yet stray instances were reported of people being washed away. This year, an additional responsibility was given to the Board to maintain the sewerage network of GHMC peripheries too, extending up to 3,600 kilometres of pipeline system and 3.26 lakh manholes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-board-aiming-to-complete-31-stps-by-dasara/article38084819.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||Plea to hold zone transfer policy||Telangana BJP accused a 'busy' Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of being 'adamant' and not listening to the 'travails of the government employees' as a result of the 'arbitrary' zonal transfers policy on Friday. "Every employee has been affected due to this lopsided policy. There are protests everywhere and the media has been highlighting the issue but Mr. Rao seems to be oblivious to all these instead of making due corrections," said party president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Friday. He was talking to the media outside the Raj Bhavan after meeting Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan requesting her intervention to make the Government make necessary changes to the GO 317 - which led to the controversial transfers policy. The BJP supports the employees' concerns about the zonal transfers policy where only the CM, Ministers and MLAs have the discretionary powers and no options to them. The Government does not even have a proper seniority list and there is a deliberate effort to dry a wedge between the staff, he charged. In the memorandum, the party said the GO was in violation of the Presidential orders and the spirit of Telangana movement as it renders both the employees and the teachers non-local in the districts of their posting. With seniority the sole criterion for the exercise of options by the employees, the juniors are being transferred to the remote areas in districts, non-local to their native places while the seniors are opting for urban districts. It means, there won’t be vacancies for the next 30 years in rural areas and when seniors retire, the vacancies will go to people of urban districts, depriving educated youth of rural areas of employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-to-hold-zone-transfer-policy/article38084836.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||HMDA’s development canopy in year 2021||Kokapet layout development, completion of Balanagar flyover, beautification of the Tank Bund and illumination of the Outer Ring Road are some of the achievements by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) during the bygone year 2021. During the last three years, HMDA has taken up works to the tune of Rs. 2,000 crore some of which have been completed and more are in progress, a year-end statement from the urban development authority claimed. A six-lane two-way flyover of one kilometre length has been built at Balanagar, passing over Narsapur crossroads and Fathenagar junction, and the existing road has been widened to 45 metres from 30 metres. Granite flooring, ornamental railing, street lighting, benching and other such facilities are hoped to attract more visitors to Tank Bund while the Necklace Road has been refurbished by a VDCC road for a length of six kilometres, apart from footpath improvement and walkway lighting. High-mast LED lighting has been completed on the central median of the main carriage way for a length of 136 kilometres on the ORR, in order to reduce the accidents, and a logistic park has been launched in Batasingaram area. Two walk-ways have been taken up at Uppal and Mehdipatnam, besides installation of three foot over bridges at Uppal, AS Rao Nagar and IDPL Colony. Infrastructural facilities have been taken up in an area of 533 acres at the Neopolis layout of Kokapet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hmdas-development-canopy-in-year-2021/article38084808.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Traffic goes haywire as city celebrates New Year||A 3.4-km drive on SP Road took 11 minutes at 6 p.m. on Friday. A 9-km drive between Banjara Hills and Madhapur took 31 minutes. At 6:54 p.m., the Hyderabad Traffic Police put out a message: “Slow movement of traffic from St Ann’s School, North Zone, YMCA X road, SBH X Roads towards Paradise X Roads.” In the southern parts of the city, traffic flow was reduced to a crawl from Banjara Hills towards Masab Tank, from Toli Chowki towards Hydershakote, and Bahadurpura area. Traffic went haywire on Friday evening as citizens prepared to celebrate New Year. It was not just every private vehicle on the road, there were throngs of people at shopping malls and tourist places. Even in the inner lanes of the city, traffic was gridlocked as small bakeries and sweet shop owners spread their wares in front of their shops. Big rush “We have had a big rush of people since Christmas. It is many times the normal number of visitors. It’s been a busy week,” said a Department of Archaeology and Museums official at the Qutb Shahi Tombs Complex. Outside the Golconda Fort, traffic was gridlocked on Friday evening, as it has been for the last one week as tourists have been visiting the medieval fortress from across the country. “Today there are fewer visitors and we are able to talk to you. It is crowded for the past few days with most visitors going to Salar Jung Museum from here,” said an auto rickshaw driver from the locality. Brisk business Hawkers lining the road made a killing with their wares. While open air tourist places like Charminar, Golconda and Qutb Shahi tombs were crowded, a similar scenario played out at the shopping malls in city. The food courts in two of the biggest malls in Panjagutta area were full. During the economic downturn due to COVID, when half the food stalls were shuttered, on Friday only three out of the 25 food outlets were closed at one mall. At the other, only two out of 15 outlets were closed. The announcement by the All India Industrial Exhibition officials about the inauguration of the Numaish event on January 1 by the Governor adds a new dimension to social distancing and masking norms being enforced in the State.  Today there are fewer visitors and we are able to talk to you. It is crowded for the past few days with most visitors going to Salar Jung Museum from here. Auto driver from Golconda Fort area||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-goes-haywire/article38084818.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||Congress leaders visit oustee camp||MLC and former minister T. Jeevan Reddy wondered why Finance and Health Minister T. Harish Rao, who used to camp in the district for elections, had not visited the ongoing agitation by oustees of Gudatipally. “The Government has been constructing projects by investing thousands of crores of rupees and why it has been not coming forward to offer rightful compensation to them? Why both Harish Rao and Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao are not responding when agitation has been taking place in their own district?” asked Mr Jeevan Reddy. On Friday, some Congress leaders visited the agitation spot and extended their support. Mr. Jeevan Reddy said Mr Harish Rao had camped at Dubbak and Huzurabad during byelections but surprisingly could not find time to visit the oustees. Mr Jeevan Reddy and former Lok Sabha member Ponnam Prabhakar visited the camp of the agitators and interacted with them. Meanwhile, the oustees submitted a memorandum to officials, seeking a fresh land acquisition notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-leaders-visit-oustee-camp/article38084834.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||Congress ‘discipline’ is more of ‘indiscipline’||The issue of Congress legislator from Sangareddy T. Jayaprakash Reddy writing to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi against TPCC chief A. Revanth Reddy is snowballing into a major controversy with the TPCC Disciplinary Committee planning to seek a personal explanation, and the MLA questioning the locus standi of the committee’s decision. The disciplinary committee headed by former Minister G. Chinna Reddy met on Friday to discuss various issues including Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy’s letter. When reporters questioned on the meeting details, Mr. Chinna Reddy said the committee preferred to call Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy in person to discuss how the letter was leaked to the media. “Taking action against him is not in our purview but the committee wants to discuss the leakage issue,” he said. Reacting to Mr. Chinna Reddy’s response, Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy held a press conference to claim that he was unaware of how the letter was leaked. He demanded that the disciplinary committee should also consider the ‘indiscipline’ of the TPCC chief, who according to him, did not inform him about any meetings in his district and also in the constituencies allotted to him as the TPCC working president for party work. “I was not informed about the programme at Yerravalli in Siddipet district and also the TPCC chief’s programme at Bhupalpally that falls under the Lok Sabha constituency allotted to him for party work. The committee should also seek explanation from Mr. Revanth Reddy on this,” he demanded. Asked why he was not raising these issues on party platforms, he said he was sharing it with media since the Disciplinary Committee Chairman also shared his views with the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-discipline-is-more-of-indiscipline/article38084838.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||‘Withdraw Bill to raise marriage age’||The United Muslim Forum, a body of faith leaders, has opposed the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to raise the age of marriage of women from 18 to 21 years. In a statement issued to the media, the UMF said that the Bill must be withdrawn as it goes against the Constitution. It advised community members not to have apprehensions about the Bill at this juncture. They requested qazis to guide people in this regard so that a situation of panic does not arise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/withdraw-bill-on-raise-in-marriage-age/article38084805.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Vijaya Dairy milk prices up||The Telangana State Dairy Development Cooperative Federation Ltd. (Vijaya Dairy) has increased its milk price effective January 1, 2022. The rate is up by Rs. 2 per litre for double toned, standardised, diet, tea-special and cow milk and Rs. 4 per litre for whole milk. According to a statement issued by the Telangana State DDCF on Friday, the price of double toned milk (500 ml sachet) will go up from Rs. 22 to Rs. 23, and cow milk (500 ml sachet) from Rs. 24 to Rs. 25, toned milk (500 ml sachet) from Rs. 24 to Rs. 25, standardised milk (500 ml sachet) from Rs. 26 to Rs. 27, whole milk (500 ml sachet) from Rs. 31 to Rs. 33, diet milk (500 ml sachet) from Rs. 21 to Rs. 22 and tea-special milk (500 ml sachet) from Rs. 23 to Rs. 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vijaya-dairy-milk-prices-up/article38084812.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Road safety meeting held||Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Hyderabad A.V. Ranganath on Friday held the District Road Safety Committee meeting in compliance with the guidelines of the Supreme Court to discuss and take up all remedial measures for reduction of road accidents in the city. Mr. Ranganath along with DCP (Traffic-I) N. Prakash Reddy and other stakeholders from Transport department discussed improvement of junctions, identification of black spots, and breakdown of RTC buses on roads causing traffic congestion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/road-safety-meeting-held/article38084816.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Centre’s fresh rules echo practices in TS||The Central government on Friday issued a set of fresh guidelines to meet the challenge of rise in COVID cases, some of which have already been implemented by the Telangana government. In a letter to Chief Secretaries of all States, Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Rajesh Bhushan and Secretary of the Department of Health Research Balram Bhargava asked State governments to increase testing by widespread use of rapid antigen tests in specific situations where RTPCR testing posed challenges. Based on previous experience, it was observed that if the number of cases rose above a certain threshold, RTPCR based testing led to delays in confirming diagnosis due to its turnaround time of about five to eight hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centres-fresh-rules-echo-practices-in-ts/article38084817.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Fleming tests COVID positive||British Deputy High Commissioner to TS and AP Andrew Fleming tested positive for COVID. Mr. Fleming took to Twitter on Friday to inform those who have come in contact with him to be watchful of symptoms and get themselves tested, if the need arises. He urged his ‘local friends’ to exercise caution despite the relatively low number of COVID cases in the State.  “Having read of so many friends from different parts of the [globe emoji]  who tested positive I have now joined the COVID club. Advise anyone who I have met in recent days to be watchful of symptoms & test if need be. Local friends, despite relatively low figures in the state I urge caution,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fleming-tests-covid-positive/article38084820.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Rs. 1,145 cr credited to ryots’ accounts as RB on Friday||An amount of Rs. 1,144.64 crore was credited to the bank accounts of 6,75,824 landholding (pattadar) farmers in the State on Friday, the fourth day of the benefit transfer, as investment support for the rabi season under the Rythu Bandhu scheme. Officials said the amount was transferred to the bank accounts of farmers having landholding of over 3 acres and up to 4 acres. In four days, the total amount transferred as Rythu Bandhu benefit is Rs. 4,246.68 crore covering 52,71,091 farmers. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy appealed to farmers to go for crops having demand in the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-1145-cr-credited-to-ryots-accounts-as-rb-on-friday/article38084825.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Rs. 30 Cr sanctioned for N.G. College development||Following up on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s instructions from Wednesday’s review in Nalgonda, the State Higher Education Department has accorded administrative sanctions worth Rs. 30 crore for Nagarjuna Government College. The sanction, as per requests made by Nalgonda legislator K. Bhupal Reddy, would help construction of buildings and improve infrastructural facilities at the College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-30-cr-sanctioned-for-ng-college-development/article38084828.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||SCR bags two performance shields||The South Central Railway bagged two all India Performance Efficiency Shields for 2021 - for stores and civil engineering. The second one jointly with the West Central Railway on Friday. The Stores Department ensured depots at Lallaguda, Rayanapadu and Tirupati are declared as scrap-free while procurement of goods and services through online portal has also been effectively implemented. The civil engineering wing has helped taking the lead in eliminating manned level crossings by construction of road under bridges and limited height subways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-bags-two-performance-shields/article38084804.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:59 IST,TELANGANA||Mysuru zoo to build another enclosure for orangutans||Help is pouring in for the Mysuru zoo as the Bank Note Paper Mill India Private Limited has agreed to donate a sum of Rs. 99.20 lakh for the construction of another enclosure for orangutans. It signed a memorandum of understanding in this regard with the Mysuru zoo, under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative. This is the second time the company is helping the zoo as it earlier donated Rs. 70 lakh for the construction of an orangutan house, under the CSR initiative. The construction was done recently and two pairs of orangutans brought from Singapore and Malaysia have been put on display.  Zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni told The Hindu that another enclosure for housing orangutans had become necessary for ensuring the new bloodline of the species and taking up captive breeding of the endangered species. This required a larger place and therefore we proposed another enclosure for the species. The paper mill limited agreed to fund the project, he added.  Mr. Kulkarni thanked the company management for its gesture. The zoo got two pairs of orangutans from Singapore and Malaysia as it managed to strike another major international animal exchange deal. The 17-year-old male, Merlin, and 13-year-old female, Atina, arrived from Singapore zoo while five-year-old male, Afa, and the 7-year-old female, Minnie, were brought from Malaysia zoo. In return, the Mysuru zoo has given two pairs of giraffes. According to the zoo records, the last time the zoo displayed orangutans was in the 70s and the zoo authorities’ best efforts thereafter to get an orangutan pair did not materialise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mysuru-zoo-to-build-another-enclosure-for-orangutans/article38084807.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:59 IST,TELANGANA||SCCL captive solar power plant commissioned||The Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL)’s total installed solar power generation capacity from its captive solar power plants reached 219 MW with the commissioning of a 10-MW solar power plant in the Ramagundam-III area on Friday. The synchronisation of 10-MW solar power with the grid marked the inauguration of the 50-MW unit in RG-III area and also successful completion of the second phase of the State-owned SCCL’s ambitious solar power project in different areas of the company, spanning the vast coal belt region of the State, SCCL sources said. SCCL Directors (Finance, P&P, PAW) N Balaram and D Satyanarayana Rao (E&M) on Friday inaugurated the solar power plant in RG-III area near Godavarikhani. TBGKS president B Venkat Rao, SCCL RG-III General Manager A Manohar and others were present. The State-owned coal company drew up plans to expeditiously construct 81-MW solar power plants in vacant lands and on overburden dumps in the coal belt region and also one floating solar power plant on the water reservoir of the Singareni Thermal Power Plant (STPP) in Mancherial district to reach the 300-MW total installed capacity by mid-2022 in the third phase. The captive solar power plants of the company set up in the first and second phases together generated 166 million units of energy leading to substantial saving of Rs. 85 crore for the government-owned company. The company was planning to set up 250-MW floating solar PV power project on water surface area of Lower Manair Dam in Karimnagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-captive-solar-power-plant-commissioned/article38085040.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||Triumphs, trials and tragedies||Much like in the previous year, the COVID-19 pandemic dominated 2021 with a deadly second wave unleashing mayhem, even as the government focussed its attention on vaccinating the State population and arranging medical resources. The year also witnessed a political mudsling between the TRS and BJP in the wake of resignation of former Health Minister Eatala Rajender from the TRS which resulted in the byelection from Huzurabad constituency. The World Heritage site status bestowed on the iconic Ramappa temple and the passing away of former Chief Minister K. Rosaiah were among other important events in the calendar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/triumphs-trials-and-tragedies/article38084802.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Senapathi’ movie review: Rajendra Prasad, Naresh Agastya impress in this fairly engrossing crime drama||A policeman loses his official pistol, which changes hands at a pace that is tough to track. A series of murders rock the city. The premise lends itself to an edge-of-the-seat thriller that can give us a glimpse into the police procedures and the working of the crime network as the cop races against time to find the gun and save his job. Senapathi is a Telugu adaptation of the 2017 Tamil film 8 Thottakkal (eight bullets) written and directed by Sri Ganesh, which was in turn loosely inspired by Akira Kurosowa’s Stray Dog (1949). What gives the crime drama an edge are the backstories of the cop Krishna (Naresh Agasthya) and the man at the other end, Krishna Murthy (Rajendra Prasad), along with smaller stories of other characters caught in this tussle.  The able technical team and Shravan Bharadwaj’s background score keep the atmosphere brooding and gritty as the film traverses the maze-like conduits of crime in the bylanes of Hyderabad. The opening portions introduce us to Krishna, a boy who is framed by his employer and a cop for a murder he did not commit and sent to a juvenile home. The jail warden instils in him a sense of hope and encourages him to become a policeman, rather than be overcome by bitterness. (For the longer version, check www.thehindu.com)  Senapathi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/senapathi-movie-review-rajendra-prasad-naresh-agastya-impress-in-this-fairly-engrossing-crime-drama/article38084822.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Arjuna Phalguna’: Sree Vishnu is good, but the film is let down by a weak story||Director Teja Marni, who debuted with Telugu film Johar (2020), chooses a crime-comedy for his second outing. The opening scene explains the meaning of the title Arjuna Phalguna . No, Phalguna isn’t Arjuna’s surname.  Through an anecdote that has a mythological significance, every time the protagonist is in trouble and needs strength and courage, he utters ‘Arjuna Phalguna’, then all is well. A childhood episode becomes the prelude to establishing the character of Arjuna (Sree Vishnu), who is a good-hearted young man who helps his near and dear ones in distress but is considered a wastrel. Among his group of friends is a girl (Amritha Iyer) whom he’s romantically inclined towards. They are all a source of worry for their poor and ageing parents. (For the longer version, check www.thehindu.com)  Arjuna Phalguna||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/arjuna-phalguna-sree-vishnu-is-good-but-the-film-is-let-down-by-a-weak-story/article38084823.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||BJP bid to strengthen party in eastern Rajasthan||With an eye on the 2023 Assembly election, the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party in Rajasthan is trying to strengthen itself in the eastern part of the State, bordering Uttar Pradesh, where its organisational structure is weak. The party had won only one seat in the Bharatpur division in the 2018 Assembly polls. The BJP held a meeting of the joint executive committee of all front organisations in Bharatpur over the weekend with a call to strengthen the party at grassroots level in the region and overthrow the Congress in the next election. Senior party leaders and two Union Ministers were among those who attended the two-day meeting. The front bodies represented at the meeting included the BJP’s Kisan Morcha, Mahila Morcha, Other Backward Classes Morcha, Scheduled Castes Morcha, Scheduled Tribes Morcha, Youth Morcha and the Minorities Morcha. An exhibition at the venue displayed the achievements and future action plans of the front organisations. Lauds Jat king Addressing the participants, BJP State president Satish Poonia praised the 18th Century Jat king of Bharatpur, Maharaja Suraj Mal, who had captured Delhi in 1753, and called upon the party workers to defeat the Congress. He said the “anti-people” Congress had failed on every front, while 60 lakh farmers were waiting for loan waiver promised by the ruling party three years ago. Mr. Poonia said the BJP needed to make its fight against the Congress more assertive by highlighting the poor state of affairs, amid the lack of governance and rising crime graph. “Our leadership is our pride...All the Morchas of the BJP should convey the message of public welfare schemes of the Narendra Modi government to every household,” he said. The meeting refrained from projecting a chief ministerial face for the 2023 Assembly election. BJP national general secretary in charge of Rajasthan Arun Singh told reporters that the candidature would be decided by the party’s parliamentary board. The BJP leaders laid emphasis on political significance of eastern Rajasthan as well as the scope for the party’s expansion in the four districts of the Bharatpur division. Of the 19 Assembly seats in the region, the Congress had won 13 and the Bahujan Samaj Party three in the 2018 election. The only BJP winner was Shobharani Kushwah from Dholpur. While the rival factions in the Congress appeared to have patched up after the recent Cabinet expansion and reshuffle, the BJP faces an internal strife with the loyalists of senior leader Vasundhara Raje demanding that she be projected as the face for the next elections. Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Union Minister of State Kailash Chaudhary and Deputy Leader of the Opposition Rajendra Rathore addressed various sessions in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-trying-to-strengthen-party-in-eastern-rajasthan/article38084719.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||Spike in cases dampens New Year cheer||West Bengal, and its capital Kolkata, are witnessing an almost overnight explosion in the number of COVID-19 cases, with the cheer that had gripped the city only 10 days ago now giving way to caution. The State government is expected to soon release a fresh set of guidelines aimed at combating the surge. On Friday, figures released by the Health Department showed the State recording 2,128 COVID-19 cases on a single day, with Kolkata alone accounting for 1,090 of them. Barely 10 days ago, it was a different picture, when the city seemed set to return to the pre-pandemic days. On December 21, for example, the whole of West Bengal had reported 440 new cases, with Kolkata accounting for 177 of them. By December 28, these figures had climbed to 752 and 382 respectively, and now the count is once again in four figures.  “The situation is getting bad. Cases are skyrocketing. Phone calls are already coming from friends and relatives who had been through COVID-19 before and who are getting infected again. Hospital beds are once again in demand. The need of the hour is to restrict mass congregations and cancel celebrations, [but that not happening] is going to hamper whatever little chances we had to containing the spread of the infection,” well-known ENT specialist Dr. Arjun Dasgupta told The Hindu .  Many popular clubs have called off the New Year celebrations, and police are seeking to prevent mass gatherings, including on the Park Street, where thousands had congregated during the days before and after Christmas. The surge comes at a time when schools and colleges across the State had reopened and when winter fairs and festivals had returned to Kolkata after a gap of two years. Now the city appears to be returning to the news of cancellations — not only have the New Year festivities been called off at many popular venues, but even the opening ceremony of the Kolkata International Film Festival, scheduled to be held at the Netaji Indoor Stadium, has reportedly been shifted to the State Secretariat in Howrah. Book fair  Uncertainty also clouds the much awaited Kolkata Book Fair, which could not be held in 2021 and which, as of now, is scheduled to be held from January 31 to February 13. “We are preparing for the fair, but are awaiting instructions from the government,” Tridib Chatterjee, honorary general secretary of the Publishers’ & Booksellers’ Guild, which organises the fair, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/spike-in-cases-dampens-new-year-cheer/article38084915.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||Maharashtra courts’ date with virtual hearings||The year 2021 has been particularly difficult for courts across the country because of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, most of the courts in the country as well as in Maharashtra heard matters virtually, some of the hearings were a combination of physical as well as virtual appearance by the parties. NIA probe The year started with a suspicious letter and a car filled with gelatin found next to the residence of business tycoon Mukesh Ambani on February 25. The National Investigation Agency took over the probe and Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze and others were arrested in the case. Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh received flak for the bomb scare and was transferred to the Maharashtra Home Guard as the Director General on March 17. He then wrote a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray citing instances of corruption by State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. In a rare judgment by the Bombay High Court, the Central Bureau of Investigation on April 5 was directed to initiate a preliminary inquiry against Mr. Deshmukh. This resulted in an FIR against him by the Enforcement Directorate which led to his resignation and eventually his arrest on November 1. The Bombay High Court at Goa on May 5 acquitted former journalist Tarun Tejpal in a case of rape and sexual assault of his young colleague. Special Judge Kshama Joshi had held, “The victim’s account does not demonstrate any kind of normative behaviour on her part – that a victim of sexual assault on consecutive nights might plausibly show.” Still an accused After contracting COVID-19 at Taloja Central Jail, Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy died on July 5 at a private hospital. The 84-year-old is still an accused in the Bhima Koregaon caste violence case and was arrested by the NIA on October 9 from Ranchi. He had spent over 50 years of his life serving the tribals. His co-accused human rights lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj was granted bail by the High Court on December 1. Without possessing any contraband on himself, Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau on October 3 after the agency seized drugs and cash from a cruise ship in Mumbai. Mr. Aryan and others were booked under several sections of the Narcotics Drugs Psychotropic Substances Act. He was sent to Arthur Road Jail and was granted bail on October 28. Raj Kundra, businessman and husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested on July 19 after a pornographic racket was busted early this year. He was charged with producing and streaming pornographic content but was granted bail on September 20 by a magistrate court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-courts-date-with-virtual-hearings/article38084716.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||55% of cases are of Omicron variant: BMC||The seventh round of next generation genome sequencing carried out by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on 282 samples have found 55% cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus. Among total samples 13% were of Delta variant while 32% were of Delta derivative. According to the BMC, out of 55% Omicron patients (156 in numbers) only nine had to be admitted to hospital. These patients too did not show any symptoms or did not require Oxygen supply. BMC also informed that out of 282 patients only 17 had to be admitted to the hospital. Of these three had taken first dose of the vaccine, 10 had taken both doses while out of 81 patients who had not taken any vaccine four had to be admitted. Two patients were admitted to Intensive Care Unit (ICU) affected by Delta Derivative out of which one senior citizen lost his life. The deceased also had comorbidities such as diabetes and blood pressure. The civic administration had appealed to the people to strictly follow the COVID appropriate behaviour, use mask and get vaccinated. Meanwhile, Mumbai Police on Friday issued an order prohibiting people from visiting beaches, open grounds, sea faces, promenades, gardens, parks or similar public places between 5 p.m. and 5 a.m. daily till January 15 in view of the prevailing coronavirus situation and the emergence of the Omicron variant. DCP (operations) S. Chaitanya issued the order under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which came into force from 1 p.m. on Friday and will be effective till January 15, unless withdrawn earlier. “The city continues to be threatened with COVID-19 pandemic. In light of the increase in cases and emergence of the new Omicron variant, and with a view to prevent danger to human life, health and safety and to curb transmission of the virus, people are prohibited from visiting beaches, open grounds, sea faces, promenades, gardens, parks or similar public places from 5 p.m. to 5 a.m. next day,” the order said. The Mumbai police’s directive came after the Maharashtra government issued fresh guidelines on Thursday night capping the number of attendees at social gatherings in open or closed spaces at 50.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/55-of-cases-are-of-omicron-variant-bmc/article38084681.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:18 IST,||Welfare schemes for workers hanging fire||While the Union Labour and Employment Ministry launched surveys on unorganised sector workers and started a portal for registering such workers in 2021, welfare schemes for unorganised workers under the labour codes passed by Parliament in 2020 remained an unfulfilled promise. The four labour codes — on wages, social security, occupational safety and industrial relations — were passed by Parliament in 2019 and 2020. However, they are yet to be implemented as the rules framed under provisions of the codes have not been notified. According to senior officials of the Ministry, the Central rules were ready before the start of financial year 2021-2022, but several States are yet to frame their rules under the codes. In a statement on Friday, the Ministry listed out the developments of 2021, including the setting up of four expert committees for framing standards under the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020 for factories, dock works, building and other construction works and fire safety. The draft standards were “nearing completion”, the Ministry said. However, there was no word on when welfare measures for gig and platform workers, which was introduced for the first time in the labour codes, would be implemented. One of the initiatives launched in 2021 was the e-Shram portal, which was launched on August 26, 2021 with the purpose of creating a national database of unorganised workers, the Ministry said. Till December 28, 2021, the portal had 15.53 crore registrations. Another major step was launch of all-India surveys on migrant workers and quarterly establishment-based employment, both on April 1, 2021, and on domestic workers, which was flagged off on November 22, 2021. ESI scheme extension The Ministry noted it had expanded the Employees’ State Insurance scheme to 52 more districts in the country in 2021, bringing 2.31 lakh employees and their families under the umbrella of the social security scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/welfare-schemes-for-workers-hanging-fire/article38084722.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:15 IST,||Courts take police to task over riots probe||From Delhi Police being pulled up for its ‘lackadaisical approach’, ‘callous attitude’ and ‘confused conduct’ in handling the north-east Delhi riots cases to costs being imposed on the State for prosecutors skipping proceedings and seeking adjournments, there have been several instances where the city courts have rapped the investigating agencies probing the 2020 communal violence. Several directions were issued to senior police officers to address the inefficiencies. With nearly two years passing since the incident, here’s a look at some of the scathing orders that grabbed the eyeballs last year. In September, a court had noted that the “failure of the investigating agency to conduct a proper investigation by using latest scientific methods will surely torment the sentinels of democracy”, while discharging former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain’s brother Shah Alam and two other accused in a case of alleged loot and vandalisation of a shop in the Chand Bagh area. The court further noted that as a result of the ‘callous’ and ‘indolent’ investigation, the complainant/victim suffered pain and agony with their case remaining virtually unsolved. “The sort of investigation conducted and the lack of supervision thereof by the superior officers clearly depict that the investigating agency has merely tried to pull the wool over the court’s eyes and nothing else,” the court noted. Similarly, hearing a matter related to an explosion inside the Madina Masjid in Shiv Vihar and a saffron flag being hoisted upon it, a court in April noted that the police had proceeded in the matter in ‘unholy haste’. The complaint in the case was lodged by Hashim Ali, which was tagged along with another case of vandalism, in which Ali himself was arrested. The judge had rapped the Investigating Officer (IO) in open court when he was not able to give a satisfactory answer to the delay in the probe. The police were also pulled up recently for ‘harassing’ a riot victim by repeatedly serving him notice despite him having submitted all relevant documents to the police. The applicant, Mohd. Salman, told the court that he hadn’t received any acknowledgement from the IO despite submitting the documents. While noting the police’s silence about the status of the investigation and their insistence on taking the statement of Salman’s new landlord where he had taken refuge after his house in west Karawal Nagar was attacked, the court directed the Joint Commissioner of Police (Eastern Range) to file a report on the status of the probe and not harass the complainant and witness unnecessarily. Lack of supervision In another case of clubbing different complaints into a single FIR, a court observed that “there was a complete lack of supervision of investigation(s) by the senior police officers of the district and that the investigating agency has evidently been found to be on the wrong side of the law”. “The issue of clubbing and joining the investigation of different complaints into one FIR is basically to protect the accused, even if the offence is same,” the judge noted. It dismissed a review petition filed by the police, challenging a Metropolitan Magistrate Court’s order, directing lodging of a separate FIR in the case of Nisar Ahmed, whose complaint regarding vandalism of his house was tagged with another complaint which didn’t name any accused. “Ludicrous and preposterous”, a court had noted in another order while pulling up the police for not knowing from March till November last year that the complaint filed by Salim, whose house was allegedly vandalised by a mob, was already clubbed with another case. Prosecutors face ire Courts have also lambasted prosecutors for their lack of coordination with the police, for their absence from hearings, leading to delay in trials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/courts-take-police-to-task-over-riots-probe/article38084700.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:18 IST,||RRTS could hit the tracks sooner than expected||The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) hopes to deliver what it promised a year in advance with the construction of the Capital’s biggest transport hub, the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) station in Sarai Kale Khan, unfolding at a faster pace than expected. The high speed rail project, once completed, will connect the Capital with neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan through journeys which will be reduced to minutes from hours aboard trains moving at a speed of up to 180 kilometres per hour. The 82-km long Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor, at the core of which is the Sarai Kale Khan station in the heart of the Capital, consists of a 17-km-long priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai, which was targeted to be functional from 2023. With construction being undertaken at a faster pace, however, the NCRTC, according to sources, now hopes to get its first train by February this year, followed by trial runs by the middle of 2022. In the entire corridor, about 12 kilometres will be made underground, of which four kilometres is in Delhi and eight kilometres is in Meerut and Ghaziabad. As a result, sources said, operations on its priority section between Ghaziabad and Meerut could begin as early as the end of 2022 as opposed to 2023 as had been initially envisioned. The Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor, once completed, will reduce the travel time between Delhi and Meerut to under an hour. The entire corridor is expected to be commissioned by the year 2025. The Sarai Kale Khan station is 215 metres long, 50 metres wide and 15 metres high and will see all three corridors of the first phase converge and remain interoperable. It will be an interchange point for Hazrat Nizammudin station of Indian Railways and Delhi Metro, and Inter State Bus Terminal. According to the NCRTC, more than 100 foundation piles have already been constructed for around 45 station piers and around 300 foundation piles are to be constructed for the “huge station” given its strategic location and the complexity and challenges that come along with it. “It is because of the vision and focused approach of our MD, Vinay Kumar Singh, that the NCRTC was better equipped both technologically and logistically to deal with the two waves of COVID-19,” said Puneet Vats, CPRO, NCRTC. “With 15 kilometres of ready viaduct, about 70% of civil construction work is completed on the priority section of the corridor. In December 2021, the NCRTC has achieved a new milestone of constructing 50 spans, which is more than 1.5 km of elevated RRTS corridor. Systems contracts are also in place and progressing well,” Mr. Vats also said. While last year June saw the erection of first pier in Delhi, since then, the NCRTC has also managed to construct almost 1 kilometre of an elevated viaduct at New Ashok Nagar and for the construction of the underground portion, work of the launching shaft for tunnelling is in advanced stages, Mr. Vats added. “With the overall support of governments, more than 14,000 workers and 1,100 engineers are striving hard to deliver the priority section to the residents of NCR much before the stipulated timeline,” he said. Steady progress In the 70-km-long elevated section of the 82-km-long Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor, the foundation for 50 kilometres — more than two-thirds — has been completed, according to the NCRTC. The priority section, 17 kilometres long, which has five stations including Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, Guldhar, Duhai, and Duhai depot, the NCRTC said it had established the first special span weighing 850 tonnes and 73 metres long which is a double lane special span crossing 4 lines of Indian Railways near Vasundhara. Currently, it added, a 150 metre-long span is in the process of being installed for the station at Ghaziabad. The process of installation is progressing at a rapid pace which will weigh around 3,200 tonnes and will cross the Delhi Metro and an adjacent flyover from a height of 26 metres above the ground. This special span made of semi-circle shaped structural steel, the NCRTC hopes, will become the new identity of Ghaziabad. Further in the priority section, 95% of pillars have been erected between Sahibabad to Duhai and about 13 km of the viaduct has been constructed. Parapet installation and track laying activities are also under progress on the viaduct. Along with this, masts are being installed under the process of laying overhead equipment. The NCRTC said all the five RRTS stations in the priority section of 17 km have started coming in their original shape; the concourse level work of Sahibabad RRTS station is in progress and soon the precast segments of the cross arm will be set up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rrts-could-hit-the-tracks-sooner-than-expected/article38084724.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:15 IST,||Private buses hired to augment public transport to run till Jan.-end: Minister||Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Friday said that the 1,000-odd private buses the Government hired in November to augment the public transport and wean commuters away from individual vehicles amid the dangerous air quality levels will be operational till January 31. The decision came a day after public transport users faced issues across the city due to the cap on passengers allowed to board such vehicles as part of the COVID-19 restrictions. “Keeping in view the difficulties being faced by the public due to COVID Yellow Alert restrictions, the Delhi Government under the leadership of CM @ArvindKejriwal has decided to extend the duration of private buses running under Paryavaran Bus Service till 31.01.2022. I hope this will help. Delhi bus passengers will get relief,” Mr. Gahlot tweeted. At least 40-50 people and a police officer sustained injuries when commuters blocked MB Road in south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar and damaged a few DTC buses on Thursday morning after not being allowed to board them due to the passenger limit. Under the ‘yellow alert’ announced by the Government, buses can run with 50% seating capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/private-buses-hired-to-augment-public-transport-to-run-till-jan-end-minister/article38084701.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:16 IST,||Man stabs wife to death||A 32-year-old woman was stabbed to death by her husband in central Delhi’s Chandni Mahal on Friday, the police said, adding that the accused had been arrested. The police said that a PCR call was received in the afternoon wherein the caller said that her mother was lying dead in their house. On reaching the spot, they found Seema, mother of three daughters, lying in a pool of blood with stab wounds. Local enquiry revealed that the couple had been fighting since morning and the husband was absconding. Accused Abdul Rahman was found in Kamla Market with his two daughters and wearing blood-stained clothes, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-stabs-wife-to-death/article38084707.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:18 IST,||‘Sexual enhancement drugs won’t come under NDPS Act’||Sexual enhancement drugs containing herbs and medicines are not covered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, the Supreme Court has observed in a recent order. The observation came in an appeal for bail by a man accused in a case involving the seizure of about 1,37,665 tablets of different types collectively weighing approximately 90 kg from four locations in Chennai in 2019. The tablets were described as “psychotropic substances” by the probe agency. However, forensic tests showed that a “large number” of tablets seized by the DRI admittedly contained herbs to enhance male potency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sexual-enhancement-drugs-wont-come-under-ndps-act/article38084718.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:15 IST,||Two held for woman’s rape||A 21-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped by her employer and his two accomplices, including a minor, at Vijay Vihar on Thursday. While two of them have been arrested the minor has been detained. The woman in her complaint filed at Vijay Vihar police station said that she worked as a domestic help at one Umesh’s factory. On Thursday, she said, her employer asked her to go out with him in his car for some work. “Umesh took her to a secluded place where his accomplices were already present. They gang-raped her and then threatened her with consequences if she disclosed it to anyone,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-held-for-womans-rape/article38084697.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:15 IST,||Dowry death: settlement no ground to quash FIR, says HC||The Delhi High Court has declined to quash an FIR for a dowry death on the basis of a settlement between a man and his deceased wife’s family, saying it is a grave and heinous offence which is actuated by a social evil that needs deterrence. Justice Mukta Gupta said that in the present case, the wife ended her life by suicide within five months of the marriage due to the harassment caused by the husband and his family members. While dismissing the petition by the man and other accused family members for quashing the FIR, the High Court reminded them of a judgment passed by the Supreme Court which “clearly laid down that where serious and grave offences are involved, the quashing of FIR cannot be allowed on the basis of the compromise”. The victim’s family had alleged that after the marriage in March 2021, the man and other accused started harassing her for dowry. Subsequently, in August, the family received a phone call that their daughter ended her life by suicide. During the pendency of the investigation, the man and the woman’s family arrived at a settlement, which they said, was without any coercion and without any transfer of money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dowry-death-settlement-no-ground-to-quash-fir-says-hc/article38084698.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:16 IST,||Duo in police uniform rob Australian national, arrested||Two persons have been arrested for allegedly stealing money from an Australian national in Hazrat Nizamuddin, the police said on Friday. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) Surender Choudhary said the accused have been identified as Vakil, 30, and Badrinath, 28. The police said that during patrolling on Wednesday they heard a woman screaming for help. They saw two persons in police uniform fleeing the spot. The victim, an Australian national, said that she was standing near the staircase of her house when the two accused asked her to give them Rs. 2,000 as COVID-19 challan for not wearing a mask. When she denied, both of them forcibly took the money from her and ran away after pushing her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/duo-in-police-uniform-rob-australian-national-arrested/article38084710.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:16 IST,||Policeman hit by bike, dies||A Delhi Police Sub-Inspector (SI) succumbed to his injuries after being hit by a speeding bike in Dwarka, officers said on Friday. The police said that the officer, Sanjeev Lochan, 52, was crossing the road when a bike hit him on Tuesday afternoon. All the accused were arrested from the spot. Lochan was taken to a hospital where he was declared critical and succumbed to his injuries on Thursday morning. The SI is survived by his wife and two children. The police said he had won a Gallantry Medal from the President in 2007 for killing Bangladeshi terrorists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/policeman-hit-by-bike-dies/article38084711.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:16 IST,||Delhi records 1,796 COVID-19 cases, no death||The Capital reported 1,796 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the highest in seven months, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Friday. This is a 36.7% increase from 1,313 fresh cases recorded on Thursday. The test positive rate also went up to 2.44% from 1.73% a day before.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-records-1796-covid-19-cases-no-death/article38084702.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||Madrasa’s hospital a boon for a village near Ajmer||Making a humble contribution to the institutional deliveries of women, a first-of-its-kind hospital established by a madrasa in Ajmer district’s Oontra village has started providing health services in a rural area which lacks basic medical facilities. The 40-bed hospital, built with zakat and other charity funds on the madrasa premises, was formally inaugurated on December 19.  Idara Dawat-ul-Haq, which has started the hospital to cater to the needs of rural population, has been imparting religious education since 1998 and had registered itself with the State government’s Education Department for running multiple schools in 2009-10. One of the schools has since been upgraded to senior secondary level. The Islamic seminary boasts of a strength of 4,600 students, including girlsThe hospital is the latest addition to the institution’s work for benefiting the villagers.  Idara Dawat-ul-Haq’s head Maulana Mohammed Ayub Qasmi told The Hindu that the initiative for institutional deliveries in the hospital had turned out to be a blessing for the women in the region, who were deprived of medical care during pregnancy and childbirth in the absence of an adequate health infrastructure. The hospital has conducted half-a-dozen institutional deliveries within its first two weeks.  The hospital, which also holds the distinction of being the first medical facility established by a madrasa in Rajasthan, has set an example of communal harmony, as it offers health care at nominal prices to the people belonging to all religions, castes and creed. The emergency, ambulance and medical store facilities are available round the clock. With a population of 6,000, Oontra, situated 26 km away from Ajmer, has a primary health centre that only refers the patients to bigger hospitals in the nearby Kishangarh town and the district headquarter. The Dawat-ul-Haq hospital, which has installed 16 of the 40 sanctioned beds, has two full time doctors, including a gynaecologist, eight nursing personnel and other paramedical staff. Anshu Shiv Kumar of Kaipara village, who was advised a Caesarean delivery by the doctors in Ajmer, was the second to undergo normal delivery in the hospital. Shareefa Khatoon of Oontra village said her grandson was born here with full medical care and her daughter-in-law was doing fine. Kirti Mehta, Nursing Officer in Ajmer’s Jawaharlal Nehru Government Hospital, who has been instrumental in planning and executing the medical facility project at the seminary, said it would help reduce the high infant and maternal mortality rates in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/madrasas-hospital-a-boon-for-a-village-near-ajmer/article38084914.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||‘Voters won’t let outsiders use Goa as lab’||Goa’s voters will not allow parties that have come from outside to use the State as a laboratory for political experiments in the upcoming Assembly elections, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday in a remark aimed at the Trinamool Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party. Mr. Sawant was addressing a gathering in his native village of Kothambi in Sankhalim Assembly constituency, where he formally kicked off his campaign for the polls scheduled to be held in February 2022. ‘Legacy of CMs’ “We are taking forward the legacy of former Chief Ministers — late Dayanand Bandodkar, late Manohar Parrikar and others,” he said, taking a jibe at the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, accusing it of selling out its values to political parties that arrived from outside the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/voters-wont-let-outsiders-use-goa-as-lab/article38084720.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:26 IST,||Manjhi’s remarks stir caste pot in Bihar||Former Bihar Chief Minister and president of Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) [HAM-S] Jitan Ram Manjhi, has hit headlines recently because of his remarks allegedly offending upper castes. In caste-ridden Bihar, Mr. Manjhi’s comments have evoked condemnation from Opposition parties for his “uncalled for utterances” but a curious silence from coalition allies.  Coming from the Dalit community, which comprises about 16% of the population in the State, Mr. Manjhi while addressing a gathering of his own Musahar caste on December 19, took on the upper caste Brahmin community. Members of the Brahmin community later protested against his remarks, with some sitting outside his residence to perform puja .  Leader’s U-turn As the protests grew shriller, Mr. Manjhi, in a U-turn said his remarks were meant for his own Musahar community and “not against Brahmins”. But he was forced to rescind the line facing a reaction from the Musahars. In another volte-face, he asserted that his cuss words were against those Brahmins who “eat meat and drink alcohol while pretending to be holier than thou”. A few days later Mr. Manjhi hosted a feast for Brahmins at his house attended by members of the upper caste community. Similarly, Mr Manjhi earlier, had made a controversial comment against Lord Ram saying he was a “factious character”. His comments immediately invited sharp reaction from members of the upper caste Hindu community. However, while only two BJP MLAs attacked Mr. Manjhi, neither the BJP nor JD(U) — coalition allies in the State — condemned him for his remarks. Further, when a local BJP leader from Darbhanga, Gajendra Jha, protested against Mr Manjhi’s anti-Brahmin comments, the BJP expelled him from the party. When BJP MLA Niraj Kumar Singh ‘Babloo’ said it was time Mr. Manjhi to pass his time in offering obeisance and puja to lord Ram, HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan dared the BJP to keep his party out of alliance. “If HAM(S) is removed from the alliance, the NDA government will fall in the State,” said Mr. Rizwan. Later, senior State BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi said party men should not rake up Mr. Manjhi’s remarks as he had thrown a feast for Brahmins. The JD(U) leaders, too, preferred not to respond to Mr. Manjhi’s comments.  “It’s has been Mr. Manjhi’s calculated move to consolidate his dwindling vote among his own Dalit community. Bihar is a caste-ridden society and being a seasoned politician, Mr. Manjhi has been making such comments with a clear political motive,” political commentator Nawal Kishore Choudhary told The Hindu over phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/manjhis-remarks-stir-the-caste-pot-in-bihar/article38084713.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||Third wave has begun in Bihar: Nitish||A day after Bihar reported its first Omicron case, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday said the third wave of COVID-19 has begun in the State and urged people to remain vigilant. He also mooted opening a genome sequencing laboratory in the State. “Bihar has recorded the first Omicron case. Everyone has to be alert. The State is witnessing a sharp rise in cases, with the maximum being registered in Patna and Gaya. A large number of people from other States reside in these two places, and this could be a reason behind the spike in cases in these areas,” he told reporters. “The third wave has begun in the State. We are fully prepared...The Health Department has upgraded hospital infrastructure,” Mr. Kumar said. He said a review meeting will be convened to assess the situation and the possibility of imposing curbs will be discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/third-wave-has-begun-in-bihar-nitish/article38084912.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||Rane’s moment of triumph||After the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party scored a victory over the ruling tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the Sindhudurg District Cooperative Bank election on Friday, Union Minister Narayan Rane, who was responsible for engineering the win, said his next aim was to install a BJP government in Maharashtra. Eleven directors of the Bank’s panel, backed by Mr. Rane, emerged victorious as opposed to the eight from the MVA front. However, the win was also significant in the sense that it proved Mr. Rane, the strongman of the Konkan region, could still call the shots in the area. The win for Mr. Rane comes at a crucial moment after a Sindhudurg court on Thursday had quashed the anticipatory bail plea of Mr. Rane’s son — Kankavli MLA Nitesh Rane — in an attempt to murder case. The younger Rane has been absconding for more than five days now. Taking a potshot at the Shiv Sena and Mr. Thackeray, the Union Minister said “the people concerned [Sena] will know better as the public would teach them a lesson if a ‘conspiracy’ was again hatched against the Rane family.” “Now, our next target is [to supplant] the current MVA government. The BJP will win all the Lok Sabha seats in the Konkan in the coming general election. The people here will throw out unwanted legislators and MPs,” said Mr. Rane. ‘Politics of malice’ Buoyed by the win, the Maharashtra BJP leadership also hit out at Mr. Thackeray and the Shiv Sena, saying the results were a perfect riposte to the Shiv Sena’s ‘politics of malice’ against the Rane family. The Sindhudurg police on Wednesday had issued a notice to Narayan Rane to present his MLA son Nitesh before the police in connection with a ‘murder’ case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ranes-moment-of-triumph/article38084918.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:26 IST,||Omicron scare: Shimla Ridge vacated||Tourists and locals gathered at the Ridge maidan here were evacuated from the ground on Friday amid fears of the spread of the Omicron, Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi said. Mr. Negi said that thousands of people had gathered on the Ridge maidan on the eve of the new year and the district administration thought to vacate the overcrowded area to check spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/omicron-scare-shimla-ridge-vacated/article38084909.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:16 IST,||How our judges helped save lives during corona||As we close another challenging year with a new variant of the Coronavirus rearing its head, it is time to express gratitude to some of our distinguished judges of the Delhi High Court whose timely intervention gave a push to the collective efforts to tide over the pandemic crisis during the year. From lengthy court proceedings over weekends to urgent late night hearings, the judges went beyond the call of duty to hear out the helpless public who turned to the judiciary when everything else failed. When active cases of Covid-19 crossed 50,000 in Delhi in mid-April, the High Court revived a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) on COVID-19 testing and infrastructure. During the hearing, a bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli warned against the imminent collapse of the healthcare infrastructure and ordered the Centre and Delhi government to give details of the number of hospital beds with Oxygen support. Streamlining supply As the situation turned worse with the city hospitals running out of Oxygen supply for treating COVID-19 patients, the bench held an urgent hearing on April 21 and asked the Centre to protect the right to life of every seriously ill citizen requiring medical oxygen. The Centre was directed to make adequate arrangements and divert Oxygen supply from steel and petroleum industries to hospitals to tide over the emergency. "The shortage is now...At this point of time, the highest priority has to be saving lives,” the bench had noted. The next day, the bench directed the Centre to create a special corridor on priority for safe and swift passage of Oxygen tankers from neighbouring Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The bench warned it will not hesitate to "hang" anyone found obstructing pickup of Oxygen supplies. On April 26, a bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh requested the Delhi government to ramp up testing centres as the number of COVID-19 cases spiked. The directive came after several lawyers complained about the difficulty in getting tested as labs and staff had fallen woefully short for sample collection and examination. Availability of drugs On April 27, while hearing a plea by a lawyer, who was then suffering from COVID-19 and was able to get only three out of the six required doses of Remdesivir, Justice Prathiba M Singh directed the Delhi government to ensure the availability of the remaining three vials by the same night. She questioned the government about the scarcity of Remdesivir drug in Delhi, when several Indian companies were manufacturing and exporting the medicine. The High Court also directed the Delhi government to secure the release of Remdesivir once the police seized it from hoarders and black-marketers. The same day, the bench of Justice Sanghi and Justice Palli also cautioned the Delhi government to put its "house in order" as it had failed to check black marketing of Oxygen cylinders resulting in an unwarranted chaos. "We can’t let people die," the bench remarked, prompting a crackdown on hoarders. It also appealed to citizens not to stock oxygen cylinders and medicines at home and create an artificial scarcity. There were strict orders to make them available for people in genuine need. It was a heartbreaking moment when an advocate sought the help of the bench of Justice Sanghi and Justice Palli in getting an ICU bed for his relative, who was a COVID patient with low vitals, and in the middle of the hearing the news reached about the patient's death. “I have failed, my brother-in-law has expired, so no more efforts are needed,” the advocate said. An anguished bench answered, "No, the state has failed. We all have failed”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/how-our-judges-helped-save-lives-during-corona/article38084706.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||It is a novel about change: Namita Gokhale||“I’m overjoyed and overwhelmed,” says Namita Gokhale, winner of this year’s Sahitya Akademi Award for her English novel Things to Leave Behind. In an interview with The Hindu, the multi-faceted Ms. Gokhale says the award “is more than just a milestone.”  “The Sahitya Akademi award is deeply important to me because of its living history and legacy. As the prize is awarded to 23 Indian languages, including English, it makes me feel even more deeply connected with the multilingual literary heritage of our culture,” she says.  Since she announced her entry on the literary scene with the sparkling Paro:Dreams of Passion in 1984, the prolific Ms. Gokhale has written 18 works of fiction and non-fiction but none could match the scale, pace and drama of Things to Leave Behind, which she wrote in 2016 . Set in Kumaon from about 1840 until 1912, Ms. Gokhale says it was written and rewritten over an extended period of time.  Central character Related to Congress stalwart Govind Ballabh Pant, she has drawn from her roots in the region and the time she spent around some strong women in the family, including her grandmother Shakuntala Pande and aunt Shivani, the celebrated Hindi novelist. It reads like a careful dissection of the desires and dualities we live with, best represented by the central character, Tilottama. The complex hierarchies of caste and community and the call of the human heart play out in the intertwined stories of the spirited Tilottama, her daughter Deoki, and Deoki’s husband, Jayesh Jonas, as they search a new life in Eden Ashram - with the parallel and intersecting tales of Rosemary Boden and William Dempster. “It is a novel about change and chronicles the mixed legacy of the British Raj as well as the emergence of fragile modernity. I was searching something elusive while writing it, and left it to readers to understand and interpret it as they pleased,” says Ms. Gokhale, who doesn’t ascribe to literary influences “as these are often insidious.”  “The writer whom I most admired for style and strategy was and continues to be, Muriel Spark. Also Tolstoy and War and Peace , Dostoyevsky’s The Idiot, Herman Hesse’s Magister Ludi - The Glass Bead Game and Tale of Genji by Lady Murasaki,” she recounts. And, the Indian mythical aspect comes from the foundational and epic text of the Mahabharata, which she has retold for young readers.  In many of her works, she has etched the natural beauty of Kumaon hills in a painterly fashion. Here the Naini Lake becomes a character and metaphor for foreign control over our culture and spirit. Ms. Gokhale says her childhood in Nainital is permanently etched in her inner landscape. “The Naini lake is indeed a character, an abiding presence, through the narrative. The trees, the plants, the birds, the quality of light, in Kumaon come from personal as well as cultural memory. The stern and harsh rules which governed the lives of Brahmin women, and the joy they still managed to extract within these circumstances, are things I have seen and experienced,” she relates, adding, “the novel isn’t ‘about’ anything but a bagful of tangled narratives tumble out of it.” From Paro To Tilottama, strong female characters have been a hallmark of her works. They are strong, at times feminist but they also have a certain naivety about them rendering them life-like. “Indian women have enormous reserves of strength, even though they are socially vulnerable. This is even more true of ‘Pahari’ mountain women, of the Kumaoni sorority I grew up with. It’s no surprise that the sort of women I have known and admired turn up to inhabit my novels!,” notes Ms. Gokhale. She has flair for addressing deeper, complex issues with a light touch while maintaining a brisk pace. “I do tend to see the stories within stories, the patterns and concentric circles in narrative structures. I have a tendency to ramble, which I try to keep in check,” says Ms. Gokhale. Deep bonds As one of the forces behind the Jaipur Literature Festival and a successful publisher, Ms. Gokhale has painstakingly fostered a link between English writing and works of Indian languages. “The increasing emphasis on translations in literary circles is creating deep bonds between English and other Indian literature, as well as between different Indian languages. This is a valuable and crucial development.” However, she maintains, “the easy multilingualism of earlier generations is not so prevalent now, for whatever reason.”  Ms. Gokhale forayed into publishing at a young age with Super, a magazine that covered Hindi cinema. She retains her abiding respect for the medium and feels “a magnificent web series could emerge from Things to Leave Behind - full of spectacular landscapes and historical detail. I live in hope!”  Finally, what are the emotions 2021 will leave behind? “The bewildering changes we encountered in 2021 have impacted me in that I tend to reconsider all the things I earlier took for granted. This has reflected in two short stories I wrote in this strange year — they have a disjointed structure and a search for a pattern within a framework of chaos.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/it-is-a-novel-about-change-namita-gokhale/article38084680.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:16 IST,||A quiet beginning to the New Year||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-quiet-beginning-to-the-new-year/article38084709.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:27 IST,||Light amid the dark||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/light-amid-the-dark/article38084684.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:54 IST,||‘55% of cases are of Omicron variant’||The seventh round of next generation genome sequencing carried out by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on 282 samples have found 55% cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus. Among total samples 13% were of Delta variant while 32% were of Delta derivative. According to the BMC, out of 55% Omicron patients (156 in numbers) only nine had to be admitted to hospital. These patients too did not show any symptoms or did not require Oxygen supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/55-of-cases-are-of-omicron-variant/article38084910.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:41 IST,||Biden, Putin trade warnings over Ukraine||President Joe Biden has warned Russia’s Vladimir Putin that the U.S. could impose new sanctions against Russia if it takes further military action against Ukraine, while Mr. Putin responded that such a U.S. move could lead to a complete rupture of ties between the nations. The two leaders spoke frankly for nearly an hour on Thursday amid growing alarm over Russia’s troop build-up near Ukraine, a crisis that has deepened as the Kremlin has stiffened its insistence on border security guarantees and test-fired hypersonic missiles to underscore its demands. Further U.S. sanctions “would be a colossal mistake that would entail grave consequences,” said Mr. Putin’s Foreign Affairs Adviser Yuri Ushakov, who briefed reporters in Moscow after the Biden-Putin phone conversation. He added that Mr. Putin told Mr. Biden that Russia would act as the U.S. would if offensive weapons were deployed near American borders. White House officials offered a far more muted post-call read-out, suggesting that the leaders agreed there are areas where the two sides can make meaningful progress but also differences that might be impossible to resolve. Two paths Two paWhite House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Mr. Biden “urged Russia to de-escalate tensions with Ukraine” and “made clear that the United States and its allies and partners will respond decisively if Russia further invades Ukraine”. Mr. Putin requested the call, the second between the leaders this month, ahead of scheduled talks between senior U.S. and Russian officials on January 9 and 10 in Geneva. White House officials said Thursday’s call lasted 50 minutes, ending after midnight in Moscow. Mr. Biden told Mr. Putin the two powers now face “two paths”: diplomacy or American deterrence through sanctions, according to a senior administration official. Mr. Biden said the route taken, according to the official who briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity, will “depend on Russia’s actions in the period ahead”. Russia has made clear it wants a written commitment that Ukraine will never be allowed to join NATO and that the alliance’s military equipment will not be positioned in former Soviet states, demands that the Biden administration has rejected. Mr. Biden told Mr. Putin a diplomatic path remains open even as the Russians have moved an estimated 1,00,000 troops toward Ukraine and Kremlin officials have turned up the volume on their demands for new guarantees from the U.S. and NATO. White House officials said Mr. Biden made clear that the U.S. stands ready to exact substantial economic pain through sanctions should Mr. Putin decide to take military action in Ukraine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-putin-trade-warnings-over-ukraine/article38084234.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:41 IST,||Sri Lanka to ink pact with India to develop oil tanks||Sri Lanka on Friday announced its decision to sign three lease agreements on developing the strategic Trincomalee oil tank farm with India, after the Rajapaksa administration negotiated a “suitable” deal for 16 months. The announcement, signalling forward movement in a long-dragging project, is significant for New Delhi following a year of diplomatic strain beginning early 2021, when Sri Lanka unilaterally cancelled a tripartite agreement to develop a Colombo port terminal with India and Japan. The Trincomalee project pertains to some 100 oil storage tanks — built by the British during Second World War — in Sri Lanka’s eastern Trincomalee district. It has dominated bilateral talks for decades, from the time of the Indo-Lanka Accord of 1987, but has seen little progress. Lease extended As per the new deal, 14 tanks currently operated by the Indian Oil Corporation subsidiary, Lanka IOC, will be leased to the company for 50 years, Energy Minister Udaya Gammanpila told a media conference on Friday. Further, 24 tanks will be given to the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC), while 61 will be developed in a joint venture, with the CPC holding 51% stakes, and Lanka IOC, the remaining 49%, the Minister said. The lease agreements are expected to be signed in the coming weeks, following Cabinet clearance. After it was set up in 2003, Lanka IOC obtained a 35-year lease to develop the 850-acre tank farm in Trincomalee for an annual payment of $1,00,000. The company currently operates only 14 tanks — apart from two other recently built tanks in place of a damaged old one — while the other tanks in the massive storage facility remain unused, as the two countries have been unable to agree on the terms of its joint development. Successive governments in Colombo have acknowledged the need to bring in big foreign investment — refurbishment of each tank is estimated to cost over $1 million — to make the near century-old, neglected facility commercially viable, but none was able to finalise a deal with India, in the face of opposition from nationalist sections to any Indian involvement in a strategic national asset. ‘Regaining control’ Perhaps anticipating similar resistance from the government’s predominantly nationalist support base, the Minister pitched the deal as a “historic victory” at Friday’s press conference. Sri Lanka, he said, is “regaining control” of the Trincomalee oil tank farm, while also announcing that Lanka IOC — representing Indian interests in the project — would operate 14 tanks for half a century, in addition to holding 49% stakes in the new venture to develop 61 other oil tanks at the facility. The Minister’s statement comes at a time when the government’s popularity is plummeting over its response to the current economic crisis stifling the country. On the one hand, a severe dollar crunch has prompted speculation of a sovereign default. On the other, there is growing public resentment over soaring living costs and fears of an imminent food shortage, following the government’s overnight shift to organic farming, disregarding advice from farmers and scientists. Sri Lanka has sought urgent assistance from multiple sources, including India. Early December, Sri Lanka’s Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa visited New Delhi and sought emergency Lines of Credit to help Colombo import food, medicines and fuel, and a currency swap to boost the country’s foreign reserves. Negotiating a “four-pillar” strategy during his visit, the two countries agreed to strengthen collaboration in the energy sector, specifically mentioning the “early modernisation” of the Trincomalee oil tank farm as part of it.  Mr. Basil is expected to visit India again to attend the ‘Vibrant Gujarat’ summit from January 10 to 12. He will likely meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the sidelines of the event, officials earlier told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-to-ink-pact-with-india-to-develop-oil-tanks/article38084236.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:41 IST,||45 journalists killed in 2021: media watchdog||A total of 45 journalists were killed worldwide in 2021, the International Federation of Journalists (IFJ) said on Friday — “one of the lowest death tolls” it has recorded for any year. The figure tracked closely with a toll of 46 killings of journalists given two weeks ago by another media watchdog, Reporters Without Borders (known by its initials RSF), which also noted it as its lowest-ever since starting its tallies in 1995. “While this decrease is welcome news, it is small comfort in the face of continued violence,” the Brussels-based IFJ said in statement. The toll included nine in Afghanistan, the highest number suffered by a single country. Elsewhere, eight died in Mexico, four in India and three in Pakistan. The IFJ said the media workers “more often than not are killed for exposing corruption, crime and abuse of power in their communities, cities and countries”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/45-journalists-killed-in-2021-media-watchdog/article38084230.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:41 IST,||Four soldiers killed in raid on Pakistani Taliban||Four soldiers were killed in a firefight with the Pakistani Taliban, the country’s Army said on Friday, in the deadliest confrontation between the militants and security forces since a truce was called off earlier this month. Security forces were raiding suspected hideouts in the town of Mir Ali in North Waziristan when four soldiers were killed “during an intense exchange of fire”, an Army statement said. One “terrorist” was apprehended with weapons and ammunition, it added. Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) — a separate movement that shares common roots with the militants that took power in Afghanistan — said the Army raid was on a “centre” for its group. The TTP claimed in a statement that seven soldiers had been killed in its counter attack on Wednesday night, while its fighters escaped unharmed. In a separate incident the Army said on Friday that two men were killed in a clash in neighbouring Tank district in the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The TTP did not comment on the second incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/four-soldiers-killed-in-raid-on-pakistani-taliban/article38084231.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:41 IST,||S. Africa says its Omicron wave has peaked||South Africa, where the Omicron variant was detected last month, says its latest coronavirus wave has peaked without a surge in deaths or hospitalisations, enabling the country to lift a nightly curfew for the first time in 21 months. The Omicron variant emerged in November to become the pandemic’s dominant variant, driving new cases at a record rate around the world. “According to experts, Omicron has reached the peak, ...with clinical manifestations that have not caused any alarm in the hospital situation,” Mondli Gungubele, a Minister in President Cyril Ramaphosa’s office, said on Friday. The highly contagious Omicron variant, which contains a number of mutations, has fuelled an end-of-year global pandemic resurgence. But mounting evidence in South Africa and elsewhere has fuelled hopes that Omicron, while more contagious than other strains, may also be less severe. Infections in South Africa dropped by almost 30% last week compared with the preceding seven days, according to the President’s office, and while hospital admissions also declined in eight of the nine provinces. Even so, the risk of increased infections “remains high,” the presidency warned in its Thursday night statement. During the surge in December, only a marginal increase in COVID-19 deaths was noted, while hospitalisation rates were lower than in previous waves, the presidency statement said. Omicron was first identified in South Africa and Botswana in late November. It quickly became the dominant strain in South Africa, causing an explosion of infections with a peak of about 26,000 daily cases recorded by mid-December, according to official data. South Africa has been the hardest hit by coronavirus on the continent, recording more than 3.4 million cases and 91,000 deaths. But fewer than 13,000 infections had been recorded in the past 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/s-africa-says-its-omicron-wave-has-peaked/article38084232.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:39 IST,||Welcome 2022||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/welcome-2022/article38084526.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:41 IST,||Raging inferno||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/raging-inferno/article38084238.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:32 IST,||Inside Kerala’s spiral of revenge politics||As twilight descended upon Mannancherry in Alappuzha on Saturday evening (December 18), Fanzilla called her husband K.S. Shan to enquire when he would be home. “Very soon,” was the prompt reply. The couple’s two daughters, Hiba Fathima (12) and Liya Fathima (4), waited, yearning to spend the evening with their busy ‘vappi’ (dad) who was not always around to care for them due to his many commitments. The wait only got longer and ended in tears and tragedy. Shan, the State Secretary of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), the political arm of the Islamic organisation Popular Front of India (PFI), also ran an interior design products shop at Mannancherry for a living. Following the brief phone call, Shan, who had already closed the shop, hopped on his motorbike for a four-kilometre ride home to Ponnad (ward 4) in Mannancherry gram panchayat. Once he entered the Mannancherry-Ponnad road, a white car started tailing his two-wheeler. When he reached Kuppezham Junction (Masjid Junction) around 7.30 p.m., the car rear-ended the bike and knocked him down. The intentional road accident and what followed were caught on a CCTV camera on the compound of an under-construction house in the location. Four men jumped out of the vehicle and three violently attacked Shan, who was lying in the middle of the road, with iron rods and sharp-edged weapons. While the assailants carried out the deadly attack, the driver of the car blocked the road by putting the vehicle across. The entire episode lasted less than two minutes and the assailants sped away. A grievously injured Shan, 38, was first taken to a hospital, 100-metres away before he was shifted to another hospital near Alappuzha. He was later taken to a third hospital in Kochi, where he succumbed to his injuries around 11.30 p.m. A post-mortem examination of his body revealed 50 injuries including stab wounds. The response A day later, Dwaraisar lane at Vellakinar in Alappuzha municipality, some 13 kilometres south of Mannancherry was to witness a bloody spectacle. It was around 6.30 a.m. on Sunday (December 19). Septuagenarian Vinodini had just returned from a visit to a nearby temple offering a pooja in the name of his son Ranjith Sreenivas, 45, State Secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) OBC Morcha. Sreenivas’s elder daughter Bhagya, 14, had just left the house to attend her tuition classes. Suddenly, a dozen people carrying swords, machetes and hammers travelling on six motorbikes kicked open the gate of the house and barged into the drawing room. Sreenivas who was preparing to go for a morning walk rushed to the room hearing the noise. Though he was able to ward off the attacks from the machete-wielding men twice, one of the assailants struck his forehead with a hammer. He fell to the floor. When Vinodini tried to intervene, a gang member brandished a machete at her. She fell down and injured her hand. Her face was forcefully pressed to a sofa, while a machete was placed on her neck. The desperate pleas of Lisha, wife of Sreenivas, and younger daughter Hridya, 11, fell on deaf ears. While Lisha was shoved away, someone in the gang waved a weapon at the child. The girl retreated to her room crying. The assailants removed the dhoti from Sreenivas’s body and repeatedly hacked him. He was rushed to a nearby hospital but died immediately. Tit-for-tat murders According to the police, the attacks bear the hallmark of the typical tit-for-tat targeting of political rivals in the State. These communally tinged political killings within a span of 12 hours in Alappuzha, often referred to as the cradle of the Communist movement, have rocked the State raising fears of a possible communal conflagration. When it comes to political murders, the northern district of Kannur has long been identified as the killing fields. As Kannur and other parts of northern Kerala remain calm in recent times, the theatre of action seems to have shifted to central Travancore. “Both RSS and PFI are religious fundamentalist outfits. The Alappuzha killings are not pure political murders. There was no religious factor in the Kannur murders. Almost all the victims were Hindus (Thiyya OBC). In the south, religious factors are clearly visible. By retaliating within hours, Muslim fundamentalists show that they can take on Hindu fundamentalists,” says social critic and political commentator Hameed Chennamangaloor. Three days after the tragedy, a sombre mood prevails at the house of Shan. Rahuma Beevi, mother of Shan, is unable to come to terms with the loss of her son. “We don’t know why he (Shan) was targeted. When I saw him at the hospital in Alappuzha my son was writhing in pain. I saw deep cuts on his stomach and neck. He had never indulged in violence or hurt anyone. He had always helped others, but still met a horrific death,” says a teary-eyed Salim, Shan’s father, who is an autorickshaw driver. Abhijith Sreenivas, Ranjith’s younger brother had returned from a visit to Sabarimala shrine the day before, and was sleeping upstairs when all hell broke loose. “I woke up to the desperate cries of my mother and rushed to the ground floor. Before I reached the room, the assailants had left the house. My brother was lying motionless in a pool of blood. His face had been disfigured. I tried to lift him, but I couldn’t. I went out and called the neighbours. A boy came to help but ran away unable to bear the dreadful scene. Later I called the police control room and he was taken to the hospital in an ambulance,” recalls Abhijith, an IT professional. Ranjith Sreenivas was a lawyer. His wife too is a lawyer. Theirs was an inter-religious marriage. “To my knowledge, there was no threat to my brother. He had no criminal case against him. As a politician, he used to say things sometimes critical of others. But at the same time he maintained a good relationship with everyone,” says Abhijith. Link to a February killing The trigger for the murder of Shan is said to be the killing of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker Nandukrishna, 22, by SDPI men on February 24, 2021. It was the aftermath of a dispute that ensued between RSS and SDPI workers over the provocative language used by some of the speakers at a campaign meeting organised by SDPI. In the evening, members of both organisations conducted separate protest marches, ending in clashes at Nagankulangara Junction near Cherthala in Alappuzha. Nandukrishna who suffered hack injuries in the scuffle later died at a hospital. The police had arrested 40 SDPI activists in connection with the murder. In the immediate aftermath of the slaying, a few shops and vehicles belonging to SDPI activists and sympathisers were torched and burned down in Cherthala. Though it did not snowball into major violence, investigators say Shan’s murder was a “retaliatory strike”, which was “in the making for two months”. The police believe the murder of Shan led to a chain reaction resulting in the killing of Sreenivas. A special investigation team led by Additional Director General of Police, Law and Order, Vijay Sakhare, is probing the twin murders. Sakhare hinted at a high-level conspiracy in the two murders. The police are looking into whether an RSS State leader who was in Alappuzha on December 18 had motivated the assailants to kill Shan. The police have recorded the arrest of around two dozen RSS and SDPI men in connection with these slayings. Jayaprakash, who sells Kerala lottery tickets by the side of the Alappuzha- Madurai road at Komalapuram on the outskirts of Alappuzha town, does not remember any such horrific incident in the region in the name of politics or faith in recent times. “Last time a political killing happened in our region was the murder of C.G. Francis (Benny) some 25 years ago. Francis, a CPI(M) worker, was killed by RSS men at Pollethai in Mararikulam South grama panchayat,” says Jayaprakash. Clash of communal outfits What gives the recent killings a religious hue is the involvement of the RSS and the SDPI, both considered communal organisations. The SDPI has its roots in the banned Students Islamic Movement of India and the National Democratic Front (NDF). The PFI was formed after NDF, the Karnataka Forum for Dignity and the Manitha Neethi Pasarai in Tamil Nadu merged in 2006. The SDPI, the PFI’s political front, which was formed in 2009, calls itself a “socio-political movement that strives for the empowerment of the Muslims and other marginalised sections of society.” Prior to the murder of Sreenivas, SDPI men were accused of the killings of RSS worker A. Sanjith in Palakkad in November, and Students Federation of India activist Abhimanyu in Kochi in 2018 among others. The demolition of the Babri Masjid is one of the key reasons for the long-running rivalry between the RSS and PFI, says Subash Babu, a retired Superintendent of Police who had spent considerable time in probing extremist elements and led several anti-terror operations in the State. “The RSS is less militant in Kerala compared to some other States largely due to their relative lack of influence on society. In a sense, the PFI can attack the RSS only in Kerala, whereas in other States the Hindu outfit is in a much stronger position. Their rivalry and targeted communal killings are likely to continue in Kerala, but it won’t necessarily snowball into a larger war or riot,” claims Babu. Both the RSS and the PFI spread hatred against each other as a major ploy to thrive. “If there is no Muslim community in India, there is no scope for RSS. There are a lot of limitations to the consolidation of the Hindu religion or culture. To succeed, they want all Hindus to see Muslims as their enemies. On the other side, Muslim fundamentalist organisations are portraying their community as victims and the Sangh Parivar as hunters. They use the 2002 Gujarat riots and actions of the BJP government at the Centre to fan anti-Hindu sentiments. All these organisations practise communal politics,” says Chennamangaloor. According to him, the vote-bank politics of the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) have helped the fundamentalist organisations to expand their footprint in the State. “Political killings are becoming communal murders in Kerala,” opines political analyst N.M. Pearson. “The CPI(M) and the RSS were the major parties involved in the political killings in the State. After coming to power, the CPI(M) seems to have ditched murder politics. The organisations involved in recent murders utilise religion in order to gain political goals,” says Pearson. He says that when it comes to vote-bank politics there is no ideology. “We cannot say political parties including the CPI(M) have joined hands or made compromises with communal forces. But at the same time, the recent elections saw secular parties indulging in appeasement of communal groups at the local level and in some places crossing the ideological lines to ensure victory.” Signs of polarisation As per the 2011 Census, the total population of Alappuzha was 21.28 lakh. Of this, 68.64% were Hindu, 20.45% Christian and 10.55% Muslim. Murders of this kind or communal violence are not common in the district. But there are signs of polarisation. Following the murders, calls for retaliation and hate-mongering were intense, especially on social media. The remarks — “We aren’t mourning, it’s a march of jubilation” — made by SDPI State General Secretary P.K. Usman during the funeral procession of Shan exemplify it. Political observers feel that despite suffering electoral setbacks, fundamentalist forces like the RSS and the PFI/SDPI have been able to strengthen their base in the district. “Alappuzha has not witnessed any real communal problem in recent times. But it is not completely correct to say that the district has always been peaceful. Clashes have occurred in Alappuzha town. There was even a police firing during a Nabidina rally in the 1980s. Intermittent clashes have taken place between Hindus and Muslims in Kayamkulam. Of late, there has been a significant shift in Muslim politics,” says a senior journalist and political observer from Alappuzha. The rise of Islamic organisations like the SDPI in Alappuzha is in tandem with the eroding influence of the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), both constituents of the UDF. In the 2020 local body polls and 2021 Assembly elections, the LDF swept the elections in the district winning a majority of the local bodies and eight of the nine Assembly seats. “The UDF has become more or less irrelevant in the district. Muslim voters have drifted away from the UDF and aligned with the CPI(M) and SDPI. The CPI(M) has made significant inroads into the Muslim community by creating a sense that they are in the best position to fight the BJP. The SDPI is also pitching itself as a force against Hindu fundamentalist forces. The CPI(M) has consolidated Ezhava (Hindu) and Muslim votes, which is helping them to sweep polls one after another in the district,” the observer adds. The targeted political killings have sparked a wave of outrage, partly directed at the district police. Soon after the back-to-back murders, Congress leader and former Home Minister Ramesh Chennithala asked why the local law enforcement had not swamped the streets with officers soon after the first murder, given the communal implications of the crime. Soon, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan condemned the crime. In an FB post, he urged people to isolate the forces that seek to spread hate and terror in the community. The Chief Minister also promised resolute legal action against the perpetrators. The CPI(M) sees a political ploy to undermine Kerala’s communal peace, secular character, and law and order record in the Alappuzha killings. According to a press statement from the CPI(M) State secretariat, the Alappuzha killings are attempts from two religiously opposed fanatical forces to instigate a communal conflagration in Kerala. The CPI(M) said they sought to divide society into religious lines for political dividends. Since the home portfolio is with the Chief Minister, the spate of killings in Alappuzha turned out to be a shot in the arm for the Opposition. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the Chief Minister had outsourced the police station to local CPI(M) satraps. He asked the government to rein in the RSS and SDPI outfits to ensure lasting communal peace. BJP State President K. Surendran alleged that the CPI(M) and the SDPI were in cahoots in scores of local bodies in Kerala, and tacitly supported each other in the elections. The police seemed to be supportive of the SDPI, he said. Surendran alleged that the SDPI was an Islamist outfit with secret terror and assassination cells. Rejecting the accusations, SDPI State General Secretary Ajmal Ismael said the SDPI was a secular and democratic organisation. He alleged that the police had arrested and tortured innocent SDPI workers in connection with the murder of the BJP leader in Alappuzha and made them chant “Jai Shri Ram”. He accused the BJP of derailing public peace. Critics say the police failed to correctly assess the tense mood and initiate measures to check further violence following the killing of the SDPI leader. The retaliatory strike, which happened less than 500 metres from Alappuzha South police station and less than one kilometre from the District Police office, has baffled the police. However, the police top brass denies any laxity on the part of the force. Caught in the middle  At Ponnad, villagers are yet to overcome the shock of the brutal murders and the religious animosity which is unheard of in the region. Every year, the Ponnad Muhiyudheen Juma Masjid committee offers water and sweets to participants of the procession marking the celebration of Sree Narayana Guru Jayanthi. Likewise, the Ponnad temple serves payasam ( kheer ) to members of the Muslim community on the occasion of Nabidinam (Eid-e-Milad). Kushan, a headload worker from Mannancherry, says he has not witnessed the deployment of such heavy security in the area in recent times. “People here live in total harmony. I think the murder of Shan was aimed to stir communal tension in our locality, but it has failed. But, the murder certainly created panic among people.”  “It is not easy to destroy the secular fabric of Alappuzha,” says Shameel, a fruit vendor in Alappuzha town. “But there is always a chance of violence escalating with wide ramifications,” he warns. According to him, a few fringe elements in the two communities are trying to flare up communal feelings. Though Shan and Sreenivas believed in different ideologies, they were known to each other and remained friends until the abrupt end of their lives. “I am proud of my son. But, no other family should go through this kind of ordeal. The killings should stop now,” says Salim. “Issues of murdering one innocent person do not get solved by killing another,” Abhijith echoes. With inputs from G. Anand in Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/inside-keralas-spiral-of-revenge-politics/article38084229.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:31 IST,||An unfortunate ideological shift in the judiciary||A speech by Justice S. Abdul Nazeer of the Supreme Court of India ( The Hindu , December 29, 2021;https://bit.ly/3qJBgP8)has evoked vibrant discourse in legal and political circles. The judge spoke in Hyderabad on the topic, “Decolonisation of the Indian legal system”, at the National Council meeting of the Akhil Bharatiya Adhivakta Parishad, which is a lawyers’ organisation with express loyalty to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He called for the “Indianisation” of our legal system. He lamented about the continued neglect of the teachings of the great legal giants of ancient India such as Manu, Kautilya, Yajnavalkya, etc.  A ‘link’ This apathy has been against “our national interest”, said the judge, adding that the kingdoms of ancient India had a fine justice dispensation system. The judge underlined Kautilya’s theory about the duties of the king which, according to him, is based on the great tradition established in the age of Ramayana. He implied that many ideas of modern methods of adjudication were prevalent in indigenous jurisprudence. While talking about judicial corruption too, Justice Nazeer had a point. After quoting Brihaspati, he said that “a corrupt judge, a false witness and the murderer of a Brahmin” were considered as criminals on a par with one another. Evidently, the Brahmins remained on a different pedestal even while assessing the culpability of the act. On selection of judges, he recalled the Vedic priest, Katyayana, who insisted that the king had to appoint only a Brahmin to act as a judge. It is equally curious that Justice Nazeer has found glory in the Arthashastra which contemplated punishment for an official for personally talking with a woman employee, during work hours (https://bit.ly/32Ln5k6). The speech by Justice Nazeer has certain distinct characteristics. It is nostalgic in tone and abstract in its concept. It lacked coherence in terms of specific legal situations. The speech contained generalisations without situational references. It did not indicate a concrete and comprehensive legal system that is desirable or adaptable for the nation, after Independence. The basic issues with the speech, however, are two-fold. First, it ignores the Constituent Assembly debates on designing the nation’s legal landscape. Second, when religious revivalism is used as a political tool by the ruling dispensation, the legal revivalism expounded by the judge in generic terms can only subserve the regime’s political and populist agenda. The CA debates The Constituent Assembly debates started on December 9, 1946 and were completed on November 26, 1949 on which day the Assembly approved the draft. Though the Government of India Act, 1935 was a major source for the constitutional script, the debates in the Assembly and their outcome made it a unique socio-political document. The plea for Indianness was very prominent in the discourse. K. Hanumanthaiah, a member from Mysore, on November 17, 1949, lamented: “We wanted the music of Veena or Sitar, but here we have the music of an English band”. Pandit Govind Malaviya’s suggestion was to start the Preamble to the Constitution by the words, “by the grace of Parameshwar, The Supreme Being, Lord of the Universe....” Mahavir Tyagi, on December 27, 1948 emphasised regaining “spiritual freedom” and not just political freedom. Lokanath Misra was anxious about “the complete annihilation of Hindu culture” (December 6, 1948). On the other hand, H.V. Kamath warned that the history of Europe during the middle age was “bloody” and it showed “the pernicious effects that flowed from the union of Church and State” (December 6, 1948). He said that “if a State identifies itself with any particular religion, there will be rift within the State”. This was in sharp contrast with what Lokanath Misra said on December 3, 1948, “If you accept religion, you must accept Hinduism as it is practised by an overwhelming majority of the people of India.” These remarks and many others only epitomise the large volume of kaleidoscopic viewpoints that the Assembly chose to deliberate on. The plea for “Indianisation” was confronted not only with the values of western liberal democracy but also with the finer parts of the Indian tradition, which were organically incorporated into the Constitution. The second facet of Justice Nazeer’s speech has contemporary relevance and to understand it, we need to contextualise the opinion. The speech tries to create a narrative of a good old past without any convincing materials in support of it. This is totally in line with the right wing’s political rhetoric which relies on the unsubstantiated glories of the past. Justice Nazeer’s remarks have come at a time when the regime is trying to subvert the Constitution and the idea of the Rule of Law in multiple ways. At a time when even legislations are being used as a means to shatter constitutional tenets such as secularism and federalism, the remarks of the Supreme Court judge against the alleged colonial nature of the legal system, which includes the nation’s Constitution, are deeply disturbing. Metrics and a descent  The country’s democracy has stooped to a new low in recent times. It went down in the freedom index as well as hunger index. On December 27, 2021, The New York Times reported that “in India, laws against religious conversions have been accompanied by mob violence”. Hate speech has become a prominent mode of articulation in the country which is abetted by selective invocation or non-invocation of the penal laws. When the Constitution becomes the most effective tool against electoral autocracy, the speech by Justice Nazeer has had only an adverse impact on the movements thriving to restore the values of the Constitution. It is significant that even while attacking the colonialised legal system, Justice Nazeer did not find fault with the sedition law or such other draconian penal provisions, which are all colonial remnants.   Legal scholars David Landau and Rosalind Dixon, in a comprehensive study, explained that “across a range of countries, would-be authoritarians have fashioned courts into weapons for, rather than against, abusive constitutional change” ( Abusive Judicial Review: Courts Against Democracy , 2019). They have predominantly dealt with the process of adjudication which, in one way or another, aids or abets “a broader project of democratic erosion”.  Against separation of powers  But the ideological change that occurs in the institution of judiciary and the persons running it is another fundamental factor that determines the quality of judiciary and polity. The quintessential relationship between the judicial ideology and the political ideology was explained by J.A.G. Griffith in his classic work, The Politics of the Judiciary (1977). Remarks by the judges, on and off the Bench, need to be analysed by positioning them against political situations. Some comments by the judges could be an expression of sheer personal admiration for the Prime Minister as discernible from Justice Arun Mishra’s speech in February 2020, when he described the Prime Minister as a “versatile genius who thinks globally and acts locally”. In February 2021, Justice M.R. Shah said that Prime Minister Modi is a “popular, loved, vibrant and visionary leader”. Both these comments do not augur well for our democracy since these are not in tune with the constitutional scheme of the separation of powers and expected judicial behaviour. Justice Nazeer’s views indicate an unfortunate ideological shift in our judiciary.  Kaleeswaram Raj is a lawyer at the Supreme Court of India. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-unfortunate-ideological-shift-in-the-judiciary/article38084222.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:31 IST,||Prepare for the worst||The Omicron variant is galloping across the U.S. and many countries in Europe at a pace never seen since the pandemic began. If the United States set a new record of fresh cases on a single day on December 27 with over 0.54 million cases, the seven-day average is at 2,40,400 cases a day, a 60% increase compared to the previous week. At least seven countries in Europe — Britain, Denmark, France, Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain — are witnessing a similar trend this week. The World Health Organization said the number of COVID-19 cases recorded globally shot up by 11% last week (December 20-26) compared with the previous week, while the number of new deaths stayed nearly the same as the previous week. But globally, the weekly new cases are close to but yet to surpass the peak witnessed in the last week of April 2021. The sharp increase in daily cases is not surprising given the highly infectious nature of the Omicron variant. It is estimated that it spreads nearly three times faster than the highly transmissible Delta variant. While Omicron has emerged as the dominant variant in a few countries, it has not completely displaced the Delta variant. The twin threats from the two variants are responsible for fresh cases reaching record numbers in many countries. The Omicron variant has a superior ability to cause breakthrough infections in fully vaccinated people and also cause reinfections in people who have been previously infected. Early data from South Africa and the United Kingdom suggest a reduced risk of severe disease requiring hospitalisation particularly among those fully vaccinated and previously infected. But it is still too early to draw conclusions as there is an inevitable lag between infection and hospitalisation, and the protection offered by vaccines against Omicron in older and other vulnerable populations is still not clear. India has been witnessing a surge in cases in many States. As in the case of the first two waves, the increase in cases is currently seen in large cities. The total number of Omicron variant cases reported in India is inching closer to 1,300 and has already been reported from 22 States. There is no reason to believe that the variant will behave differently in India. The highly transmissible nature of the variant and its ability to cause breakthrough infections and reinfections, and the fact that people with no travel history or contact with international passengers have tested positive for the virus should alert policymakers to take the Omicron threat seriously. The first step in addressing this concern is to increase the daily testing numbers and adopt a dual RT-PCR testing strategy — testing all positive samples with a kit containing the S-gene target — before sequencing for Omicron detection. India should not repeat the same mistakes committed during the second wave by allowing the virus to spread widely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/prepare-for-the-worst/article38084217.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:31 IST,||Needless provocation||The Chinese government’s announcement on December 30 that it had come up with its own names for 15 places in Arunachal Pradesh could not have come at a more precarious moment for an already strained relationship. The move is ostensibly aimed at “standardising” how places in the Indian State are depicted in official Chinese maps, which show all of Arunachal as “south Tibet”. India’s Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement in response to the move that “assigning invented names” will not “alter” any facts on the ground and Arunachal’s status as an integral part of India. As the MEA noted, this is not the first time that Beijing has done so. In 2017, Chinese authorities issued “official” names for six places in Arunachal. The first instance followed a visit by the Dalai Lama to the State, which Beijing had protested. The list on this occasion is longer, and not only includes eight towns but also four mountains, two rivers and a mountain pass. The list covers 11 out of Arunachal’s 25 districts, extending from Tawang in the west to Dibang Valley in the north and Anjaw in the east. The spread of the locations suggests the places were chosen to reiterate Chinese claims to the whole State.  If the latest move is largely symbolic and will not, as the MEA observed, change facts on the ground, it needs to be seen against the backdrop of broader changes in China’s approach to the boundary dispute. The naming announcement was made ahead of a new border law coming into force on January 1, 2022. The law, which was proposed in March 2021 and calls for various Chinese government bodies to take steps to “safeguard” Chinese territory, was put forward a year into the crisis along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). New Delhi, which has expressed concern about the law, has seen it as an attempt to formalise the transgressions made by the Chinese military since the summer of 2020 and put a stamp on China’s unilateral measures to redraw the LAC. The Chinese Foreign Ministry defended the latest move saying the matter was “within China’s sovereignty”. Yet, Beijing had a very different view on India’s own internal reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019, which elicited not only sharp statements from China but also led to Beijing raising the matter at the United Nations Security Council. The announcement this week came as India and China remain engaged at both diplomatic and military levels to complete the stalled disengagement process along the LAC. Restoring relations, as well as the status quo along the borders, will require mutual sensitivity and an adherence to past agreements that helped keep the peace, rather than needless provocations that expand an already long list of differences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/needless-provocation/article38084218.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:32 IST,||Vaccines, boosters and some hard talk||I wish it were otherwise but we are starting the new year with vaccines and boosters at the top of everyone’s mind. So I hope you will forgive me if I write about these subjects. With boosters starting in a week’s time, there are questions that need to be raised and allegations that must be countered. That is what I want to do today. Issue of the certificate First, a blunder that has mercifully been corrected but the fact it was made raises the question: how carefully did the Government think through its announcement about boosters? After insisting on calling them precautionary, why did it initially limit them to people over 60 who can provide comorbidity certificates from a doctor? It was inexplicable and contradictory but also illogical. Let us leave aside the fact, this being India, there would have been no dearth of false certificates. If the Government had no way of checking, it would have had to accept every one. No doubt, this is why, three days later, it dropped the requirement. Now, all you need is a doctor’s advice. How will the Government know you have taken it? And how will it fathom what the advice was? This is, of course, a face-saver to wriggle out of the earlier stupidity, but it still leaves the Government with yolk all over its face. The issue was simple before the Government decided to complicate it. Comorbidities were not a condition for those over 60 years when jabs were first given. Why were they suddenly introduced at this stage? I doubt we will ever be told but it is a question that calls for an answer. The elderly are a priority in every country — that was also true of India when the first jabs were given — because age makes them vulnerable. The older you get the more prone you are to illness. So, if the doses are precautionary, the precaution that is needed is to prevent the elderly falling sick. Covaxin’s clearance This seems to have finally dawned on it but how is it that the Government did not realise it earlier? Someone somewhere did not think this through. Even though the error has been corrected it does not leave me with confidence in the Government’s strategy. The other issue I want to raise is different. It is an unwarranted allegation made by the Chief Justice of India. He has claimed: “Several multi-national companies, like Pfizer, on one hand, and scores of people from within India, on the other hand, made unfair attempts to defame Covaxin. They even complained to WHO and tried to stall recognition to this made-in-India vaccine.” Pfizer can defend itself and I hope the World Health Organization (WHO) will issue a statement to clear the air, but I want to step-in on the side of a lady widely considered India’s top vaccine scientist. It was to me in an interview last January that she expressed her reservations about Covaxin’s clearance in “clinical-trial mode”. Professor Gagandeep Kang said without efficacy data, no vaccine should be cleared and Covaxin’s clearance, only on the basis of its Phase 1 and 2 results, was neither correct nor defensible. She also said she would not take Covaxin as a vaccine until its required efficacy data is made public. Actually, she had a lot more to say but you can find that out for yourself by watching the interview. It was done on January 5, 2021 (https://bit.ly/32wbRQU). The Chief Justice of India did not name her but Prof. Kang is by far the most prominent scientist to have raised concerns about Covaxin’s premature clearance. She had the courage to do so and what she said was scientifically indisputable. She was not “defaming Covaxin” but she was certainly — and rightly — drawing attention to its improper authorisation. However, the Chief Justice of India went perilously further. “All Telugu people must come forward to tell the world about the greatness of our Telugu company that made this vaccine.” It was embarrassing to hear a Chief Justice of India say that but I would like to believe he knows he has erred and repents. I’ll say no more. Oh well, if I have not upset or depressed you, Happy New Year. Karan Thapar is a television anchor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/vaccines-boosters-and-some-hard-talk/article38084224.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Current account slips to deficit in Q2||India’s Balance of Payments (BoP) position moved to a deficit of $9.6 billion in the quarter ended September (Q2), as widening trade deficit weighed. At 1.3% of GDP, this compares with a surplus of $6.6 billion in the immediately previous quarter and with a surplus of $15.3 billion a year earlier. “The deficit in the current account in Q2 was mainly due to widening of trade deficit to $44.4 billion from $30.7 billion in the preceding quarter and an increase in net outgo of investment income,” the RBI said on Friday. “The current account deficit in Q2 FY22 was somewhat smaller than our expectation. Nevertheless, a huge widening lies ahead, with the large merchandise trade deficits seen in October-November 2021,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at rating agency ICRA. ‘Gap to widen in Q3’ “We expect the current account deficit to print in excess of $25 billion in Q3 FY22, rivalling the size of the full year CAD in FY20. For the year as a whole, we foresee the CAD at $40-45 billion, or around 1.4% of GDP,” she added. The RBI said net services receipts decreased marginally over the previous quarter but increased on a year-on-year (y-o-y) basis, on the back of robust performance in the exports of computer and business services. Private transfer receipts, mainly representing remittances by Indians employed overseas, rose 3.7% from a year earlier to $21.1 billion. Net outgo from the primary income account, mainly reflecting net overseas investment income payments, increased sequentially as well as on a y-o-y basis. Net foreign direct investment recorded an inflow of $9.5 billion, declining from $24.4 billion seen in the same period of the last year. Net foreign portfolio investment fell to $3.9 billion compared with $7 billion. Net external commercial borrowings recorded inflow of $4.1 billion compared with an outflow of $3.7 billion. Non-resident deposits saw net outflow of $0.8 billion as against $1.9 billion. “There was an accretion of $31.2 billion (on a BoP basis) in Q2 which also included SDR allocation of $17.86 billion by the International Monetary Fund on August 23, 2021.” For the half year ended September 2021, India recorded a current account deficit of 0.2% of GDP as against a surplus of 3% in the year-earlier period, on the back of a sharp increase in the trade deficit. Net invisible receipts were higher in the first half this year, on account of higher net receipts of services and private transfers. Net FDI inflows fell to $21.2 billion from $23.9 billion, RBI data showed. “Portfolio investment recorded a net inflow of $4.3 billion in H1:2021-22 as compared with $ 7.6 billion a year ago,” the central bank said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/current-account-slips-to-deficit-in-q2/article38084204.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Foreign-owned assets in India rose by $37 bn in Q2: RBI data||Foreign-owned assets in India increased by $37.3 billion during the July-September quarter (Q2), according to RBI data. Indian residents’ overseas financial assets rose $31.9 billion, almost three-fourths of which came from build-up in reserve assets. This partly reflects the allocation of special drawing rights (SDRs) by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in August 2021, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said. The regulator on Friday released data relating to India’s International Investment Position (IIP) at end-September 2021. The International Monetary Fund describes a nation’s IIP as showing the value of financial assets of residents of an economy that are claims on non-residents, or are gold bullion held as reserve assets; and of the liabilities of residents to non-residents. Reserve assets accounted for 68.5% of India’s international financial assets in September 2021. The share of debt liabilities in total liabilities increased marginally to 47.8%. The ratio of international assets to international liabilities improved to 73.6% from 70.4% a year earlier. Net claims of non-residents on India increased by $5.4 billion during July-September 2021. ‘HFC applies for licence’ Separately, the RBI also said that West End Housing Finance Ltd. had applied for ‘on tap’ licence to set up a Small Finance Bank in the private sector.  Reserve assets accounted for 68.5% of India’s international financial assets in September||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/foreign-owned-assets-in-india-rose-by-37-bn-in-q2-rbi-data/article38084202.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||GST: textile sector seeks lasting solution to niggle||The textiles and clothing industry, which welcomed the decision of the GST Council to defer the increase in rates for textile products, has sought a permanent solution to the issue. Sanjay K. Jain, vice-president of the Federation of Hosiery Manufacturers’ Association of India, said the decision of the Council was “a big relief to the textiles and clothing industry.” He said the industry had proposed 7% to 8% rate to the Finance Minister. However, there was no 8% slab in GST. “We will work for the 8% slab,” he said. The South Indian Hosiery Manufacturers’ Association president A.C. Eswaran said while the body welcomed the decision to defer the rate increase, “we want a permanent solution. The common man purchases basic wear and garments priced at less than Rs. 1,000. The rates for these should be retained at 5%,” he said. According to a press release from the Clothing Manufacturers’ Association of India, the industry was reeling under one of the most severe cost increases in recent years. Now is not the right time to increase the GST on garments, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gst-textile-sector-seeks-lasting-solution-to-niggle/article38084199.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Wheat exports jumped to $872 mn in April-Oct.||India’s wheat exports jumped to $872 million during April-October period in the current fiscal on account of healthy demand, with Bangladesh emerging as the top destination, the Commerce Ministry said. In volume terms, wheat exports during the period rose by more than sixfold to 3.2 million tonnes (MT) from 0.51 MT in the year-earlier period. “India’s wheat exports in the current fiscal (April–October) rose by 546% to $872 million from $135 million reported during the same period of the previous fiscal,” the Ministry said. In the current fiscal, wheat exports are expected to achieve an all-time record high in volume terms, it added. India’s wheat exports are mainly to neighbouring countries, with Bangladesh having the largest share of more than 54% in both volume and value terms in fiscal year FY21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wheat-exports-jumped-to-872-mn-in-april-oct/article38084211.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Core sector output rose 3.1% in November||Output of eight core sectors rose by 3.1% in November as against a contraction of 1.1% in the same month last year, according to government data released on Friday. Barring crude oil and cement, all other sectors recorded positive growth in November. In October, these core sectors’ output had grown by 8.4%. According to the data, coal production expanded by 8.2%, natural gas by 23.7%, refinery products 4.3%, fertilizers by 2.5%, steel by 0.8%, and electricity climbed 1.5% in November. The growth rate of the eight infrastructure sectors — coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertilizers, steel, cement and electricity — stood at 13.7% during April-November this fiscal as against a contraction of 11.1% during the same period last fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/core-sector-output-rose-31-in-november/article38084213.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||CCI orders probe against Apple for ‘unfair practices’||The Competition Commission of India (CCI) on Friday ordered a detailed probe against technology major Apple for alleged unfair business practices with respect to its App Store. In a 20-page order, the CCI said that Apple’s App Store is the only channel for app developers to distribute their apps to iOS consumers which is pre-installed on every iPhone and iPad. “Further, third-party app stores are not allowed to be listed on Apple’s App Store as the developer guidelines as well as agreement prohibits app developers from offering such services... these restrictions imposed by Apple forecloses the market for app stores for iOS for potential app distributors,” CCI said in the order. According to the CCI, this prima facie results in denial of market access for the potential app distributors/app store developers in violation of competition norms. Further, such practices prima facie result in limiting/restricting the technical or scientific development of the services related to app store for iOS. Citing these factors, the regulator has ordered a detailed probe by its Director General.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cci-orders-probe-against-apple-for-unfair-practices/article38084208.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||IRDAI tells Go Digit to pull out plan||Insurance sector regulator Irdai has asked Go Digit General Insurance to discontinue a product offering life insurance benefits in violation of regulatory norms. The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) also asked the insurer to withdraw advertisements regarding the product from all media. The insurance sector regulator said a show-cause notice was issued in August as deficiencies were observed in complying with the provisions of the Insurance Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/irdai-tells-go-digit-to-pull-out-plan/article38084209.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||RIL unit to buy U.K.’s Faradion for £100 mn||Reliance New Energy Solar Ltd. (RNESL), a wholly owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd., said it had agreed to acquire 100% in Faradion Ltd. for £100 million (about Rs. 1,000 crore). RNESL also agreed to invest £25 million as growth capital to accelerate commercial roll-out. “With its patented sodium-ion battery technology, Faradion has a competitively superior, strategic, wide-reaching and extensive IP portfolio,” RIL said in a statement, adding that it would use Faradion’s technology at its proposed energy storage giga-factory at Jamnagar, India. Faradion is based out of Sheffield and Oxford in the United Kingdom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ril-unit-to-buy-uks-faradion-for-100-mn/article38084214.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Tech Mahindra to acquire 100% stake in Allyis India, Green Investments||Tech Mahindra (TechM) said it had approved a proposal for the acquisition of a 100% stakes in Allyis India and Green Investments, for up to $125 million. TechM said the acquisition would bolster its capabilities in digital experience solutions — learning and development, marketing, instructional design; and engineering — cloud and automation, analytics, and technical support services.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tech-mahindra-to-acquire-100-stake-in-allyis-india-green-investments/article38084200.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||LIC unveils digital zone in Mumbai||The Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India has set up an ‘LIC Digi Zone’ here to enhance digital operations in sales and services for its customers. LIC Chairman M.R. Kumar said, “LIC plans to undertake the next wave of digital transformation to unlock several benefits of accelerating growth, driving customer satisfaction and improving intermediary productivity and loyalty.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lic-unveils-digital-zone-in-mumbai/article38084206.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Easy outing for United||Manchester United cruised to a morale-boosting 3-1 win against Burnley on the eve of Alex Ferguson’s 80th birthday on Thursday to strengthen its push for a Premier League top-four finish. Scott McTominay put United in front early and a Ben Mee own goal doubled its lead before Cristiano Ronaldo finished impudently to put Ralf Rangnick’s men 3-0 up. Veteran winger Aaron Lennon punctured the party atmosphere at Old Trafford towards the end of the first half, giving Sean Dyche’s struggling Burnley hope, but United largely bossed the second period. The Red Devils are now four points behind fourth-placed Arsenal with a game in hand after interim manager Rangnick shook up his team following a disappointing draw at Newcastle. Rangnick, still unbeaten since taking over from the sacked Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, made six changes, shuffling his defence and starting Jadon Sancho and Edinson Cavani in attack. Bruno Fernandes was suspended after picking up a fifth yellow card. United opened the scoring in the eighth minute, when Mason Greenwood cut the ball back to the edge of the box, where Ronaldo’s first touch fell for McTominay, who hit a sweet right-footed shot past Wayne Hennessey. The home side extended its advantage in the 27th minute in front of former manager Ferguson, who was at the helm the last time it won the Premier League, in 2013. Sancho was freed on the left by Shaw and the former Borussia Dortmund player cut inside onto his right foot before hitting a low strike that nestled in the corner via a slight touch from Burnley captain Mee. A superb McTominay effort was met by a similarly impressive stop by the flying Hennessey, who tipped the strike onto a post only for Ronaldo to react by flicking the loose ball into an empty net with the outside of his right boot.  The result: Manchester United 3 (McTominay 8, Mee 27-og, Ronaldo 35) bt Burnley 1 (Lennon 38) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/easy-for-united/article38084566.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,||Dravid’s overseas campaign as head coach begins on the right note||Rahul Dravid has made a winning start to his job as India coach on foreign soil. And the victory comes in no less a country than South Africa where India registered its first Test win — under Dravid’s captaincy in 2006 at the Wanderers. Wealth of experience Talking to the media, K.L. Rahul dwelt on the value of having a legend such as Dravid as coach, where you can learn about the art of cricket, drawing from his experience. Rahul also revealed Dravid brought calmness and focus to the dressing room and made the cricketers work hard at the nets. Dravid’s cutting-edge professionalism — there is a quiet ruthlessness about his methods — and skipper Virat Kohli’s passion for overseas victories in Tests, blend well. There is desire, there is hunger. The erudite Dravid, ever the perfectionist, would not have been completely happy though with the victory in the first Freedom Test. Take away Rahul’s exceptional first innings 123 and there was hardly anything to choose between the two sides. And we are talking about a transitional South African side with a porous batting line-up. The batting collapse on day three — India slumped from 272 for three to 327 all out — and the second innings capitulation [India was dismissed for 174] would have worried Dravid. The Wanderers can be extremely seamer-friendly and the host could play four specialist pacemen with Duanne Olivier coming in for Keshav Maharaj. The Indian batting, with problem areas, is bound to be severely tested. Cheteshwar Pujara is struggling at No. 3. He has been a courageous campaigner for India, but runs have eluded him in recent times. He has to look again at his forward press, which has landed him in loads of trouble. Pujara would be well advised to hang back unless the length demands otherwise. Indeed, the length should dictate the footwork from the Indians which was not always the case in the first Test. Another senior batter under scrutiny, Ajinkya Rahane, timed the ball sweetly during his first innings 48 but, given that capable young batters Hanuma Vihari and Shreyas Iyer are sitting out, needs to convert his starts. His second innings dismissal where, despite the presence of fine-leg and a deep square-leg, he ventured into a fatal hook was not what you would expect from a seasoned professional. Vihari had an outstanding tour of South Africa with India-A and Shreyas made Test runs against New Zealand at home. Skipper Kohli too needs a big score. His airy cover-drive at a wide one from the impressive debutant Marco Jansen soon after lunch on day four was disappointing. The ill-advised stroke led to his downfall. It was a case of poor batting. Kohli has to re-look his footwork and balance. He needs to dig in, ‘leave’ deliveries, be circumspect around off-stump. The Indian captain led capably but his team needs runs from him. Fully-charged battery The vibrant Indian pace bowling would have, however, pleased Dravid. None more than Mohammed Shami, at the peak of his powers. Shami has among the best seam positions in world cricket. The seam stays upright and the batters don’t always know which way the ball will deviate. Even as they are in two minds, Shami strikes. What a champion!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dravids-overseas-campaign-as-head-coach-begins-on-the-right-note/article38084517.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:34 IST,||Rahul to helm India in ODI series||K.L. Rahul will lead India in the three-match one-day international series in South Africa starting from January 19 as regular white-ball captain Rohit Sharma is not yet fully fit to take part in the series. Rahul, currently the vice-captain of the Test side as well in Rohit’s absence, will have pace spearhead Jasprit Bumrah as his deputy for the bilateral series. Along with Rohit, Ravindra Jadeja and Axar Patel too were not fit and hence not considered for selection, while Mohammed Shami has been rested. Ace off-spinner R. Ashwin will make his ODI return after four years, having last played against West Indies in June 2017. He had earlier made his T20I comeback at the ICC World T20. Experienced opener Shikhar Dhawan returns as well. Some of the fresh faceses who find a place in the 18-member squad include Ruturaj Gaikwad who topped the run-charts in the recently concluded Vijay Hazare Trophy, Washington Sundar and Venkatesh Iyer. Chetan Sharma, the chairman of the Selection Committee said they are looking at grooming Rahul as a potential future captain.  The squad: K.L. Rahul (Capt.), Shikhar Dhawan, Ruturaj Gaekwad, Virat Kohli, Surya Kumar Yadav, Shreyas Iyer, Venkatesh Iyer, Rishabh Pant (wk), Ishan Kishan (wk), Yuzvendra Chahal, Ravichandran Ashwin, Washington Sundar, Jasprit Bumrah (Vice-capt.), Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Deepak Chahar, Prasidh Krishna, Shardul Thakur and Mohammed Siraj.   The fixtures: Jan. 19, 21 (both at Paarl) and Jan. 23 (Cape Town) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-to-helm-india-in-odi-series/article38084524.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:22 IST,||Zeel goes down to Marcinkevica||National champion Zeel Desai failed to capitalise on her chances as Diana Marcinkevica of Latvia prevailed 7-6(7), 6-4 in the quarterfinals of the $25,000 ITF women’s tennis at the Ganesh Naik Complex on Friday. Zeel missed two set points in the first set, in the 12th game and then in the tie-break. She also failed to drive home the advantage when she broke for 4-3 in the second set. Diana handled the climax better and ran away with the last three games, dropping five points in all. Zeel had six aces and two double faults. She converted three of 10 break points. Diana edged ahead by converting four of seven breakpoints, apart from handling the tie-break well. Japan’s Moyuka Uchijima, champion of the last tournament in Pune, retired after four games against compatriot Naho Sato. The two latter gave a walkover in the doubles as well. In doubles semifinals, Prarthana Thombare and Ekaterina Yashina of Russia lost 6-3, 6-3 to top seeds Anna Danilina and Valeriya Strakhova.  The results: Quarterfinals: Diana Marcinkevica (Lat) bt Zeel Desai 7-6(7), 6-4; Naho Sato (Jpn) bt Moyuka Uchijima (Jpn) 4-0 (retired); Ekaterina Reyngold (Rus) bt Akiko Omae (Jpn) 6-0, 6-1; Nefisa Berberovic (BIH) bt Ekaterina Yashina (Rus) 6-1, 6-3.    Doubles: Semifinals: Anna Danilina (Kaz) & Valeriya Strakhova (Ukr) bt Ekaterina Yashina (Rus) & Prarthana Thombare 6-3, 6-3; Zhibek Kulambayeva (Kaz) & Diana Marcinkevica (Lat) w.o. Naho Sato & Moyuka Uchijima .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zeel-goes-down-to-marcinkevica/article38084692.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,||Vachier claims World blitz title||Eighth seeded Frenchman Maxime Vachier-Lagrave surprisingly stole a march over several stronger contenders before nailing local hero Jan-Krzysztof Duda 2-1 in the tie-breaker to claim the World blitz chess title in Warsaw on Thursday. Vachier, tottering at the 47th spot after losing the 10th round, scored nine points from the last 11 rounds. His victims included overnight leader Levon Aronian and Magnus Carlsen. After topping a three-way, involving Duda and third-placed Alireza Firouzja at 15 points, Vachier won the third tie-break blitz game to dash the hopes of the host. In contrast, the women’s title was decided with a round to spare after 17-year-old Kazakh Bibisara Assaubayeva built on her overnight lead to score 14 points from 17 rounds. Third seed K. Humpy, second with a round to go, missed a certain medal after losing the final round to Polina Shuvalova and was fifth. Similarly, Vaishali was third after 13 rounds but lost thrice in the last four rounds to tumble to the 14th spot. In the open section, 10th seed Arjun Erigaisi came the closest to a podium-finish.  Top-seven: (final standings) :   Open (after 21 rounds): 1-3. Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra), Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol), Alireza Firouzja (Fra) (15 points each), 4. Daniil Dubov (CFR) (14.5), 5-7. Levon Aronian (USA), Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze) and Vladislav Artemiev (CFR) (14 each).   Women (after 17 rounds): Bibisara Assaubayeva (Kaz, 14), Alexandra Kosteniuk (CFR, 12.5), 3-4. Valentina Gunina (CFR), Polina Shuvalova (CFR) (12 each), 5-7. K. Humpy, Natalia Buksa (Ukr) and Nana Dzagnidze (Geo) (11.5 each).   Indians’ standings:   Open: 18-19. Vidit Gujrathi, Nihal Sarin (13 each), 24. Arjun Erigaisi (12.5), 32. D. Gukesh (12.5). 68. Harsha Bharathakoti (11), 84. P. Harikrishna (10.5), 86. Raunak Sadhwani (10.5), 89. Mitrabha Guha (10.5), 112. S. L. Narayanan (10), 131. Abhimanyu Puranik (9), 141. Aditya Mittal (9), 150. Sankalp Gupta (8.5).   Women: 5. K. Humpy (11.5), 14. R. Vaishali (10.5), 30. Vantika Agrawal (9.5) and 55. Padmini Rout (8.5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vachier-claims-world-blitz-title/article38084510.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,||Depleted Russia faces tough title defence||Russia heads into its defence of the ATP Cup with a team depleted by injuries and COVID-19, but World No. 2 Daniil Medvedev said on Friday it only made him want to win more. Three of the four team members who helped Russia thrash Italy in the 2021 final withdrew ahead of the 16-team event which starts here on Saturday. They included fifth-ranked Andrey Rublev, who contracted coronavirus at an Abu Dhabi exhibition this month. Karatsev missing World No. 18 Aslan Karatsev and World No. 172 Evgeny Donskoy are also missing. Evgeny Karlovskiy and Roman Safiullin were drafted in at short notice. But Medvedev is undeterred, despite Russia being in a tough Group B that includes Italy, led by Matteo Berrettini, France and Australia. Only the winning nation progresses to the semifinals from each of the four groups. Each tie comprises two singles matches and one doubles. “Roman is going to be the underdog in probably all the matches, and that’s good. He has great potential, great skills in terms of tennis,” said Medvedev, who opens his campaign on Sunday against France’s Ugo Humbert. “ATP Cup is a good chance for guys like this to win a lot of points, a lot of money, a lot of confidence coming into Australian Open quallies, and just become a better player. “So I’m confident in Roman, in the team who are going to just try to do our best and who knows, maybe to win the title. I like this kind of pressure. It makes you play better.”v Berrettini’s clash with Medvedev on Thursday could be pivotal and the Italian knows he has his work cut out. “I mean, he’s really solid. He’s moving really well, playing deep, serving well, returning. He’s not missing at all when he’s playing good,” he said of the Russian. “So especially on hard court he’s probably, together with Novak (Djokovic), the best player we have now. “Personally last year I struggled to play against him, but I work hard to be ready for this match, so we will see.” In other ties Saturday, Argentina face Georgia and Stefanos Tsitsipas’ Greece take on Poland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/depleted-russia-faces-tough-title-defence/article38084600.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,||Four Indians in CA’s 2021 Test XI||White-ball skipper Rohit Sharma and off-spinner R. Aswhin are among four players from India who feature in the Cricket Australia XI of 2021. Wicketkeeper-batter Rishabh Pant and left-arm spinner Axar Patel also find a place. Rohit has been picked as opener alongside Sri Lankan Dimuth Karunaratne, followed by Australian Marnus Labuschagne at number three. Pant was named wicketkeeper. The spin department features the Indian duo of Ashwin and Axar.Labuschagne is the lone player from the Australian national side in the list.  CA Test XI of 2021: Rohit Sharma, Dimuth Karunaratne (SL, Capt.), Marnus Labuschagne (Eng), Joe Root (Eng), Fawad Alam (Pak), Rishabh Pant (wk), R. Ashwin, Kyle Jamieson (NZ), Axar Patel, Hasan Ali (Pak), Shaheen Shah Afridi (Pak) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/four-indians-in-cas-2021-test-xi/article38084513.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,||India wins U-19 Asia Cup title||India reaffirmed its supremacy in the U-19 Asia Cup with a record eighth title as it hammered Sri Lanka by nine wickets in a rain-hit summit showdown here on Friday. The Indian bowlers were all over Sri Lanka, which was gasping at 74 for seven in 33 overs, when heavy rain lashed the Dubai International Cricket Stadium and stopped play for more than two hours. It became a 38-over-a-side contest when play resumed with Sri Lanka limping to 106 for nine. India was set a revised 102-run target in 38 overs via DLS method which it reached rather comfortably in 21.3 overs with opener Angkrish Raghuvanshi scoring an unbeaten 56 off 67 balls. India's only loss in the competition came against Pakistan, which lost to Sri Lanka in the semifinals.  The scores: Sri Lanka 106/9 (Vicky Ostwal 3/11) lost to India 104/1 (Angkrish Raghuvanshi 56 n.o., Shaik Rasheed 31 n.o.) via DLS method .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-wins-u-19-asia-cup-title/article38084516.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:34 IST,||Tamil Thalaivas posts first win||Substitute Ajinkya Pawar was the star of the night as he sizzled with 11 points in 11 raids to help Tamil Thalaivas post a comfortable 36-26 win over Puneri Paltan in the Pro Kabaddi League here on Friday. The win was Tamil Thalaivas’ first of the season. Pawar had every trick in the book to negate all attempts from the Puneri Paltan defence. He was a livewire as he plotted his game beautifully. He chalked out his escape routes well, had enough fire power in him to escape the defenders’ clutches and slowly became Tamil Thalaivas’ do-or-die raid specialist.  The results: Tamil Thalaivas 36 bt Puneri Paltan 26; Patna Pirates 44 bt Bengal Warriors 30 .   Today’s matches: U Mumba vs U.P. Yoddha, 7.30 p.m.; Bengaluru Bulls vs Telugu Titans, 8.30 p.m.; Dabang Delhi K.C. vs Tamil Thalaivas, 9.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tamil-thalaivas-posts-first-win/article38084522.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:21 IST,||NZ primed to give Taylor winning farewell||New Zealand and Bangladesh put the impending retirement of Black Caps great Ross Taylor at the forefront of preparations for the first Test which starts at Bay Oval in Mount Maunganui on Saturday. 2-0 target “He would love to go out with a 2-0 series win,” New Zealand skipper Tom Latham said after the Black Caps’ most prolific run scorer announced he would put away his Test whites after the two-match series. But Bangladesh coach Russell Domingo said the tourists “want to try and make sure he doesn’t have a great send-off. But we know we have to bowl well to get him out.” With the covers still on the pitch the day before the Test, neither side was prepared to confirm its line-up. New Zealand’s only conundrum was choosing between spinner Rachin Ravindra or seam bowler Daryl Mitchell to fill the all-rounder slot. “Whether it browns off or holds its moisture, we’ll have to wait and see,” said Latham, who will open the batting for New Zealand with Will Young while Devon Conway will bat at three having recovered from a self-inflicted broken hand. The New Zealand emphasis will be on its four-pronged pace attack of Tim Southee, Trent Boult, Neil Wagner and Kyle Jamieson, who have kept the side unbeaten in the past 16 home Tests. Bangladesh has never beaten the Black Caps and its batsmen have always struggled to adjust from their slow, turning wickets to the fast, green-topped pitches in New Zealand. Driving force Another driving force for New Zealand is the need to get more points in the World Test Championship following a loss and a draw in the two-match series in India earlier this month. Bangladesh arrived in New Zealand on the back of a 2-0 home series loss to Pakistan and while the prospect of an upset win was unlikely, Domingo said his young side had plenty to play for. “We know our record is not good in New Zealand in terms of Test match cricket, (but) we’re pretty excited. It’s a good opportunity for some young players to test the waters in New Zealand and try and put on a good performance for us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nz-primed-to-give-taylor-winning-farewell/article38084687.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:14 IST,||Bopanna looking to bounce back||The close bonding with his family, the camaraderie with players and a fine sense of humour keep Rohan Bopanna cheerful most of the time. It is no different in Adelaide where he is on a 72-hour quarantine before the first ATP event of the season. “The good thing is, I have my family with me here. And we can train during quarantine,” said Bopanna, happy to have his two-year-old daughter around. For three days it will only be the hotel and practice courts, walking distance from each other. “Sania (Mirza) is also here with her son and dad. It is nice,” said Bopanna. The Indian party does not end there, as Bopanna reveals that he would be playing the first tournament with the country’s best ranked singles player, Ramkumar Ramanathan. “My partner for the season, Edouard Roger-Vasselin is busy with the ATP Cup in Sydney. I am lucky that Ramkumar was available to play doubles this week,” said Bopanna, the former world No.3 doubles star. “It was the best thing to do for Ramkumar to be here in advance, to get used to the conditions and hoping to get into the singles qualifying event. He may now get to play both singles and doubles,” said Bopanna. At 41, Bopanna has all the enthusiasm to excel and make fresh ground on the tour. “My target is to win a match in the first five months,” laughed Bopanna, as he hinted at the miserable first half he had in 2021, hardly winning two matches in the first five months in about 11 tournaments. He did have a good season, winning a few rounds in Grand Slams, apart from reaching a semifinal and many quarterfinals on the ATP Tour. “For three weeks I had good training at the academy in Bengaluru, doing yoga as well. The fitness helps me enjoy the Tour. I get along very well with Ramkumar. Win or lose, it does not matter, as long as I enjoy playing,” said Bopanna. He is also happy about national champion Niki Poonacha getting sharp for the season at the academy. “Niki definitely has the game. He needs to be consistent. He is shaping up well. There are a few Challengers after the ATP event in Pune. Good chance to do well,” said Bopanna. The country’s No.1 doubles player signed off with a warning, saying that he had met Frederik Nielsen of Denmark earlier in the day, and the Belgian was happy about playing the Davis Cup tie on grass in Delhi. “Nielsen is a Wimbledon champion,” said Bopanna about the Dane who won the Wimbledon doubles title in 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-looking-to-bounce-back/article38084565.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,||The call of the lucre skews priorities||There was a proposal, before the commencement of the Indian Premier League (IPL), that cricketers who retired from Test cricket early to pursue a career in the cash-rich Twenty20 leagues, would not gain entry into these tournaments. Enormous damage As time went by, the proposal was thrown out of the window. Its non-implementation has caused enormous harm to cricket. Two of the brightest talents in international cricket — Mohammed Amir and Quinton de Kock — have said no to Test cricket and they are only 29. Before the advent of the Twenty20 leagues such a move, bidding adieu to Test cricket, would have been unthinkable. Cricketers would have stretched every sinew to prolong their Test careers. It is not about de Kock or Amir, who had so much more to offer to Test cricket, alone. There are hordes of others who have turned their backs on Test cricket for a lucrative career in Twenty20 leagues. Take the case of off-spinning all-rounder Moeen Ali, who has quit Test cricket. His presence would have lent balance to a beleaguered England side during its ongoing disastrous Ashes campaign down under. And there are several West Indian cricketers who simply don’t want to play Test cricket, preserving their bodies for the shortest format. These days, if you quit Tests, you will actually be rewarded at the player auctions since you will be available for that many days more. Sadly, the cricketing administrators have let the game down. South African batting legend Graeme Pollock once said to this writer, “The success of the administrators is not in how much money they bring to the game but how well they preserve the soul of cricket.” The great Pollock would have been disappointed with de Kock for several reasons. Firstly, Cricket South Africa had already given him a break from the second and third Tests of the India series, to be with his wife after the birth of their child. Secondly, given the situation a transitional South Africa is in at the moment, with a wobbly batting line-up without experience, de Kock has left the team when it needs him the most. Talking about spending time with family, would not de Kock spend two months in India for the IPL, then travel for the Big Bash, and other tournaments where he would possibly be away from his loved ones. Onus on admins It’s a question of priorities. And Test cricket has been put on the back burner. Actually, cricket is the only sport where the primary form of the game is not given its due and does not feature some of its finest athletes. It’s time for the administrators to step in. Will they?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-call-of-the-lucre-skews-priorities/article38084519.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:33 IST,||Asked Virat to continue as T20I captain: Chetan||More than a fortnight after Virat Kohli insisted on not being told to reconsider his decision to step down as India’s T20I captain, chairman of national selection panel Chetan Sharma has said the selectors had requested Kohli to not announce it “on the cusp of the World Cup campaign”. “It was a surprise. All the selectors asked Virat to reconsider that for the sake of Indian cricket, please continue as captain. It may affect the World Cup campaign. Everybody requested him to not announce ahead of the World Cup,” Chetan said on Friday after announcing India’s squad for the ODI series versus South Africa. Soon after the BCCI axed Kohli as the ODI captain earlier this month, BCCI chief Sourav Ganguly had said the BCCI had asked Kohli to not step down as T20I skipper. Despite Kohli contradicting the BCCI chief, Chetan said the selectors were in no position to have a detailed discussion in September. “How could we discuss it anything at that time? The team was on the cusp of a World Cup so we tried telling him to wait till the World Cup, but he had made up his mind,” Chetan said, adding Kohli remains a vital cog for Team India. Important player “Virat will continue to remain a very important player. The selectors feel the team revolves around him. But we feel there should be one captain for white-ball formats. It’s a hard decision but the selectors have to take hard decisions based on need of the hour.” “T20s was his decision, ODIs was selectors”, said Chetan, adding that there is no miscommunication or confusion between Kohli, selectors and the BCCI. “There’s no confusion between the Board and Virat. We wanted to announce (ODI) captaincy issue in advance because we wanted to give Rohit and Virat to get it into the system. There is no communication problem between selectors, board and players,” Chetan said. Requesting the controversies to be put to rest at the turn of the year, Chetan stressed there is nothing wrong between Kohli and Rohit. “Virat and Rohit are absolutely fine. Please avoid speculation. Both plan together really well. They have fantastic camaraderie. They work together as a team, family and unit. Please leave controversies behind in 2021,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asked-virat-to-continue-as-t20i-captain-chetan/article38084512.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:29 IST,||Great opportunity to showcase skills, says Amit||Amit Gulia, who led India to a silver in the 2019 Asian (under-23) volleyball championship in Myanmar, and now one of the star players of Hyderabad Black Hawks in the RuPay Prime Volleyball League scheduled from February 5, said his team looks stronger than most of the others in the league and had very good chances of making a huge impact. The 23-year-old Amit said the round-robin format where the six franchisees will play against each other was a challenging one. At the same time, it offered a great opportunity for the players to showcase their skills. “We have a perfect blend of youth and experience with a foreign coach guiding us and there is an Olympian, too, in our team. We have good blockers and attackers.  “The league gives the players a chance to gain recognition and earn money. More importantly, it will improve the standard of the game in India,” the Hawks attacker told The Hindu .  “I will try my best to share my experience with the young talent so that they can handle pressure better,” the 2019 South Asian Games gold medallist said. “During break due to the pandemic, most of the players were forced to train on their own and maintain the desired fitness levels. But, they are now ready for the league as they are conscious of its schedule and well-prepared too. “In the pre-season camps, the effort will be to bond together, focus on serve and passes and get the kind of set of foreign players. For me, it will be a huge learning experience getting to know differnt aspects of the sport from the foreigners and the coaches.” Gulia added: “Live telecast is a huge boost in terms of attracting more youth.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/great-opportunity-to-showcase-skills-says-amit/article38084795.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Vishnu, Ganapathy and Varun take top honours||Vishnu Saravanan (Army Yachting Node, Mumbai) and the Tamil Nadu Sailing Association’s K.C. Ganapathy and Varun Thakkar, all Tokyo Olympians, received the Admiral RH Tahiliani Trophy for the ‘Yachtsman of the year (2021)’, Yachting Association of India announced at its AGM on Friday. TNSA’s Nethra Kumanan, who took part in Tokyo Olympics, won the award for the most promising lady sailor.  The YAI annual awards:   Lifetime achievement: Rabinder Gokaldas Ahuja (Cmde Sea Cadet Corps).   Admiral Kohli Trophy for promoting the sport: Tarandeep Bakshi (INWTC, Mumbai).   Admiral RH Tahiliani Trophy for the yachtsman of the Year: K.C. Ganapathy & Varun Thakkar (TNSA), Vishnu Saravanan (AYN, Mumbai).   E-in-C for the most promising lady sailor: Nethra Kumanan (TNSA).   Admiral Nadkarni Trophy for the most promising yachtsman: Ishwarya Ganesh (TNSA).   Race Official Trophy: Col. Satish Kumar Kanwar & Ajit Diaz.   Admiral Ramdas Trophy for offshore adventure: INSV Kadalpura (WNC), Capt. Atool Sinha, Lt. Cdr. V.S. Bisht, Lt. Cdr. K. Pednekar, Lt. Cdr. S. Gupta, Slt. Sri Hari, Slt. Prateek Kumar.   Admiral RK Dhowan Trophy for the best sailing club: INWTC .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vishnu-ganapathy-and-varun-take-top-honours/article38084560.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:14 IST,||Natl. w’lifting postponed||The National weightlifting championship, scheduled in Bhubaneswar from January 8 to 16, has been postponed due to the rise in Covid cases. Indian Weightlifting Federation (IWLF) president Sahdev Yadav confirmed the development. “The National championship was postponed due to Covid. Now it will be held from March 20,” said Sahdev. The event at the KIIT University would have seen a massive congregation of lifters as the Junior and Youth Nationals were also scheduled to be held alongside the senior championship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/natl-wlifting-postponed/article38084559.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:21 IST,||Kirsten would love to coach England||Former India and South Africa coach Gary Kirsten has expressed interest in coaching England’s Test side, saying it would be a “lovely project” to revive the fortunes of Joe Root and his men. Current head coach Chris Silverwood’s job hangs in balance as England’s Ashes hopes went up in smoke in 12 days after Australia retained the Urn with an innings and 14-run win in just two days and a session in the Boxing Day Test earlier this week. Past master Kirsten had guided India to No. 1 in the Test rankings for the first time in December 2009, just over a year after taking over. He later achieved the same feat with South Africa.  “Listen, it (the England job) is always a consideration because it’s a tremendous honour,’ Kirsten told the I News .  This is not the first time the South African has expressed interest in the job, Kirsten was the frontrunner to become England’s coach twice before. “I’ve walked this journey twice now (when England recruited new coaches in 2015 and 2019) and I’ve always made it clear that I would never commit to doing all formats. “And when international cricket boards get their head around the fact that they need to split coaching roles, then it becomes a consideration,” he said. The World Cup-winning coach hailed England’s 50-over set up as the best in the world but said the red-ball side, which lost a record nine games in 2021, has lagged behind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kirsten-would-love-to-coach-england/article38084685.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:22 IST,||Sandeepti wins again||Sandeepti Singh Rao, coached by Ankit Patel at the Tennis Vidyalaya, was in robust form as she raced away with her second successive trophy in the Rs. 1,00,000 AITA women’s tennis on Friday. Sandeepti blanked top seed Kavya Khirwar in the final. She had dropped three games each to Hannah Nagpal and Himaanshika Singh in the semifinals and quarterfinals. Sandeepti conceded only seven games in all.  The results (final): Sandeepti Singh Rao bt Kavya Khirwar 6-0, 6-0; Semifinals: Sandeepti bt Hannah Nagpal 6-2, 6-1; Kavya bt Tamanna Takoria 6-3, 6-2. Quarterfinals: Sandeepti bt Himaanshika Singh 6-2, 6-1; Kavya bt Mehar Kohli 6-1, 6-0; Tamanna bt Mahi Panchal 7-5, 6-4; Hannah bt Shefali Arora 2-6, 6-3, 6-2; Sandeepti bt Himaanshika 6-2, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sandeepti-wins-again/article38084689.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:22 IST,||Deepam, Aishwarya triumph||Deepam Malik and Aishwarya Jadhav won the boys and girls’ titles respectively in the AITA Super Series under-16 tennis tournament on Friday.  The results:   Boys (final): Deepam Malik bt Dhruv Sachdeva 6-2, 6-4; Semifinals: Deepam bt Fateh Singh 6-1, 6-1; Dhruv bt Dhruv Kumar 5-7, 6-3, 6-4.   Doubles (final): Siddhant Kishore Sharma & Dhruv Sachdeva bt Dhruv Kumar & Deepam Malik 7-5, 6-4.   Girls (final): Aishwarya Jadhav bt Suhani Gaur 6-1, 6-2; Semifinals: Aishwarya bt Vanya Arora 6-2, 6-1; Suhani bt Snigdha Ruhil 6-3, 6-2.   Doubles (final): Aishwarya Jadhav bt Snigdha Ruhil bt Sidhak Kaur & Radha Sadhra 6-3, 0-6, [10-6] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepam-aishwarya-triumph/article38084690.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:05 IST,||Madras triumphs after three-way tie||Madras University won the South Zone inter-university women’s basketball title at the St. Berchmans College indoor stadium here on Friday. There was a three-way tie at the end of the semifinal league with Madras, Chennai’s SRM and Bengaluru’s Jain finishing with two wins and a loss each but Madras, with a better quotient, emerged champion. SRM’s star Priyanka missed her team’s last match as she had to join South Central Railway and her team lost to Madras 60-69. SRM finished runner-up and Jain was third while host Mahatma Gandhi (Kottayam) finished fourth. All the four teams have qualified for the National varsities championship to be held at Sonepat.  The results (semifinal league): SRM, Chennai 61 (Rajeswari 21, Priyanka 12) bt Mahatma Gandhi, Kottayam 35 (Joma Gejo 16, Akshaya Philip 10).   Jain, Bengaluru 44 (Saryu 12, Sandhya 11) bt Madras 43 (Sruthi 16, Monica 13).   Madras 69 (Sruthi 19, J. Monica 15, Iswarya 12) bt SRM 60 (Rajeswari 24, Harshita 12, B. Pallavi 12).   Jain 57 (C.R. Sandhya 19, R. Mathuravani 12) bt MG 55 (Akshaya Philip 13, P.S. Jesly 10).      N. Afrad took six wickets while S.N. Ameersha and Vishnu Mohan scored half centuries as Swantos CC, Ernakulam, crushed Chennai's South Zone CC by eight wickets and entered the semifinals of the 71st Pooja all-India cricket tournament at the Tripunithura Palace Oval on Friday.  The scores: South Zone CC, Chennai 128 in 36 overs (V. Vishal 49, N. Afrad 6/36) lost to Swantons CC, Ekm 130/2 in 27.3 overs (S.N. Ameersha 50, Vishnu Mohan 50) .      Third seed J. Oges Theyjo (Tamil Nadu) won a double in the SBI-TTC S. Chidambara Iyer memorial AITA men’s tennis tournament at the TTC courts on Saturday. In the men’s singles final, Oges got the better of fourth-seeded Tarun Anirudh (Telangana) 6-4, 7-5. Oges won the doubles title along with K. Sivadeep (Telangana). The duo beat Sidharth Arya (TN) and Tarun Anirudh (TS) 6-4, 2-6, 10-8 in the final.  The results (finals):   Men: J. Oges Theyjo (TN) bt Tarun Anirudh (TS) 6-4, 7-5. Doubles: Oges & K. Sivadeep (TS) bt Sidharth Arya (TN) & Tarun 6-4, 2-6, 10-8 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/madras-triumphs-after-three-way-tie/article38084865.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 04:00 IST,||Rich haul for Tamil Nadu cueists||Tamil Nadu bagged four gold medals and one silver in the recently concluded National billiards and snooker championships 2021 held in Bhopal.  The TN medallists: Gold: S. Shrikrishna (men’s 6-red snooker); Snenthra Babu (sub-junior girls billiards); R. Anupama (junior billiards & snooker); Silver: R. Anupama (women’s 15-red snooker) .    W.I. Davaram and C. Latha were re-elected president and secretary of Tamil Nadu Athletics Association (for the year 2022-’25) in its AGM held here on Thursday.  The office bearers: President: W.I. Davaram; secretary: C. Latha; treasurer: C. Rajendran; senior vice-president: T.K. Rajendran; vice-president: Shiny Wilson, G. Anbalagan, D. Mathiyalagan, T. Krishnasamy Vandiar, E.V. Kamban, S. Mohandoss, G. Gopalakrishnan, Sripriya, R.B.R. Shanmuga Sundaram; senior joint secretary: K. Puhazendi; joint secretaries: S. Osman Ali, M. Govinda Raju, D. Mohan Babu, M. Sivakumar .      India’s 14-year-old H. Bharath Subramaniyam, with 7.5 points, clinched first place in the Open-A Vergani Cup held in Cattolica, Italy, recently. Arjun Kalyan came second, with seven points. P. Iniyan (7 points) finished third in the Lorca Open chess tournament in Lorca, Spain recently. The 19-year-old Indian scored seven points out of nine rounds. Fier Alexandr (7.5) of Brazil and Armenia’s H. Grigoryan Karen (7.5) came first and second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rich-haul-for-tamil-nadu-cueists/article38084603.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:51 IST,||Kumar excels with five-wicket haul||Medium pacer L.R. Kumar’s five for 49, helped RBNCC ‘A’ register a facile six-wicket win over Jawahar’s CC in the two-day KSCA Mysore zone first division league match played at the SDNR Wadayar Platinum Jubilee University grounds here recently.   The scores:   I Division: Jawahar’s CC 121 in 44 overs (B.N. Yashwant 48, L. Manvanth Kumar three for nine) & 141 in 42.4 overs (Vishnu Priyan 70, Mohammed Yameen 29, L.R. Kumar five for 49) lost to RBNCC ‘A’ 197 for eight decl. in 27.2 overs (M. Utham Aiyappa 59, B. Dheemath 56, S.J. Nikin Jose 31, Mohammed Yameen four for 34) & 69 for four in 15 overs (L. Hemanth Kumar 29 n.o., Mohammed Yameen four for 25).   RBNCC ‘A’, 5, Jawahar’s CC, -1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kumar-excels-with-five-wicket-haul/article38084942.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 06:30 IST,||Bengaluru races cancelled||The Stewards of the Bangalore Turf Club, have decided to cancel the 16th day, Friday (Jan 7) races, due to administrative reasons. Except the New Year Cup and Indira Sagar Plate it has been postponed to 17th day, Saturday (Jan 8, 2022).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengaluru-races-cancelled/article38084563.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:10 IST,||Mumbai races cancelled||In view of the recent notification issued by the Government of Maharashtra, the Committee of the Royal Western India Turf Club (RWITC) has decided to cancel the races scheduled for Sunday, January 2, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-races-cancelled/article38084958.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:10 IST,||PCB has advertised for power-hitting batting coach||In a first, the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) has advertised for the post of a power-hitting batting coach for the national team and also sought applications for five other coaching positions at its High Performance Centre in Lahore. The five coaching positions also include the post of High-Performance coach.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pcb-has-advertised-for-power-hitting-batting-coach/article38084959.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 07:32 IST,||Krishna, the butter thief||Among Krishna’s leelas, three get special attention from the Azhvars — the killing of Putana, the killing of Sakatasura and Krishna stealing butter. No one enjoyed Krishna’s leelas the way the Azhvars did, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. Sages saw the Lord because of their tapas. But the Azhvars saw Him through His grace. So, they had experiences which even sages did not have. Azhvars described Krishna’s butter thieving with joy. Krishna wanted to show the world that He was ready to be even scolded by His devotees. The only way He could get punished by them was if He did something mischievous. So He decided to steal something and incur their anger. Milk and its by-products were available in plenty in Gokula, where He grew up. So Krishna decided to steal butter. Why not milk or curd? Krishna would stealthily take some butter and if about to be caught, He would run with butter in His hands and butter stuffed in His mouth. He could do so only with butter. One cannot run with curd or milk in one’s mouth, or hold them in one’s hands. So, butter became the chosen product. Once Krishna had decided what He must steal in order to get punished, there was no stopping Him. On the verge of being caught, He would smear butter over His face. He would say, “How can you say the butter on My face is proof of My deeds? I cannot see butter on My face!” This was a typically childish response, where a child assumed that if it could not see something, neither could others. The Supreme One displayed such innocence so that we should approach Him without fear. While Yasoda churned buttermilk to get butter, He would pretend to be asleep. The moment her back was turned, He would start eating the butter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/krishna-the-butter-thief/article38084262.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 10:02 IST,||Sudoku — January 1, 2022||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-1-2022/article38085127.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:47 IST,||Writing 2022 with a blade of grass||The reasonable question, ‘so what’s happening in Indian fashion?’ makes my mind go blank. Whether it is from apologists of fashion who know what is happening but dangle a bait anyway or from satirists emphasising fashion’s irrelevance — even philosopher Slavoj Žižek did that last year in an interview — the question provokes perplexity. Because it means pushing back the procession of bridal lehengas looming in the mind to fluidly describe the experimental, original, risqué work that co-exists in fashion.  Notice the hubris? Lament the regressive tide increasingly apparent in art, culture and comedy, following the course of politics, and then switch right back to writing on all these issues, business as usual. Gripe about the pandemic’s ravages and fashion’s supposed non-essentialism in the face of climate change, then argue for its growing importance as an interlocutor of our times.  My New Year detox begins with first dodging the influence of visual narratives as ‘what’s happening in India’. Or in Indian fashion. Especially on social media. The visuals create a deceptive cocktail of romantic nostalgia. When examined carefully, many just remix insular old ideas. For instance, the saturated coverage of the reign of red lehengas worn by actors Patralekha and Katrina Kaif for their recent weddings turned into a shindig on ‘women’s fashion’ and all its attendant “problems”. Those who derided their pretty sameness saw celebrity brides toeing time-worn ideas, unwilling to wear individuality. Those who applauded, hailed the girls for remaining true to tradition. Few noted that the bridegrooms — Rajkummar Rao and Vicky Kaushal in this case — too played willingly stereotypical parts in the syrupy, botanical sundowners.  Keep silent, keep the peace? The Old is New demon made stooges out of us in 2021 (and the year or two before). Sociologists may call it the moral price of an era as the right eclipses the left, but my discord is more mundane. It is about the conspicuous silence of fashion media when a group of decorated damsels in luxurious palaces wearing silken brocades, twittering over jewellery are sent out as “fashion” in videos on Indian couture. When influencers who unbox new products every day for a fee remind us to pay homage to our grandmother’s old saris and call themselves sustainability advocates. When a beautiful, young, tall girl from India is crowned Miss Universe after multiple rounds of body-beauty contests under the guise of empowerment and we are supposed to clap in the name of patriotism. Those who dissent are called entitled feminist “expletive”.  The pretense of Old as New isn’t as easy to duck perhaps. It even convinced the global, multi-hyphenate Priyanka Chopra Jonas to promote the Bulgari Hindu mangalsutra as emblematic of a financially independent woman’s purchasing power. Thus attempting to turn one of the oldest symbols of patriarchy into a feminist accessory. Then the same Chopra-Jonas broke old ground to admirably roast her husband Nick Jonas for TheJonas Brothers Family Roast on Netflix. Earlier this month, she slammed a reporter who called her the “wife of Nick Jonas”.   That was the time to ask why PC Jonas sold us an enslaving wedding ornament for women in the first place? Or why are we interested in the halwa Katrina Kaif made as her first bahurani cookout? Why do fashion designers believe that consumers will buy into their tokenism for inclusivity-diversity-disability-durability just because they rope in a constellation of short, dark, gay, plus-sized and salt-haired models?  Many such questions sit unasked in my notes: Are Banarasi weaves in fashion because tradition is the newest trend or because of new design interventions? Are crafts organically sustainable, or is this just a poorly investigated correlation? Are Ayurvedic beauty potions selling more because they are marketed in pretty ‘recyclable’ bottles? Make room for solutions These ideas confused me particularly in the last year. But they also open the potential of cultural reporting beyond the Old is New tyrant. To write sharply, freshly, with a blade of grass in 2022. By arguing for handloom weaving as a practical subject for schools. By questioning brands and designers who call their products sustainable without conforming to globally established guidelines that range from supply chain inspections to sourcing and manufacturing checks to gender parity and wage fairness. By calling out every couturier who perpetuates gilded maharani culture.  Let’s highlight new and emerging designers this year who create non-conformist fashion and represent youth culture beyond the Great Indian Wedding. And applaud genuine faces of newness like British diver Tom Daley who was seen publicly knitting between athletic events at Tokyo and knitted himself an Olympic- themed cardigan. Look beyond mainstream media’s selective engagement to highlight less publicised ideas like Shillong-based Youtuber duo CatxLizz who uses music and recycled fashion to comment on social issues. Dwell on the seductive relationship between publicity and anonymity through Kim Kardashian’s stark black Balenciaga dress for the Met Gala in October. It completely obscured her famous body and revenue generating face. Look for the new, new. Like Raw Mango founder Sanjay Garg’s recent collection Sher Bagh, handwoven in Banaras and conceptualised with Anjali Singh of SUJAN. Garg inverts the traditional shikargah (hunting lodge) vocabulary in Indian textile design by eliminating the hunter. Arguing thus for wildlife conservation.  Sustainability: not a white-collar indulgence  Writing in 2022 with a blade of grass will also mean challenging the impression that sustainability is the prerogative of the fashion industry. It is not. Nor is it a white-collar indulgence just as recycling is not only about buying vintage or repeating an expensive outfit on Instagram. So, unless goals of conservation, reuse and reassembling move beyond class issues or elitist trends, and fashion becomes humble enough to reach out to other industries for co-existence, cross pollinated action and awareness, our writing will indeed slip into lament. At the moment, most cultural reporting is in a state similar to what the greatest gymnast of all times, Simone Biles called “the twisties”. A mental hiccup that left her unsure, as she told Time magazine, of her whereabouts, while she was mid-air, high above the vault at the Olympics.  As a blade of grass intern, I turn for inspiration to Rest in Power designer Virgil Abloh who passed away in November. The Louis Vuitton artistic director and founder of Off-White tried to create a race-equal ecosystem. He also said: “I am not made for a podium. But I will design a podium that ushers in systemic change.” Shefalee Vasudev is editor-in chief, The Voice of Fashion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/writing-2022-with-a-blade-of-grass/article38084473.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:47 IST,||Rise of the content head in fashion||“The January 2022 issue of VogueIndia ushers in a new era, a new chapter,” begins Megha Kapoor in her first editor’s letter, as she announces a “Vogue Reset’ and plans to lead the magazine in a new direction. Kapoor is the new Head of Editorial Content at the magazine and her appointment to this role has sparked many conversations on the evolution of fashion journalism in the country.  Already on shaky ground after decades of being relegated to the entertainment and party pages, Indian fashion writing, coverage, and reporting didn’t really have much time to develop to its fullest even with the coming of foreign legacy titles in the first decade of the 2000s. Advertisers quickly owned the pages, and monthly magazines rarely, if ever, critiqued collections of products. Then came the slump of the mid-2010s, followed closely by the social media onslaught, and then the Covid pandemic. Not good. It is into this sorry state for print media that Kapoor, 35, steps up to the top job atVogue India, designations notwithstanding. Before moving to Mumbai a few weeks ago, Sydney-based Kapoor’s only connections to India seemed to be an internship atVogue Indiaover a decade ago, and that she is of Indian descent. A graduate of the University of Melbourne, it was her time atVogue Indiathat landed her a stint atVogue Australia’s fashion department. Since then, she has worked as fashion director at the indie Australian publicationOyster Magazine, and foundedInprint,her own luxury fashion glossy, in 2015. Six years later, Kapoor is ready to take charge of one of the youngestVoguesin the world — launched in October 2007,Vogue Indiais just about a year shy of its 15th anniversary. “It is kind of magical for me to be able to engage with India through this opportunity,” she says. “I think one has to be humble enough to [know] what one does and doesn’t understand, and I’m not going to pretend that I get every nuance. That said, there are over 36 million of us who have had the immigrant experience, and that does not make us any less Indian. I have a lot to learn, and I’m excited.” Meeting newer demands Her appointment followsVogue’s parent organisation’s global shakeup—Conde Nast’s reorganisation of the company’s content strategy, leadership teams, and structure. A similar exercise had taken place atThe New York TimesandWall Street Journaljust a few years ago. Gone are the powerful Editors-in-Chief of old; enter the Content Head, a hybrid entity who’s better placed to respond to newer demands from consumers as well as advertisers. The future, says Kapoor, lies in striking a balance between local and global content. “To me, it’s not a dichotomy. With every project I do, I want to ask myself who the audience is, and if we’re reflecting India’s modern and diverse voices.” She mentions the works of modern Indians like photographers Ashish Shah and Bharat Sikka, and adds that while she is loath to criticise what came before, she looks forward to evolving local content, talent, and image making for a platform that’s more 360-degrees in its outlook, and puts India on the world map. “I’m already working to get Indian designers on Vogue Runway [the title’s free app that covers global fashion] to ensure worldwide recognition.” No urban bias? When I ask what she thinks of exploring regional Indian languages, she says she is ready to take on every opportunity to connect with a diverse audience. And while it may take some time before we see fashion magazines offered in Punjabi, Bengali, or Tamil, it’s not as far-fetched a notion as it would have been even a few years ago. She wants to represent all of India, not just Delhi and Mumbai, which is encouraging in its intent. What will be truly interesting to see, though, is how well such developing editorial policies will work when it comes to advertisers, especially luxury brands, who have come to all but own the pages of Indian fashion magazines over the past decade. “There is definitely going to be a shift,” says Kapoor. “There will be more editorial solutions, and we are perhaps not going to be as dictated by brands.” Given Conde Nast’s influence over the magazine market, it is entirely possible that her outlook is quickly adopted across titles—those that still exist, of course. The author is a fashion commentator and creative director based in New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rise-of-the-content-head-in-fashion/article38084464.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:46 IST,||Think queer||Queer Made is offering India’s LGBTQIA+ community a platform to amplify their businesses. Introduced this July — in a partnership with Tinder, Little Black Book, and digital platform Gaysi Family — it features 22 businesses across diverse categories. “[You can also read about] 54 queer initiatives and entrepreneurs, including writers, social initiatives, and queer-led restaurants, on the LBB x Tinder microsite [queermade.lbb.in],” adds Aahana Dhar, Director - Communications, Tinder India. She picks three brands to try:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/think-queer/article38084459.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:47 IST,||Ring in the new festive year||As I write this, another Kolkata Christmas has drawn to a close. The city was gaiety incarnate, people and places togged out in red-and-green and the tiniest eateries boasting their version of roast duck. Park Street, the city’s famously festive heart, was jammed with people in silly hats and queues snaked in front of restaurants, Omicron be damned. Attending midnight mass in one of Kolkata’s picturesque churches has always been a de rigueur December ritual, like pandal -hopping in October, and onlookers often outnumber worshippers, but nobody seems to mind.  Like Diwali and Holi, there’s something very welcoming about Christmas. Like those two, it hasn’t got too many strictly religious markers and dissolves into easy-going, agnostic celebration. Everyone buys gifts, decorates trees, drinks punch, and parties till dawn. While believers worship the birth of Jesus, fun-lovers make merry, and everyone is happy. Or so we thought. Enter the party poopers. And New India has seen the blossoming of quite a few of those. In Agra, they burned an effigy of Santa Claus; in Karnataka, they stopped Christmas programmes in two schools; in Gurugram, right-wing intruders disrupted mass in at least two places; in Punjab, they vandalised a statue of Jesus Christ; in Assam, a group identifying itself as Bajrang Dal stopped Christmas service claiming there were Hindus in the church. In each of these places, the bogey of conversion was raised. In fact, this myth has become so popular that while everyone else is happily mulling wine, the Karnataka government is mulling an anti-conversion bill. Mind you, the Christian population has remained at around 2.3% of India’s population for the last decade now, but let facts not dim the spirit of the challenge.  In New India, competition between festivals is heating up as much as when two superstar rivals release their big-budget Diwali movies. A suitable plant to compete with the Christmas conifer has been introduced into the picture. December 25, it has been decreed, will be Tulsi Pujan Divas , set aside to worship the tulsi plant. This has made life easier for all those who want to celebrate Christmas but avoid the wrath of the right-wing. They can now pot a basil on the 25th, decorate it with baubles and lights, and then party — this way, they get to have their tree and keep it too.   The new festival even has its own old man origin story. Asaram might be a bit shop-soiled, what with being jailed for rape and all, but he has the requisite white beard and is a gift that keeps on giving. He gave us this unique Holy Basil (notbasilica) Day. And soon it will be February and we will be made to remember (sometimes with the aid of a baton) that it was Asaram who had decreed that February 14 should be Matru-Pitru Pujan Divas . If the Decadent West celebrates love (oh the horror), the Enlightened East will celebrate parents instead. Never mind if said parent one day takes a selfie with your decapitated head because you eloped. So long as head is still attached to body, parents will be worshipped. On Valentine’s Day.   Then April will come and bring Easter and that unmentionable ovoid food item with a yellow centre. The Easter Bunny might have had an early start, but a little bird tells me the Tandoori Terrier is close on its heels. Come April 17, and we will match equinox to equinox with Tamatar Divas . Instead of chocolate-filled white ovoids, we will distribute round red tomatoes. To celebrate the coming of spring rolls.  July will see the dawn of Bakr-id. On that day, everyone will suddenly become best friends with PETA and celebrate World Capra Rights Day with zeal and piety. The festivities will mostly consist of doing things aimed to get your neighbour’s goat.  As the year unwinds, there’ll be pandals to ban in October and prayers to disrupt on Fridays. Meanwhile, another December 31 just went by, and everyone partied to bring in a new year that is shockingly not even Indian but Gregorian.   Fear not. Even as we speak, the Department of Alternative Festival Terminology (DAFT) is working. Early indications are that the day will henceforth be called Dhaniya Patta Pujan Divas . It will be on top of everything.  Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ring-in-the-new-festive-year/article38084476.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:23 IST,||Understanding||The fear of food and festivals, taking to fad diets for weight loss, fasting for long hours, feeling guilty after a meal, seeking permission for cheat meals or holidaying at detox retreats — these are the new normals in today’s fitness-conscious world. When we fail to cope with the rigours of eating schedules and do not get dream results, depression strikes. “Wisdom is in understanding and following the three Cs — climate, culture and cuisine, to enjoy food without remorse,” says Delhi-based certified nutritionist, Madhavi Karmokar Sharma. She has creatively crafted a food planner for the new year hoping to clear confusion because she believes the root cause of ailments is unverified information. “Appetite is a moving entity; if we understand it, we don’t need to standardise our diet,” says Madhavi and adds, “When you eat the right type of traditional and seasonal food, the body knows how much is sufficient for you.” Making informed choices The festival recipes handed down by generations have stories of logical reasoning much like the seasonal fruits and vegetables. Madhavi is confident that the tool she has created will help people make informed choices and also become food intelligent.  Innate wisdom survives due to succession of knowledge and that is why she has named the planner Parampara. Brought up in a family that always ate what was available locally and cooked traditionally, in her role as a food educator now, she wants people to embrace food with joy.  “My mother would always say I do not count when I cook, nor should you when you eat,” says Madhavi, underlining that food is not a roadblock to health but has a purpose. She cautions against the ways of the food industry who use celebrities to promote certain diets. Food education, according to her, is about embracing food in harmony with nature and mindful eating. It is important for all, who do not wish to ruin their health. It pains Madhavi to see how people in cities homogenise breakfast with bread, eggs and cereal whereas it has been a tradition to eat paranthas in the north, idli and upma in the south or poha in the west. India is a diverse country and each culture has its indigenous culinary wisdom, which needs to be followed for sustainable health. Why should we randomly replace sugar with jaggery in everything, she asks, or believe raw food is always trusted to be beneficial? Sugar cools the body in summer and jaggery warms it in winters. The soup-and-salad combination backfires in the cold months but we do not give it a thought. Cucumber, a summer vegetable, or the high-fibre carrot, bitter and plain gourd, pumpkin and beetroot are consumed round the year. Many buy hybrid varieties or preserve them for the lean seasons. “These are warming foods that can cause inflammation and mucous formation, toxic for the body.”  Bajra is a winter grain while jowar is for summers and raagi during the rainy season, she says. Yet people choose multigrain atta for 365 days. If our ancestors had sweet potato and koottu ka atta during navaratri and sesame and walnuts for Lohri, it is not without a reason.  Health tracker Replete with such information, Madhavi has structured the planner with brief notes for each month that are broadly divided under six categories pertaining to the season and weather of the month, mood and celebrations, festive delicacies and rituals, seasonal foods and recipes and how they impact the body. It is also designed as a health tracker to record sleep, workout, breathing, hydration, self-discovery and positive communication. If we are vigilant about our food, it will boost our immunity. That is what we require during these pandemic days, she says. The Planner Parampara is available on www.informedhealth.in and amazon.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/understanding/article38084908.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:43 IST,||Days we need||Today we are all living in the era of social distancing. No, that’s not a viral joke. Okay, but that was! Get it? What I am talking about is how we are all so connected and yet so detached. We wish everyone on some online platform, even post a picture with them; we commemorate every festival from Thanksgiving to Diwali to Eid, even Valentine’s, all in an effort to be seen as woke and with it. But here are a few days we need to commemorate but don’t yet. Let’s give social media the real boost it needs by instituting some of these this year.  1. Porn Star Day: You know how they say, never meet your porn stars? Okay, they say heroes but is it really that different? Funny thing about porn is that it’s a billion dollar industry and yet I can never find more than two people in any room who admit to watching it! Maybe if we had a day for them, each one of them, it would feel a nobler act.   2. Alternate uses for a Tea Cosy Day: If this generation keeps draining tea by dunking bags of dust in hot water, tea as an art will be lost soon. Nobody does teapots anymore, it seems. Maybe having a day for tea cosies will rekindle that romance. I don’t want to live in a civilisation which is too crude for tea cosies.   3. MemorialDay for Lost Socks: This is more of a remembrance. I don’t know where they go or what route they take, all we can do is hope they are happy and find a new partner. While here, let’s add unfinished ChapSticks. In case you are the type who sees a ChapStick all the way through, please turn yourself in, you psychopath.   4. Troubling Your Pets Day: Why should Fido have all the fun? Just one day I want to give them a taste of their own regurgitated medicine. I want to make them feel squeamish and squirm where they stand, or sit, or stay. Pee on their beds, mess up their toys, chew up their favourite leash maybe… I don’t know, I’m spitballing here. What would you do that makes your pet think lowly of you? Voilà!   5. Cards for Hallmark Day: This is special, one where we thank the thank-ers. This day is when we shall send them cards in spite of knowing that they will (a) either be profiting from the thank you card sales already and/or (b) stealing our card ideas for their next print run.   6. Men’s Day Reminder Day: We need one day, just one, to remind all men (cis-, unspecified, or otherwise) that there is only one International Men’s Day and that the remaining 364 (well, now 363) certainly aren't theirs. On this day, like on Men’s Day, we can leave the seat up, not shut cupboards, forget things, mansplain, and maybe even man-spread on public transport all we want and nobody would be allowed to object.   7.  One day for badly cooked meals: This deep and moving memorial day for slabs of meat that died twice, once when they were killed and once when they were massacred on a grill by some master chef wannabe. All food deserves respect, especially the one that wasn’t shown any while being prepared. Due to this precise sentiment of mine, many Indian restaurants are nothing but graveyards to me.  This column is for anyone who gives an existential toss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/days-we-need/article38084403.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:44 IST,||Here’s to all things negative||First and foremost, I hope more people pass on this year, having lived fully realised lives, of old age, by natural causes, celebrated by family and friends, than those who are taken away suddenly in their prime, leaving their loved ones in shock and grief. I wish more couples break up, divorce, and move on, to begin new journeys instead of staying in mutually destructive relationships. I hope more children grow up having a single parent who is responsible, loving and capable of providing them a stable, happy home than two parents who are permanently at each other’s throats. I hope there are more seniors living on their own, or in assisted-living facilities, fraternising with peers, having active, independent, fun lives than those who remain with children who don’t want them. I hope there are fewer books on bookshelves, less music to listen to, less art in galleries and fewer movies in theatres this year because quality wins over quantity. I wish that there are more negatives in this world, starting with Covid-19 test results. Also, the negative that has come to describe those who take it upon themselves to talk about all that is wrong around us. For how else can these wrongs be righted? Let’s go with that rather than the toxic positivity that insists that there are no problems at all in this world, and nothing needs to be changed except one’s attitude.  I wish there is far less grand celebration this year, less cake and champagne, less bell ringing and thali clanging, fewer serial lights and less drone-camera videos, and more intimacy with friends and family, marking each other’s special days and good fortune — one to one — with a kind deed or comforting word instead of showy, meaningless, public gestures.  This year, I hope children don’t do as well in school as their parents and teachers would like them to, and instead get to paint, play, climb trees, bond with animals, be bitten by bugs, express themselves, fight and make up with each other, and find their passion. I wish that children don’t obey parents, teachers and all elders blindly and question them because they have learnt to think for themselves, and figured out that all parents, teachers and elders can’t be right all the time. In 2022, I hope to see more grown-ups behaving like children by being less cynical, rediscovering their lost innocence and sense of wonder, their playfulness and, above all, the ability to share and trust one another. I hope people have more arguments this year, and that differences of opinion and divergent points of view are dealt with through dialogue, debate, discussion, and agreeing to disagree, instead of profanities, fists and clubs. I hope we have more intolerance this year: intolerance of hate, violence and inequality. Intolerance of abuse, bullying, misogyny, patriarchy, racism and bigotry. And, above all, intolerance of intolerance. I hope fewer names make it to theForbesList this year, and more children get eggs and milk for their midday meals. I wish there is less development this year and more forest. I wish there are fewer corridors for human-made things, and more corridors for elephants. I wish we start listening to godmen less, and start listening to our hearts more. I wish we start believing in gods less, and start believing in our fellow human a little more. You get my drift. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/heres-to-all-things-negative/article38084428.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:44 IST,||Plan, play & put aside||These are more than just for keeping track of days. Some double as notepads, others inspire with pithy quotes, and still others are works of art. Statement makers for 2022 include the Lavazza calendar shot by Emmanuel Lubezki — the Oscar-winning cinematographer addresses climate change by shooting six artists and activists “who are committed to change”. Here’s our pick of calendars and planners that not only help you keep track of the big days and events, but, often, are collectibles all on their own. With inputs from Shilpa Nair Anand and Medha Kartha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/plan-play-put-aside/article38084426.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:43 IST,||Don’t drop the vacay mood||After two years of beach closures and cancelled holidays, we can’t wait to make plans for sunnier climes. Global brands like Camilla from the Australian kaftan queen or newer pandemic-era discoveries like Seattleite Jackie Robinson’s Momma (they claim to run a ‘sleep-in-it’ test), all promote one feature in particular: sustainability. But our homegrown brands are looking out for women who are environmentally conscious as well. This is a good time to review some ‘made in India’ options, with sustainable attributes like recycled nylon and cotton or Econyl (made from fishing nets and carpet waste), and that are high on comfort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dont-drop-the-vacay-mood/article38084414.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:43 IST,||The Hollywood planner||As 2021 failed to end with the disappearance of Covid-19, instead letting loose a potentially devastating new strain of the virus, we can take solace in the fact that there will always be the movies. While there are indie films aplenty, in these trying times Hollywood appears to the panacea, as evidenced by the humongous box office performance of Spider-Man: No Way Home both in India and globally.   The January release I’m most looking forward to is The 355 . International agents on a quest to recover a top-secret weapon with a cast headlined by Jessica Chastain, Lupita Nyong’o, Penelope Cruz and Diane Kruger — what’s not to love? It’s releasing on the same day as SS Rajamouli’s RRR , so it may well be a double bill at the multiplex for me.   February brings Kenneth Branagh’s long-delayed Agatha Christie adaptation Death on the Nile , with Branagh himself as Poirot, held back thus far because of the scandal surrounding co-star Armie Hammer. While I watch it, I will ponder the existential questions, can I separate the actor from his alleged deeds, and should the work of hundreds of associates suffer because of one man?   March begins with the release of Covid-affected production  The Batman , with Robert Pattinson donning the cowl this time, and ends with a film in my favourite genre — Romancing the Stone — if you can call it a genre that is. Sandra Bullock and Channing Tatum star in The Lost City , which promises to be every inch of film the title suggests.   While April has a slew of high-profile releases, I’m going to give them a miss or wait for them to stream, simply because my excitement levels aren’t high enough. May, on the other hand, is packed with releases, beginning with Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness , followed by Reese Witherspoon (if you haven’t watched The Morning Show , you really must) in Legally Blonde 3 and the delayed by two years blockbuster, Tom Cruise’s Top Gun: Maverick .   June brings the promise of another Covid-affected production Jurassic World: Dominion and Baz Luhrmann’s as-yet-untitled Elvis biopic with Tom Hanks as Colonel Tom Parker. Taika Waititi’s Thor: Ragnarok remains my favourite Marvel Cinematic Universe film to date, for its sheer irreverence, and its follow up Thor: Love and Thunder is due in July.   Sacrilegiously, I’ll give Hollywood a break for all of August and most of September, returning to the IMAX only for Mission Impossible: 7 at the end of the latter month. Some of the images released of Cruise’s stunts look breathtaking, and I’m there for it.   Animated sequel Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse - Part One is due in October, while November brings more superheroes in the shape ofThe FlashandBlack Panther: Wakanda Forever.  There’s only one game in town for me in December, James Cameron’s long-awaited Avatar 2 , which begs the question that since the first Avatar released back in 2009, have they left the sequels too long, in the face of a fickle public with short attention spans?   Some disappointing postponements, too — Indiana Jones 5 and John Wick 4 have been moved to 2023, but I think we have enough to get on with in 2022. Don’t you?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-hollywood-planner/article38084406.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:46 IST,||Simple, small, conscious: goal words for 2022||Some words are losing their charm. Pandemic pivot, for one. But what isn’t are goal words. With the new year, people are trying to put aside memories of the second wave and worry about the Omicron wave to bank on simple words — staying small, being sensitive, living consciously. “Covid has been a leveller in some ways, and I feel it has gently nudged people to being more empathetic,” feels writer Anindita Ghose. This is reflecting in how many want to live the next 364 days. We speak with creatives, from actors and authors to interior designers, to understand their takeaway from last year and what they hope will be important in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/simple-small-conscious-goal-words-for-2022/article38084455.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:43 IST,||the digest||Get a date this Sunday Dating Sunday is not a myth. The first Sunday of the new year (the 2nd for 2022) sees a significant spike in traffic, and people swiping right — and yes, it has everything to do with fresh starts and people feeling hopeful after the holidays. Tinder is expecting it to be its busiest day; in 2019, 44 million matches were made on Dating Sunday. Other online dating apps are looking forward to similar numbers, going by last year’s response (Bumble saw a 15% increase in matches, while Hinge saw 22.5%). Happy swiping!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-digest/article38084408.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Instapic||While the party crowd made a beeline for this French town to dodge curfews, and Indian Railways added to the mix with a Pondicherry Package till January 2, 2022, there is the promise of calm in a few days. Meditation, free yoga classes, a wellness exhibition and seminars are part of Puducherry’s 27th World Yoga Festival, from January 4-7 . @pondicherrytourism||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapic/article38084430.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Dance season begins||Leela Samson and her student, Bhavajan Kumar, will be opening the Natyavamsham Series — a showcase ofperformances by teachers and students. Presented by Guru GV Ramani Natya Kala Foundation. Jan 7, 6 pm, streaming on Tikkl, and available till Jan 10. @gvrnkfoundation on Instagram. Alarmel Valli begins the Music Academy’s digital dance festival on Jan 2, 5.30 pm. Tickets at Rs. 350 and Rs. 1750 (season pass). @madrasmusicacademy on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dance-season-begins/article38084432.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Après ski is trending||Après ski-inspired fashion has reached the streets. Swimwear experts Shivan & Narresh have caught on quickly with their ready-to-wear ski and après ski line ‘Farrago’. The kaleidoscopic grid of archival prints is synonymous with the quilts of Ralli - thepatchwork style of Jaisalmer.On shivanandnarresh.com, Rs. 17,000 onwards. Meanwhile, designer Mala Sinha showcases ‘Bodhi’, her collection of handpainted and hand block printed saris in tussars and linens at Amethyst. Jan 4-10. @amethystchennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/aprs-ski-is-trending/article38084434.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Cabinet of wonders||Around 250 items, that span 4,000 years of human history are on show at the New York Public Library. TheTreasuresexhibition, which is the library’s first-ever permanent installation, has been classified into nine themes. Big-ticket items such as aGutenberg Bible andShakespeare’s First Folio to lesser-known ones such as a ballet slipper designed by Coco Chanel and the stuffed toy that inspired Winnie the Pooh are on show. Access the free Treasures audio guide for more details. @nypl.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cabinet-of-wonders/article38084436.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Ladurée cart at parties||AfterLaduréelaunched in Khan Market. a few months ago, plans are underway to expand across the country, in Mumbai, Kolkata and Bengaluru. The 159-year-old iconic French patisserie brand is best known for its double decker macarons, but also has signatures like Rose Croissants and the Vanilla Saint Honore. This season, there is a way to bring the macarons to private events. The Laduree Macaron Cart can be hired forspecial occasionssuch as weddings and birthdays . @ladureeindia on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ladure-cart-at-parties/article38084438.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Chennai walking||Singara Chennai 2.0 Veedhi Vizha, thewalking and cycling challenge, returns. Download the Strava app to register. Jan 1-26. All that discipline must be rewarded, you say? For those planning a 2022 Goa trip, make room for foraging trails, mixology sessions or the ‘floating feni’ experience at Cazulo Feni. Hansel Vaz, who launched the world’s first feni cellar, has a shaded pond where you can dip your feet and enjoy Goan dishes, washed down with feni. Rs. 1,800 onwards. On urbanaut.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/chennai-walking/article38084440.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Travel in a tea box||If you have had to cancel NYE travel plans, bring Paris, New York, London and Singapore home with your cuppa. The five travel gift tea boxes by Vahdam India promise tocapture the mood of each city. The ‘Weekend at Paris’ box has rose, hibiscus, and classic chamomile, while black teas and masalachaisevoke London. Rs. 749 onwards on vahdamteas.in.New Year feastingcontinues at Anise, Taj Coromandel, where brunch with fusion cuisine and live stations is Rs. 3,500-Rs. 4,500. Details: 66002827||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/travel-in-a-tea-box/article38084442.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Art and movement||Apparao Art Gallery presentsHandmaid, a collection of artworks by theanonymous, female artistPrincess Pea. She questions notions of femininity and womanhood. The physical show is on at Apparao Galleries, Chennai. Rs. 4,760-Rs. 9,60,000. Tuesday-Saturday, it can be viewed at theartplatformindia.com. Till Jan 31. Elsewhere, the 10th edition of Attakkalari India Biennial opens at the Bangalore International Centre ina hybrid format. Jan 8 to Feb 2022. On attakkalaribiennial.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/art-and-movement/article38084444.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:45 IST,||Talking point||The question now is if the Omicron variant has announced the arrival of the much-dreaded third wave of Covid-19. Delhi put restrictions in place, as have other states, and New Year parties were scrapped. A study by IIT Kanpur pointed out that the third wave in India may peak in February 2022. Meanwhile, in the US and the UK, Omicron has replaced Delta to be the dominant strain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article38084446.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:49 IST,||Bring that zing into your home||Looking back, 2021 has been a year full of extreme weather events ranging from intense rains and flooding to extreme heat waves and drought spread all over the world, largely fueled by climate change. In fact, a study by the World Weather Attribution Initiative found that the extremity of events such as flooding were about five times more due to human-caused climate change. As far as global temperature rise, 2021 was more than 0.4 degrees celsius hotter than 2000 indicating continuous temperature rise over the last 150 years caused by global warming. The 26th Conference of Parties (COP) international climate negotiations held in Glasgow in November 2021 was an important climate-related event this year. In the summit, India has pledged to power 50% of its electricity from renewables (currently it’s at 20%) and reduce carbon emissions by 45% by the year 2030 in addition to a few other longer term goals. As of 2021, India is one of the top greenhouse gas emitters, third after China and the U.S. This makes it even more imperative for each of us to take immediate action. Considering that the residential sector alone is responsible for 25% of the total electricity consumption, and the continuing need for housing in the country, one of the factors we can each look into is to reduce our electricity use and switch to renewable energy in order to help meet India’s COP26 goals. Due to the immense solar potential in India, solar energy is relatively easy to harness. Technology has evolved and is now available at a reasonable cost. Market growth has also ensured a variety of solar panel variants, manufacturers and dealers, giving us options to choose from. There are two primary ways to integrate solar energy into our homes - conventional roof top installation and ‘building integrated solar voltaics’ (BIPV) which essentially replaces a building material such as roofing tile, window glass and skylights with solar modules. Although most BIPV systems need to be integrated in the initial design and construction, one way to incorporate this into existing homes is to use solar modules as roof cover for parking spaces and add small solar gazebos on our terraces and gardens. A solar gazebo is a stand-alone structure with a roof of solar panels that act as a cover for the space below. Such gazebos provide a shaded space for multiple uses. Incorporated with roof gardens on terraces, a solar gazebo could become an interesting aesthetic feature, generating energy and providing additional usable space. 2022 will be another consequential year for Earth’s climate, as will be every year hereinafter. It is imperative that we all understand this and play our part to at least help alleviate the catastrophic effects of impending global warming and climate change. The author is the founder of Green Evolution, a sustainable architecture firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/bring-that-zing-into-your-home/article38084490.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:49 IST,||Embrace a clutter-free life||Ever walked into a spic-and-span home and wondered about how the residents keep it that way?  Japanese organisational and minimalist maven Marie Kondo may have achieved worldwide fame with her first book, The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up , and exhorted everyone to try her KonMari method to keep homes tidy and spark joy, but there’s a simpler way to go about things! It involves making cleanups a part of the everyday instead of dedicating specific hours or days to these can’t-get-away-from-them tasks.  People are the same the world over; it’s just their habits that keep their home clean and free of clutter. Try them, and you’ll see. They take off shoes at the door Turns out the age-old Indian habit of taking shoes off before entering a home is the most sanitary of them all. No dirt tracking in, no mud falling off. A shoe rack by the door ensures you put shoes in their place sooner rather than later. They don’t toss their clothes everywhere Sure, it’s your own room but tossing your clothes on a chair every time you change leads to a clothes mountain. Why not hang them up to air or fold them? A set of hooks behind bedroom and bathroom doors makes it easier to tuck things away. They don’t look for extra storage space Instead of buying new racks or baskets, we suggest you look for ways to lessen the things in your home. The lesser you have, the lesser the clutter. Edit, edit, edit ruthlessly till you only have things that you need and use; not things that are labelled “someday”. They edit their displays with unflinching regularity All designers worth their salt know that making under is often the best way to make over a room or space. That’s why the advice to purge what doesn’t seem to belong. A minimalistic look often does more for your spaces than a stuffed-to-the-gills setting. They don’t have a special cleanup day People who always have a clean home are doing small cleanup jobs on the go. Put things in their place as you go along, wipe down a drawer if free or arrange the bathroom shelf while brushing. They never neglect the kitchen sink This is where you get your dishes clean, so shouldn’t you make sure the sink is clean? Spray an antibacterial solution (even Dettol will do) every night and scrub clean till the steel is glistening. Don’t forget the taps. They look at how to value-add to their room It could be a small bud vase on the entryway table or a floor lamp in the corner that’s reeling on empty — a small touch can make a huge difference. Personal touches like books, photos, and souvenirs work better than store-bought props. They organise their kitchen for maximum efficiency Be it tapping the kitchen triangle or placing their spices/ condiments, organising the kitchen right is an art. One that people who live the clutter-free life know well. Organise your kitchen in a way that you know where everything is and can put a hand on the jar that’s needed even in your sleep. It won’t be easy, but it will make life oh-so-easy. They don’t wait for Diwali to give the home a cleanup If you don’t keep cleaning in small instalments, the clutter piles up into a monumental being — one that overwhelms you. Simple chores tackled everyday take the work out of cleanups. And it ensures that you don’t have to wait for the Festival of Lights to come round at the end of next year to get started.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/embrace-a-clutter-free-life/article38084486.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:48 IST,||Locked house, owner missing||We are a small apartment colony consisting of 18 flats. The construction is 25 years old and we are planning to go for redevelopment. However, the whereabouts of one of the flat owners is not known for the past 10 years and the flat is kept locked up. The kin of the owner is also not traceable. How do we proceed with redeveloping the apartment complex? Sundaresan N. At present, it is not possible for the majority of the owners to compel anyone to sell or develop their holding. Therefore, consent of all flat owners is essential. If one of the owners is not traceable but the remaining owners are of the opinion that the building has to be redeveloped on account of its age, as a first step, the structural stability of the building has to be assessed. In the event of the building being declared unsafe for occupation, an application can be made to Corporation of Chennai for demolition on that ground. Once the land becomes vacant, a suit for partition by metes and bounds can be filed against the non co-operating/ non-traceable owner and further course of action would depend on the orders of Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/locked-house-owner-missing/article38084492.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:48 IST,||A sustainable future with green buildings||The effect of climate change in India has been pronounced. Five of the warmest years occurred in the past 15 years. Heatwaves now last longer than before and are more intense. Himalayan glaciers are retreating. The frequency of cyclones is growing across the country’s 8,000 km coastline. The sea level has been rising at about an average of 1.7 mm. India is already the third-largest global emitter of carbon dioxide (CO2), even though the per capita emissions are well below the global averages. Emissions could rise exponentially with the economic growth if not kept in check. As the country develops, there will be a higher demand for energy, natural resources, vehicles, air conditioning and buildings. Buildings are one of the biggest consumers of energy and sources of CO2 emissions. According to a Global Alliance for Buildings and Construction (GlobalABC) report, the residential, non-residential and building construction industry accounted for 36% of the global energy consumption in 2020. The three segments were also responsible for 37% of global carbon dioxide emissions. But there’s growing evidence that controlling building emissions can help address climate change, create sustainable and thriving communities, and drive economic growth. The building sector has the most potential for delivering significant and cost-effective greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions, according to UN Environment Programme (UNEP). If countries don’t mitigate climate change risks, many parts could become inhabitable due to extreme weather and rising sea levels, displacing the inhabitants in these areas. The only option for such residents would be to head to the cities, putting pressure on the existing infrastructure. Rising temperatures and more frequent and intense droughts are already causing crop yield declines and failures, disrupting livelihoods and food security. The retreating Himalayan glaciers, which feed river systems, can impact water availability severely. The green concepts and techniques in the building sector can help address national issues like water efficiency, energy efficiency, reduction in fossil fuel use in commuting, handling of consumer waste and conserving natural resources.  Reducing emissions in buildings can lower air pollution which, according to a study published in The Lancet Planetary Health , was responsible for 1.67 million deaths in India in 2019. The economic loss due to the lost output from premature deaths and morbidity from air pollution was 1.4% of the GDP in India during this time, which was equivalent to $36.8 billion.  According to the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC), the energy savings from green buildings could range from 20-30% and water savings around 30-50%. The intangible benefits of new green buildings include enhanced air quality, excellent daylighting, health and well-being of the occupants, and conservation of scarce national resources. Green buildings have their economic benefits, too. They can improve employee productivity, health and safety and reduce energy, maintenance, and operational costs. They add to a country’s gross domestic product (GDP) as climate change leads to economic losses. Tackling the future India is yet to build most buildings that will exist in 2040. The country will need over 50 billion square metres of residential floor space in the next 20 years due to urbanisation, as per International Energy Agency’s (IEA’s) India Energy Outlook 2021 report. An estimated 270 million people are likely to be added to India’s urban population between now and 2040. At present, the residential space is less than 20 billion square metres. Add to this the requirement for commercial and industrial buildings — and there will be a massive use of building materials, significantly higher demand for energy and a multifold rise in emissions. Up until now, India’s economic growth has been driven mainly by the services sector rather than the more energy-intensive industry sector. The rate at which India has urbanised has been somewhat slower than other emerging countries. A lot depends on how fast India urbanises and industrialises over the coming decades and the policies that govern these processes. If the government and businesses push through the sustainability agenda, emission levels of new buildings could be far lower than the existing ones. Even though existing structures can be retrofitted with new-age devices and tech to reduce emissions, developers can use sustainable building materials, designs and construction techniques in newer buildings. According to GlobalABC, decarbonising the built environment requires a triple strategy. One, reduce energy demand and increase energy efficiency. Two, decarbonise the energy system and, three, address the embodied carbon stored in building materials. The future is not bleak At the COP26 UN climate conference, Prime Minister Narendra Modi pledged that India would achieve net-zero emissions by 2070. He also said that 50% of India’s total electricity would be generated from renewable energy sources by 2030. Most experts believe that the targets are achievable looking at the country’s track record. India has been decoupling its economic growth from greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The country’s emission intensity of GDP reduced by 12% between 2005 and 2010, and it achieved a reduction of 24% between 2005 and 2016, according to the Third Biennial Update Report by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. The prime minister said that emissions per unit GDP will be reduced by at least 45% by 2030 compared to the 2005 levels. The earlier target was 33-35%. The real estate industry has been doing its part. The green floor space in the country is on the rise. According to Indian Green Building Council, there are 7,002 registered projects and a 7.97 billion square feet green building footprint. Developers are opting for green buildings due to the rising demand from occupiers. It may take some time, but green buildings could become a norm for all new developments if things remain on track. The writer is CEO and Country Head, India, JLL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/a-sustainable-future-with-green-buildings/article38084480.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:48 IST,||Seal your safety||Häfele’s Reveal Digital Lock is a fully-loaded face-recognition lock that comes with the highest standards of technology that reads over 170 points on the user’s face. This means that it is highly sensitive to even the flinch of a nerve on your face and will only allow access if you exactly emulate the expression that was pre-set as your access recognition. The lock carefully scrutinises every need you may have regarding your home security system. With five different access modes — Face Recognition, Finger Print, Key Pad, RFID and Mechanical Key — Häfele’s Reveal Digital Lock is the authority in home security and access planning, say company sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/seal-your-safety/article38084482.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 03:48 IST,||FIVE YEAR FOCUS||REALTY RATES Segment 2017 2022 (INR per sq.ft.) Luxury 10,000 10,000 apartments Premium 7,800 8,100 apartments Budget 6,500 NA apartments Strategic Consulting, JLL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/five-year-focus/article38084488.ece
01 January 2022||January 01 2022 05:15 IST,||Manjhi’s remarks stir caste pot||Former Bihar Chief Minister and president of Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) [HAM-S] Jitan Ram Manjhi, has hit headlines recently because of his remarks allegedly offending upper castes. In caste-ridden Bihar, Mr. Manjhi’s comments have evoked condemnation from Opposition parties for his “uncalled for utterances” but a curious silence from coalition allies.  Coming from the Dalit community, which comprises about 16% of the population in the State, Mr. Manjhi while addressing a gathering of his own Musahar caste on December 19, took on the upper caste Brahmin community. Members of the Brahmin community later protested against his remarks, with some sitting outside his residence to perform puja .  Leader’s U-turn As the protests grew shriller, Mr. Manjhi, in a U-turn said his remarks were meant for his own Musahar community and “not against Brahmins”. But he was forced to rescind the line facing a reaction from the Musahars. In another volte-face, he asserted that his cuss words were against those Brahmins who “eat meat and drink alcohol while pretending to be holier than thou”. A few days later Mr. Manjhi hosted a feast for Brahmins at his house attended by members of the upper caste community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/manjhis-remarks-stir-caste-pot/article38084678.ece
