02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||COVID-19 cases cross 20,000 yet again||India reported 22,775 COVID-19 cases on Saturday when for the first time the number of daily cases had crossed the 20,000 mark since October. In all, 1,431 cases of the Omicron variant have been reported in the country. Maharashtra topped the list with 460 cases, Delhi 351, Tamil Nadu 121 and Gujarat 136 cases as of Saturday. Warning that the rise in cases seen globally and India could put “stress on health infrastructure”, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday wrote to the States to create additional isolation beds, makeshift hospitals, field hospitals and paediatric care units. The States ought to follow up with those in home isolation and spruce up their control rooms that would coordinate with people requiring a bed and an ambulance. Delhi reported 2,716 cases on Saturday with 247 patients requiring a hospital bed. This was an increase of 1,000 cases over the previous day and 20 more requiring beds. The number of those requiring oxygen or ventilator support increased to 87 on Saturday, two more than the previous day. Overall, 2.5% of the 88,883 hospital beds have been occupied so far. On the same date last year, 11% of the available 1,80,000 beds were occupied. This was when cases were on the downward trend and only 585 were confirmed. Experts estimate that nearly half the emerging cases in Delhi are likely to be of the Omicron variant. As States report data on hospitalisation and bed availability inconsistently, similar estimates aren’t available for all of them. Mumbai on Saturday accounted for nearly 60% of Maharashtra’s caseload on Saturday. An update from the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai said 2,760 (about 9%) of the available beds were occupied. Tamil Nadu reported 1,489 new COVID-19 cases taking the active infections to 8,340. It recorded eight deaths. Among the 74,884 beds earmarked for COVID-19 in the State, 3,149 (4.2%) were occupied as on Saturday. The beds included 39,458 oxygen, 26,858 non-oxygen and 8,568 ICU beds. Their respective occupancy rates were 3.5 %, 5.2 % and 4.3 %. The number of Omicron cases in the State jumped from 46 on Thursday to 121 on Saturday. The majority of them were only “mildly symptomatic”. Officials said patients were being taken to hospitals as a precaution and to avoid spread among close contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-cross-20000-mark/article38090205.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:35 IST,||‘GESCOM addressing problems within 24 hours of complaints’||To ensure uninterrupted power supply, Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company (GESCOM) is replacing defunct transformers to fix the problem within 24 hours of receiving complaints, GESCOM Managing Director Rahul Pandve has said. Addressing presspersons in Kalaburagi on Friday, Mr. Pandve said that during the last one year, GESCOM had received complaints about transformer burnout from Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Bidar, Raichur, Ballari and Koppal districts and replaced nearly 3,212 transformers within 24 hours. To aid consumers and attend to their complaints immediately, GESCOM has now added WhatsApp number to its list of consumer grievances redressal systems. “Consumers can register their grievances through WhatsApp directly with GESCOM officials and staff. Further, complaints will be forwarded to the officials of the area concerned for redressal,” he added. A dedicated toll-free number, 1912, is allotted to electricity call centres for handling power supply-related complaints which will then be forwarded to field personnel for timely action and rectification. The officials and staff have been directed to address complaints of farmers within the stipulated time. Mr. Pandve said that strict action will be initiated against the staff who demand money from farmers while addressing their complaints. GESCOM has replaced 196 iron electricity poles with cement ones in the city. The iron electricity poles, interrupting wires and overhead lines near hospitals, schools and parks will be removed immediately. Replying to a question, Mr. Pandve said that 3,548 farmers have benefited through reliable power supply to their pumpsets under the Ganga Kalyana Scheme. He added that GESCOM is also encouraging consumers to switch from counter to online payment mode for paying bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gescom-addressing-problems-within-24-hours-of-complaints/article38090763.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:12 IST,||Micro and small units appeal against restrictions||Micro and small-scale enterprises here have appealed to the Central and State governments not to re-introduce restrictions even as COVID-19 cases rise in the country. Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president M.V. Ramesh Babu said the raw material prices have seen a slight drop and workers are available for the current level of orders. In the last few months, the industries have seen 30% to 40% fall in orders. So far, there is no rise in COVID cases in industries here. Usually, restrictions to control the spread of COVID-19 start for public gatherings and are imposed on industries only if there is no other option. Now too, the governments should not bring restrictions for industries. If there are restrictions on operations, the industries will face a host of challenges and more units may be closed. P. Nallathambi, president of Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers Welfare Association, said 60% of the workers who went home during the second lockdown have returned. And, all of them employed at the SIDCO Industrial Estate at Kurichi are vaccinated. The Corporation officials are visiting the units to check if the workers maintain physical distancing and follow the other safety protocols. “With these measures, we don’t think there will be any restriction on industries,” he said. According to C. Sivakumar, president of Coimbatore and Tiruppur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association, most of the workers have returned and there is shortage only in availability of operators. Though there is a threat of increase in raw material prices again, the units are operating now and they should be permitted to continue working. ‘We need to repay bank loans, pay rents and wages. There is no government support. So, the units should continue to operate to meet at least these expenses,” he said. Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises president J. James said the micro units cannot withstand another lockdown. The industry is hoping for a revival of orders soon and hence, want to continue working without any restrictions. There was hardly any financial support to this segment during the earlier lockdowns. If there is a need for another lockdown, the government should support all the units, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/micro-and-small-scale-units-appeal-against-restrictions/article38090638.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:09 IST,||More raw rice for cardholders||Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil has said ration cardholders will get greater allocation of raw rice from this month onwards. Addressing mediapersons here on Saturday, Mr. Anil said the Food Corporation of India (FCI) had agreed to the government’s proposal to increase the quantity of raw rice being distributed by altering the proportion with parboiled rice from the existing 30:70 to 50:50. With raw rice being a prime component of breakfast and other dishes in several households in Kerala, the move was expected to benefit large sections, he said. He said the existing proportion could be retained in accordance with the priorities in various regions. Those having white card (NPNS: non-priority, non-subsidy) will receive an additional allocation of 10 kg of rice this month. They can avail themselves of 7 kg out of the additional quota at a rate of Rs. 10.90 a kg and the remaining quantity at Rs. 15 a kg. Residents of orphanages who possess the brown ration card will be entitled to an additional quota of 5 kg, of which the first 2 kg of rice can be bought for Rs. 10.90 a kg and the rest for Rs. 15 a kg. For the non-priority, subsidy (NPS - blue) category, an additional quantity of 3 kg of rice can be bought through ration outlets at a rate of Rs. 15 a kg. Rice that costs over Rs. 30 a kg in the open market is being distributed at subsidised rates, Mr. Anil said. Kerosene An additional allocation of 500 ml of kerosene will be provided to all on account of Christmas. The total quantity (including the additional quota) for various sections are as follows: those without electric connection 8.5 litres, Annapurna Yojana (AY) and priority household (PHH) cardholders 11.5 litres, NPNS and NPS cardholders 1 litre. The government has entered into an agreement with the Food Corporation of India to replace the Sona Masoori variety of rice that is being supplied through the public distribution system with the more preferred ones of Jaya, Surekha and Bondalu. Computerisation Set to become the first department to achieve end-to-end computerisation, the Food and Civil Supplies department will oversee its 101 offices, including city rationing offices, taluk and district supply offices, migrating to the e-office system on February 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-raw-rice-for-cardholders-from-this-month/article38090840.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:16 IST,||CID to probe into police action at Mehndi function in Kota||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Saturday announced that the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) will probe into what is said a police assault on bridegroom and other family members of Koraga tribesmen at Kota in Udupi district on Monday last and also the complaint filed by the police against the bridegroom and six others in connection with the incident. The inquiry will bring out the truth and the police personnel, if found at fault, will face disciplinary action, as their conduct has brought a black mark to the police force. Nine injured victims will get compensation of Rs. 2 lakh each from the State Government, Mr. Jnanendra said, after visiting the family members at Kotathattu village. Talking to reporters, Mr. Jnanendra said that he is pained over the reported lathicharge by Kota Police Station Sub-Inspector B.P. Santosh and six other personnel on bridegroom Rajesh and others assembled at the Mehndi function on December 27 night. “I know these Koraga community people quite closely who are known for their law abiding nature. It is a rarity to have such a Mehndi function in this community. It appears that the police unnecessarily assaulted Rajesh and others,” he said. A couple of days after the incident, a police constable appears to have filed a false complaint against Rajesh and six others accusing them of assaulting the police and obstructing the latter from discharging duty, he said. Mr. Jnanendra said that he has directed Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood to initiate a CID probe. “As this involves the police, I have asked for a CID inquiry to bring out truth,” he said. The Minister said that the Sub-Inspector failed to inform his higher-ups before taking action against Rajesh and other members. Mr. Santosh is already under suspension and disciplinary action will be taken against the other police personnel. The Home Minister said that the State Government was with Dalits, minorities and those who are oppressed. “Have faith in us. There will be no action from this Government that is detrimental to these communities,” he said. Mr. Jnanendra presented a cheque for Rs. 50,000 to each one of the nine injured persons and said that this was part of the Rs. 2 lakh each compensation announced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cid-to-probe-into-police-action-at-mehndi-function-in-kota/article38090909.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:16 IST,||College in Udupi decides to continue with dress code||Disallowing the demand of six pre university students to allow them to wear hijab in their classrooms, the Government PU College for Girls in Udupi has decided to continue with its uniform code that has been in vogue since 1985. Chairing a meeting of parents of the over 1,000 students on Saturday, Udupi MLA and Chairman of College Development Committee K. Raghupati Bhat said that the college will continue with its uniform code, which includes a veil, as has been decided by the committee. This uniform is common for all girls from different communities and this has been made clear to students at the time of their admission. Asking parents not to bring religion into college affairs, Mr. Bhat said that the uniform has not been objected to by most of the parents of the over 1,000 students who hail from different parts of the State. Therefore, there is no question of accepting the demand of the six students to allow them to wear hijab. If their parents are not agreeable to the uniform code, they are open to opt for admission in another PU college, he said. A parent of one of the six students said that he cannot compromise on their practices and he will admit his daughter in another college. Deputy Director of Pre University Department Maruthi attended the meeting. The six students on Friday said that they were not allowed to attend classes for the last several days as they went to college wearing hijab. They also said that the college was discriminating against Muslim students and preventing them from speaking in Beary and Urdu, which, however, the college management refuted. Meanwhile, in a statement, Campus Front of India said that it will launch a protest if the college fails to allow the six girls to wear hijab in classrooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/college-in-udupi-decides-to-continue-with-dress-code/article38090910.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:18 IST,||Police Commissionerates opened in Tambaram, Avadi||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday formally inaugurated Police Commissionerates in Tambaram and Avadi, which have been carved out of the Greater Chennai City police jurisdiction. Mr. Stalin inaugurated the buildings through videoconferencing from the Secretariat. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Director-General of Police (DGP) C. Sylendra Babu, Chennai Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal and T.N. Police Housing Corporation Director-General of Police A.K. Viswanathan were present. Last September, while replying to the grants of the police department in the Assembly, Mr. Stalin had said the government had been thinking of revamping the Greater Chennai Police like in any other metropolitan cities, taking into consideration the changing patterns of crimes and safety aspects of the public. Two new commissionerates in Tambaram and Avadi would be set up, he had said. Subsequently, Additional Directors-General of Police (ADGPs) M. Ravi and Sandeep Rai Rathore were deputed as special officers to form those commissionerates. The government said the Tambaram police commissionerate has been set up at Sholinganallur now while the Avadi police commissionerate will work from the premises of Special Battalion-II, Avadi. The Tambaram police commissionerate will function with two police districts — Tambaram and Pallikaranai comprising 20 police stations. For easy administration, Somangalam and Manimangalam police stations from Kancheepuram district as well as Otteri, Guduvanchery, Maraimalai Nagar, Thalambur and Kelambakkam from Chengalpattu district have been attached to the Tambaram police commissionerate. Similarly, the Avadi police commissionerate will function with two police districts of Avadi and Red Hills comprising 25 police stations. Vellavedu, Sevvapet, Sholavaram and Minjur police stations have been attached to the Avadi police commissionerate. The setting up of the two police commissionerates will be useful for crime prevention, to regulate traffic and to redress the grievances of the public on law and order issues. Mr. Ravi and Mr. Rathore took charge on Saturday. Two senior IPS officers were earlier appointed as special officers for the formation of the commissionerates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-commissionerates-opened-in-tambaram-avadi/article38090610.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:35 IST,||Amid fear of new variant and strict police vigil, it is subdued New Year celebrations||Amid fear of the new COVID-19 variant spread and the police ensuring strict adherence to night curfew through strict vigil, the twin cities of Hubballi-Dharwad witnessed subdued New Year celebrations on Friday night. As New Year parties were banned and no restaurants were allowed to hold music or cultural programmes as part of the celebrations, very few visited restaurants and those who did eventually returned well in advance before night curfew began. However, many took away food parcels to celebrate the event at home and their friends’ places. In fact, in many apartment complexes, the New Year celebrations were organised without much fanfare and no loud music was played because of the ban. With Police Commissioner Labhu Ram himself doing night rounds, all police personnel were on their toes. An otherwise busy Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi and Jubilee Circle in Dharwad wore a deserted look on the eve of the New Year. The police sent back those who had ventured out to see what was happening around. And, amid the subdued celebrations, fire crackers were lit after cakes were cut in some residential localities. Closed door dance and music programmes by children were organised in some places and on the terraces of apartment complexes. First day of New Year However, with Sunrise, the twin cities saw enthusiastic New Year celebrations with many visiting temples to offer pujas. Meanwhile, several participated in Yoga demonstrations held at some schools to welcome the New Year. Yogasanas At the Vivekanand School in Hubballi, scores of students performed Yogasanas to welcome the New Year. The programme was organised by Patanjali Peetha to mark the 75th year of Indian Independence. A similar programme was held at the Police Children’s School in Dharwad where students performed various Yogasanas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-fear-of-new-variant-and-strict-police-vigil-it-is-subdued-new-year-celebrations/article38090766.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:58 IST,||Thanks to strict policing, it was accident-free New Year in city||New Year’s eve went off accident-free, thanks to the elaborate arrangements made by police of three commissionerates in the city. This was the first time there were no fatal road accidents during celebrations in several years with police deploying a huge force for implementation of strict measures. Hyderabad Police Commissioner C.V. Anand himself was on roads till 2.30 a.m. as he supervised arrangements in all five zones of the commissionerate. In an accident not related to drunk driving, an engineering student of Toli Chowki Khaja Basheeruddin Quadri, 24, was killed when the car in which he was travelling with his friends crashed into a divider and turned turtle near Patancheru bus stand at 1.30 a.m. The occupants of the vehicle were not drunk and were going to a dhaba in Sangareddy from Toli Chowki to have biryani.  As many as 2,498 persons were booked for drunk driving in the three commissionerates in less than five hours on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The meticulous planning and the robust strategy implemented to control the movement of people has paid rich rewards in terms of curbing rash, negligent, and drunk driving, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Hyderabad, A.V. Ranganath told The Hindu .  He said that thousands of policemen were virtually on the roads throughout the New Year night of December 31 devotedly doing their duty. “Apart from a few stray incidents of vehicles involved in accidents causing minor injuries, no fatal accidents were reported,” Mr. Ranganath said. According to the data shared by the Joint CP, the Hyderabad traffic police in coordination with law and order counterparts booked 1,265 tipplers. The number has increased drastically from 496 drivers caught last year and 960 the previous year. Interestingly, a large number of drunk drivers were caught in ‘South District’, which includes, Nampally, Goshamahal, Asif Nagar, Charminar and other parts of old city when compared with ‘North District’ comprising uptown Jubilee Hills, Banjara Hills, Punjagutta and SR Nagar, apart from Secunderabad area. Declaring it as ‘Accident-Free’ New Year’s eve, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Cyberabad, Vijay Kumar S.M. said that they booked 873 persons for driving under the influence of alcohol, apart from 3,681 other traffic violations like triple riding, rash driving. Most of the drunk driving cases were reported in Kukatpally, Gachibowli, Madhapur and Miyapur areas. Meanwhile, Rachakonda police said that they booked 360 tippler drivers. They caught 299 two-wheeler riders, 52 car drivers, six autorickshaw drivers and three lorry drivers. In Sangareddy district, as many as 114 cases were registered between 10 p.m. on December 31 and 4 a.m. in the wee hours of Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-fatal-accidents-on-new-years-eve/article38090802.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:58 IST,||New Year liquor sales in Telangana lower than last year||The overwhelming presence of police on roads and the strict enforcement measures put in place was perhaps a deterrent for guzzlers not to buy the extra bottle of liquor during New Year celebrations. The value of sales of both beer and liquor across the State on Friday was Rs. 171.93 crore against Rs. 192.28 crore on the same day last year. The sales dropped even in Hyderabad excise district from Rs. 10.80 crore to Rs. 8.91 crore. Barring the excise districts of Gadwal, Karimnagar, Nagarkurnool, Peddapalli, Saroornagar, Secunderabad, Warangal (Urban) and Bhongir, the sales were lower compared to last year New Year Day in the remaining 26 districts. The sales in adjoining Andhra Pradesh was a mere Rs. 124.10 crore on Friday. On the contrary, the value of sales in Telangana for the month of December went up from Rs. 2,764.78 crore last year to Rs. 3,459.07 crore. Hyderabad district accounted for Rs. 202 crore. Saroornagar and Shamshabad with a volume of Rs. 240 crore each and Medchal with Rs. 234.09 crore topped the State. The sales in the State from January to December were worth Rs. 30,222 crore. People crowded temples wanting to seek divine blessings for a hassle-free year ahead since morning. They threw precautions against COVID-19 to the wind as many of them did not wear masks nor observed other restraints. The queue lines in Birla Mandir were choked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lower-liquor-sales-this-new-year-eve/article38090789.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:12 IST,||Winter chill, rain make Tiruchi an avian haven||An unusually long spell of rain and the resultant cold weather have delighted birdwatchers in the city with sightings of rare migrant winged visitors in big numbers.  “For the first time, we recorded the Brown-breasted Flycatcher in November end in Tiruchi. This small sparrow-like bird travels from the Himalayas and usually spends the winter in the Western Ghats, never in the plains. This year, this ‘vagrant’ was spotted in our city,” A. Relton, academic and a birder for over 45 years, told The Hindu .  Among the other unexpected guests he saw last year include the mottled wood owl, Indian eagle-owl and painted sandgrouse, said Mr. Relton. “Eagles have turned up in good numbers. We have been seeing greater spotted eagle, tawny eagle and booted eagle. It is surprising they chose Tiruchi, because they are all long-distance travellers, coming south during winter from the Himalayas, Ladakh and Kazakhstan,” he said. Veteran birder and former banker V.S. Velayudan said excessive rain affects the avian behaviour too. “Birds usually come when the water is shallow, because they can pick up shrubs and worms faster. The kind of flooding we saw this year shows a change in environment that could affect both inland and migrant bird population; this needs to be examined more closely,” said Mr. Velayudan. While man-made craters filled with rainwater become new habitats for birds to gather in Tiruchi’s suburbs, many natural spots of earlier vintage are fast disappearing. “The swampy marsh near the Kudamurutti bridge used to be an excellent place for birdwatching, but real estate development has erased this in recent years,” said Mr. Relton. Dedicated birdwatchers in the city have hopped online to eBird, a database of ornithological observations providing scientists, researchers and amateur naturalists with real-time data about bird distribution and abundance. “Though we have many good areas for birdwatching in Tiruchi, birding groups are not really networked. Ideally, we should do more to get together for birdwatching sessions and record our observations in online databases like eBird, to create a nature archive,” said Mr. Relton.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/winter-chill-rain-make-tiruchi-a-haven-for-migrant-birds/article38090693.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:09 IST,||Industries dept. dashboard to monitor real-time activities||Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve has said the Industries department will start a dashboard for real-time monitoring of department activities. The dashboard will help, among other things, get a real-time account of the status of applications for new licences and the complaints that have been raised by industrialists. The dashboard will be launched in the State capital on January 5. He was speaking at a reception accorded to him by the Kerala State Small Industries' Association at the Kalamassery KSSIA hall on Saturday. The industrialists had an interactive programme with the Minister. Mr. Rajeeve said the government was considering a spices park at Thodupuzha with a view to addressing the complaint that there was no industrial park in Idukki district. A carbon neutral park was being planned for Wayanad. Wayanad is one of the backward areas in terms of industrial investment. Automatic clearance Later, the Minister inducted small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with investments up to Rs. 50 crore into the K-Swift (Single Window Interface for Fast and Transparent Clearance) platform. The move means that industries with up to Rs. 50 crore investment will get automatic clearance for a period of three years, during which period operations can be launched as various government departments process the applications. The previous Left Democratic Front government had declared the facility for investments up to Rs. 10 crore and now the limit has been raised after the criterion for SME classification was revised by the Union government, including investments up to Rs. 50 crore. The notification changing the categorisation of SMEs had come 18 months ago. New step The induction of larger SMEs into the single window clearance facility brought a new step towards more investment-friendliness even as the State will celebrate 2022 as Entrepreneurs' Year, when the department will work to establish one lakh SMEs in the State. The past year saw the establishment of 50,000 SMEs in the State, the Minister said. Branding of all products from SMEs under the "Kerala Brand" logo just as "Kerala Kaithari" will help intensify marketing of the products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/industries-dept-dashboard-to-monitor-real-time-activities/article38090825.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||FCRA registration of 6,000 NGOs lapses||The Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) registration of nearly 6,000 NGOs has ceased to operate from January 1 as the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) refused to renew their application or the NGOs did not apply for one. The registration is a mandatory requirement to receive foreign funds. An MHA official said on Saturday that it declined to renew the registration of 179 NGOs, while 5,789 associations did not apply for a renewal before the December 31 deadline. The prominent names whose registration was not renewed include Oxfam India and Missionaries of Charity, a Catholic religious congregation set up by Nobel laureate Mother Teresa, due to “adverse inputs”. Oxfam India, which works for economic and gender justice among Adivasis, Dalits, Muslims and women, stands to lose access to Rs. 62 crore in its designated bank account. The NGO that claims to have helped 10 lakh people in Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh in the past one year had also transferred over Rs. 4 crore to 140 small NGOs and educational institutions before September 2020. The latest amendments to the FCRA brought in September 2020 bar NGOs from transferring foreign funds to other domestic NGOs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fcra-registration-of-6000-ngos-lapses/article38090207.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||12 devotees killed, 15 injured in Vaishno Devi temple stampede||At least 12 devotees were killed and 15 others injured in an early morning stampede at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Katra in Jammu’s Reasi district on Saturday. The incident took place around 2.45 a.m., when a large number of devotees was queuing up for darshan inside the cave shrine on Trikuta hills on the first day of the New Year.   “Preliminary reports suggest that an argument broke out [among devotees] which resulted in people pushing each other, followed by a stampede,” Jammu & Kashmir Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh said. Seven of the deceased were from Uttar Pradesh, three from Delhi, one from Haryana and one from J&K, officials said. The injured were shifted to the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Super Specialty Hospital. “Four were admitted to the Intensive Care Unit,” J.P. Singh, a senior doctor at the hospital, said. J&K Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha announced an ex gratia of Rs. 10 lakh to the families of the deceased and Rs. 2 lakh to those injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/12-devotees-killed-15-injured-in-vaishno-devi-temple-stampede/article38090543.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:59 IST,||COVID-19: Karnataka’s single-day spike breaches 1,000 mark||Karnataka breached the 1,000-mark in a single day spike with 1,033 new COVID-19 cases reported on Saturday. This is after a gap of 114 days as it was on September 9 last that the State reported 1,074 cases. Before the second wave peaked, it was on March 16 that the State reported 1,135 cases. This time, the surge has been rapid with nearly a five-fold rise in new cases since December 20. From 222 cases on December 20, the cases nearly doubled on December 24. While 566 cases were reported on December 29, the number touched 1,033 on Saturday (January 1) taking the total to 30,08,370. Over 78% of the new cases are from Bengaluru Urban alone where 810 cases have been reported. Bagalkote, Davangere, Chickballapur, Gadag, Haveri, Koppal, Raichur, Ramanagaram, and Yadgiri did not report any COVID-19 case. Dakshina Kannada, Mysuru, Mandya, Udupi, Belagavi, and Chikkamagaluru reported cases in double-digits (less than 50). As many as 354 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 29,60,615. The State now has 9,386 active patients of which nearly 84% (7,876) are from Bengaluru Urban. With the five deaths, the State’s toll rose to 38,340. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.86%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.48%. The State’s average test positivity rate (TPR) in the last seven days stood at 0.53%. Two districts — Kodagu and Bengaluru Urban — have reported a TPR that is above the State average with 1.11% and 0.93% respectively. While Bidar, Haveri, Koppal and Raichur have recorded zero TPR in the last seven days, Yadgir, Bagalkote and Gadag have recorded 0.01% TPR each. As many as 1,19,225 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 97,127 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,65,87,422.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-karnatakas-single-day-spike-breaches-1000-mark/article38090541.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||40 lakh Covaxin jabs available for teenagers||As the registration for vaccination of teenagers aged between 15 and 18 began on Saturday, the State government is gearing up to vaccinate at least 25 lakh beneficiaries in the week beginning January 3. The government plans to reach out to the eligible beneficiaries and administer the vaccine to them at their doorstep. Health and Family Welfare Department Commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar said over 40 lakh doses of Covaxin were available in the State. Mr. Bhaskar said that booster doses for senior citizens with comorbidities and health and frontline workers would be given from January 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/40-lakh-covaxin-jabs-available-for-teenagers/article38091022.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:16 IST,||City corporation to fast track DRCs||The Mangaluru City Corporation will accelerate the process of granting Development Rights Certificate (DRC) to citizens who have offered their land for road widening works undertaken in the corporation limits. Mayor Premananda Shetty presided over a meeting to chalk out plans to simplify the process as per the Karnataka Town and Country Planning (Amendment) Act 2021 here, according to Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar in a release. Property owners who had offered property rights to the corporation for road widening five years prior to the initiation of Amendment Act on October 7 2021, will get DRCs through a fast track procedure. The commissioner asked property owners who were yet to receive DRCs to submit necessary documentary proof to the TDR Cell of the cororation to get the certificates. Details of land made available for road widening will be posted on the corporation website shortly as well as on the TDR Cell noticeboard. If property owners have any objection, they may file it with the commissioner within 15 days of the notice. Thereafter, the corporation will conduct a hearing for quick issuance of DRCs. As a part of Swatch Bharat Mission 2.0, the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs is hosting “Swatch Technology Challenge” and has sought submission of three innovative solutions that qualify at the urban local body level. The corporation has invited entries from individuals/ startups/ parastatals/ any other organisations for participation. Participants may fill the Google Form:https://forms.gle/ 64kW9Bj- WbECDuVy39.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-corporation-to-fast-track-drcs/article38090913.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||GST collections slip below Rs. 1.3 lakh cr. in December||The gross Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections hit a three-month low in December at Rs. 1,29,780 crore, 26% higher than the pre-pandemic levels of December 2019 and 13% more than the corresponding month in 2020. Revenues from import of goods in December were 36% higher than in 2020, while those from domestic transactions, including import of services, were 5% more. The Finance Ministry highlighted that the GST collections in December, reflecting transactions undertaken in November, were “close to Rs. 1.3 lakh crore despite a 17.5% reduction in the number of e-way bills generated in November” compared with October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gst-collections-slip-in-dec/article38090206.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:23 IST,||Two more booked for Haridwar hate speech||The Uttarakhand Police on Sunday added the names of two more persons in the FIR pertaining to the religious conclave in Haridwar organised between December 17-19, where calls were made for genocide and violence against Muslims. One of the organisers of the event — Yati Narsinghanand — was named in the FIR on Saturday. The police authorities also added Section 295A of the Indian Penal Code to the existing first information report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-more-booked-for-haridwar-hate-speech/article38090202.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:09 IST,||State ready for vaccination of teenagers||The Health department has formulated an action plan for vaccination of children in the 15-18 age group beginning Monday. A high-level meeting chaired by Health Minister Veena George on Saturday finalised the action plan with different colour codes for vaccination of children and adults. Separate vaccination teams would be constituted to streamline the parallel operations. With the Omicron variant adding another dimension to the COVID-19 pandemic threat, the government is planning to complete the vaccination of teenagers at the earliest, subject to the availability of vaccines. Only Covaxin will be administered to children, as per the Central government guidelines, at special vaccination centres to be set up at general/ district/ taluk hospitals and community health centres all days of the week except Wednesday till January 10. Availability of facility Primary health centres and family health centres will have the facility all days except Wednesday for four days. The vaccination centres for children will have pink boards exhibited at the entrance, registration counter and vaccination room to distinguish them from the outlets for adults which will have blue boards. An official press note issued here said children would have to be registered on the CoWIN portal for vaccination. The Education department would assist children in the process. Walk-in facility for registration would be available at vaccination centres. Inputs on students Educational institutions have been instructed to provide inputs to the District Education Officer on the students who have received the vaccine and those who have not. Blue colour-coded vaccination centres for adults would be open at all general/ district/ taluk hospitals and community health centres except on Wednesdays and Sundays and at primary health centres and family health centres all days except Monday and Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-ready-for-vaccination-of-teenagers/article38090829.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:15 IST,||Airport says Happy New Year with saplings||The Mangaluru International Airport welcomed the New Year 2022 in an eco-friendly way with a Green New Year initiative on Saturday. Neatly stacked saplings of various fruit-bearing trees greeted passengers at the exit of the arrival hall. Interested passengers received free saplings on showing their boarding pass with a request to nurture it for the next three months, a move that will entitle them to a gift voucher from the airport, said a release. Passengers were also requested to share pictures of them planting the saplings and the progress made after 90-days. They will receive a gift voucher on e-mail from the airport following this. The initiative received enthusiastic response from passengers, especially those who have space in their residences to plant saplings and nurture them. They all collected saplings of their choice. The airport arranged 150 saplings of chikoo, mango, jackfruit, and guava. For connoisseurs of fruits, the choice was between Neelam, Mallika, Alphonso and Banganapalli varieties of mango, honey and gum-less jackfruits and Arka Kirana, Pink Guava, Malaysian Jambu and Pink Jambu varieties of guava. However, mango and guava plant saplings emerged the hot favourites among passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/airport-says-happy-new-year-with-saplings/article38090907.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:23 IST,||12 dead in Vaishno Devi stampede||Twelve devotees were killed and 15 injured in an early-morning stampede at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Katra in Reasi district in Jammu on Saturday.  The incident took place around 2.45 a.m., when a large number of devotees was queuing up for darshan inside the cave shrine on the Trikuta hills on the New Year.  “Preliminary reports suggest that an argument broke out [among devotees] which resulted in people pushing each other, followed by a stampede,” Jammu & Kashmir Director-General of Police Dilbagh Singh said. Seven of the deceased were from Uttar Pradesh, three from Delhi, one from Haryana and one from J&K, officials said. The injured were shifted to the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Super Specialty Hospital.  J&K Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha announced an ex gratia of Rs. 10 lakh to the families of the deceased and Rs. 2 lakh to those injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/12-dead-in-vaishno-devi-stampede/article38090203.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:18 IST,||147 caught for drunken driving||As many as 147 revellers were caught for drunken driving on New Year’s eve under the limits of the Greater Chennai Police. Around 13,000 police personnel, including senior officers such as additional commissioners, joint commissioners and deputy commissioners, were deployed for checking vehicles at 449 points. Of these, plainclothesmen monitored 58 points to prevent bike racing and crowding at places of worship. Special teams were on the move keeping tabs on hotels, bars, resorts and clubs. All bridges were temporarily closed to prevent bike racing. Barricades equipped with LED lights were put up at important junctions. Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal said: “There was no major crime or injury cases on the New Year’s eve since elaborate arrangements were in place from Friday across the city.” Of the 147 persons, 35 were driving cars and 103 were riding two-wheelers. Killed in accident A motorcyclist, R. Akash, 21, of Karikattukuppam, Muttukadu, was killed in an accident near the Injambakkam bus stop. He was riding a bike, with a friend on pillion at midnight and lost control of the vehicle. His vehicle rammed the median near the Injambakkam bus stop and he died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/147-caught-for-drunken-driving/article38090599.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:58 IST,||Newly-wed SI, father killed in road accident||A newly-married sub-inspector was among nine persons killed in four accidents in three districts of the State within 24 hours. The young sub-inspector, who got married only last week, and his father were killed instantly in an accident on the Nagarjuna Sagar Road in Chintapally police limits of Nalgonda district on Saturday. The victims were identified as 32-year-old Nenavath Srinu Naik, sub-inspector at Vikarabad town police station and his father 50-year-old Manya Naik, an auto-rickshaw driver. They were residents of Manya tanda of Madgul mandal in Rangareddy district. The accident, as reported by officials, took place near Polepally Ramnagar village around 6.20 p.m., when the duo was heading to Hyderabad in their three-wheeler and got into a head-on collision with a State Road Transport Corporation bus of the Devarakonda depot. The bus originating from Hyderabad was going towards Devarakonda. The father-son were on their way to a temple in Hyderabad to perform certain post-marriage rituals. It was also learnt that Srinu Naik was manning the steering control at the time of accident, as his father had recently injured his hand. Mr. Naik got married on December 26. He was initially working at the central crime station at Vikarabad and on December 13, he had reported at the town headquarters police. Ten days later, he had proceeded on leave for the marriage. According to preliminary notes made by the police, the auto-rickshaw was out of its margin while the bus was still in its right way. “It is still not clear if the auto-rickshaw driver was trying to overtake or it was because of lighting or traffic issues. There were, however, no indications of alcohol influence,” a senior police officer said. In Sangareddy district, five persons were killed and three others injured in two road accidents on Saturday. Four persons were killed on the spot when a car lost control, jumped into the air and hit a motorcycle at Didgi near Zaheerabad on Saturday. According to sources, those travelling on the motorcycle – Balaraju (28) Sravani (22) and Ammulu (eight months) — were killed on the spot. It was stated that they were petty traders involved in selling clothes. The impact of the accident was such that the motorcycle caught fire. They belonged to Bachupalli village in Gooty mandal of Anantapur district in Andhra Pradesh. Another person Fareed (25), resident of Patlur village in Marpally mandal of Vikarabad district, travelling in the car was also killed in the accident. In another accident that took place at Kansanpally in Andol mandal on Friday night, one person was killed and three were injured when an auto-trolley hit a car. Saraswati, travelling in the car, was killed in the accident. Her husband Naveen Goud and two children were injured and they were shifted to a hospital in Hyderabad for treatment. In Paloncha town in Bhadradri Kothagudem district, two women were killed when a container lorry ran amok before ploughing into the compound wall of a roadside house at Prashanthnagar Colony on the outskirts on Saturday afternoon. The deceased were identified as G Venkatanarsamma, 45, and S Koteshwari, 53. The duo were sitting in front of a makeshift stall near their roadside houses when the container lorry fatally mowed them down, sources said. Locals rescued the seriously injured driver and shifted him to the government hospital in Paloncha town. Paloncha police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/si-among-nine-killed-in-accidents/article38090823.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:16 IST,||New Year gift||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-year-gift/article38090912.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:12 IST,||Stalin makes out a case for vaccination||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin made a strong case on Saturday for vaccination against COVID-19, saying medical experts opined that the vaccine would lessen the effect of the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus. In his New Year address, he said those who had not vaccinated themselves so far should come forward to do so. “Your health is important to me. We have imposed some restrictions in the interest of your welfare. Also, do follow the COVID appropriate behaviour,” he said. ‘Inoculate children’ As the Union government had announced a vaccination programme for those aged 15-18, people in Tamil Nadu should make use of it, Mr. Stalin said. “The Tamil Nadu government will effectively implement the programme. Bring your children to vaccination camps.” The Chief Minister pointed out that people’s participation in the vaccination programme had reduced the rate of infection and the number of deaths in the State. “The State has adequate beds, medicines and oxygen to cope with the situation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-makes-out-a-case-for-vaccination/article38090619.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:19 IST,||Lessons not learnt||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lessons-not-learnt/article38090661.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:56 IST,||COVID-19: Single day rise crosses 1,000 mark||Karnataka breached the 1,000 mark in a single day rise in COVID-19 cases with 1,033 new cases reported on Saturday. This is after a gap of 114 days as it was on September 9 last that the State reported 1,074 cases. Previously, before the second wave peaked it was on March 16 that the State had reported 1,135 cases. This time, the surge has been rapid with nearly a five-fold rise in new cases since December 20. From 222 cases on December 20, the cases nearly doubled on December 24. While 566 cases were reported on December 29, the number touched 1,033 on Saturday (January 1), taking the total to 30,08,370. Over 78% of the new cases are from Bengaluru Urban alone where 810 cases have been reported. While Bagalokot, Davangere, Chickballapur, Gadag, Haveri, Koppal, Raichur, Ramanagaram, and Yadgir districts did not report any COVID-19 case, Dakshina Kannada, Mysuru, Mandya, Udupi, Belagavi, and Chikkamagaluru reported cases in double digits (less than 50).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-single-day-rise-crosses-1000-mark/article38090922.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:20 IST,||Quiet start to new year||Mumbai, Jan 1 (PTI) For the second year in a row, the New Year eve celebrations remained muted in Mumbai in view of the order prohibiting public gatherings at popular places amid the rise in new COVID-19 cases. Mumbaikars' favourite destinations like the Gateway of India, Marine Drive and seafronts at Dadar, Girgaon and Juhu wore almost a deserted look as police personnel deployed at these places and on streets ensured that the prohibitory order was implemented strictly, an official said on Saturday. Police personnel were seen asking people to vacate these spots through the public announcement system before the 5 PM deadline on Friday. "This is an appreciation post for you Mumbai. These deserted and silent streets speak volumes about your concern for the city and its safety. What a perfect welcome to 2022," Mumbai Police tweeted on Friday night. Due to the curbs, citizens preferred to ring in the New Year with families and friends at hotels, restaurants, and in some cases, on terraces of their housing societies. Nakabandis or checking of vehicles was conducted at 134 spots by the police. Vehicles were checked and senior police officers patrolled streets, the official added. From Friday night till the early Saturday morning, Traffic Police personnel took blood samples of motorists to check drunk driving and filed cases. Similarly, cases were filed for rash driving, he said. The Bandra-Worli sea link, BMC building, CSMT station etc were illuminated with lights to welcome the New Year. No lighting was done on the state secretariat. Mumbai Police on Friday issued an order prohibiting people from visiting beaches, open grounds, sea faces, promenades, gardens, parks or similar public places between 5 pm and 5 am daily till January 15 in view of the prevailing coronavirus situation and the emergence of the Omicron variant. The Maharashtra capital on Friday reported 5,631 new COVID-19 cases, almost 2,000 more than Thursday, which took the caseload in the city on the last day of the year to 7,85,110, as per the civic body. This was a rise of 53 per cent over 3,671 cases recorded on Thursday. As per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), out of 282 samples sent for genome sequencing, 156 (55 per cent) were found to be of Omicron variant, 89 (32 per cent) of Delta Derivative and 37 (13 per cent) of Delta variant, as of Friday. PTI DC NSK NSK||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/quiet-start-to-new-year/article38090681.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:15 IST,||76 new cases in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada reported 48 new COVID-19 cases, including nines cases from clusters in Kasba village of Bantwal taluk and Bejai in Mangaluru, on Saturday. With 12 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 187. Test positivity rate was put at 0.61. A fine of Rs. 1,11,25,830 has been collected in 91,996 cases of violation of norms. In Udupi, 28 new cases were reported of which 26 are from Udupi taluk and two from Kundapur taluk. As many as 26 patients are in home isolation while two patients are in designated care centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/76-new-cases-in-udupi-dakshina-kannada/article38090906.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:10 IST,||COVID-19 cases surge to 1,489 in Tamil Nadu||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases rose to 1,489 in T.N., with 60% of them being reported from Chennai and nearby districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/liquor-sales-see-dip-on-new-years-eve/article38090594.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:18 IST,||Wet weather to continue till Tuesday||Wet weather is set to continue over Tamil Nadu till Tuesday and the Cauvery delta districts may receive heavy rain on Sunday. Rains may shift to southern parts of the State from Monday .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wet-weather-to-continue-till-tuesday/article38090593.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:59 IST,||Ejipura flyover project delay riles residents||It’s been more than three years since BBMP began work on the 2.5 km-long Ejipura-Kendriya Sadan flyover, but there appears to be no end in sight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ejipura-flyover-project-delay-riles-residents/article38090542.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:18 IST,||COVID-19 cases surge to 1,489 in Tamil Nadu||The number of people testing positive for COVID-19 rose to 1,489 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. At least 60% of the cases was from Chennai and its neighbouring districts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-surge-to-1489-in-tamil-nadu/article38090698.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:20 IST,||NIA to probe Multani’s role in smuggling of arms||The NIA will probe the suspected involvement of Sikhs for Justice operative Jaswinder Singh Multani in drone-based smuggling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-to-probe-multanis-role-in-smuggling-of-arms/article38090872.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:31 IST,||Prime Minister releases financial aid for farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday released over Rs. 20,900 crore to more than 10.09 crore farmers as the 10th instalment of aid under the PM-KISAN scheme. A financial benefit of Rs. 6,000 per year is provided to eligible farmer families under the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prime-minister-releases-financial-aid-for-farmers/article38090873.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:19 IST,||Slain militant suspected to be behind Pulwama attack||The J&K Police on Saturday said they suspected that one of the three slain militants in the Anantnag “encounter” could be Samir Dar, a JeM “commander” involved in the 2019 attack that left 40 CRPF jawans dead in Pulwama.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/slain-militant-suspected-to-be-behind-pulwama-attack/article38090662.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:35 IST,||Dalits attacked, seven booked in Belagavi||The police have booked seven members of a right-wing organisation on the charge of carrying out an attack on Dalits on December 29, 2021 for what is said to be conversion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dalits-attacked-seven-booked-in-belagavi/article38090768.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:35 IST,||Boralingaiah takes charge as Police Commissioner||M.B. Boralingaiah took charge as Police Commissioner in Belagavi on Saturday. The 2008 batch IPS officer assumed charge on the day he was promoted as Deputy Inspector-General of Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/boralingaiah-takes-charge-as-police-commissioner/article38090762.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:16 IST,||MUDA plans to increase green cover to 33%||Mangaluru Urban Development Authority has planned to increase green cover in the city to 33% in the next 18 months, said MUDA Chairman Ravishankar Mijar here on Saturday. Speaking at the inauguration of Vivekananda Vrukshalayahere, Mr. Mijar said that the city at present has green cover of 23%. “By the end of my term, we have planned to take it to the national average of 33%,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/muda-plans-to-increase-green-cover-to-33/article38090915.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:59 IST,||Guidance value for all categories cut by 10%||Karnataka Government has reduced property guidance value by 10% for the next three months, giving buyers an opportunity to do registrations at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/guidance-value-for-all-categories-cut-by-10/article38090545.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,||Gupkar pact leaders put under house arrest over protest plan||The former Chief Ministers Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti and several other top leaders of the People’s Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration were placed under house arrest on Saturday ahead of a scheduled joint protest against the J&K Delimitation Commission’s draft proposal. The leaders accused the Lieutenant-Governor’s administration of locking the gates and blocking entrances of their houses with armoured vehicles since early in the morning. ‘Illegal action’ “Good morning and welcome to 2022. A new year with the same J&K police illegally locking people in their homes and an administration so terrified of normal democratic activity. Trucks parked outside our gates to scuttle the peaceful J&K PAGD’s sit-in,” National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said in a tweet. He said the police had even locked the internal gate connecting his house with his father’s home. “Yet, our leaders have the cheek to tell the world that India is the largest democracy, hah!!” Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said the Centre trumpeted diluting Article 370 and dismembering J&K throughout the country, “but is deeply paranoid and intolerant when people want to protest against its disempower- ment”. PAGD spokesman and CPI(M) leader Tarigami said the police had closed the gates of his house at “midnight”. The administration’s move was also criticised by those political parties which are not part of the alliance, an amalgam of the regional parties fighting for restoration of the pre-August 5, 2019 position. “I can’t see any valid reason why the administration should stop political parties from protesting,” Peoples Conference chief Sajad Lone said. The commission recently proposed to have six more Assembly constituencies in Jammu and one more in Kashmir, besides reserving seats for the Scheduled Tribes for the first time in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gupkar-pact-leaders-put-under-house-arrest-over-protest-plan/article38090136.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||Modi releases aid for farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday released over Rs. 20,900 crore to more than 10.09 crore farmers across India as the 10th instalment of financial aid under the PM-KISAN scheme. Mr. Modi released the amount to beneficiaries at an event held through video conference. Speaking on the first day of 2022, his 35-minute address was also a report card of the performance of his government over the past one year. The economic indicators, Mr. Modi claimed, are in a better position than in the pre-COVID era. The foreign direct investment and the GST collections are high. The growth rate he said, is more than 8%. He applauded the 42 unicorn firms that came into existence during the pandemic. The year 2021, Mr. Modi said, will be remembered for the country’s fight against the pandemic but equally it will also be remembered for the government’s effort to bring in reforms. “In 2022 we have to increase our pace,” he said. He also spoke at length about all the government policy initiatives in the farm sector. He did not though speak about the controversial farm laws that his government was forced to repeal following sustained agitation by agricultural groups. Efforts to handle COVID The Prime Minister also spoke about India’s efforts to deal with the pandemic. “Could any one imagine a country as diverse as India administer 145 crore doses of COVID vaccine? Who would have thought that India could make a record 2.5 crore vaccine in a day.” he said. During these tough pandemic years, he said, 2 crore households have got piped water connection. Under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme, a financial benefit of Rs. 6,000 per year is provided to the eligible farmer families, payable in three equal instalments of Rs. 2,000. The money is transferred directly to the bank account of the beneficiaries. During the virtual event, the Prime Minister also released an equity grant of more than Rs. 14 crore to about 351 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs), benefiting 1.24 lakh farmers. He stressed the effectiveness of the FPOs which he said, has helped in bringing down the input cost. The FPOs, he said, also give a better bargaining power to the farmers. The virtual event was attended by as many as nine Chief Ministers, several Ministers from different States, and representatives of agricultural institutions. On the occasion, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on the first day of the New Year 2022, around Rs. 20,900 crore is being transferred to about 10.09 crore beneficiaries. He also said the PM-KISAN programme was launched as part of the government’s effort to help double the income of farmers. The 9th instalment of PM-KISAN was released in August 2021. With the released latest tranche, the total amount provided under the scheme has touched about Rs. 1.8 lakh crore. PM-KISAN scheme was announced in the February 2019 Budget. The first instalment was for the period December 2018 to March 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-releases-aid-for-farmers/article38090122.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,||India gifts 5 lakh doses of Covaxin to Afghanistan||India began the New Year by handing over half-a-million doses of COVID-19 vaccines to Afghanistan on Saturday. The consignment is part of a gift of million doses, the supply of which will be completed within the coming weeks. India is also sending wheat and medicines, as part of the humanitarian aid programme. “The Government of India is committed to provide humanitarian assistance to Afghan people consisting of food grains, one million doses of COVID vaccine and essential life-saving drugs,” a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs said. Saturday’s delivery is the second time in a month that India has provided aid to the Taliban-ruled country. On December 11, India sent the first consignment of 1.5 tonnes of medicines. Pakistan, Iran, the UAE, China, Russia and Qatar are among the countries that supply medicines and aid to Afghanistan. India supplied COVID-19 vaccines to Afghanistan in February 2021 but the latest delivery is the first time since the Taliban’s arrival in August. “In the coming weeks, we would be undertaking the supply of wheat and the remaining medical assistance. In this regard, we are in touch with UN agencies and others for finalising the modalities for transportation,” an official press statement declared. India has been seeking unimpeded access to the Afghan people to ensure equitable supply of humanitarian assistance across the country, which is experiencing a harsh winter that has arrived following a famine. Following the takeover by the Taliban, Afghanistan’s health infrastructure was crushed by the exodus of educated and trained medical personnel as well as a lack of supplies. One of the key concerns for the administration of vaccines in Afghanistan will be the condition of the facilities that will store the perishable consignment. But sources expressed confidence that the vaccines will be kept at the Indira Gandhi Children’s Hospital in Kabul which still has the facilities for storing vaccines in optimum conditions.  India has not formally recognised the Taliban administration of Kabul as the legitimate ruler of Afghanistan and has been demanding that the international community go slow in granting de jure status to the new rulers who unleashed a violent campaign for two decades against successive governments of Afghanistan under former presidents Ashraf Ghani and Hamid Karzai as well as the U.S.-led foreign forces.   However, since last September, New Delhi has been urging the international community to ensure delivery of humanitarian goods to ease the suffering of the common people who are facing the dual crisis of breakdown of governance and economy as well as the exhausted health sector in Afghanistan. The Hindu reported earlier that India and Pakistan have been in conversation over finalising the modalities that would allow trucks from India and Pakistan to carry essential food crops to border posts such as Torkham and Chaman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-gifts-5-lakh-doses-of-covaxin-to-afghanistan/article38090141.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||President, PM mourn stampede deaths||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed their condolences to the bereaved families of 12 persons who were killed in a stampede at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in the early hours of Saturday. Over a dozen others were injured in the incident. During a video address to farmers while releasing the 10th instalment of funds under the PM KISAN scheme, Mr. Modi said, “I express my deep condolences to the families who lost their loved ones and those who have been injured in the stampede.” He said that the Centre was in constant touch with the Jammu and Kashmir administration. “I spoke to Lt. Governor Manoj Sinha. We are keeping an eye on the treatment of the injured and providing other relief measures,” he said. “An ex gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to the stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhavan. The injured would be given Rs. 50,000,” the Prime Minister’s Office tweeted. The J&K administration has ordered a high-level inquiry into the incident. In a series of tweets, the office of the Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant-Governor, expressing pain at the loss of lives, said, “Spoke to Hon’ble Home Minister Shri Amit Shah Ji. Briefed him about the incident. A high level inquiry has been ordered into today’s stampede. The Inquiry Committee will be headed by Principal Secretary (Home) with ADGP, Jammu and Divisional Commissioner, Jammu as members.” President Kovind said in a tweet: “Very distressed to know that an unfortunate stampede claimed lives of devotees at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhavan. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. I wish speedy recovery to those injured.” Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said: “The stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi temple is extremely tragic. My condolences to the families of the deceased. Wishing the injured a speedy recovery.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-pm-mourn-stampede-deaths/article38090124.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||Hard-up BSP holds its horses in U.P.||What is keeping Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati from stepping out and holding public rallies as leaders of other parties have been doing in Uttar Pradesh, which goes to the polls soon? This question has intrigued her supporters, observers and political rivals. The answer apparently lies in the financial constraints faced by the BSP and its reluctance to change its working ways and style, as Ms. Mayawati herself explained to her voters in an address on Saturday. Ms. Mayawati, a four-time Chief Minister of U.P., said the BSP did not believe in imitating other parties but in working with prudence, keeping in mind the financial condition of her party’s people. If she imitates her opponents and holds many rallies even before the election is announced, her supporters will not be able to bear the financial burden of rallies during the election, she said. The BSP is a party of the “poor and the oppressed”, Ms. Mayawati said, stressing that other parties receive a lot of money from governments as well as capitalists and industrialists. “Unlike other parties, our party is not a party of capitalists and big businessmen. Along with being a political party, our party is also a movement. And even if we imitate others, the scarcity of funds could hurt the party during the election,” Ms. Mayawati said. Sticking to her guns  The BSP chief also said that she “does not want to change” her party’s ways of working and modalities of approaching and campaigning in election. Her rivals can mock her all they want and the media can carry on writing “ ulta seedha ” against her, she said.  Ms. Mayawati has been conspicuous by her absence from the 2022 election campaign even when Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah of the Bharatiya Janata Party; Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav; and even Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hold regular rallies, roadshows and public events to push their respective narratives. So far, Ms. Mayawati has deputed her party general secretary and Brahmin face Satish Chandra Mishra to tour the State and hold public rallies with the message of getting her elected as CM of U.P. for the fifth time. Ms. Mayawati also shot back at Mr. Shah for taking a dig at her absence from the campaign, and said “the money of the poor with the government exchequer” was keeping the BJP leaders warm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hard-up-bsp-holds-its-horses-in-up/article38090133.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,||Bengal’s jobless tea workers turn to mushroom farming||The hands that grew a brew are now raising fungus for survival in northern West Bengal. Sabitri Toppo and Mausumi Minj are among 700 plantation workers who lost their jobs when the Madhu Tea Estate in Alipurduar district of West Bengal closed down seven years ago. The tea estate is one of 26 in the district’s Kalchini block. Many of the estates are in a bad shape due to low yield, quality and labour issues.  “We formed a cluster of women from 50 families, some of them from the closed tea estate, and trained them in organic mushroom farming more than a fortnight ago. We also provided them a permanent mushroom-growing shed and home-delivered spawn,” Binoy Dhar, a farm specialist with the Assam-based Mushroom Development Foundation (MDF), told The Hindu from the Kalchini area.  Ms. Toppo and Ms. Minj, who have been struggling to make ends meet since their estate shut down, hope the mushrooms they are growing would help sustain their families. “Mushroom takes 20 days to be harvested. Each trainee can earn Rs. 10,000 per 100 kg from a shed from mid-January if they go by the training provided,” Mr. Dhar said. Jamuna Boro, a Kalchini-based mushroom cultivator and trainer, said the landless tea plantation workers have been rearing pigs and goats for survival. But they often lose their livestock to leopard attacks and their inability to provide enough fodder. “Life has been hard for tea plantation workers because of erratic or no payment over the years. What mushroom does is kill two birds with one stone — ensure a sustainable livelihood and takes care of their own nutrition to a large extent,” she said. Pranjal K. Baruah, who heads the MDF, said their project goes beyond providing training. Technical support Technical support, building materials to set up a mushroom-growing shed and 60 bags of spawn is also provided. “Our work entails most harvesting and inventory management, business plan development, formation of area-level federations, the opening of bank accounts of the beneficiaries and branding and marketing,” he said. “The consumption of low-cost mushrooms, especially the oyster variety, is growing because more people are conscious about health and nutrition. There is a market small-scale growers can cater to,” he added. The MDF has been providing training in mushrooms across Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Nagaland for quite some time. It began targeting the plantation workers in northern West Bengal some time ago. The NGO is also developing a complete industrialisation cluster model for mushroom cultivation for the Democratic Republic of Congo to be implemented by the African government over five years for sustaining 1,00,000 people, Mr. Baruah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengals-jobless-tea-workers-turn-to-mushroom-farming/article38090147.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,||A striped reminder to the Sunderbans||The residents of Mitrabari in the Satjhaleia area of the Gosaba block in the Sunderbans woke up on the New Year with tiger pugmarks in the forest near the habitation. As guards rushed to the spot and started placing nylon nets and trap cages, the tiger attacked one of them and he had to be rushed to a state-run hospital. This has been the fourth incident of a tiger straying into the Sunderbans in the past few months. On two occasions, tigers stayed from the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve (STR) into the adjoining habitations and on the other two, from the South 24 Parganas forest division. The forest officials were on December 28 able to trap a tiger more than five days after it had strayed into Gopalganj village in the Kultali area after crossing a 3.5-km stretch of the river. It took more than five days and a lot of patience on the part of the officials to tranquillise and put it in the cage. Trap cages, tranquilliser teams, nylon nets, drones, water cannons and chilli bombs were used to rescue the tiger from the forest near human habitation in South 24 Parganas. On December 8, a tiger had strayed into the Bhubaneshwari forest and was trapped after a 12-hour operation.  “It is not one tiger straying but different tigers,” Tapas Das, Director of the STR, told The Hindu . He ruled out prey shortage in the forest that is leading to the incidents.  He said if there was a shortage, the number of incidents would be more. He said there could be a number of reasons. “In the Sunderbans, it is difficult to distinguish areas where the forest which are tiger bearing and which are close to habitation. So the tiger often strays into these forests,” he said. He also said there could be territorial fights among the tigers that may result in the incidents. “There could be one male driving other males out of the territory.” Forest Minister Jyotipriya Mullick said the Sunderbans is facing the problem of plenty due to good forest management. The last tiger census in 2021 had put the number at 96 and 74 of them were captured through camera traps and identified as unique individuals. Incidents of attacks on fishermen who venture into the forest for livelihood have also been reported. A tiger attacked two fishermen on Friday near Rangmari Char near Haldibari forest in the Sunderbans. It jumped on their boat when they were catching crabs. While the other fishermen beat it up with sticks, the big cat was able to inflict injuries on two of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-striped-reminder-to-the-sunderbans/article38090152.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||NIA to probe Multani’s role in drone-based smuggling||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) will probe the suspected involvement of Germany-based Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) operative Jaswinder Singh Multani in the use of drones for the smuggling of arms, ammunition, explosives and drugs into the Indian territory by Pakistan-based syndicates. Based on inputs related to his alleged role in attempts to revive terrorism in Punjab, the agency has registered a case against him and his associates. Following an alert from Indian agencies, the police in Germany detained him a few days ago. “Multani was released after he submitted an affidavit that he would cooperate with the authorities concerned,” said an official. ‘Pakistan links’ “We have evidence indicating that Multani has been in touch with Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). He also has links with smuggling syndicates in Pakistan and on the Indian side in Punjab. Through social media platforms and encrypted chat messengers, he radicalises gullible young men from Punjab and motivates them to indulge in such illegal activities,” the official said. Security agencies have come across many instances wherein drones, apart from being deployed for surveillance along the border, were used by Pakistan-based elements to smuggle explosives, arms, ammunition and drugs across to India. Last year, there were about 70 drone sightings along the border in Punjab and Jammu. On December 18, 2021 the Border Security Force (BSF) had shot down a drone in Punjab’s Ferozepur sector, but it was not carrying any payload. In September last year, BSF personnel fired at another drone along the International Border in Amritsar. It flew back to Pakistan after dumping six packets containing drugs, which were later seized. The NIA is already probing a case in which a tiffin box fitted with an improvised explosive device (IED) had been dropped using a drone in Punjab on August 8, 2021. The box contained five hand grenades, 100 cartridges, an explosive substance weighing over 2 kg, a switch, and a remote control device. In January 2021, the Jammu & Kashmir Police apprehended two persons while they were picking up a consignment of 16 grenades, two AK-74 rifles, nine AK magazines, a pistol and ammunition smuggled in via a drone. In a similar case, the Punjab Police seized 11 grenades in December 2020. Emerging trend Yet another case came to light on June 20, 2020 when the BSF shot down a UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle) carrying an M4 rifle, several grenades and ammunition in the Hira Nagar sector of Jammu. Another consignment of weapons and Rs. 4 lakh in counterfeit currency was earlier dropped in Punjab’s Gurdaspur in the same month. The Punjab Police had, in September 2019, unearthed a pro-Khalistan terror module and seized five AK-47 assault rifles, four pistols, nine grenades, hundreds of live cartridges, magazines, Rs. 10 lakh in counterfeit currency and five satellite handsets that had also been smuggled in using drones. “An emerging trend is that the weapons being dropped in the border areas of Punjab are also being further transported clandestinely to Jammu & Kashmir for terror activities,” said another official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-to-probe-multanis-role-in-drone-based-smuggling/article38090116.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,||Konyak groups in Nagaland slam extension of AFSPA||Konyak Naga organisations have termed the extension of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) in Nagaland less than a month after the Mon massacre as “adding salt to wound”. Soldiers of an elite Army unit on December 4 gunned down 13 civilians in Mon district’s Oting village during a botched operation purportedly against extremists. The district is dominated by the Konyaks, one of the largest Naga tribes. The Ministry of Home Affairs had issued a notification extending the contentious AFSPA for six months from December 30, 2021, by saying the whole of Nagaland was in a “disturbed and dangerous condition” requiring the use of armed forces in the aid of civilians. “The extension of AFSPA in Nagaland is a total violation of human rights. Adding salt to the wound [of the Nagas], the extension is a calculated sign that undermines human dignity and value while the Konyaks are crying for justice,” the Konyak Union, the apex body of the community, said in a statement. Other organisations such as the Konyak Nyupuh Sheko Khong and Konyak Students’ Union slammed the tagging of the State as “disturbed” when its people have totally denounced any form of violence and were yearning for peace. The political parties and other social organisations in Nagaland also criticised the extension of the AFSPA and said they were “aghast” by the Centre’s decision when the scars of the Mon incident were still fresh. The Konyak Union had earlier said it was hurt to see some of the soldiers involved in the December 4 incident accompanying an Army team that visited the site of the ambush on December 29 for a probe. “The public at ground zero has recognised the faces of some of the soldiers who were directly involved in the December 4 incident. The act of bringing along the killers of the incident seems like an intention to hurt those already in grief,” the union said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/konyak-groups-in-nagaland-slam-extension-of-afspa/article38090138.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||Free power is SP’s first poll promise||Making his first major promise ahead of the 2022 Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said if voted to power, his government would provide 300 units of power free of cost to households. Mr. Yadav also promised free power for irrigation to farmers. These two promises would be part of the SP’s poll manifesto, the former U.P. Chief Minister said. “It is said that for the Samajwadi Party, there is no difference between its words and actions. As for the BJP, it is said that the BJP people will speak lies,” Mr. Yadav said at the SP headquarters where he was addressing party workers. Reacting to his promise, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, speaking at a BJP rally, said there was no question of the SP providing free power as its previous government was not even able to provide electricity connections to everyone. “How will you provide free electricity, when you were not able to provide electricity in the first place? Instead, you should apologise to the public for extorting them,” Mr. Adityanath said. Under BJP rule, both the rich and the poor were getting access to electricity, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/free-power-is-sps-first-poll-promise/article38090131.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,||Slain militant suspected to be behind 2019 Pulwama attack||The J&K Police on Saturday said they suspected that one of the three slain militants killed in the Anantnag “encounter” on December 30 could be Samir Dar, a Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) “commander” involved in the 2019 attack that left 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawans dead at Lethpora in Pulwama. “The picture of one of the killed terrorists in the Anantnag encounter matches with JeM top commander Samir Dar, who was the last surviving terrorist involved in the Lethpora terror attack. We are going for DNA sample matching,” Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said. Earlier in 2021, Saifullah, alias Adnan alias Lamboo, became the seventh militant involved in the Pulwama attack to be killed in the dense woods of the Dachigam area near Srinagar during an operation. A total of 19 militants were found to have been involved in the Pulwama attack, which soured relations between India and Pakistan in February 2019 and eventually spurred an air strike inside Pakistan from India. “Of the 19 accused, seven have been arrested and eight killed, if Dar’s identity is established,” Mr. Kumar said. Four absconding accused — Ashik Nengroo, Masood Azhar, Rouf Asgar and Ammar Alvi — are either in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) or Pakistan. Meanwhile, one unidentified militant was killed in an encounter between security forces and militants in the Jumagund area of Kupwara district on Saturday evening. “The operation is still on. The identity and affiliation of the slain militant is being ascertained,” a spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/slain-militant-suspected-to-be-behind-2019-pulwama-attack/article38090529.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,||‘China intimidated by support for Tibet’||China is “intimidated” by the increasing support for the independence of Tibet, the “Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile” has said in response to reports that the Embassy of China in India wrote to MPs who had participated in a December 22 meeting of the All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet. In a statement, the organisation said it “openly welcomes” a negotiation on Tibet’s future with China. “By sending the letters to honourable members of the Indian Parliament, it becomes evident that China is intimidated by the growing support for the Tibet movement around the world,” said the statement issued on Friday. The All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet (APIPFT) was reconstituted during the regime of Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who had been one of the members of the group during the 1970s when it was started by eminent lawyer and former Minister M.C. Chagla. New leadership According to Tibetan sources, the APIPFT was not active after 2011 and was revived in December 2014 under the leadership of former Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Shanta Kumar. As many as 33 MPs were part of the core committee of the APIPFT. The December 22 meeting was convened to frame the path ahead after the retirement of Mr. Kumar, who quit active politics in 2019, and the post of the convener of the forum had become vacant. During the dinner reception, Sujeet Kumar of Biju Janata Dal was unanimously elected as convener of the APIPFT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-intimidated-by-support-for-tibet/article38090137.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||Congress says taxes, inflation a burden||The Narendra Modi government’s New Year gift to the nation is a bouquet of taxes, long before the Union Budget which will be presented on February 1, and unprecedented inflation, the Congress said on Saturday. At a press conference, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala said the inflationary pressure is mounting, wholesale price index (WPI) was 14.23% in November 2021 — highest in the last 10 years — and its impact is likely to be felt more imminently in the New Year. “In the New Year get prepared to spend more on all items be it the daily use items/consumer goods or steel, cement and electrical items or some luxurious item. From buying daily use clothes and footwear to withdrawing our own money from ATMs or using the toll roads, everything is going to be expensive,” he said. The government had approved a proposal to increase the GST from 5% to 12% on apparel costing up to Rs. 1,000. The hike for now has been deferred till February in view of the Assembly elections in five States. “Over 15 lakh jobs in main and ancillary units of the textile industry would be lost,” Mr. Surjewala said. The prices of the fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) will go up by 10%. “The simple fact is that if there is Modi there will always be inflation.” He said only the voters of the five States that are going to the polls can arrest inflation. It was the West Bengal Assembly election results, he said, that forced the government to marginally reduce the fuel prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-says-taxes-inflation-a-burden/article38090120.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||‘Positive steps in 45 days’||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the demand for the withdrawal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act of 1958 would see some positive developments in the next 45 days. Mr. Sarma also hinted at the withdrawal of the AFSPA from Assam. He said the State government would take pragmatic decisions on the Act as the “era of tribal militancy” was over. “The approach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Home Minister Amit Shah is very positive. The formation of the committee with a clear deadline of 45 days regarding the partial or full withdrawal of AFSPA from Nagaland is a very important step,” the Chief Minister told journalists in Guwahati on Saturday. ‘Will have domino effect’ He said the initiative would build confidence and have a domino effect on other issues in Nagaland and elsewhere in the Northeast. Tribal organisations in Nagaland have been angry with the Centre for extending the AFSPA in the State by six months from December 30. They said it was an attempt to “rub salt on the wounds” caused by the botched Army operation that took the lives of 13 civilians in Mon district’s Oting on December 4. The optimism of Mr. Sarma, who has been roped in by the Centre for resolving the crisis arising out of the Oting incident, is expected to assuage tempers in Nagaland. The Chief Minister said the end of tribal insurgency could be a factor in reviewing the AFSPA, while crediting the tribal leaders for the return of peace in Assam. He said, “The tribal people are determined to not allow anyone to indulge in militancy. When civil societies are so firmly with you, I don’t see the eruption of tribal insurgency unless we do some gross injustice to them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/positive-steps-in-45-days/article38090129.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,||Indian and Pak. Armies share New Year goodwill||The Indian and Pakistani armies on Saturday exchanged sweets on the occasion of New Year at the Chilehana-Tithwal crossing point in Kupwara. Srinagar-based Army spokesman Col. Emron Musavi said the Army, as a warm gesture, presented sweets to the Pakistan Army at the crossing point, and extended best wishes for the new year “displaying the will to maintain peace along the Line of Control”. “Over years, India has continuously endeavoured to sweeten and strengthen the bilateral relations with Pakistan through goodwill gestures like this one across the spectrum to ensure peace and tranquillity in the region,” Col. Musavi said. Post the ceasefire agreement in February last year, there has been a prolonged peace along the LoC. “The people have appreciated efforts of the Army in maintaining peace in the villages. These positive endeavours will further the cause towards prolonged peace along the LoC,” Col. Musavi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-and-pak-armies-share-new-year-goodwill/article38090527.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||GST collections slip below Rs. 1.3 lakh crore||This was “despite a 17.5% reduction in the number of e-way bills generated in November” compared with October. In October, 7.4 crore e-way bills were generated, resulting in Rs. 1,31,526 crore in November. While e-way bills fell to Rs. 6.1 crore in November, revenues slipped only by 1.33% month-on-month in December, which the Ministry said was “due to improved tax compliance and better tax administration by both Central and State Tax authorities”. November’s GST revenues were the second highest since the introduction of this indirect tax regime in July 2017. “The average monthly gross GST collection for the third quarter of the current year has been Rs. 1.30 lakh crore against the average monthly collection of Rs. 1.10 lakh crore and Rs. 1.15 lakh crore in the first and second quarters, respectively,” the Ministry said adding that it expects the “positive trend” to continue in the last quarter of 2021-22. “Coupled with economic recovery, anti-evasion activities, especially action against fake billers, have been contributing to the enhanced GST. The improvement in revenue has also been due to various rate rationalisation measures undertaken by the Council to correct inverted duty structure,” the Revenue Department said. M.S. Mani, Deloitte India partner, said the GST revenues were robust despite a reduction in the e-way bill generation possibly due to “higher collections from the services sector accompanied by a continuing focus on implementation of technology based anti-evasion measures”. Domestic transactions While revenues from domestic transactions were up 5% year-on-year in December, there was a significant variation among collections in States, with revenues falling by 4% in Tamil Nadu and by 2% in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. West Bengal and Bihar both saw a 10% decline in revenues, while Uttar Pradesh recorded a marginal 2% rise. Maharashtra, on the other hand, clocked a healthy 11% growth while Karnataka revenues rose 12%. ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar noted that the revenue from the domestic transactions reported a relatively lower growth in December, perhaps owing to the continuing drag imposed by the delayed recovery in contact-intensive services. The overall GST kitty for December, she said, can be attributed both to anti-evasion activities and the sharp growth in revenue from imports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gst-collections-slip-below-rs-13-lakh-crore/article38090126.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:20 IST,||GST billing scam uncovered in Delhi||The GST Department of the Delhi government on Saturday unearthed a Rs. 347 crore fake GST billing scam spread across 11 firms. One person, believed to be among the kingpins, has been arrested, the authorities said. The firms were allegedly engaged in circular trading and issued fake bills to claim fraudulent input tax credit and evade taxes. The firms were allegedly issuing fake or inflated invoices on the supply of goods without actually supplying goods. “This is the first arrest by the Delhi GST Department and we hope that it sends a strong signal to tax evaders,” said Prince Dhawan, Special Commissioner (anti-evasion) of the Delhi GST Department. “The proprietor of Ms. Super Steel India Ltd., Mayank Jain, believed to be one of the kingpins of the scam has been arrested by the department on Saturday, 1st January 2022. He has been remanded to 14 days judicial custody by the judicial magistrate,” an official statement said. Breaking the law It was also discovered that several of these 11 firms belonged to one person and could have been set up for the purpose of creating long tax chains to avoid detection under the tax laws. These firms had issued inflated or fake invoices of Rs. 347 crore, which led to a total tax evasion of close to Rs. 40 crore, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gst-billing-scam-uncovered-in-delhi/article38090148.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||12 dead in Vaishno Devi temple stampede||Mr. Sinha ordered an inquiry into the incident. The inquiry committee will be headed by J&K Principal Secretary- Home. Meanwhile, scores of pilgrims and political activists held protests at Katra and accused the Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board of “mismanagement” and “poor deployment of policemen to regulate pilgrims”. Activists raised slogans against the Shrine Board.  “The Shrine Board allowed more pilgrims than the allotted numbers. If ten persons were to be permitted, around 100 were allowed. This was bound to happen. Moreover, the police resorted to lathi charge,” Ashwani Sharma, who is with the Shiv Sena in Katra town, said.  Union Minister Jitendra Singh, Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), visited the shrine to take stock of the situation. “We are exploring the possible use of technology to avoid such incidents in the future,” Mr. Singh said. Jammu and Kashmir’s regional parties extended condolences to the grieving families. Union Minister Amit Shah and Mr. Sinha also expressed their condolences. “The tragedy due to a stampede at Mata Vaishno Bhawan is heart-wrenching. Anguished by the loss of lives due to it. My condolences to the bereaved families in this sad hour. Praying for the speedy recovery of the injured,” Union Home Minister Amit Shah said in a tweet on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/12-dead-in-vaishno-devi-temple-stampede/article38090125.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||MHA updates list of ‘deemed to cease’ NGOs||The Ministry of Home Affairs has said the NGOs whose request for renewal was turned down will not be eligible to either receive or utilise the foreign contribution in their designated bank accounts. The validity of the registration of those NGOs that were expiring between September 29, 2020-September 30, 2021 was given an extension till December 31, 2021 to apply for a renewal. The registration is a mandatory requirement to receive foreign funds. On Friday, the Ministry extended the validity till March 31 provided the renewal request has not been refused or the NGOs applied within six months of the expiry of their registration and before the December 31 deadline. On Saturday, the updated list of NGOs whose registration “deemed to cease” mentioned the names of 5,933 organisations. Till Friday, the number of active FCRA associations as per the MHA’s website was 22,762 which now stands at 16,829 as 5,933 NGOs cease to operate. The MHA official said the number of NGOs up for renewal during this period stood at 18,778, while only 12,989 had applied. “As many as 5,789 associations did not apply for renewal of their certificates despite numerous reminders. Of the applications received, 179 were refused renewal after a scrutiny by the MHA found them ineligible to receive foreign funds. We are processing the request of other NGOs who have applied and due to the pendency an extension was given till March,” said the official. According to Dhaval Udani, founder of DanaMojo, an online payment platform for NGOs, the number of NGOs whose FCRA “ceased” to operate doubled overnight. “It also does not seem to be a case where the NGOs were informed earlier and site updated now. 30% of the NGOs removed in one shot. No reason given,” Mr. Udani said. Several NGOs could not complete the renewal process due to the pandemic and the amendments to the FCRA Act in 2020 that introduced other stringent compliance measures. Among the changes that were introduced, operationalising a designated FCRA bank account with the SBI’s main branch in Delhi was made compulsory. In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court in November, the MHA said 19,000 NGOs had opened the account with the SBI in New Delhi. The website shows that 14,835 NGOs have filed the annual returns for the financial year 2020-21, another mandatory exercise, failing which a penalty of 5% of the foreign contribution or Rs. 1 lakh fine, whichever is higher is imposed on the NGO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/registration-mandatory-to-receive-foreign-funds/article38090127.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||COVID-19 cases cross 20,000 yet again||The beds included 39,458 oxygen, 26,858 non-oxygen and 8,568 ICU beds. Their respective occupancy rates were 3.5 %, 5.2 % and 4.3 %. The number of Omicron cases in Tamil Nadu jumped from 46 on Thursday to 121 on Saturday. The majority of them were only “mildly symptomatic”. Officials said patients were being taken to hospitals as a precaution and to avoid spread among close contacts. Kerala reported 107 cases of COVID-19 which tested positive for Omicron as on Friday. None of these cases have required oxygen supplementation, ICU admission or ventilator support. Though the cumulative number of Omicron cases has touched 107, no data was forthcoming on how many are in hospitals. But the general hospitalisation trend in the State has been remaining steady. Out of the 18,904 active cases in the State now, only 10.7% are admitted either in hospitals or field hospitals. This percentage has been more or less constant since weeks, officials say. 1,033 cases in Karnataka Karnataka reported 1,033 cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 30,08,370. Bengaluru Urban reported 810 cases and two deaths. Nearly 87% of the 9,386 active cases as of Saturday were under home isolation. Only 49 of the 1,849 govt quota beds were occupied. These numbers do not account for people admitted in the private sector. State Health Commissioner D. Randeep said the situation is under control. Andhra Pradesh recorded 176 more COVID-19 infections, the highest single-day tally in the past 23 days as of Saturday morning with no deaths reported. For the first time since the peak week of the second wave in May, in the weekly comparison, the State reported a 25% rise in the number of infections in the past week (December 26 to January 1) compared to the previous week (December 19-27) with 911 and 727 infections respectively. While 14 persons tested positive for Omicron in Odisha, 6 of them required hospitalisation. According to the Odisha Health department, one person has been discharged. Of the 14 Omicron infected persons, 13 are foreign returnees. There have been eight cases of hospitalisation due to Omicron in the northeast India. Telangana recorded over 300 cases for the second consecutive day even as 12 more Omicron cases came to light on Saturday, taking the tally of the new variant to 79. (With inputs from bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-cases-cross-20000-mark/article38090118.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,||Indian, Chinese troops exchange sweets||India and Chinese troops on Saturday exchanged sweets and greetings at 10 border posts along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) including in eastern Ladakh to mark the New Year, officials said. The gesture by both sides came in the midst of an over 18-month-long standoff between the two sides in several friction points in eastern Ladakh. The border areas in the Ladakh region where the two sides exchanged sweets and greetings are Konkala, Chushul Moldo, Demchok Hot Springs, Daulat Beg Oldi, Bottleneck and KK pass, the officials said. A similar exercise was carried out in Nathula and Kongra La in North Sikkim. The two sides also exchanged sweets and greetings at the Bum La and Wacha Damai border points along the LAC in the Arunachal Pradesh sector, the officials said. Separately, the Indian Army presented sweets to Pakistani troops at the Chilehana-Tithwal Crossing Point in the Tangdhar sector of Jammu and Kashmir to extend best wishes on the New Year. “Over the years, India has continuously endeavoured to sweeten and strengthen the bilateral relations with Pakistan through goodwill gestures like this one across the spectrum to ensure peace and tranquillity in the region,” said an Army official. The eastern Ladakh border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5, 2020, following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas. Both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process last year in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake and in the Gogra area. Each side currently has 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector. The 13th round of Corps Commander-level military talks in October ended in a stalemate with the Indian Army saying that the “constructive suggestions” made by it were not agreeable to the Chinese side. The Defence Ministry on Friday said it held several rounds of military talks with the Chinese side to de-escalate the situation in eastern Ladakh without compromising on its stand of complete disengagement and immediate restoration of status quo ante.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-chinese-troops-exchange-sweets/article38090150.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:18 IST,||WhatsApp banned 1.75 mn accounts||Over 1.75 million Indian accounts were banned by WhatsApp, while 602 grievance reports were received by the messaging platform in November 2021, according to its compliance report. In its latest report, the messaging platform said 17,59,000 Indian accounts were banned on WhatsApp during the period. An Indian account is identified via a +91 phone number, it added. “In accordance with the IT Rules 2021, we have published our sixth monthly report for the month of November. This user-safety report contains details of the user complaints received and the corresponding action taken by WhatsApp, as well as WhatsApp’s own preventive actions to combat abuse on our platform,” a WhatsApp spokesperson said. The spokesperson added that WhatsApp banned over 1.75 million accounts in November. “WhatsApp is an industry leader in preventing abuse, among end-to-end encrypted messaging services. Over the years, we have consistently invested in Artificial Intelligence and other state-of-the-art technology, data scientists and experts, and in processes, in order to keep our users safe on our platform,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/whatsapp-banned-175-mn-accounts/article38090114.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,||India asks Pak. to release fishermen||India on Saturday called on Pakistan to release and repatriate 356 Indian fishermen and two civilian prisoners whose nationality has already been confirmed and conveyed to Pakistani authorities. In addition, Pakistan has been asked to provide immediate consular access to 182 Indian fishermen and 17 civilian prisoners who are in Pakistan’s custody and are believed to be Indian, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said. India made the request in the context of the exchange of the lists of civilian prisoners and fishermen by both the countries as part of a practice to do so on January 1 and July 1 of every calendar year under the framework of a 2008 agreement. The MEA said India handed over a list of 282 Pakistan civilian prisoners and 73 fishermen in India’s custody to Pakistan. Similarly, Pakistan has shared lists of 51 civilian prisoners and 577 fishermen in its custody, who are Indians or are believed to be Indians. It said India has called for early release and repatriation of civilian prisoners, missing Indian defence personnel and fishermen, along with their boats, by Pakistan. “The government also requested Pakistan to expedite the grant of visas to the members of the medical experts’ team and facilitate their visit to Pakistan to assess the mental health condition of believed-to-be Indian prisoners of unsound mind, lodged in different jails of Pakistan,” the MEA said. “It was also proposed to organise an early visit of the Joint Judicial Committee to Pakistan,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-asks-pak-to-release-fishermen/article38090139.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||Haridwar hate speech: two more booked||The Uttarakhand Police on Sunday added the names of two more persons in the FIR pertaining to the religious conclave in Haridwar organised between December 17 and 19, where calls were made for genocide and violence against Muslims. One of the organisers of the event, Yati Narsinghanand, who faces criminal cases in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, was named in the FIR on Saturday. The police also added Section 295A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) to the existing FIR. The section prescribes a maximum of three years’ imprisonment for “deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs”. At the conclave, Mr. Narsinghanand had called on Hindu youth to become “Prabhakaran” or “Bhindranwale” and provoked Hindus to pick up arms against Muslims. Another speaker — Sagar Sindhu Maharaj, whose name was also added in the FIR — had asked Hindus to have more children and spare Muslims only if they converted to Hinduism. No arrests yet None of the five named so far in the case have been arrested yet. Ashok Kumar, Uttarakhand DGP, said the two names had been added after the viral video clips of the event were examined. The Haridwar police on December 23 had registered a case under Section 153A of the IPC. The initial FIR had only named Wasim Rizvi alias Jitendra Narayan Tyagi as an accused. Mr. Rizvi, a former chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board, had recently converted to Hinduism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haridwar-hate-speech-two-more-booked/article38090524.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,||Water trail||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tough-task/article38090143.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||Explosives cache seized in Mizoram||Acting on specific information, the Assam Rifles recovered a huge cache of explosives and war-like stores near the Myanmar border in Mizoram. “The recoveries include 81 kg of liquid explosives, 94 kg of Belox granular explosives, 395 kg of gelatin rods, 356 rounds of 12 gauge 70 mm cartridges, one improvised explosive device mechanism, lead acid batteries, two detonators and other stores including foreign communication equipment,” it said. The operation was carried out by the Lunglei Battalion of Headquarter 23 Sector, Assam Rifles on December 30 at a crossing point near the border in Saiha district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/explosives-cache-seized-in-mizoram/article38090117.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:31 IST,||CM: Governor playing to BJP plan in Punjab||With the Assembly election inching closer, the political temperature is soaring as well, as Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi took a dig at Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Saturday. Mr. Channi accused him of deliberately delaying the clearing of a Bill on regularisation of the services of contractual employees, under political pressure from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). While Mr. Channi criticised the Governor, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) was quick to hit out at the ruling Congress government, saying Mr. Channi had himself “exposed the reality” surrounding the regularisation of 36,000 temporary employees and had accepted the ground reality of his government’s “hollow announcements”. Mr. Channi said that the Governor, the Constitutional head of the State, was certainly functioning under deliberate political pressure of the BJP in the wake of upcoming Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cm-governor-playing-to-bjp-plan-in-punjab/article38090134.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:59 IST,||SI and father killed in road accident||The accident, as reported by officials, took place near Polepally Ramnagar village around 6.20 p.m., when the two were heading to Hyderabad in their three-wheeler and had a head-on collision with a State Road Transport Corporation bus of the Devarakonda depot. The bus, which had originated from Hyderabad, was proceeding towards Devarakonda. Post-wedding rituals The father-son duo were on their way to a temple in the State capital to perform certain post-marriage rituals. It was also learnt that Srinu Naik was manning the steering control at the time of accident, as his father had recently injured his hand. Mr. Naik got married on December 26. He was initially working at the central crime station at Vikarabad and on December 13, he had reported at the town headquarters police. Ten days later, he had proceeded on leave for the marriage. According to preliminary notes made by the police, the auto-rickshaw was out of its margin while the bus was still in its right way. “It is still not clear if the auto-rickshaw driver was trying to overtake or it was because of lighting or traffic issues. There were, however, no indications of alcohol influence,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/si-and-father-killed-in-road-accident/article38090985.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,||VS Pathania takes over as Coast Guard Director General||V.S. Pathania took over as the 24th Director General (DG) of the Indian Coast Guard on December 31 from Krishnaswamy Natarajan who retired from service. “The Flag Officer is an alumni of the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, and the National Defence College, New Delhi. He is a qualified helicopter pilot and holds a Master’s degree in defence and strategic studies from the University of Madras,” the Coast Guard said in a statement. He has undergone specialisation in search and rescue and port operations with U.S. Coast Guard, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vs-pathania-takes-over-as-coast-guard-director-general/article38090145.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,||Bombay HC to have ‘hybrid’ hearings||As Mumbai sees a rise in COVID-19 and Omicron cases, the Bombay High Court has decided to have hybrid hearings from January 4. The court is currently on its winter break and will resume its full schedule on January 4 in the form of virtual and physical hearings. Entry of litigants and lawyers will be restricted. In a meeting presided on December 31 by senior judge Justice A.A. Sayed it was decided that members of the Bar will not come to court unless absolutely required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-to-have-hybrid-hearings/article38090153.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,||Four dead, many feared trapped at mining site in Haryana||At least four people were killed and many feared trapped following a landslip at Dadam mining site in Haryana’s Bhiwani district at around 9 a.m. on Saturday. Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said four people had died and rescue operation was under way. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been sought.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-dead-many-feared-trapped-at-mining-site-in-haryana/article38090154.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lessons from the Tiruvottiyur building collapse||Following the collapse of the building in Tiruvottiyur, activists have demanded an overhaul of the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (the erstwhile Slum Clearance Board-SCB) “tenements’ quality control mechanism and a study of the quality of the old tenements across the State”. Reports also say that the “Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUHDB) on Tuesday constituted five committees, with support from Anna University, to evaluate the quality of its tenements in 62 sites in Chennai that are at least 25 years old. The committees will evaluate and recommend by Friday whether these tenements have to be demolished and reconstructed or not.” Also of concern and importance is the statement of the MD of TNUHDB that buildings in 61 schemes of a total of 123 such schemes in Chennai have already been evaluated. Of the total of 22,271 housing units, 20,453 housing units have been recommended for demolition and reconstruction — i.e. 91% has been found unusable. Who has done this earlier evaluation is not clear as also what were its Terms of Reference. Be that as it may, if the units in the remaining 62 schemes also do not meet standards, then there is the very strong likelihood of another 90% finding itself under the hammer. Who is to bear the cost of this and what will it mean for other welfare schemes? Several SCB tenements built 25 years ago are not more than 4 stories high and are made of Reinforced Cement Concrete (RCC) frame structure design. Basically, if the soil-bearing capacity has been determined, what is important in such structures is the design of foundation, the load-bearing members (columns, beams and slabs) and the quality of RCC work in construction. Structural engineers and concrete experts will attest that good quality RCC framework construction should last for 50-60 years with little maintenance. So why are even 25-year-old buildings now perceived as risks? The following is the sequence of weakening in poor quality RCC frame structures: 1. It commences with improper foundation that results in excessive settlement of the foundation. 2. Such settlements occur within a year of construction and cause cracks in the structure. 3. If cracks happen in RCC load-bearing members (columns, beams and slabs), the steel reinforcement gets exposed to external moisture, causing gradual rusting of the reinforcement and loss of strength of the members. Cracks in non-load-bearing walls do not cause any structural problem. 4. Reinforcement rusting can take place even without settlement cracks if the concrete quality is sub-standard. 5. The failure of the structure happens over a period of time with the weakening of the RCC members progressively reaching the critical slate. Inspection of the existing structure should therefore focus on the inspection of RCC members. Make findings public Accountability and transparency are important to ensure that such incidents do not occur in the future. It is important to put in public domain the findings and evaluation of the five committees (as also the earlier evaluation), especially as most members are engineers from the TNUHDB itself! Any recommendation for demolition should clearly detail the distress noted, causes attributed for the distress and how a final decision was taken that the distress was severe enough to recommend demolition. This will help to determine what has gone wrong and can be used as a guideline for the future. The evaluation should also allow for inputs from practising structural engineers, who are likely to have more experience of sites and repair/rehabilitation of buildings, before commencing any major work. Residents are the best repositories of what happened in the building that has collapsed or those are those slated for demolition. It is important that their narrative is captured in video and form part of the document. Mere technical findings and recommendations alone will not be sufficient to educate the public. Putting the report in public domain will allow citizens and users to be watchdogs in future constructions. The problem with SCB’s tenements is well known. As the price was affordable and the terms were conducive, the SCB was able to market the units easily even when they were located in unsuitable sites and the quality of construction was poor and settlement cracks have often been noticed even before the construction is completed. Demolition and reconstruction is big business for funding agencies, promoters, high-tech equipment owners and those in the construction industry. With monetisation through densification being high in the minds of even government agencies, rebuilding is likely to be multi-storied and high-rise design. Safety and quality are important to the buyer and the beneficiary but high costs towards utilities will impact them adversely. It has often been pointed out that such high-rise constructions are quite unsuitable for the users of such units — especially women, the physically challenged, children and the elderly. Consider rehabilitation There is therefore a need to study the actual condition of the existing buildings and come up with a rational and cost-effective solution. Rehabilitation of these buildings must be considered seriously. Land would be difficult to find near these locations. The users of these buildings would have, in the last twenty-five and more years, grown roots in the place closely linked to their lives and livelihood. Any displacement will seriously impact their lives. Technology in concrete rehabilitation has improved by leaps and bounds and various techniques are available for repair and rehabilitation of concrete structures for failure and defects in concrete. NDT (Non Destructive Testing) of concrete structures will give a clear indication of its capability for rehabilitation. It may also be borne in mind that construction debris (in the present way of doing things) will end up as landfill and, along with materials for new construction, may not be the best environmental solution. For the future, a couple of recommendations may be considered — An external quality control mechanism during construction should be in place. Recording of visual inspection of each building periodically by PWD (since it belongs to the government) and interaction with residents must be uploaded on the TNUHDB website. Finally, the role of a former local councillor has come in for praise for averting what could have been an even more serious tragedy. In our scheme of governance, the local councillor is often the link and interface for citizens with government departments. The Tamil Nadu government should hold urban body elections immediately in the State.  ( Tara Murali is an architect )   Structural engineers will attest that good quality RCC framework construction should last for 50-60 years with little maintenance. So why are even 25-year-old buildings now perceived as risks?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lessons-from-the-tiruvottiyur-building-collapse/article38090621.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases rise to 1,489 in T.N.||The number of people testing positive for COVID-19 rose to 1,489 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. At least 60% of the fresh cases was reported in Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur. Another person, who was not linked to international travellers, tested positive for the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 121. From 1.1% on Friday, the State’s overall positivity rate rose to 1.4% on Saturday. With daily infections continuing to rise, Chennai topped the table with 682 cases, accounting for 45% of the fresh cases reported in the State. The city had recorded 589 cases on the previous day. The surge in cases continued in Chengalpattu too, as it recorded 168 cases, while Tiruvallur reported 70 cases. There were 75 cases in Coimbatore and 44 in Tiruppur. Vellore recorded a small rise in cases as 39 people tested positive for the infection. Thoothukudi recorded 36 cases, while Erode and Kancheepuram logged 35 cases each. While Mayiladuthurai saw no fresh case of COVID-19, there were fewer than 10 cases each in 16 districts. A total of 19 travellers from abroad and other States tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. They included four travellers from the UAE and six from Bangladesh. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 27,49,534. Another eight persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 36,784. Vellore reported two deaths, while Chennai, Coimbatore, Krishnagiri, Tiruvallur, Tiruvarur and Tiruppur recorded one death each. The number of patients under treatment for COVID-19 rose to 8,340. Chennai had the highest number of active cases, at 2,920. Another 611 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total number of recoveries so far to 27,04,410. According to the Health Department’s bulletin, out of the two samples sent for whole genomic sequencing that were pending validation, one was identified as the Omicron variant and the other as the Delta variant. Of the 121 cases of the Omicron variant, 91, including 70 in Chennai, were discharged. Out of the 27 persons in hospital presently, Chennai had the most number of active cases, at 22. Three cases were cross-notified to Kerala, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh. The State tested 1,03,607 samples, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 5,75,47,850.  With daily infections continuing to rise, Chennai topped the table with 682 cases, accounting for 45% of the fresh cases reported in the State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-rise-to-1489-in-tn/article38090616.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||33 lakh children aged 15-18 eligible for COVID-19 vaccine||A total of 33,46,000 children aged 15-18 are eligible for vaccination against COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will inaugurate the exercise on January 3 at the Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Porur. Of the total, Chennai accounts for 3,19,400 children, followed by Coimbatore with 1,61,300 children and Madurai with 1,41,300. The Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine has issued guidelines. All those aged 15 or above can register themselves on the Co-WIN 2.0 portal. Only Covaxin will be administered as it is the only vaccine with Emergency Use Listing for this age group and it has been recommended by the COVID-19 Working Group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation. Beneficiaries can self-register online through an existing account or by creating a new account with a unique mobile number. The online registration will be available from January 1. Beneficiaries can also get themselves registered at walk-in centres where inoculation will, however, depend on the availability of slots. The Directorate has asked district officials to identify dedicated sites — COVID-19 Vaccination Centres — for this age group. There should be no mixing of vaccines; so, preferably separate sites should be identified. Separate queues with prominent signage must be in place, and a separate vaccination team must be drafted if adult vaccination is going on. All Deputy Directors of Health Services have been told to instruct block-level medical officers to list the number of government, aided, private and CBSE schools; the number of school children born in 2007 or before; the number of non-school children born in 2007 or before; and the number of Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram and Mobile Medical Unit vehicles available. They should cover all children from January 3 to 8. Children not going to school or dropouts should also be listed. The Directorate has asked the Commissioner of School Education to give a list of children studying at government, aided, private and CBSE schools who were born in 2007 or before and instruct schools to earmark enough space for vaccination and managing adverse events, if any. It has asked the Deputy Directors of Health Services and corporation/municipal health officers to coordinate with district school officials and the Social Welfare Department to ensure 100% coverage.  Beneficiaries can self-register online through an existing account or by creating a new account with a unique mobile number||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/33-lakh-children-aged-15-18-eligible-for-covid-19-vaccine/article38090623.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Isai, Iyal Nataka Vizha commences||The art forms in India, music and dance, should be preserved and taken forward to the coming generations, Justice V. Ramasubramaniam, Judge, Supreme Court, said here on Saturday.  Justice Ramasubramaniam was speaking at the inauguration of the 42nd Isai, Iyal, Nataka Vizha and the 32nd Bharatham Festival organised by the Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha.  Cultural heritage He said the country has rich cultural heritage and it was important to hold such festivals. He drew parallels between music concerts and courtroom proceedings.  “We can view everything with some humour in life. For instance, even court proceedings can be seen with musical perspective. Some talented lawyers argue a case very efficiently and finish it soon, we will call that a Thukkada . Some are verbose and I would call them Amrithavarshni ragam,” he said.  S. Rengarajan, general manager of Bank of Baroda, said: “They would have faced several challenges in the last 75 years yet they continue to organise this festival. Not only are these festivals a visual delight, but more importantly they provide a spiritual connect for the audience.” Deccan N. Krishnamoorthy, president of Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha, spoke. There was a performance by Sridevi Nrithyalaya.  While the Isai, Iyal, Nataka Vizha will be held from January 1 to 22, the Bharatham Festival will have performances from January 2 to 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/42nd-isai-iyal-and-nataka-vizha-kicks-off/article38090629.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Governor inaugurates Mega Isai Vizha||Governor R.N. Ravi inaugurated the Mega Isai Vizha (Season-5) organised by Tamil Cultural Academy at Narada Gana Sabha here on Saturday. Speaking at the event, he emphasised the significance of India’s culture in defining the country and said the beauty of the culture lay in the fact that it was rooted in spirituality. The National Educational Policy gave importance to preserving and promoting art and culture, which was essential to build a self-reliant India rooted in self-esteem. He reiterated the need to have more cultural universities and academies, according to a press release. The British could not succeed in their effort to destroy the culture as it was deep-rooted with spirituality in the country. The Governor gave away awards to various artistes and dancers who performed in the function. Musician Aruna Sairam and Jaganathan Arokiaraj, president and secretary respectively of Tamil Cultural Academy, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-inaugurates-mega-isai-vizha/article38090627.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Swetha’s killer should get exemplary punishment’||Parents of Swetha, the 20-year-old woman from Chromepet who was stabbed to death by her stalker near Tambaram railway station three months ago, are still fighting for justice. They want the case to be expedited and exemplary punishment handed to their daughter’s killer at the earliest. Around 1.30 p.m. on September 23, last year, Swetha was stabbed repeatedly by a man near Railway Colony in East Tambaram. As she lay in a pool of blood, the man attempted to slit his own throat, but was caught by autorickshaw drivers. On receiving a call from their daughter’s friend Sangeetha who had been with her, Mathiyazhalagan, 58, a driver with MTC and his wife, Chitra, 50, rushed from their house in Bharthipuram, Chromepet. They were shocked to learn about their daughter’s death. Swetha was doing diploma in Medical Laboratory Technology at the Madras Christian College. The assailant, identified as Ramu alias Ramachandran, 24, a native of Tirukkuvalai in Nagapattinam district, had been stalking her for two years. He was working at a private unit in Maraimalai Nagar. According to the FIR filed by the Selaiyur police based on the testimony of Ms. Sangeetha, Ramachandran had called Swetha to Railway Colony Road and she went along. When both were talking, Ramachandran all of a sudden stabbed her indiscriminately with a knife. The woman’s parents have since knocked several doors seeking justice. Ms. Chitra said: “My daughter was everything for us... We are struggling a lot after her death. My husband has not been going to work regularly. We petitioned the DGP a few days ago stating that the accused should be given punishment that would deter any one else from committing such a crime in future, ” said Ms. Chitra. Vijayakumar, who helps the family in its legal fight, said: “The police have filed the chargesheet in the judicial magistrate court.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swethas-killer-should-get-exemplary-punishment/article38090608.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Singara Chennai 2.0 Veedhi Vizha’ launched||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Saturday launched Singara Chennai 2.0 Veedhi Vizha, a cycling and walking initiative for residents. The festival will continue till January 26. As part of the festival, the Corporation has invited residents to take up the walking and cycling challenge this year. Nalamigu Chennai is one of the main themes of the Singara Chennai vision. To celebrate 75 years of Independence, the government has already encouraged line agencies to organise various events that would also motivate people towards a healthy lifestyle. Owing to COVID-19, major crowding for events is not likely to be permitted. But residents have been encouraged to use the app to promote cycling and walking. The initiative is also part of the walking and cycling challenge among 75 cities in the country. “The number of registrations in Chennai has crossed 1,000 because of the participation of cycling clubs,” said an official. Chennai has registered the largest number of participants in the country so far. Cities such as Bengaluru are far behind, with just 219 registrations. For participation, Chennai residents are requested to download and install the Strava app from Google Play store and register with ‘All for Sports’. When participants record their activity on Strava app, it will automatically be tracked as part of the challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/singara-chennai-20-veedhi-vizha-launched/article38090597.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Liquor sales see dip on New Year’s eve||Liquor sales on New Year’s eve was down by Rs. 12 crore in the State when compared to the same day in December 2020. Data provided by a source in the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) shows that liquor worth Rs. 147.69 crore was sold on December 31, 2021. The numbers stood at Rs. 160 crore in 2020 and Rs. 150 crore in 2019. The restrictions on holding New Year celebrations due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the heavy rain were the key reasons for the fall in sales, according to a source in Tasmac. On an average, Tasmac, the cash cow of the Tamil Nadu government, sells liquor worth over Rs. 130 crore to Rs. 140 crore a day through its 5,300-odd shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-sales-see-dip-on-new-years-eve/article38090612.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vadivelu discharged from hospital||Actor Vadivelu, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19, was discharged from the Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre (SRMC) Hospital, Porur, on Saturday. In a press release issued here, Suhas Prabhakar, Medical Director of the hospital, said the actor, having recovered completely, was discharged in good health. His stay in the hospital was good.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vadivelu-discharged-from-hospital/article38090604.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘MDMK alone cannot decide on protests against Modi’||MDMK general secretary Vaiko on Saturday said his party could not take a decision on organising protests against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Tamil Nadu since it was part of an alliance. Asked whether his party was planning any protests as in the past black flags were shown to Mr. Modi, he said it was for the alliance partners of the secular progressive alliance led by the DMK to decide. “We could do it in the past when we were alone and not part of any alliance,” he clarified. Mr. Modi is expected to participate in the Pongal celebrations in Madurai on January 12. Asked if the DMK was under compulsion to dilute its position against the BJP after it came to power, he said, “The DMK is courageously facing the Centre by offering good governance.” Mr. Vaiko alleged that the BJP government at the Centre was victimising Tamil Nadu on all issues, ranging from NEET to the release of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. “I am among those who signed a petition seeking exemption for Tamil Nadu from NEET. But Home Minister Amit Shah refused to meet the delegation from Tamil Nadu,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mdmk-alone-cannot-decide-on-protests-against-modi-vaiko/article38090618.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Upgrade Met Dept. capacity, appeals Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday requested Union Home Minister Amit Shah to enhance the capacity of the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Chennai, to enable it to make predictions of high alert situations earlier and notify the same to the State government well in time. In a letter to Mr. Shah, the Chief Minister pointed out the shortcoming in the capability of the RMC to provide accurate real time rainfall forecast on Thursday. It often prevented the State and district administration from taking up timely mobilisation of emergency management system. “This results in total disruption of normal life, movement of health care support systems and also causes loss of lives and damage to critical infrastructure,” he said. He said the recent instances point to the need for making additional investments in advanced weather prediction mechanism and upgradation of technology being used by the Met department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/upgrade-met-dept-capacity-appeals-stalin/article38090721.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Assembly session at Kalaivanar Arangam||The address of the Tamil Nadu Governor to the State Assembly will be delivered at the Kalaivanar Arangam instead of the Assembly chamber at the Secretariat, a press release from the Raj Bhavan said. The Assembly session, which begins on January 5, was earlier scheduled to be held at the Assembly chamber. In view of the spike in cases of COVID-19 caused by the Omicron variant, Governor R.N. Ravi announced the change of venue. The session will be held at the multi-purpose hall at Kalaivanar Arangam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assembly-session-at-kalaivanar-arangam/article38090617.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for sexual harassment||A 25-year-old youth was arrested on Saturday on charges of sexually harassing a 15-year-old girl and hurling a stone at her in Kundrathur police station limits. The police said Bala alias Balachandran, 25, was a painter by profession. He was stalking the 15-year-old girl, a student of Class X. He touched the girl in an inappropriate manner. When she ran away from him, the accused threw a stone at her. She was injured and he fled the spot. He threatened to kill her if she informed anyone about it. Based on a complaint from the girl’s parents, the police arrested Bala alias Balachandran under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO)Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-sexual-harassment/article38090600.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pawn broker booked||A case has been filed against a pawn broker who took away jewellery that were pledged with him in Uthukottai police station limits. The name of the accused was given as A. Manik Chand. A complaint was filed by Girija who took a loan from him by pledging her jewellery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pawn-broker-booked/article38090611.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs seek government help||Micro, small and medium enterprises have been hit hard by the high raw material cost. They have sought the government’s help to resolve their issues, including funding. A.N. Gireeshan, president, the Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association, said these units had got over the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and guestworkers had returned from Bihar and Odisha. But the higher raw material cost, a global phenomenon, was hurting them. “The cost of copper, aluminium and other raw materials has gone up 40%-100%. But original equipment manufacturers are not allowing a commensurate increase in prices,” he said. Mr. Gireeshan also called for proactive measures from the government. He pointed out the Tamil Nadu government promptly intervened in the labour issue at Foxconn and said the States Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu was constructing hostels at a cost of Rs. 570 crore at Vallam Vadagal in Sriperumbudur. “We welcome the move. But we have been demanding such a facility for our cluster for long. But nothing has come through,” he said. M.V. Ramesh Babu, president, Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, said the second wave of COVID-19 had resulted in hardships for the small and medium units. “There is a slowdown in the market and a fall in demand. Almost 40% of the MSMEs in Coimbatore are vendors to larger units and these are the worst hit. Be it pump, wet grinder or casting manufacturers, there is a fall in demand. The industry needs funds to revive,” he said. Lack of adequate bank support, non-availability of funds, a steep hike in raw material prices and the slowdown in market are crippling the industry. Workers who went home during the second wave are returning now, Mr. Babu said. “The Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme did not support the MSMEs much. We have appealed to the government for a series of measures. The government should convert the working capital to term loans and give five years to repay the loans,” he added. Srivats Ram, president of the Madras Chamber of Commerce and Industry, pitched for exclusions in the RBI circular that states that non-banking finance companies can upgrade their loan accounts to standard from the non-performing asset only if all the arrears of interest and principal are paid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msmes-seek-government-help/article38090605.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Recovery with headwinds||Industries in Tamil Nadu have seen a recovery in demand, after two waves of the COVID-19 pandemic, but a higher raw material cost is a spoilsport across sectors. The automobile sector, which faced a semiconductor shortage, expects things to ease in 2022, but the other sectors expect the cost inflation to continue longer. Tamil Nadu has the highest number of factories (38,131) in India, and industrial recovery is essential for the State’s economic growth. High disruptions “The first wave saw a nationwide lockdown that restricted the operations of the manufacturing companies and it was followed by the migration of guest-workers back to their native places. The infections were less than in the second wave but the disruptions to business were high,” said Srivats Ram, managing director, Wheels India Ltd., an auto-component company. In the second wave, while the disruptions to overall manufacturing were less, the infections were more. However, the bounce-back was swifter than the first wave, he pointed out. “The challenges that remain are supply chain-based, more related to semi-conductors for the automotive industry, both in India and overseas. Barring this supply-chain constraint, there is possibly an adequate pent-up demand for a reasonable growth once the constraints have been overcome,” Mr. Ram said. The situation, according to him, is likely to ease from the second half of the financial year 2022-23, and the general feeling is “worst is over”. A spokesperson of Hyundai Motor India Limited said that despite the challenges posed by the pandemic and the global semi-conductor supply constraint, the Indian automotive industry had consistently contributed to the positive growth of the economy. “At present, the automobile sector has been witnessing multiple changes. While the Indian government has announced schemes to boost the sector such as the production-linked incentive and the scrappage policy, we are cautiously optimistic,” he said. Pointing to the shift towards electric vehicles, the spokesperson said Hyundai was gearing up for the game by lining up 6 battery electric vehicles (BEV) for the Indian market by 2028. Hyundai Motor India will invest approximately Rs. 4,000 crore in research and development for the expansion of 6 BEVs till 2028. “Our focus is on devoting resources to the development of MECA, which is mobility, electric, connected and autonomous technologies. Our goal is to provide the widest possible variety of smart-cars that can connect people seamlessly with their homes and offices, as well as with urban infrastructure,” the spokesperson said. A spokesperson from TVS Motor Company, a two-wheeler manufacturer, said the company had consistently prioritised the safety and well-being of its workers even while ensuring business continuity. “The long-term practice of physical distancing is pivoting consumer preferences towards personal and safe mobility. Young and tech-savvy consumers are driving the need for aspirational offerings in the industry and the company has launched premium products this year,” the spokesperson said. The spokesperson added that for the two-wheeler industry, three things held the key — sustainable mobility, connectivity and customer delight. “While these do not seem to be new, their interpretation has evolved.” Tamil Nadu has been at the forefront of attracting investments in the electric vehicles space. According to a report by Colliers, India will see a total investment of Rs. 94,000 crore ($12.6 billion) in the next five years in the electric vehicle space, and Tamil Nadu will account for the highest share of 34%. The Tiruppur garment export industry, 90% of which is micro, small and medium enterprises, has shown that it can survive the challenges that came with the spread of the second wave of COVID-19 earlier this year, said Raja Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association. The Tiruppur garment industry is looking at closing the current financial year with exports worth Rs. 33,000 crore as against Rs. 24,000 crore last fiscal. “We have sustained business though the volume of exports did not grow much,” he said. He pointed out that the lockdown to curb the second wave of COVID-19 came just when the industry was in a revival mode. “The fear factor was high among members of the public during the second wave and the rate of vaccination increased. In Tiruppur, over 90% of the workers are vaccinated, many taking both doses. This is an achievement for the industry, with the support of the State and Central governments,” he said. Mr. Shanmugham pointed out that during the first wave of the pandemic, the production of personal protective equipment and masks shot up, while after the second wave business was back to the export of regular garments. “Workers have also stayed back, and are more aware of the risks of COVID-19. So, the industry is more confident and reckons that even if there is a third wave, the impact is likely to be minimal.” The impact of the increase in the Omicron cases in European countries will be felt only in the last quarter of the current fiscal. As in the case of the other sectors, input cost increase is hitting the industry. “Across the value chain, input costs are up 40%-50%. The industry is struggling to manage this situation. While the government ensured liquidity of funds after the first wave with schemes like Emergency Credit Link Guarantee Scheme, it should support the industry now,” Mr. Shanmugham said. Vidyuth Venkatesh Rajagopal, managing director of the Chennai-based garments exporter Celebrity Fashions, said that when the lockdown was imposed during the first wave, the company’s priority was to conserve cash flows and protect its 3,000 employees. “We reached an agreement with our workforce for a 50% cut in wages when an intense lockdown was imposed during March-April 2020. As things opened up, we restored the salaries and went aggressively to acquire customers in the international markets.” However, higher cotton prices have been a dampener, and the situation is likely to persist for another year. “While the demand has come back strongly, how we negotiate the raw material cost issues would be the key,” Mr. Rajagopal said. The residential segment of the real estate industry has seen a recovery, helped by the pent-up demand for housing and attractive interest rates for loans. Suresh Krishn, president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India, Tamil Nadu, said the industry was hit by the increase in cement and steel prices, and M-sand shortage. Munuswamy Anandan, chairman and managing director, Aptus Value Housing Finance India, said interest rates were likely to increase soon owing to inflationary pressures. “We see the industry having largely recovered from the shocks of supply chain disruption and health scare. Sectors such as electronic manufacturing, information technology and retail have recovered well; sectors like automotives and auto-components haven’t fully recovered. We think this is the new normal that we have to live with,” said Aditya Mishra, chief executive of recruitment firm CIEL HR Services. Under control The Omicron variant has so far been under control. And India’s decision to start vaccination of children will help to build immunity. Thus, the optimism and the consumer sentiments have remained stable, contributing to the stability in the demand, he said. Indicators such as GST collections, power demand, and employment scenario show the recovery is real. But there are some challenges. According to data from Central Electricity Authority, Tamil Nadu’s power demand increased 9.2% to 73,226 million units in April-November 2021, compared with 67,015 million units last year. As per the net enrolment figures of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation, about 7.55 lakh jobs were added in Tamil Nadu’s formal sector from April to October 2021. About 6.64 lakh jobs were added in 2020-21 and 8 lakhs in 2019-20. However, the data are subject to constant revisions. There are huge variations between months. For instance, the data showed about 55,000 jobs were added in June 2021. The additions have averaged out at 13,000-15,000 between July and October. Kavita Chacko, senior economist, CareEdge, pointed out that the demand for employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme in Tamil Nadu has been 7% higher so far this financial year. “The increased demand indicates lower employment opportunities elsewhere.” For industries to recover fully, cost pressures have to ease. Also, any negative impact from the spread of the Omicron variant would stall the recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recovery-with-headwinds/article38090606.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘MPs must work unitely to improve rail link between western and southern T.N.’||Coimbatore Development Council has mooted a proposal to form a joint committee of MPs from western and southern Tamil Nadu to restore train services between the regions. J. Sathish, convenor of the council, reiterated the need for the joint committee to pressurise the Chairman of Railway Board and the Ministry of Railways to restore the rail connectivity. Lobbying group Coimbatore Development Council is a body of individuals from various associations and will act as a lobbying group for infrastructure needs. With the support of Kongu Global Forum and Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the council convened a meeting in September 2021 seeking petitions on the infrastructure needs, Mr. Sathish said. “We are in the process of collecting petitions and consolidating them. The process of writing to the MPs has begun. The council will shortly get in touch with the MPs and bring them under one umbrella,” Mr. Sathish said. “A joint committee of 15 MPs is a must, as petitions to the Divisional Railway Manager and the General Managers finally await a nod from the Railway Board,” he said. The MPs of Coimbatore, the Nilgiris, Pollachi, Tiruppur, Erode, Namakkal, Karur, Dindigul, Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha constituencies would be approached for the joint committee, he said. “It is regrettable that the train connectivity from the western districts to southern Tamil Nadu is very poor. There were eight trains daily from Coimbatore to Madurai, Rameswaram, Thoothukudi, Tiruchendur, Nagercoil, and a few other places via Pollachi earlier and they were stopped due to gauge conversion in this section a decade ago. After spending Rs. 300 crore on gauge conversion works, the Southern Railway, particularly Palakkad Railway Division, was not keen on restoring the trains. All the eight train services must be restored in this sector,” he added. The 23-km-long railway line from Kinathukadavu to Pollachi should be reconstituted in Salem Division from Palakkad Division for more operational benefits, he said. Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan said that if the issue was brought to his notice, he would certainly do the needful. Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan said given the Centre’s approach towards the needs of Tamil Nadu, he was apprehensive of the outcome. However, he said that he was in favour of the proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/joint-committee-of-mps-sought-to-improve-rail-connectivity/article38090633.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 care centres to be revived in Coimbatore||Following the first case of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 in Coimbatore district, Collector G.S. Sameeran said that all COVID-19 care centres (CCC) will be revived in the district as part of the ramping up of precautionary measures.  Speaking to The Hindu on Saturday, he said that the district administration had written to the 12 CCCs that functioned in the district during the second wave of infections in 2021 at locations such as Codissia Trade Fair Complex and private colleges to keep the beds prepared at the earliest. “In the next one month, we might be requiring it at any time,” he said.  According to the Health Department, 3,884 beds were earmarked for CCCs to treat asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms that does not require hospitalisation. All these beds were vacant as of Saturday. Mr. Sameeran said that the two major government hospitals for COVID-19 treatment- Coimbatore Medical Centre Hospital and Government Medical College and ESI Hospital- have also been asked to make necessary arrangements in anticipation of a surge in cases due to the Omicron variant. The availability of medical oxygen in Coimbatore district has been found to be “adequate” at present, he said. Surveillance in the inter-State and inter-district check-posts will be intensified and only those with either vaccine certificates for both the doses or negative RT-PCR test certificate will be allowed for travel, he said. International travellers arriving at the Coimbatore International Airport will be strictly monitored by the Health Department. On Friday, a 69-year-old man who had returned from the United Kingdom, was confirmed to be the first COVID-19 patient to have been infected by the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2. As of Saturday, the swab samples of six international travellers have been sent from Coimbatore district to the State Public Health Laboratory in Chennai for whole genomic sequencing, out of which one has turned out to be positive for the Omicron variant, Mr. Sameeran said. “There is nothing to panic but we should be careful,” the Collector said. Coimbatore district has recorded coverage of 75.71% for the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine and the first dose coverage was around 94.97% as of Saturday. The district ranks second in the State in terms of vaccine coverage, he noted. Arrangements for vaccination of teenagers aged 15 to 17 years, who will be eligible for vaccination from Monday, are under way in the district, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-care-centres-to-be-revived-in-coimbatore-district/article38090643.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Velan Thiruvizha from January 7 to 9||The annual Velan Thiruvizha organised by Shri Sakthi Institute of Engineering and Technology will be held from January 7 to 9.  According to a release, the function begins with the gomatha puja on January 7 at 4.30 p.m. The inaugural function will be held on on January 8 at 9 a.m. Karthikeya Sivasenpathy, Managing Trustee of Senaapathy Kangeyam Cattle Research Foundation, will be the chief guest. Around 65 stalls related to agriculture products will be on display.  Rural artists from Thanjavur will present various folk dances and concerts that include oyilattam, mayilattam and poikalkuthirai will be held on the college premises.  Cattle exhibition will start at 6 a.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/velan-thiruvizha-from-january-7-to-9/article38090649.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||RSS members booked for unlawful assembly outside school||The city police registered cases against five persons, including three members of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) following a scuffle between them and the police officers outside a private school in Vilankurichi, where the RSS had organised an orientation programme, on Friday. According to the police, the five accused were identified as RSS’s district secretary Murugan, two RSS functionaries Arun and Karuppasamy, a BJP member Kalidass and Hindu Munnani’s Coimbatore north district secretary Govindan. No arrests were made as of Saturday. On Friday, 19 members of the Naam Tamilar Katchi staged a demonstration outside the school condemning the RSS for conducting its event on the school premises. The police said that security was beefed up in the area as members of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam and other organisations also staged a similar demonstration outside the school on Thursday. The five accused were engaged in an arguement with the police. Deputy Commissioner of Police T. Jayachandran, who visited the spot, asked the RSS members to go inside the school to ensure law and order. However, they refused and allegedly prevented the police from discharging their duties. A senior officer on Saturday denied media reports stating that Mr. Jayachandran was denied entry into the school by the members of RSS and other organisations. “He was not trying to enter the school. He was only asking them to get inside the school, ” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-book-rss-members-for-unlawful-assembly/article38090641.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||NTC workers to stage protest on January 5||Trade union members will stage a protest here on January 5 demanding payment of wage arrears and bonus to workers of National Textile Corporation (NTC) mills and to reopen the units. Hind Mazdoor Sabha leader T.S. Rajamani said a meeting of the Save NTC Movement will be held here on January 4, in which trade union leaders from other States will take part. As many as 25,000 workers are employed at the 23 mills in the country and almost 15,000 are permanent workers. Since the lockdown last year, the mills remain shut and the workers were getting 50% wages. However, wages for two months and bonus are pending now. “We hear that the government plans to go for conversion where it will give orders to private mills for value addition. This may not work out. The livelihood of almost 25,000 workers is at stake. The government can modernise and revive all the 23 mills if it uses the funds pending from other departments and State governments and the amount realised through land sale,” he said. The Central Government should look at reviving the NTC mills rather than closing them down. The situation is quite bad and the unions will decide on the future course of action at the January 4 meeting, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ntc-workers-to-stage-protest-on-january-5/article38090639.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:36 IST,TAMIL NADU||Food Secretary hails efforts of NGO||Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey appreciated the efforts of No Food Waste, an NGO, in distributing surplus food to the needy during his visit to Coimbatore on Saturday. A press release from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) said that District Collector G.S. Sameeran, who accompanied Mr. Pandey, apprised him regarding the works carried out by No Food Waste, which was recently granted the Special Consultative Status by the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. Appreciating the NGO’s founder Padmanaban Gopalan, the Union Food Secretary “expressed his desire to share this initiative at the national level,” the release said. A meeting will be scheduled to take this initiative to other States once a mobile application is developed for the NGO, according to the release. During his visit, Mr. Pandey inspected FCI’s godown in Peelamedu and checked the quality of food grains (rice and wheat) that was meant to be distributed under the welfare schemes of the Union government. He also inspected a public distribution system outlet at Peelamedu and the Chinthamani Co-Operative Super Market at R.S. Puram. He “impressed upon the need for optimum utilisation of the assets of FCI under Asset Monetisation Scheme” and advised the District Collector to organise an awareness campaign on the ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ scheme in Coimbatore district, the release said. Along with Mr. Sameeran, FCI officials namely Chief General Manager (South Zone) Sanjeev Gautam, General Manager (Tamil Nadu) P.N. Singh and Divisional Manager (Coimbatore) N. Rajesh were present during the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngo-hailed-for-distributing-surplus-food-to-the-needy/article38090632.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man booked for raping minor||The Anamalai police on Saturday booked a 23-year-old man on charges of raping a 16-year-old minor girl near Anamalai in Coimbatore district. Police said that the accused was a driver and was allegedly in a relationship with the victim, who was a Class XI student. During a recent medical check-up, the girl was found to be three months pregnant. Based on a complaint from the girl’s parents, the Anamalai police booked the accused. Efforts are on to arrest the accused, according to the sources. Idol found damaged An idol of Lord Krishna was found damaged at Bharathi Park in Saibaba Colony on Saturday morning. Coimbatore South MLA Vanathi Srinivasan, who visited the spot, urged the police to arrest those who had damaged the idol at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-booked-for-raping-minor/article38090646.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two FPOs launched||Isha Outreach launched two Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) at Anamalai and Kinathukadavu recently. Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram inaugurated the organisations. Pollachi Sub-Collector Thakare Shubham Dnyandeorao was present at the inaugural event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-fpos-launched/article38090650.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Panel suggests mobile fair price shops in tribal settlement||The Tamil Nadu Assembly Public Accounts Committee has suggested distribution of essential commodities through mobile fair price shops to people in tribal settlement. It has also suggested adequate measures be put in place to protect people from wildlife animal attack, Chairman K. Selvaperunthagai said here recently after holding a review meeting at the collectorate. The suggestion to deploy mobile fair price shop was specific to Singupathi, he said. As for protection of people from wild animal attack, the Committee wanted to the administration to ply more buses to ensure safety of tribal people, particularly students. It also asked the administration to look into the problems faced by tribal people in constructing houses, he said and added that it asked the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University to take steps to fill up posts of technicians. The committee comprising MLAs P.R.G. Arunkumar, S. Gandhirajan, C. Saraswathy, M. Sinthanai Selvan, Y. Prakash, Poondi K. Kalaivanan, M. Rajamuthu, T. Velmurugan and M.H. Jawahirullah, and Members of Parliament from the district toured Thondamuthur, Madhvarayapuram, Sengupathi, Periyanaickenpalayam, Somayampalayam, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and a few other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-suggests-mobile-fair-price-shops-in-tribal-settlement/article38090651.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 75 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 75 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The Health Department reported one new death and the toll increased to 2,516. As many as 91 persons recovered on Saturday and the district had 889 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 44 new cases on Saturday. The district had 429 active cases and 38 persons recovered. The Health Department reported one new death and the toll increased to 1,027. The Nilgiris district reported four new cases. The death toll of the district remained at 219 as the Health Department did not report any new deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-75-new-covid-19-cases/article38090647.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Vizha postponed||The Coimbatore Vizha scheduled to be held here from January 2 to 9, has been postponed. According to the organisers, the decision to postpone was taken following the government issuing new guidelines to control the spread of COVID-19 in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-vizha-postponed/article38090640.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||Meendum Manjappai campaign inaugurated in Hogenakkal||Collector S. Dhivyadarshini inaugurated the Meendum Manjappai campaign at Hogenakkal here on Saturday.  She said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had allocated Rs. 10 crore for tourism development in Hogenakkal. To take the mission forward, there was a need to make Hogenakkal sustainable by making it free of plastics. Strengthening tourism ought not damage the ecology of Hogenakkal and the way forward was to move to sustainable practices. According to the Collector, the traditional cloth bag had a connect with the lifestyle in the past until the plastic covers took over. Calling for shunning of plastics altogether, the Collector called for an aggressive push to using cloth bags. Use of plastic choked waterways and polluted the environment, refusing to degrade for centuries. This in turn impacted the other species that shared the ecosystem, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meendum-manjappai-campaign-inaugurated-in-hogenakkal/article38090745.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Girl death case: 3 teachers shunted||The School Education Department has transferred three teachers, including the Headmaster of the Panchayat Union School at Pachalur, near Kodaikanal, where a 12-year-old girl student was found with burns and, subsequently, died in December. The girl student, who was studying in fifth standard, died under mysterious circumstances, according to the family members. Though the police registered cases and assured to book the suspects, Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu directed the CB-CID police to take up the investigation last week. CB-CID probe under way Even as a special team of CB-CID arrived at Pachalur three days ago and began its probe, in a new development, the Education Department shifted three teachers of the panchayat union school to three different schools in upper Kodaikanal hills. Meanwhile, a reliable source said the three teachers were being quizzed by the CB-CID police team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-death-case-three-teachers-of-school-shunted/article38090722.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:36 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea for release of Veerappan’s brother, two associates||Human rights activists and tribal association have urged the State government to release the brother of slain forest brigand Veerappan and two of his associates who were in the Coimbatore Central Prison for the last 33 years. People’s Union for Civil Liberties, People’s Watch, Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association and Sogo Trust jointly sent a letter to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in which they stated that Veerappan’s brother Madhaiyan and two others, Andiyappan and Perumal, were behind the bars for 33 years now. It had caused hardship not only to the three, but also to their family members. “It is totally against the State government’s rehabilitation measure,” the letter said.The letter stated that the Tamil Nadu Prison Department issued orders for the premature release of a few prisoners. But non-consideration of premature release of a few prisoners showed the prevalence of discrimination. “It is against the law and human rights,” the letter said. Section 433A of The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, said that remission or commutation of sentence could be taken up only after a lifetime convict served 14 years of imprisonment. Hence, based on various court orders, the release of the three should be taken up for consideration. The letter said Madhaiyan had moved the Supreme Court seeking premature release and the court in its order on October 3, 2017 asked the State government to consider his petition. “But no decision was taken by the State government so far.” All the three were aged over 75 years and many of their family members were no more. At least, they should spend the rest of their lives with their remaining family members, the letter requested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-release-of-veerappans-brother-two-associates/article38090742.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||Public gather in large numbers to welcome New Year in Erode||Thousands of people gathered in front of the CSI Brough Memorial Church at the Panneerselvam Park Junction to welcome the New Year 2022, flouting all personal distancing and COVID-19 norms at midnight here on Saturday. As the clock struck 12 and the huge screen on the church displayed, “Welcome 2022”, and the crowd shouted ‘Happy New Year’ amid much cheer and dance. Most of them were found not wearing masks while no social distancing was maintained despite the State government asking people to avoid large gatherings for celebrations. The crowd that gathered from 10 p.m. on Friday started to disperse by 12.30 a.m. on Saturday as the police ensured that no untoward incident took place. Vehicle users in inebriated condition and motorists riding vehicles at high speed were warned and let off by the police who had a tough time regulating vehicles at various places in the city. Barricades were erected on the road at Kalaimadu Silai, Panneerselvam Park, GH Roundabout, Swastik Corner and on Perundurai Road to regulate vehicles during and after the celebrations. Devotees in large numbers thronged temples before midnight and in the early morning. Special prayers were conducted in churches too. Since hotels, restaurants and bars were asked to close their business by 11 p.m., business was brisk from the evening on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-gather-in-large-numbers-to-welcome-new-year-in-erode/article38090750.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:36 IST,TAMIL NADU||Teachers’ team beautifies school walls in Kadambur Hills||A group of teachers from Tiruppur, under the banner Pattampoochi (butterfly), painted the walls of the special training centre at Periya Gundri in Kadambur Hills with popular cartoon characters to attract students.  It is one of the 15 centres run under the National Child Labour Project (NCLP) in the district where rescued child workers and school dropouts below 14 years were admitted and given training and later enrolled in regular schools. The centre with 56 children is run by Sathyamangalam-based NGO, Service Unit for Development Activities in Rural (SUDAR) that received a facelift with the construction of a new building recently. The team, comprising T. Karthikeyan, B. Ravichandran and R. Prabhu led by its coordinator A. Santhosh Kumar, all working at different government schools in Tiruppur district, stayed in the centre on December 28 and 29, and completed the painting work. Awareness Characters from popular shows and awareness slogans were painted on the walls. The paintings were sponsored by Avinashi-based trust Inaindha Kaigal while NCLP coordinator C. Sathish assisted the team in decorations.  “The purpose is to motivate and encourage children to create their own drawings and also to ensure they come to school regularly,” Mr. Santhosh Kumar told The Hindu . He said they had done such paintings in 60 government schools from 2019 till now in the districts of Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode.  In Erode district, the team had decorated the NCLP centres at Vilankombai tribal settlement and at Kongadai in Bargur Hills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-team-beautifies-school-walls-in-kadambur-hills/article38090744.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level at Bhavanisagar dam||Water level at the Bhavanisagar dam stood at 102.77 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 105 feet on Saturday. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the dam was 704 cusecs while the discharge was 2,300 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project canal, 500 cusecs into Arakkankottai and Thadapalli canals and 100 cusecs into River Bhavani for drinking water purpose. The storage was 30.94 tmcft against the capacity of 32.80 tmcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-at-bhavanisagar-dam/article38090748.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||All set for mega vaccination camps in Erode, Salem districts||The district administration has planned to vaccinate 1.5 lakh people across the district during the 17th mega vaccination camps in hospitals and also through the door-to-door drive to be held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on January 2. Collector H. Krishnanunni in a release said that camps will be held at 543 centres in government hospitals, government primary health centres, urban primary health centres and also in schools. Also, 2,172 health staff would be covering the households with the help of 66 mobile vehicles in the district to vaccinate people at their doorsteps. The release said that persons in the age group of 15 to 18 are to be vaccinated from January 3 in schools and colleges. Since the Omicron virus is spreading and to protect oneself from the virus, vaccination is important. Hence, all the eligible people should get vaccinated without fail, the release added. In Salem, the mega vaccination drive would be conducted through 1,392 centres. District Collector S.Karmegham said in a release that over 18,500 staff would be involved for the conduct of camps. The district administration is targeting to vaccinate one lakh people on Sunday. Mr.Karmegham said that 3,74,966 people in the eligible population are yet to take vaccine first dose and second dose is due for 3,16,456 people. Vaccine stock According to officials, 23,98,603 people of the eligible population have taken first dose vaccination (87%) and 15,30,640 people have taken second dose vaccination in the district (55%). The district has stock of 2,11,910 Covishield doses and 79,980 Covaxin doses, besides 5,49,582 disposable syringes, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-set-for-mega-vaccination-camps-in-erode-salem-districts/article38090751.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three held for selling liquor with fake labels||A racket of selling smuggled Indian Made Foreign Liquor in fake Tasmac bottles was busted here by the prohibition wing on Saturday. A godown in Kathirepalli was raided and three persons were arrested. The godown that belonged to one Chaudhury was involved in repacking the smuggled liquor and selling it above the market price. The accused, Gopal, Ganesh and Botharaj, were involved in smuggling the IMFL from across the border in Karnataka and repacked it in Tasmac look alike bottles with fake labels. The liquor was sold out of the godown at exorbitant price. The prohibition team seized stickers and labels, bottle fillers and other machines used for packaging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-selling-liquor-with-fake-labels/article38090746.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Karti for TNCC taking a new direction||It is high time the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) changed its approach and adapted swiftly and raise voice for the people’s issues in a meaningful way, said Congress MP Karti Chidambaram here on Friday. Speaking to reporters, he opined that the method of working of the party high command was no more going to be a gamechanger. “We have to look at issues from people’s perspectives and be heard in the larger spectrum. The voice of the Congress should create an impact for the betterment of the society and not just cause a flutter,” he added. On trend The prediction by political consultant Prashant Kishor that the BJP would be there in the Indian politics for the next 30 years appeared to be true. As a political party, the BJP cannot be neglected, Mr Karti agreed and said that the Congress had shown great results in the urban local body polls in Karnataka and going by the present trend, the party would form the government there in 2023. Likewise, the strategy of Priyanka Gandhi in UP politics also looked like an opportunity for the Congress to make a comeback. Admitting that there were issues in the organisational politics within the party, he however, said that the party cannot be neglected by the country at the national level as Congress was the only party which can unseat the BJP. Expressing concern over rising crimes against girl children and women, he hoped the State police would take stern action. He was baffled over the ‘missing’ case of former AIADMK minister Rajendhra Bhalaji and wondered why the police had not yet secured him. The AIADMK, he said, did not function like an opposition party on many issues, the MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karti-for-tncc-taking-a-new-direction/article38090631.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Devotees throng shrines in city||With the start of the New Year, devotees from far and near thronged the famous Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple on Saturday morning.  Throwing the covid-19 guidelines in the air, a majority of the visiting public were keen on making entry into the shrine in a hurried way. Physical distancing was not at all maintained at the screening point at the Eastern Tower of the temple which was packed at 11 a.m. when The Hindu photographer was at the spot.  The temple officials, who were present in skeleton strength, were more pre-occupied in receiving the self-appointed VVIPs and ‘senior’ officers from multiple departments. “As the officers were entering the temple with their family members, the devotees were stopped by the police at the screening queue,” a tourist guide said. Ayyappa devotees too, who had come from other States and districts, found it tough to gain entry into the temple as the crowd was overflowing along the Chitirai Street. There was chaos at the footwear deposit counters. Many devotees from Kerala were questioned for not wearing face masks. When some among them pointed out that the local people also were not wearing the masks, a wordy altercation was witnessed causing uneasy moments. Police officers and a few constables on duty were keen on ensuring that their seniors had a smooth passage on arrival and had no issues in having darshan at the ‘sannidhi’ of the presiding deity. The Bhattars in the temple were also not wearing masks, some regulars who visited the shrine claimed. When contacted, a HR&CE official requesting anonymity said that they had put up boards at vantage locations on the guidelines of the Tamil Nadu government on wearing face masks properly, to maintain physical distancing and use sanitizers. It may be noted that the Meenakshi Temple administration had announced last month that only those with covid-19 vaccination certificates would be permitted, but withdrew the announcement on the same day without giving reasons. In other major temples too here, the crowd management went for a toss. During the early hours alone the crowd was thin. From 8 a.m. onwards, devotees arrived in large numbers at the Koodal Alagar Temple, Subramanian Swami Temple at Tirupparankundram and Prasanna Venkatachalapathy Temple at Tallakulam. There were neither sufficient police personnel to regulate nor the temple staff had made arrangements to manage the visitors. In a separate function held at the Government Rajaji Hospital, Dean Rathnavel said that Omicron was on the rise in many parts of the globe. It was high time people strictly followed the COVID-19 regulations and norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-throng-shrines-in-city/article38090904.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Steep rise in COVID-19 cases||With the beginning of the New Year, the number of COVID-19 cases in five of the 10 southern districts — Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Virudhunagar, Madurai, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Theni and Dindigul — has increased steeply after a long gap, according to doctors in the government hospitals here on Saturday. The daily COVID-19 table released by the State government on Saturday showed a steep increase in the number of active cases in Thoothukudi (from 95 on December 31, 2021 to 128 on January 1). Similarly, Tirunelveli showed a rise from 60 to 85, Virudhunagar from 61 to 83, Kanniyakumari had 132 on Friday and rose to 148 on Saturday. The only relief was that Tenkasi, Theni, Ramanathapuram and Dindigul districts had fewer number of people testing positive to the virus on day one of the start of the calendar year 2022. However, districts like Kanniyakumari, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Virudhunagar had more number of patients testing positive to the virus in a single day, which was not the pattern till December-end, the doctors said. A senior doctor at the Government Rajaji Hospital said that with more people failing to adhere to the guidelines, the danger was waiting at the doorsteps. The number of active cases may look upwards in many southern districts in the coming days. A very few people followed the regulations as it was visible to see a majority of the people who gather in public places are not even wearing face masks properly. With a change in weather pattern, i.e, from intense drop in temperature, the intermittent rains too may cause ailments to people in all age groups. Hence, the only way to be safe from the virus was to get the vaccine dose administered (for those who were yet to take) and avoid moving out unnecessarily, the doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steep-rise-in-number-of-covid-cases-in-southern-districts/article38090733.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two electric cars launched at Kallazhagar Temple||With the beginning of new year, the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department here has launched two new electric vehicles at Kallazhagar Temple for differently abled persons and senior citizens to have darshan with ease. Inaugurating the service, temple officials led by Deputy Commissioner T. Anitha said on Saturday that thousands of devotees visited the temple every day. It would be helpful for them to use the facility as they need not walk from the bus stop. Devotees coming here by public transport and alighting at the main entrance (of the fort) had to walk to the temple. The aged and differently abled persons found it tough to reach the temple. Hence, it was proposed to have eco-friendly electric cars. With the support of a philanthropist from Coimbatore, the temple administration received two vehicles, each costing Rs. 9 lakh. The service would be available two-way daily and free of cost for the devotees. The temple had a similar vehicle, but it was under repair. However, the administration got it repaired. Now the temple has three cars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kallazhagar-temple-gets-two-electric-cars-for-easy-mobility/article38090731.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Mullaperiyar dam stood at 140.90 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 349 cusecs and a discharge of 1,200 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 68.77 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 715 cusecs and a discharge of 869 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,708 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday was (in mm): Maruthanadhi dam 20, Kodaikanal 19.4, Peranai 12.4, Manjalar dam 12, Andipatti 9.2, Mettupatti 9, Sothupparai dam 6, Pulipatti 5.6, Melur 4, Gudalur 3.4, Shanmuganadhi dam 2.5, Uthamapalayam 2.3, Chittampatti 2.2, Kallandiri 1.4, Thekkadi, Vaigai dam, Thaniyamangalam and Idayapatti 1 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38090735.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||People urged not to cross Marudaiyar||The district administration has cautioned people living along the banks of Marudaiyar against crossing the river due to heavy discharge of water. In a statement on Saturday, Collector P. Sri Venkada Priya said that due to heavy rain in catchment areas, the Kottarai reservoir was receiving heavy inflow. About 750 cusecs of water would be discharged from the reservoir from Saturday night. Hence, people should desist from crossing the river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-urged-not-to-cross-marudaiyar/article38090727.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Despite curbs, crowds throng Beach Road for New Year bash||Despite curbs imposed by the district administration due to the threat posed by the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus, a large number of people gathered on the Beach Road to celebrate New Year. In fact, by 11 p.m., the entire Beach Road was so crowded that police were compelled to close the entry points, particularly near the Gandhi Statue, to manage the crowd. Mild force was used to disperse the crowd, which became restless after being denied entry to the Beach Road.  Senior Superintendent of Police, Law and Order, R. Lokeshwaran told The Hindu that celebrations went on peacefully in Puducherry. The police issued 1323 challans to people for violating COVID-19 protocol.  Ahead of the celebrations, Home Minister A. Namassivayam visited the Beach Road to review the preparations. ‘Good results’ Blocking the entry of vehicles to the White Town area for managing traffic also yielded good results as there were not many traffic jams, unlike during previous years, in the town. Four-wheelers were parked in Old Port complex, Petit Seminaire in Uppalam and Bharthidasan Government College for Women. The police operated buses, provided by the Tourism Department, to take people from the three parking lots to the Beach Road. Musical night organised by Puducherry Tourism Development Corporation on the Old Port area saw a reasonably good attendance. “We were worried about the attendance due to COVID-19 regulations and directions of the Madras High Court restricting the sale of alcohol after 10 p.m. But we received a good number of people,” an official said. Treasurer of Hotels Association of Pondicherry G. Antony Prosper Anandraj said most of the hotels were fully occupied. “It was good for the hospitality industry overall. There was a good response from the tourists,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/despite-curbs-crowds-throng-beach-road-for-new-year-bash/article38090973.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamilisai to inaugurate Central kitchen of Akshaya Patra Foundation||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan will inaugurate the mechanised central kitchen of Akshaya Patra Foundation at Lawspet on January 5. Akshaya Patra, a non-profit wing of International Society of Krishna Consciousness, had signed a memorandam of understanding with the Puducherry Government in 2018 to supply mid-day meal to around 50,000 students studying in 300 government schools in Puducherry. The Lieutenant Governor will inaugurate the kitchen in the presence of Chief Minister N. Rangasamy. “The kitchen will be officially inaugurated on January 5. We will roll out the mid-day meal programme any time after the inauguration in consultation with the Education Department,” said a person associated with the Akshaya Patra Foundation. The modernised kitchen was constructed at a cost of around Rs. 15 crore with the financial support of General Insurance Corporation of India and the New India Assurance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamilisai-to-inaugurate-kitchen-of-akshaya-patra-foundation/article38090724.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 22 fresh COVID infections||The Union Territory has recorded 22 fresh COVID-19 cases from 2,096 tests in the last 24 hours ending 10 a.m. on Saturday. Of the total number of fresh cases, 12 are from Puducherry, eight from Karaikal and two from Mahe. The fresh cases were detected 2,086 tests. The test positivity rate, which was below 1% for the last two to three weeks, had gone up to 1.05% now. The recovery rate stood at 98.44%, data released by the Health Department here said. The overall toll is 1,881. The total number of active cases stood at 136. The overall number of cases was 1,295,00 and 1,274,83 were treated and discharged. The number of vaccinated people was inching towards the 14 lakh mark. As on Saturday 10 a.m., 8,357,75 persons received the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine and 5,610,23 got both.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-22-fresh-covid-19-infections/article38090709.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mixed response in Salem to fresh COVID-19 regulations||It was business as usual in Salem on Day One of the revised COVID-19 regulations on Saturday. Though fresh restrictions were imposed by the State government, the response was lukewarm here. Being the first day of New Year, the public gathered in churches and temples to offer prayers. Special pujas were conducted at a few temples and significant crowd was noticed at major temples in the city. Theatres operated with 50% seating capacity. Theatre owners said the turnout was less as there were not any major new releases. Though restrictions were imposed on seating capacity at eateries and hotels, majority of eateries operated in normal capacity. Being weekend, the public turned up in significant numbers to Kurumbapatti zoological park and to tourist attractions in Yercaud. According to Park authorities, necessary sanitation facilities were arranged at the entrance of the parks. Authorities said the capacity of visitors were maintained within 50%. A total of 2,520 persons including children visited the park on Saturday. To prevent the spread of COVID-19 disease, the park at Mettur dam was closed till Sunday as huge crowd would turn up here during weekends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mixed-response-in-salem-to-fresh-covid-19-regulations/article38090754.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:44 IST,TAMIL NADU||New Year revelry low key in Salem||New Year celebrations were conducted in a low key manner in Salem at the stroke of midnight on Saturday. One person died in a road accident here. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Shaktivel (31) from Omalur here. Shaktivel was riding pillion on a two-wheeler with his friend Arul on Friday night. The vehicle hit a truck near Kuranguchavadi and Sakthivel died on the spot. Arul was rushed to the Government Hospital. Strict measures were implemented by the police to prevent reckless driving and revelry on New Year’s eve. Flyovers were barricaded and police personnel were deployed at important junctions. Deputy Police Commissioner M. Madasamy along with police personnel cut cake at the Five Roads junction at the stroke of midnight. Special prayers and pujas were held at temples and churches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-year-revelry-low-key-in-salem/article38090757.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:44 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Salem police recovered stolen goods in 82% cases’||The Salem District Police recovered stolen goods in 82% of theft cases registered in 2021. In a release, Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav said 263 accused were arrested in connection with theft and burglary cases in the district and stolen goods were recovered in 82% cases. He said 38 rowdies and three held for illicit distillation of arrack were detained under Goondas Act in 2021, and 23 persons were detained under Goondas Act in 2020. Mr. Abhinav said sentences were pronounced in 4,034 cases including life sentence in 11 cases. Speedy action As many as 7,369 prohibition cases were registered and 7,542 accused were arrested, he said. Mr. Abhinav said speedy action would be taken on complaints received from the public in 2022. Namakkal In Namakkal, Superintendent of Police Saroj Kumar Thakur said that stolen goods worth Rs. 87.82 lakh were recovered in theft and burglary cases in the district. He added that 17 persons had been detained under Goondas Act in 2021. In a release, Mr. Thakur said 297 fatal road accidents occurred in the district and 306 persons died. Violations As many as 3,996 driving licences were temporarily suspended for violating motor vehicle regulations and Rs. 2.81 crore was collected as fine for various traffic violations. The police registered 400 cases for selling ganja and about 400 kg was seized. Mobile phones The police recovered 460 stolen mobile phones worth Rs. 80 lakh and returned them to the owners, Mr. Thakur said. He said 122 unlicensed guns were surrendered at police stations here and Rs. 1.27 crore fine was collected from people for violating COVID-19 safety protocol in 61,920 cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-police-recovered-stolen-goods-in-82-cases/article38090755.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||TWAD plans drinking water scheme for Thuraiyur municipality||The Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board (TWAD) has planned to execute an exclusive drinking water scheme for Thuraiyur municipal limits to tide over the acute drinking water shortage in the town. The existing combined water scheme was formulated and commissioned in 2002. It was designed to supply 3.12 million litres a day (MLD) to Thuraiyur municipality and 98 village panchayats and four town panchayats including Uppiliapuram, Mettupalayam and Thathaiyangarpettai. TWAD supplies water from a pumping station at Ayyampalayam near Musiri in Tiruchi district. Though the targetted people received the stipulated water supply in the initial stages, problems began to crop up about five years after inception. The yield at the Collector’s well at Ayyampalayam was said to have depleted drastically due to indiscriminate sand mining. As the population grew up at a rapid pace, TWAD could not supply the intended water supply to residents of Thuraiyur. Similarly, the other beneficiaries of the combined water supply scheme also suffered due to insufficient water supply. The residents, who were supplied water daily in the initial years, now receive it once in five to six days. Since the issue tormented the residents, they began to demand an exclusive water supply scheme for Thuraiyur. Thuaiyur MLA Stalin Kumar took up the issue with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru. Considering the demand of the MLA and the residents, Mr. Stalin announced at a function held here on Thursday that a separate drinking water scheme would be implemented for Thuraiyur. Though the scheme is at the investigation stage, it is expected that it might cost more than Rs. 100 crore. The exact estimate for the scheme and other features will be known after preparation of the Detailed Project Report. Separate Collector well Sources in TWAD said that a separate collector well would be set up on the banks of the Cauvery at Ayyampalayam near Musiri for the new scheme. It would have a capacity of supplying 54 MLD. According to a rough estimate, there were about 40,000 people residing in Thuraiyur municipality and the entire population would be benefited. It would be designed to supply 135 litres of water daily to each resident. The sources added that pumping mains would have to be laid for 29 km from the pumping station. The existing distribution lines and service reservoirs in Thuraiyur would be used depending upon the quality of the pipes. New pipelines and service reservoirs would be built in the extended and newly added areas of Thuraiyur municipality. An official said the existing Collector’s well and two infiltration wells yielded 26 MLD a day. It would be used to supply water to 98 wayside village panchayats and four town panchayats. Once the Thuraiyur municipality was delinked from the combined water supply scheme, the entire yield would be diverted to other beneficiaries. It was sufficient to meet the drinking water requirement of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/twad-plans-drinking-water-scheme-for-thuraiyur-municipality/article38090713.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Number of murders, other crimes declined in 2021’||Tiruchi city police, during 2021, booked cases against 10,072 persons under special and local laws and initiated action against them after finding their involvement in offences that caused problems to people in public places. The number of cases was 114% more as compared to 2020. As a deterrent action, 85 persons who were involved in various types of crimes, including robbery, sale of narcotic substances and goods in black market and crimes against children were detained under the Goondas Act. The detention of the number of accused under the Goondas Act in 2021 was 112% more as compared to the previous year, a police press release said here.  The city police initiated action after booking cases against 283 persons on charges of selling ganja near schools and colleges here last year. The number of murders and other crimes declined in 2021 as compared to the previous year due to various actions initiated with a view to maintaining law and order.  The release further said that Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan had given instructions to police officers to continue with the stern action as per law against rowdies and anti-social elements indulging in illegal activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-murders-other-crimes-declined-in-2021/article38090723.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||New Year: temples, churches see huge crowds in central districts||Temples and churches in the region witnessed heavy crowds on the dawn of the New Year on Saturday. While Christians attended midnight services held in churches in Tiruchi, Thanjavur and other central districts in the State, Hindus visited the popular and neighbouring temples. Special prayers were held in Holy Redeemer’s Basilica at Palakarai, Our Lady of Lourd’s Church at Teppakulam, St. Mary’s Cathedral at Melapudur, Amalashram St. Anthony’s Church at Mambalasalai and other churches in Tiruchi. In Tiruchi, the Rockfort Thayumanaswamy Temple, Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam, Sri Akilandeswari Temple in Thiruvanaikoil, Sri Mariamman Temple in Samayapuram, Ayyappa Temple in Cantonment witnessed heavy crowds. Hundreds of devotees waited in long queues to offer prayer at Ayyappa Temple. The devotees, who visited the temples along with their family members and relatives, prayed for their well-being and happy tidings in 2022. In Thanjavur district, believers welcomed the New Year by participating in special masses conducted at churches While Bishop F. Antonisamy, Kumbakonam Diocese, conducted the special mass at Saint Mary’s Cathedral, Kumbakonam, on Friday night and declared the advent of the New Year at the stroke of midnight, the special mass at the Kumbakonam Diocese’s Basilica at Poondi near the Grand Anicut — the Basilica of Our Lady of Lourdes (popularly known as Poondi Madha Kovil) — was conducted by the Rector and Parish Priest, Fr. Packiyasamy. Similarly, a special mass event was held at the Sacred Heart Cathedral at Thanjavur which comes under the Thanjavur Diocese where the parish priest, Prabhakaran, led the mass. Believers attached to churches such as the Infant Jesus Church, Fort Christhunathar Church and others in and around Thanjavur welcomed the New Year by participating in the special mass held at midnight and Saturday conducted by priests. A large number of devotees visited temples such as the Big Temple at Thanjavur, Sri Swaminathaswamy Temple, Swamimalai, Sri Aadhi Kumbeswarar Temple and other temples at Kumbakonam on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-year-temples-churches-see-huge-crowds-in-central-districts/article38090715.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||BHEL Day: stress on quality, timely delivery of products and services||Quality, timely delivery of products and services and exceeding customer satisfaction are the basis for the success of any organisation, said S.V. Srinivasan, General Manager-in-Charge and Head, BHEL Tiruchi Complex, here on Saturday. Conveying the message to employees on the occasion of BHEL Day at a function held on the premises of the High Pressure Boiler Plant, Mr. Srinivasan said the occasion was being commemorated not only to celebrate past achievements but also to focus on current targets and future goals. BHEL-Tiruchi had always been a front runner in terms of work culture and implementing new initiatives. Employees of BHEL-Tiruchi had always joined hands and worked hard to overcome challenges in demanding times, Mr. Srinivasan said citing the Viswakarma Rashtriya Puraskar awards won by nine employees for 2019 and the unit winning Gold Plus commendation in CII exim Bank Awards for Business Excellence stands as testimony to their efforts. Mr. Srinivasan called for spirited contribution from all employees during the last quarter of the current financial year to ensure that the performance of the Tiruchi unit set a new benchmark for all other units. Earlier, Mr. Srinivasan unfurled the BHEL flag and administered the BHEL Day pledge to employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhel-day-stress-on-quality-timely-delivery-of-products-and-services/article38090728.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Theatre owners, viewers put off by the new restrictions||Theatre owners and cinema aficionados in the city are disappointed with the new norms announced by the government on Friday to maintain 50% capacity in theatres as part of tightening of measures to check the spread of COVID-19, especially Omicron variant. Theatre owners, who reluctantly prepared their hall as per the government directions, say the move has come at a time when audiences are just starting to return. They are worried about the fresh restrictions, especially since the last two years destroyed their source of revenue. Workers at several theatres spent New Year's Eve pasting stickers indicating that alternate seats have to be left vacant. “Since it is a weekend, and that too New Year, everyone is disappointed,” says a theatre manager. Tickets cancelled Many tickets sold for the holiday weekend have been cancelled. “The announcement took us by surprise. Had we got a hint we would not have sold tickets,” they contend. Many big release films have been hitting theatres recently, and with the restrictions, viewership will dip. “Many already prefer watching on over-the-top media service platforms. Even if films are released in theatres, they wait for them to be uploaded to these platforms," they add. S. Sridhar, Joint Secretary, Tamil Nadu Theatre Owners' Association, however, says movie goers are their ‘bosses’, and their safety is priority. “On a personal note, I believe that health is more important than business. If we take care of our health now, we will be able to sit in cinema halls watching films again soo.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theatre-owners-viewers-upset-with-new-restrictions-announced-by-state-government/article38090712.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||55 new cases, one death||The central region reported 55 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. One death due to the viral infection was reported in Tiruvarur district. Tiruchi reported a sudden spike in cases on Saturday as 21 patients reported positive for the viral infection. Thirteen patients tested positive in Thanjavur. The remaining seven districts registered five or lesser COVID-19 cases. Five patients each tested COVID-19 positive in Karur and Mayiladuthurai. Four contracted the infection in Tiruvarur, and three each in Perambalur and Pudukottai. Meanwhile, Ariyalur registered one case, while no fresh COVID-19 case was registered in Nagapattinam on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/55-new-cases-one-death/article38090726.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||IG visits bullet-hit boy at Thanjavur GH||Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, V. Balakrishnan on Saturday visited Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and ascertained the health condition of a 11-year-old boy who was hit by a stray bullet a few days ago near a firing range in Pudukottai district. Mr. Balakrishnan saw the boy at the hospital’s intensive care unit and interacted with the doctors to learn about his health condition. The bullet that pierced through the boy's head was removed by the doctors. Mr. Balakrishnan said he also interacted with the boy’s parents at the hospital during his visit. Bullet sent for forensic examination The bullet that was removed would be sent for forensic examination through the court, as it would throw light on the weapon from which it was fired. A team of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel attached to Tiruchi airport was conducting firing exercises when the incident is said to have occurred. Police sources said summons had been issued to the CISF personnel to send the weapons used in the firing exercise for forensic examination. Even as police investigation into the case was on, official sources said the Revenue Divisional Officer, Illupur, conducted inquiry with a couple of CISF officers at his office on Friday regarding the incident. The Revenue Divisional Officer was expected to inspect the firing range at Pasumalaipatti on Monday and conduct inquiry with police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ig-visits-bullet-hit-boy-at-thanjavur-gh/article38090634.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Golden Rock railway workshop gets ‘Greenco Platinum’ certification||The Golden Rock Railway Workshop in Tiruchi has been certified with the prestigious Greenco Platinum rating by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). This is the second workshop in Indian Railways to get the distinction. The certification is valid for three years. The workshop had earlier been certified with Gold rating during 2018. The workshop took up various measures from June to achieve the rating. Tree plantation was undertaken on a largescale throughout the year. Energy conservation measures such as replacement of energy-guzzling machines with more efficient ones and installation of solar concentrator to heat water were adopted.  Introduction of innovative technology such as Jalvayu was taken up. IoT based energy monitoring system was also set up to monitor energy consumption. Recycling of water was taken up on a mass-scale by installing a system for pumping treated water for process use. Vendor audit training sessions were conducted to ensure a green supply chain.  The pre-assessment audit was done on December 17 and the final certification audit was conducted by a CII team on December 28 during which the efforts taken by the workshop was appreciated. All efforts culminated in the certification of the workshop with Greenco Platinum rating on December 31, a press release f here said. The railway workshop is engaged in a myriad of activities including periodic overhaul of broad gauge diesel locomotives and passenger coaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/golden-rock-railway-workshop-gets-greenco-platinum-certification/article38090719.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||12-year-old boy drowns in well||A 12-year-old boy fell into a well and drowned on Friday. He was identified as S. Tilak of Sengattupatti village in Thuraiyur taluk. The boy entered the well apparently to take bath when he drowned as he did not know to swim, said police sources. The boy was a class VI student. Tilak’s friend Prasanna, who accompanied him, alerted the villagers who called the Thuraiyur fire station. Firefighters conducted a search inside the well, which was 90-foot-deep and had about 80 feet of water. After a search lasting nearly nine hours, they retrieved the boy’s body and handed it to Thuraiyur police, who registered a case under Section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-year-old-boy-drowns-in-well/article38090716.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers go in for high-yielding Chinese potato||The Indian Council for Agricultural Research’s Central Tuber Crop Research Institute (CTCRI) in Thiruvananthapuram has established frontline demonstration-cum-seed villages for high-yielding Chinese potato at Kuthapanjan and Rajangapuram in Tenkasi district as this district has been a major producer of the crop for the past several decades. Besides providing seeds to the farmers opting for cultivation of high-yielding and disease-resistant Chinese potato variety ‘Sree Dhara’, these two villages will also have demonstration fields, which agriculturists can visit to understand the cultivation and crop management practices. Chinese potato, a delicious tuber crop that sell like hotcakes during the months of January and February in the markets here and also in Kerala, is being cultivated on a large scale by the farmers of Tenkasi district. Hence, the CTCRI recently trained the farmers of the district in growing its ‘Sree Dhara’ variety that gives yield up to 25 tonnes per hectare. The Department of Horticulture coordinated the training activities. High shelf-life “The prime objective of the introduction of our high-yielding and pest and disease-resistant tuber crop to the traditional Chinese potato growers is to enhance their income through newer technologies. As this crop has a high shelf-life besides giving excellent yield, the farmers actively participated in the hands-on training sessions. Buoyed by the response, we have transformed Kuthapanjan and Rajangapuram villages into ‘seed villages’ for this region to ensure uninterrupted supply of seeds to the agriculturists,” said R. Muthuraj, Principal Scientist, CTCRI, Thiruvananthapuram. Apart from cultivating ‘Sree Dhara’ variety of Chinese potato, the scientists have also trained 115 growers in cultivating cassava, elephant foot yam and taro. The farmers have also been taught value-addition techniques for these crops so that they get an enhanced income. “As we have trained them in preparing snacks, pasta, noodles, etc. from cassava, the farmers, who want to start their value-addition units with the raw material being grown by them, can get attractive income,” said T. Krishnakumar, Scientist, CTCRI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-go-in-for-high-yielding-chinese-potato/article38090737.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Devotees throng temples, churches for New Year prayers||All churches and temples in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts received devotees in droves and they participated in the New Year special prayers that were offered since Friday midnight. At St. Xavier’s Cathedral in Palayamkottai, Rt Rev. Antonysamy, Bishop of Palayamkottai Roman Catholic (RC) Diocese, led the midnight New Year Holy Mass and similar celebrations were conducted in all RC and Church of South India churches across the district. Police personnel had been deployed in front of all churches and also at important junctions where the law-enforcers had erected barricades to control speeding vehicles. Devotees thronged Nellaiyappar Gandhimathi Amman Temple right from early morning to offer New Year special prayers. In Thoothukudi, RC Bishop Rt. Rev. Stephen Antony celebrated the Holy Mass at Sacred Heart Cathedral. The coastal town of Tiruchendur struggled to handle the huge number of devotees thronging Subramaniaswamy Temple where the sanctum sanctorum was opened at 1 a.m. for special prayers. However, devotees, who were not allowed to offer New Year prayers for the past two years due to COVID-19 restrictions, were waiting in front of the temple right from 11 p.m. As the temple experienced unprecedented surge of devotees from all over Tamil Nadu and other States since Friday midnight, they were allowed to take dharshan in the temple in a regulated manner in the wake of omicron-related restrictions. The devotees were not allowed to take bath in the sea and also at ‘Nazhikkinaru’. Those who were not wearing masks were sent out of the temple and they could enter the shrine again only after wearing a mask. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar participated in the New Year celebrations conducted near Cruz Fernandez statue in Thoothukudi. He cut the cake along with his colleagues and distributed it to the public. In Kanniyakumari, the police had banned the entry of tourists at ‘Triveni Sangamam’ beach in the wake of COVID-19 restrictions on Saturday. Hence, the visitors gathered at nearby Vavarai Beach to enjoy the calendar year’s first sun rise. Devotees from far and near thronged Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple in Madurai on Saturday morning. Ayyappa devotees too, who had come from other States and districts, found it tough to gain entry into the temple as the crowd was overflowing along the Chitirai Street. There was chaos at the footwear deposit counters. Many devotees from Kerala were questioned for not wearing face masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-throng-temples-churches-for-new-year-prayers/article38090739.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Palladam Government Hospital gets additional facilities||Following an inspection carried out by District Collector S. Vineeth at the Government Hospital in Palladam, the Health Department rectified facilities at the hospital as per the Collector’s directions. An official from Health Department said on Saturday that the Collector noted the lack of adequate seating arrangements at the out patient department (OPD) counter, which had led to overcrowding of patients. He also flagged the lack of a display board enumerating the medical tests done at the hospital’s laboratory. Subsequently, the Health Department has provided additional seats at the OPD counter for patients and made arrangements to prevent overcrowding. A notice board listing 22 different medical tests available in the laboratory has also been displayed, the official said. Following media reports claiming that a multi- purpose health worker in the Palladam GH was found to be working in both mortuary and kitchen of the hospital, P. Premalatha, Joint Director of Medical and Rural Health Services for Tiruppur district, clarified to the Collector on December 29 that the hospital had employed another health worker earlier in the month, the official said. At present, there is no shortage of health workers at the hospital, according to the health official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palladam-government-hospital-gets-additional-facilities/article38090645.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three express trains proposed||Proposals for the introduction of three long-distance express train services through the Tiruvarur-Karaikudi section has been mooted and forwarded to the Southern Railway headquarters by the Tiruchi Railway Division. Sources said division officials have suggested the revival of erstwhile “Kamban Express” (presently being operated from Chennai Egmore to Karaikal via Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam with a few passenger coaches detaching at Nagapattinam to proceed to Vailankanni) as a new express service from Tambaram to Karaikudi on daily basis, a tri-weekly express service between Tambaram and Sengottai and a bi-weekly express service between Ernakulam and Vailankanni through the newly laid broad gauge section between Tiruvarur and Karaikudi. Posting gatekeepers Further, the running time of the existing DEMU service between Tiruvarur and Karaikudi on this section is likely to get reduced considerably in the days to come as the post of gatekeeper between Tiruvarur and Adhiramapattinam has been filled up, sources said. The process of posting gatekeepers in the remaining section has been expedited and the filling up of the post in the entire section is likely to be completed in another 30 days. It had also been proposed to close a level crossing gate (number 121 between Peravurani and Aayankudi) on this section permanently after providing a limited use subway facility, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-long-distance-trains-in-tiruvarur-to-karaikudi-section-proposed/article38090718.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||New police outpost coming up at Vellore fort||A police outpost with a few constables will soon come up at the fort in Vellore to enhance the existing security arrangements within the protected monument. At present, the fort, which is spread over 37 acres covering a 3 km radius at the heart of the town, is being manned by a handful of security guards from private security agency. They were deployed by the ASI that maintains the 16th century monument. This thin layer of security arrangement has made the fort complex that houses historical buildings and structures vulnerable. More importantly, the vast premises remains a challenge for better surveillance. Though petty offences are common inside the complex, even serious crimes have been reported. A few years ago, Vellore police filed a case pertaining to rape allegedly committed on the fort premises. “Presence of police outpost will act as a deterrent against crime,” said M. Varadaraj Suresh, Archaeological Officer, ASI (Vellore). Tucked between the Bengaluru Highway and the Central Prison, the fort has 58 colonial buildings, including Mughal-styled Mahals with minarets where the Mysore king Hyder Ali and his warrior son, Tipu Sultan, spent their last years as prisoners with their families. Most of these buildings were occupied by government offices such as the Collectorate and sub-registrar office before they were relocated three decades ago. Since then, these dilapidated structures were exposed to the elements. The fort also has British era church, mosque and an ancient Shiva temple that attracts a large number of visitors. One of the key challenges to ensure safety of visitors is manning the vast premises. In fact, the north and south police stations are located at the opposite ends of the parapet wall of the fort.  “We are ready to set up a police outpost on the fort premises. We will work on it with the local ASI officials to ensure safety of visitors,” Albert John, ASP (Vellore), told The Hindu .  Under the ambitious Smart City Project, the fort is expected to get a face-lift, including better lighting systems, high-end CCTV cameras, seating arrangements and other facilities for visitors. As the project moves at a snail’s pace, ASI officials said the new police outpost would be a stop-gap measure in providing security for visitors.  We will work on it with the local ASI officials to ensure safety of visitorsAlbert JohnASP (Vellore)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-police-outpost-coming-up-at-vellore-fort/article38090971.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Inspector suspended for slapping college student||A police inspector attached to the Villupuram Cyber Crime wing was suspended on Friday after being caught on camera slapping a college student, who had staged a dharna in front of the Villupuram Collectorate on Thursday.   Deputy Inspector General of Police (Villupuram Range) M. Pandian suspended inspector Ganapathy following an inquiry. Mahendran, a second-year student of the Government Arignar Anna Arts College in Villupuram, staged the dharna , demanding that the administration expedite the issuance of a community certificate to him.  Video went viral The inspector, who arrived at the Collectorate, slapped him and removed him from the premises. A video of the incident went viral on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-suspended-for-slapping-college-student/article38090729.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four killed in blast at fireworks unit in Virudhunagar district||Mr. Ganesan said a friction while chemicals were handled at the mixing room triggered the explosion at the unit, which is owned by C. Vazhividu Murugan, 38, of M. Mettupatti. The other injured have been identified as M. Velmurugan, 38, of P. Paraipatti; R. Gopalakrishnan, 35, and his son G. Mano Aravindhan, 8, of Sanarapatti; P. Kaliyappan of P. Paraipatti; P. Alagarsamy, 33, of Servaikaranpatti; and V. Kanagarathinam, 36, and M. Muniyasamy, 38, of P. Paraipatti. The police said the workers had come to the unit for a puja to mark the New Year. Gopalakrishnan had brought his son along. The police said Velmurugan, Gopalakrishnan, Mano Aravindhan and Muniyandi have been referred to the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. The bodies of the four workers were handed over to their families. The Nathampatti police have booked the unit owner. The licence of the unit has been suspended.  The bodies of the four workers were handed over to their families after post-mortemPolice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-killed-in-blast-at-fireworks-unit/article38090625.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Auspicious start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auspicious-start/article38090602.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seeking blessings||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seeking-blessings/article38090636.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||35 COVID-19 cases in Erode||Erode district reported 35 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday taking the total number of cases to 1,07,788. While 34 persons were discharged, 421 continue to be under treatment. Thirty COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem. In Namakkal, 17 cases were reported. Krishnagiri reported 11 positive cases on Saturday and Dharmapuri six fresh COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/35-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article38090747.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Boisterous Runners, a group of runners from Coimbatore district, conducted a 10.5-km-long running event at Dhaliyur recently. A release said that Additional Superintendent of Police R. Sughasini was the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article38090652.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal Temple: Markazhi mahotsavam, chanting of Thiruppavai, Kovaipudur temple, 5.20 a.m. onwards.: Hanuman Jayanthi utsavam, 8 a.m.    New Century Book House: Book exhibition-cum-sale, 3 & 4, Nehru Staidum, 9.30 a.m.  Tamil Nadu Progressive Writers Association: New year literary meet. Thomas Club (opp to Shanthi Theatre - Railway station road) 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article38090648.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem||Electronics and Furniture Expo: Sri Rathinavel Jayakumar Marriage Hall, Five Roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem/article38090752.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:36 IST,KARNATAKA||Boralingaiah takes charge as Police Commissioner in Belagavi||M.B. Boralingaiah took charge as Police Commissioner in Belagavi on Saturday. The 2008 batch IPS officer assumed charge on the day he was promoted as Deputy Inspector-General of Police. He replaces K. Thiyagarajan who has been moved after a six-month stint. Dr. Thiyagarajan, a Veterinary graduate from Tamil Nadu, is set to take charge as the DIG (Recruitment), Bengaluru. It is being widely perceived that the transfer was caused by the law and order disturbance created by a few anti-social elements in the name of the Karnataka-Maharashtra border dispute. Trouble began during the Maha Melava rally organised by Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti on the first day of the Winter Session of the State Legislature on December 13, 2021. Some members of Karnataka Nava Nirmana Vedike insulted MES leaders Deepak Dalvi and Manohar Kinekar by throwing ink on them during a MES rally. Shiv Sena leaders in Kolhapur reacted to this by setting on fire the Kannada flag. A few days later, some miscreants in Bengaluru desecrated a Shivaji statue. The same night, a group of miscreants threw stones at and set on fire some government vehicles and damaged boards, banners and posters in Belagavi. The next night, a statue of Sangolli Rayanna was damaged in Angol in Belagavi. This led to calls for a ban on MES by some Bengaluru-based Kannada organisations. Kannada protagonists Vatal Nagaraj, T.A. Narayana Gowda and Praveen Shetty organised a protest in front of the Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi. They also gave a call for a State-wide bandh on December 31, 2021, which was eventually withdrawn after the Chief Minister’s intervention. An investigation of the stone-throwing incident led the police to arrest 38 activists, including Sri Ram Sena Hindustan founder Ramakanth Konduskar and Shubham Shelke, who fought the Belagavi bypolls as MES candidate. A local court rejected their bail applications on Friday. However, the investigation of the Sangolli Rayanna statue desecration is still on. As many as four persons, including a political activist, have been picked up for questioning by the police. But no one has been arrested yet in this connection. An officer involved in the investigation of the Sangolli Rayanna statue incident said that the main reason for the desecration was probably party politics and not the language issue. Some people feel the police did not succeed in containing the disturbance that spread to Bengaluru and other parts of the State. Police officers, however, argue that they did their best to manage the situation but it was blown out of proportion by the media and also because the timing of the incidents coincided with the Winter Session of the State Legislature. “The incidents in Belagavi or Bengaluru were minor issues. The police cannot be blamed for such incidents. Unfortunately, their timing was not right. What is more, the media blew them up,’’ said a police officer who has served as Police Commissioner in Belagavi earlier. The media and the activists should understand that the police cannot prevent such incidents “however hard we try”. “We can only ensure that the disturbance does not spill out to other areas and the offenders are booked in time,” he added. He also said that the trend of transferring police officers based on some incidents is demoralising to junior officers and also, it tends to bring additional burden on the new incumbent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boralingaiah-takes-charge-as-police-commissioner-in-belagavi/article38090784.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:02 IST,KARNATAKA||BMTC to run additional AC buses||The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation will begin reintroducing more air-conditioned buses this month. The BMTC, which had recently slashed the fares for Vajra service to increase ridership, plans to run 300 AC buses. On Saturday, it announced that AC services will be reintroduced on routes such as S.V. Road Metro Station to Central Silk Board, Majestic to Janapriya Township and Majestic to Whitefield among others. According to an official, an additional 50 air-conditioned buses will be operated from Monday (January 3). “We are hoping that more people will start using AC buses in the coming days as we have made fares affordable. We will reintroduce services depending on demand,” the official said. The BMTC has a fleet of 860 AC buses, but since the pandemic in 2020, most of the vehicles have remained off the road. In mid-December last year, the corporation slashed ticket prices by 34% and reduced the daily and monthly pass pass rates by Rs. 20 and Rs. 500 respectively. “However, utilisation of the entire fleet will take time. It will happen only when the companies start asking employees to work from the office,” said a BMTC official. The BMTC has identified 30-40 AC buses for scrapping as they are not fit to run. Usually, buses are scrapped after they are operated for 10-12 lakh km or have been in use for over 12 years. The official said that the buses identified for scrapping had been inducted in 2006, 2007 and 2008. It had initially planned to convert some of its AC buses to non-AC, but the plan was dropped after officials found out that it was not a feasible option. The corporation has already started inducting BS-VI and electric buses to replace the old vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-to-run-additional-ac-buses/article38090573.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:02 IST,KARNATAKA||‘People with comorbidities at high risk with Omicron’||Although Omicron infections are reported to be clinically milder, those with comorbidities are still at high risk for complications, experts said. The virus may be mild for some but may behave differently in those who have comorbidities. There should be no complacency, especially in the case of patients with multiple comorbidities, those having immunocompromised conditions and those unvaccinated, doctors said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said that Omicron cannot be taken lightly at all owing to its high transmissibility. One should not have a false sense of security that Omicron is a milder infection, he said. “It is spreading rapidly at an unprecedented rate and is expected to overtake the Delta variant in the coming weeks. We cannot dismiss Omicron as mild since the sheer number of predicted cases may overwhelm the health system,” he said. Asserting that vaccination protects against hospitalisation and deaths, irrespective of the variant (Delta or Omicron), Dr. Manjunath said: “Although the number of hospitalizations are less now, the situation can go out of control if the cases surge. If we end up with thousands of cases every day and even if 3-4% require hospitalisation, the healthcare system will be again thrown out of gear.” “We cannot afford to let our guard down. It is good if you are vaccinated. But vaccination cannot be a replacement for masking, physical distancing, crowding and ventilation,” he said. Consultant pulmonologist at Apollo Hospitals Ravindra Mehta, who is part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said although preliminary data is indicating that Omicron is mild, it is not mild to the point that nothing will happen. “If we take Delta’s virulence as the benchmark, the new variant is 40-50% milder. But we do not have the final word as yet and will have to wait for more evidence,” he said. He asserted that people with comorbidities are always the most vulnerable during this pandemic. They should get into a ‘hyper-precaution’ mode and take the booster shot as and when available. With the management protocol being the same as that for other variants, Dr. Mehta advised that among observing other parameters, keeping a tab on the oxygen saturation (for any drop below 94%) holds the key to ensure patients do not slip into the danger zone. M.K. Sudarshan, chairman of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee said it does matter whether the infection is due to Delta or Omicron as isolation and treatment protocols for patients infected with any variant are the same. And, those with comorbidities are the most vulnerable, irrespective of the variant, he said. “Diagnosis of Omicron is getting delayed due to the long process of genome sequencing. Actually, confirmation of Omicron is more a matter of curiosity than concern.” He said as Omicron infections are known to be milder, many may not need hospital beds. “That is why TAC has advised BBMP to keep hospitals ready (facilities, supplies and trained manpower) and set up/eactivate COVID Care Centres (CCCs). Well-equipped CCCs when readied in time will decongest hospitals making beds available for those who need critical care,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-with-comorbidities-at-high-risk-with-omicron/article38090561.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:02 IST,KARNATAKA||Citizens demand better roads, more accountability||Last year saw citizens planting saplings and paddy on bad stretches of roads and performing pujas around potholes as rains left the city’s streets in an unmotorable state. But 2021 also exposed chinks in road infrastructure management in the city. Citizen groups and residents’ welfare associations say that fixing accountability is the only way to plug the gaps and it must be top priority in 2022. In September 2020, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who also holds charge of Bengaluru Development, revealed that the administration had spent Rs. 20,060 crore on the city’s roads. Given the bad condition of roads and several pothole-related deaths over the period, the whopping amount raised eyebrows. Perhaps in an indication as to why such money is spent without results, two weeks ago, the Chief Minister cancelled Rs. 785.31 crore worth of five-year maintenance tenders of 191 km long 12 high density corridors, when it cost Rs. 335.17 crore to build them. “I don’t understand why such money is needed for maintenance,” he said. “The city has 13,000 km of roads and in Rs. 20,000 crore (average Rs. 1.53 crore/ km), we could have probably laid concrete roads across the city. The Chief Minister seems to have made a good start by being transparent about the gaps. But it is not enough. Individual officers responsible must be held accountable for these lapses. Road history Meanwhile, the only systemic way to avoid such corruption and wasteful expenditure is by maintaining road history and making it public, an initiative successive governments have failed to implement,” said N. S. Mukunda of Bengaluru Praja Vedike. Citizens in outer zones struggling with terrible roads due to relentless digging by agencies have begun demanding road history and work orders given to contractors to be made public. “We are fed up with the poor quality of road work when they are remade after agencies dig them up. We have been demanding work orders to be made public so that citizens can monitor and ensure all specifications of the road are followed by the contractor, but to no avail,” said Jagadish Reddy of Varthur Rising. Issue of corruption However, he alleged that when they insist on specifications, contractors talk about rampant corruption and the struggle to make ends meet. “The Contractors’ Association has written to the Prime Minister alleging a whopping 40% kickback, which is clearly being reflected on the condition of the city’s streets and needs immediate addressal,” Mr. Reddy claimed Tanveer Pasha, president, Ola Uber Drivers’ and Owners’ Association, has a wish list for the city’s streets for the coming year: better coordination between agencies to avoid repeated digging, pothole filling to be an everyday exercise and do away with concrete roads. “Half the streets are dug up on any given day making it tough to drive around. It is not hard for us to devise a system such that all agencies install their utilities when the road is dug up once,’ he said. Residents’ groups, especially in outlying areas, have been demanding better coordination for the past two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/citizens-demand-better-roads-more-accountability/article38090555.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:02 IST,KARNATAKA||Many engineering colleges and polytechnics hit by power cuts||Many government engineering colleges and polytechnics in the State have been finding it difficult to conduct classes since December 2020 as their power supply has been disconnected for a month owing to non-payment of electricity bills. While some colleges reported not receiving power for a single day in December, others said they faced cuts for a few days. The situation has become so dire that a few principals have requested the Department of Higher Education for permission to suspend classes till electricity supply resumes. Students worried Students who started physically attending classes only in the latter half of 2020 are worried. “We have not had practical classes for over a month now as there is no electricity to switch on the computers,” said a student of Government S.K.S.J. Technology Institute. “Our college management is using a generator to ensure that the toilets have water. They are also using the generator to ensure that there are lights in the office room as the admission process is under way,” he said. A source in the college said that they have around Rs. 9 lakh bills pending since April 2021 and the department has not given them a budget to run the classes. ‘Waive dues’ College managements said that their respective electricity supply companies are not willing to waive their dues. “We’ve been told electricity will be restored only once the payment is made,” said a college management member. However, a lecturer of one of the government engineering colleges in Karnataka said, “Although we have not paid our bills, we received electricity after our MLA intervened.” Other colleges have not been fortunate. “Lecturers and students are struggling even for theory classes as the rooms do not have enough light,” the lecturer commented. Red tape  Higher Education department officials were unavailable for a comment. But sources in the department The Hindu spoke to said the problem has been made worse by red tape.  “The secretary of the higher education department G Kumar Naik has a concurrent charge of the Energy department and is the director of the Karnataka Power Corporation Limited. The issue can be sorted easily, but the department is not considering this a priority,” alleged a source in the higher education department.  We have not had practical classes for over a month now as there is no electricity to switch on the computers. Student,Govt. S.K.S.J. Technology Institute   We have not had practical classes for over a month now as there is no electricity to switch on the computers. -- Student, Govt. S.K.S.J.Technology Institute||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-engineering-colleges-and-polytechnics-hit-by-power-cuts/article38090568.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||KIADB to allot land to private industries, institutions on 10-year lease-cum-sale basis||Rolling out investor-friendly measures on New Year, theIndustries Department has introduced “10-year lease-cum-sale”of Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) land allotted for industries. The State Cabinet recently cleared a proposal to amend the KIADB provisions where clear titles (sale deed) of the allotted land will be handed over to industrialists once the allottees successfully run the project for two years. Addressing concerns of industries and reluctance of many investors to make investments in the State due to the existing policy, Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani said KIADB in future will allot all land to private industries/institutions on 10-year lease-cum-sale basis. “Rules are being framed for the new scheme and a full-fledged Government Order is expected to be issued in a few weeks,” Mr. Nirani said in a release. Before bring up the issue at the Cabinet meeting in Belagavi, the policy had been discussed threadbare with senior officials of the Industries Department and other stakeholders last August and September. Several major private companies were reluctant to set up industries as KIADB used to allot land beyond two acres of area only on 99-year lease basis. There was never a provision for sale of the allotted land. The earlier clause was posing difficulties for industries to obtain loan and capital inflow from banks and financial institutions and also to mortgage the leased land. This had hampered the flow of investments into the State, the release said. Through the proposed amendment, if any industrial unit successfully runs for two years soon after the land allotment, they will qualify for getting clear sale deed title from KIADB without waiting for 10 years. The department through its officials and experts will monitor the 24-month balance sheet of the industry that claims to have run the project successfully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kiadb-to-allot-land-to-private-industries-institutions-on-10-year-lease-cum-sale-basis/article38090581.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:02 IST,KARNATAKA||Resorts on city outskirts raided||Despite COVID-19 cases rising and restrictions on public gatherings and New Year’s Eve celebrations, a couple of resorts on the outskirts of the city went ahead and hosted parties for guests. The police raided two resorts in Chickballapur and Ramanagaram for allegedly organising parties in violation of the rules. At one of the resorts in Chickballapur, police arrested eight persons including management staff. In the second instance, the Ramanagaram police booked the owner and the staff of a resort near Kanva reservoir for organising a New Year party. “We found over 50 tents pitched in and around the resort to house guests. A DJ had been organised for the event and the resort had taken online bookings in advance. We announced that the party was in violation of the night curfew and asked everyone to wind up and go home. We started folding up the tens,” said a police officer. The raid resulted in confusion as guests ran out of their tents with their belongings. In both cases, the owners of the resorts have been charged. In Bengaluru, too, the police stepped up vigil to enforce night curfew. Additional personnel were deployed in CBD to deter crowds from gathering at popular spots. “We stepped up vigil in and around the area to monitor the flow of people towards M.G. Road and Brigade Junction where a large crowd was expected,” said a police official. As many as 318 vehicles including 280 two-wheelers were seized on Friday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/resorts-on-city-outskirts-raided/article38090567.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:01 IST,KARNATAKA||Three-year-old boy run over by earth mover on construction site||A three-year-old boy was killed on the spot when an earth mover ran over him at a construction site on Dhanvantri Road early Saturday morning. The toddler’s parents lived on the site. According to the police, his father David John worked as a watchman at the construction site. “It was his job to take care of the vehicles and the construction material. The family lives in a makeshift house at the site,” said a police officer. The accident occurred around 5.30 a.m. when David went out of the house to inspect the site as the workers had arrived. The child, Simian, who was sleeping, woke up and came out of the shed. Neither David nor his wife realised that the boy had woken up. “Simian sat close to an earth mover and started playing,” the police officer added. Meanwhile, the driver of the vehicle, identified as Shankar Nayak, started the earth mover. He did not see Simian and began reversing it. The child came under the wheels of the earth mover. A few labourers told the police they heard a cry and rushed to the spot, but by then it was too late. The Upparpet police, who arrived at the construction site soon after, arrested Nayak and booked him under death due to negligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-year-old-boy-run-over-by-earth-mover-on-construction-site/article38090551.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:01 IST,KARNATAKA||Ejipura flyover project delay riles residents||It’s been more than three years since the civic body began work on the 2.5 km long Ejipura-Kendriya Sadan flyover, but there appears to be no end in sight. Work on the flyover seems to be progressing at a snail’s pace. Sources said there are fears it will come to a grinding halt as the company in charge of the project is allegedly in a tight spot financially. Following a recent protest by residents of Koramangala led by BTM Layout MLA Ramalinga Reddy against the inordinate delay in the work, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta held a review meeting on Tuesday, where changing the contractor was also reportedly discussed. BBMP had earlier considered cancelling the contract and calling a new tender in April 2021. However, a final decision is yet to be taken on the issue, sources said. Residents, however, are at their wits’ end over the delay. “We have suffered enough and given the civic body a long rope. We want the work to be either speeded up or let them change the contractor and complete the flyover at the earliest,” Mr. Reddy said. A Kolkata-based firm Simplex Infrastructure Ltd. bagged the contract for the flyover and work orders were issued in May 2017, with a deadline of 30 months to finish the project. However, the pandemic grounded the work, sources in BBMP said. In July 2021, BBMP made an escrow account after it found the payments it made had been diverted by the company, after which work picked up pace but has now again slowed down. “The company is facing financial difficulties and has very low working capital,” said Lokesh, chief engineer (projects), BBMP. Nithin Sheshadri, one of the residents of Koramangala, said,“The company is facing financial difficulties, a common trope across sectors post the pandemic. But the civic body should at least clear all pending bills in time to help the company finish the project,” he said, adding that changing the contractor would be a legal tangle. Residents are demanding that the civic chief monitor the project every two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ejipura-flyover-project-delay-riles-residents/article38090549.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:01 IST,KARNATAKA||Armed men loot businessman’s house||A gang of armed men under the guise of police officers conducted a ‘raid’ on a businessman at his residence in Mahalakshmi Layout. They barged into the house on Friday evening, held the businessman and his family members at gunpoint and robbed valuables while pretending to conduct a search of the premises. The incident occurred at around 5 p.m. The gang members claimed they were police officers from Tiptur Town station. They claimed the operation was in connection with a theft case. The gang accused the owner of receiving stolen property. “The family took some time to recover from their shock and later realised that something was amiss. They approached the police immediately,” said a police officer. When the Mahalakshmi Layout police cross-checked with their counterparts at Tiptur Town police station, they realised that the family had been robbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/armed-men-loot-businessmans-house/article38090546.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:02 IST,KARNATAKA||Saffron flags removed from bus||The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) removed saffron flags from one of its buses following a complaint by a passenger. The flags had a design of a religious symbol, and had been strung inside the bus. A commuter posted images on his Twitter handle on December 31 with the message: “Saffronization is spreading vastly in every Sector. Communalizing govt vehicles will leave a bad Impact on its fellow citizens.” He tagged the Chief Minister and the Transport Minister in his tweet. After receiving the complaint, BMTC removed the flags. A BMTC official said it was wrong to put religious flags inside a public service bus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/saffron-flags-removed-from-bus/article38090571.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||Challenges ahead, but we cannot simply impose curbs and sit back: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai extended New Year greetings to officials of the Government and said 2022 will be a challenging year on the economic and administrative fronts. The Chief Minister said: “We have to prepare for a possible third wave of COVID-19 along with pushing the economy forward. We cannot simply impose restrictions and sit back. We need to face it with various other strategies. We have to work with greater vigour to tackle it.” He asked officials to cut down on wasteful expenditure in their respective departments. As for the revenue generating departments, he wanted them to raise their efficiency to improve the State’s finances. “We should face the challenge with a positive attitude. Good thinking leads to good work. Good work paves the way for a good life. Love your work, which will bring good results,” Mr. Bommai said. “Ours is a Government that had the least interference in the administration over the last five months. Work according to your conscience. Let your experience prove helpful for the poor,” he said. Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar, DG&IGP Praveen Sood, and other senior officials participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/challenges-ahead-but-we-cannot-simply-impose-curbs-and-sit-back-cm/article38090577.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||PM-Kisan Samman scheme: Rs. 685 crore released to State||A grant of Rs. 685 crore was released to Karnataka by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday under the PM-Kisan Samman scheme, benefiting 34.26 lakh farmers in the State. A sum of Rs. 8,707.97 crore was released to 54.52 lakh farming families in the State since first instalment in 2018-19 till the 10th instalment in 2022. Under the scheme, implemented in February 2019, annual assistance of Rs. 6,000 is transferred to eligible farmers’ bank accounts in three instalments. The State has performed the highest percentage of Aadhaar-based DBT transactions in February 2021. The status of farming families who are beneficiaries of the scheme as part of continuous monitoring are being frequently reviewed by the State, the release said. During an event held through videoconferencing, Mr. Modi also released an equity grant of over Rs. 14 crore to about 351 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) under the scheme. In Karnataka, a grant of Rs. 1.21 crore was released benefiting 30 FPOs having 12,047 members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pm-kisan-samman-scheme-rs-685-crore-released-to-state/article38090575.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||Kannada Book Authority announces 50% rebate||Kannada Book Authority has announced rebate of 50% on all its books during January to mark Republic Day. The rebate will be available at Sirigannada book stall at Kannada Bhavana in Bengaluru, book stalls of offices of Assistant Directors of Kannada and Culture Department in all districts, besides stalls of Kannada Book Authority in different areas, said a release. It is also available on online purchase throughwww.kannadapustaka pradhikara.com. The Authority has so far published over 458 titles of Kannada books.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-book-authority-announces-50-rebate/article38090579.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:01 IST,KARNATAKA||Constable suspended||A police constable attached to Siddapura station has been suspended for allegedly having links with a drug peddler who had been arrested by the police recently. The constable’s involvement came to light when the police analysed the phones of the accused drug peddler. “We recently arrested a drug peddler identified as Sanaulla. To our shock, we found the police constable’s name on the contact lis.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/constable-suspended/article38090547.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:02 IST,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown tomorrow||There will be no power supply on Monday (January 3) from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in view of work related to conversion of overhead lines into UG/AB cable. According to a press release from Bescom, Bengaluru West Circle, the areas that will be affected are: Andrahalli Circle, Surana Nagar, Sapthagiri Layout, Syndicate Bank Layout, Annapoorneshwari Layout, D Group, 5th Block, Tank Bund Road, Herohalli lake and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown-tomorrow/article38090559.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:02 IST,KARNATAKA||RIT celebrates Freshers’ Day||Ramaiah Institute of Technology, on Friday, celebrated Freshers’ Day and also inaugurated the commencement of First Year B.E/B. Arch classes. Prof. H.P. Khincha, Chairman, Karnataka State Innovation Council and former Vice Chancellor of VTU, Belagavi, was the chief guest. According to a release from RIT, in his keynote address, Mr. Khincha called upon the present-day engineering students to equip themselves with the emerging trends. Giving various insights to emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence and machine learning, he emphasised the significance of the basics and fundamentals which are crucial to become a multidisciplinary engineer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rit-celebrates-freshers-day/article38090558.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:02 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. officials transferred||The State Government on Saturday transferred Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Department Secretary Capt. Manivannan P. and posted him as Secretary to Minority Welfare Department. Salma K. Fahim, Secretary to Government, Infrastructure Development Department, has been transferred with immediate effect and has been posted as Secretary to Government, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Department. B.H. Anil Kumar, Additional Chief Secretary to Government, Department of Public Enterprises, has been given the concurrent charge of the post of Additional Chief Secretary to Government Infrastructure Development Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-officials-transferred/article38090570.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:02 IST,KARNATAKA||Minister tests positive for COVID-19||Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. He is currently under home isolation. The Minister on Saturday tweeted, “I’ve tested positive for COVID-19 today with mild symptoms. I have quarantined myself and taking all the necessary precautions and medication required. I would request those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested at the earliest.” Sources in his office said that they have asked all his contacts to get tested. The Minister on Friday had attended several programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article38090566.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Will look into deaths among municipal workers, says Hassan DC||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish has said the district administration will look into the series of deaths among municipal workers in Hassan. The administration will hold regular health check-up of the employees and provide them with necessary safety gadgets. Speaking to presspersons in Hassan on Saturday, the DC said municipal workers’ death due to health reasons at a young age was a serious issue. “They have been our frontline workers in our fight against COVID-19. I will talk to the City Municipal Council commissioner and check if health check-up of the employees was done regularly,” he said. The Hindu had carried a report on recent deaths of municipal workers in Hassan. Within a week two workers, below the age of 40 had died in Hassan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-look-into-deaths-among-municipal-workers-hassan-dc/article38090563.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:56 IST,KARNATAKA||79,000 children to be vaccinated||Hassan district administration has planned to vaccinate 79,000 children between the age of 15 and 18 in four days beginning on Monday. The officers have identified students in colleges and schools, eligible for vaccination, as per the latest guidelines from the State Government. Hassan Deputy Commissioner R.Girish, in a press conference in Hassan on Saturday, said the children would get two doses of Covaxin with a gap of 28 days. “We have identified over 33,000 students in 175 schools and 45,000 students in 564 colleges and over 1,000 dropouts eligible for vaccination. The officers have worked out a plan to complete the vaccination drive within four days”, he said. The health workers would set up vaccination centres at schools and colleges. As per the protocol, the centres would be set up in three rooms, each room waiting, vaccination and observation. Each student would be kept under observation for 30 minutes after vaccination, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/79000-children-to-be-vaccinated/article38090928.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:36 IST,KARNATAKA||People fed up with BJP misrule in State, says MLC||KPCC Working President and MLC Saleem Ahmed has said that fed up with the misrule and administrative failures of the BJP, people have begun favouring the Congress and the recent results of the elections to the urban local bodies are proof of it. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Saturday, Mr. Saleem Ahmed said that the Congress had won 11 seats in the Legislative Council elections, while losing two seats with a low margin. “But when the vote share is taken into consideration, the Congress has secured 48% of the votes compared to 41% votes polled by the BJP,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-fed-up-with-bjp-misrule-in-state-says-mlc/article38090786.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||MUDA to increase green cover to 33%||Mangaluru Urban Development Authority has planned to increase green cover in the city to 33% in the next 18 months, said MUDA Chairman Ravishankar Mijar here on Saturday. Speaking at the inauguration of Vivekananda Vrukshalaya on the Ramakrishna Mutt premises here, Mr. Mijar said that the city at present has green cover of 23%. “By the end of my term in another 18 months, we have planned to add 10% green cover and take it to the national average of 33%,” he said. MUDA, he said, has proposed to have tree parks at 83 places in the city. At 10 places, the authority has proposed to have Miyawaki Forest. Mr. Mijar said that in another 15 days the authority will start greening the median between Lady Hill Circle and Kottara Chowki. MUDA has expressed willingness to take up development of Kadri Park, Deer Park and the Skating Rink, which will increase footfall in these three main lung spaces in the city. It has proposed to Mangaluru Smart City Limited to increase green cover in eight wards of the city, he said. Range Forest Officer Prashant Pai said that the department has identified 52 vacant spaces in the city where greening can be taken up. Earlier, Padma Shri award-winning environmentalist Tulasi Gowda inaugurated the Miyakawi Forest, Vivekananda Vrushalaya. This is the second Miyakawi Forest on the mutt premises. In her short speech, Ms. Gowda, who belongs to the Halakki tribe, said that she has planted over a lakh tree saplings in forest and residential areas. She was not in a position now to plant saplings in that scale. Head of Ramakrishna Mutt Mangaluru Sri Jithakamananda Swami also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muda-to-increase-green-cover-to-33/article38090917.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Man arrested as he lands at airport from Dubai||The Mangaluru East Police arrested Shamsuddin (55), a native of Hejamady, in connection with a case registered against him in 2019 for issuing a life threat. The police said that Shamshuddin was accused of calling H.B. Mohammed, president of Kannangaru Jumma Masjid, from Dubai and threatening him in connection with a case of financial misappropriation. On Friday night, Shamsuddin landed at the international airport in Mangaluru from Dubai and the airport security personnel apprehended him. After receiving information, Manglauru East Police went to the airport and arrested him. He was produced on Saturday before the jurisdictional court which enlarged him on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-as-he-lands-at-airport-from-dubai/article38090916.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:02 IST,KARNATAKA||CID to probe assault during mehendi celebrations||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra announced that the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) will probe the alleged police assault on the bridegroom and other members of a family of Koraga tribesmen at Kota in Udupi district on December 27, and the complaint filed by the police against the bridegroom and six others in connection with the incident. The inquiry will bring out the truth and police personnel, if found at fault, will face strict disciplinary action, as their alleged conduct has brought a black mark on the State police force. Each of the nine injured victims will get compensation of Rs. 2 lakh from the State Government, Mr. Jnanendra said on January 1 after visiting the family at Kotathattu village. Talking to reporters, Mr. Jnanendra said he is pained over the reported lathicharge by Sub-Inspector B.P. Santosh and six other personnel on bridegroom Rajesh and others who had gathered for the mehendi function on the night of December 27. “I know the Koraga community people quite closely. Mehendi function is a rarity in this community, which is known for their law-abiding nature. It appears the police unnecessarily assaulted Rajesh and others,” he said. A couple of days after the alleged incident, a police constable appears to have filed a false complaint against Rajesh and six others accusing them of assaulting police and obstructing the latter from discharging their duty, he said. Mr. Jnanendra has directed DG&IGP Praveen Sood to get the matter investigated by the CID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cid-to-probe-assault-during-mehendi-celebrations/article38090562.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Cleanliness drive at Thota Bengre||Padma Shri award winner Harekala Hajabba has said that when every village and town remains clean, the nation becomes clean. He was speaking after inaugurating a mega cleanliness drive jointly organised by Nehru Yuva Kendra, National Cadet Corps and Mangaluru City Corporation at Thota Bengre near here. Mr. Hajabba said that everyone has a responsibility to keep Mangaluru clean by joining hands together in the effort. NCC Commanding Officer of 189 KAR Battalion Col. Nithin Bhide said that the cleanliness drive should not be restricted for a day but it has to continue every day across the neighbourhood, including places of tourist importance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cleanliness-drive-at-thota-bengre/article38090919.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Pocket calendar||The Udupi Zilla Panchayat has released a pocket calendar with a message on waste segregation in association with a Bengaluru-based NGO, Saahas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pocket-calendar/article38090918.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Temples see rush on first day of New Year||The first day of the New Year saw a surge in the number of people visiting temples in and around Mysuru on Saturday. Chamundeshwari Temple atop Chamundi Hills was packed with devotees, while a similar rush was witnessed at Sri Srikanteshwara temple a Nanjangud. For many it is an annual ritual to kickstart the New Year with a visit to the temples while there were as many people who make it a point to visit temples on Saturdays, which added to the huge numbers. The crowd atop Chamundi Hills was near normal till around 9 a.m. after which the number of devotees swelled forcing the authorities to issue special darshan tickets which were sold out within minutes. The Yoga Narasimhaswamy temple at Vijayanagar was open to the devotees from dawn and people made a beeline. The temple authorities continued with the tradition of preparing and distributing ladoos to every visit and about 2 lakh were prepared and distributed as ‘’prasada’. The Maruti Temple in T.K. Layout was packed with devotees since morning and there were similar crowds at other temples including Sri Lakshmivenkataramanaswamy temple at Vontikoppal, Sri Chandramouleshwara temple opposite the Mathrumandali Circle, the 101 Ganapathi temple at Agrahara etc. Apart from devotees, there were tourists adding to the surge at the Sriranganathaswamy temple at Srirangapatana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temples-see-rush-on-first-day-of-new-year/article38090927.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:56 IST,KARNATAKA||44.5 lakh doses of vaccine administered since last year||About 44.5 lakh doses of vaccines have been administered in Mysuru since last year and this includes 23.91 lakh of first doses and 20.57 lakh of second doses. The vaccination for those aged between 15 and 18 is commencing from January 3 [Monday]. A total of 1,47,279 students have been identified for vaccination based on the information from various educational institutions. The Health Department has roped in 100 vaccination teams which will be visiting the educational institutions, said a note from the District Health Officer. Based on the available resources and the targeted population, the department hopes to vaccinate the age group within 15 days, after preparing a schedule of vaccination in discussion with the Departments of Pre University Education and Public Instruction. “It’s a must that the child’s Aadhaar number and the parents’ mobile number are made available at the time of registratio,” said the DHO, while seeking parents’ support to realising the mission. Children born in and before 2007 and those who have dropped out of school are eligible, the DHO said. Mysuru was among the first few districts that steadily expanded its vaccination coverage and once topped the State. Health workers here have set themselves a target of vaccinating at least 10,000 people every day for achieving 90% and above second dose coverage at the earliest. The campaign has been stepped up with the health workers making doorstep visits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/445-lakh-doses-of-vaccine-administered-since-last-year/article38090923.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:56 IST,KARNATAKA||MP questions need to raise marriageable age of women||Rajya Sabha member L. Hanumanthaiah has questioned the need for the Centre to increase the legal age of marriage for women in the country from the existing 18 to 21. Addressing a press conference in Mysuru on Saturday, Mr, Hanumanthaiah, a Congress leader, pointed out that several adivasis and weaker sections of the society were unaware of the legal marriageable age of women while several marriages of girls under 18 years were being held in different parts of the country. “Under such circumstances, is it necessary at all to increase the minimum legal age for marriage of women to 21?”, he said. Also, Mr. Hanumanthaiah sought to know from the Government whether there was any study on ideal age of marriage for women that is backed by science. He also asked the Government to make public any demand for the increasing the legal marriageable age. The Centre’s proposal to increase the marriageable age would only lead to more people doing the rounds of police stations and courts for violating the law, he regretted and urged the Government to constitute a parliamentary committee to study the need. Accusing the BJP Governments at the Centre and the State of taking up “bogus” issues while remaining silent on the real problems, Mr. Hanumanthaiah pointed out that there were others that required the immediate attention. Similiarly, he said the Karnataka Right to Freedom of Religion Bill 2021 is also an excuse to divert the attention of the people. He sought to know from the Government if there is any data to show if the population of the minorities has increased because of alleged forceful conversion. On the contrary, he said the population of Christians has come down. Contending that the introduction of such a Bill was not part of the Government’s work, Mr Hanumanthaiah accused it of implementing the agenda of RSS. The penal provision in the Bill were an “insult” to the lower castes, Mr. Hanumanthaiah said and observed that the Bill provided for 10 years imprisonment while even a life sentence is only upto seven years. He criticised the Centre for not allowing a discussion in the Parliament when the three farm Bills were withdrawn. “As a responsible Opposition, we wanted to know the reasons to withdraw the Bills,” he said before pointing out that the Opposition wanted to know whether the Government would stick to the reasons it had cited at the time of introducing the bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mp-questions-need-to-raise-marriageable-age-of-women/article38090925.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:36 IST,KARNATAKA||Narasimha Naik, MLA, bereaved||Shambanagowda, father of Shorapur BJP MLA Narasimha Naik (Rajugowda), died at his residence in Shorapur on Saturday. He was 75. Shambanagowda is survived by two sons, including Mr. Naik, and a daughter. His wife, Timmamma, died one-and-a-half years ago. Shambanagowda was suffering from health issues, including paralysis. He was an employee of Excise Department and had taken retirement. The cremation will be organised on Sunday in Kodekal, native place of Mr. Naik, family sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/narasimha-naik-mla-bereaved/article38090785.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:02 IST,KARNATAKA||State’s single-day spike breaches 1,000 mark||As many as 354 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 29,60,615. The State now has 9,386 active patients of which nearly 84% (7,876) are from Bengaluru Urban. Five deaths With the five deaths, the State’s toll rose to 38,340. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.86%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.48%. The State’s average test positivity rate (TPR) in the last seven days stood at 0.53%. Two districts — Kodagu and Bengaluru Urban — have reported a TPR that is above the State average with 1.11% and 0.93% respectively. While Bidar, Haveri, Koppal and Raichur have recorded zero TPR in the last seven days, Yadgir, Bagalkote and Gadag have recorded 0.01% TPR each. As many as 1,19,225 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 97,127 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,65,87,422.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/states-single-day-spike-breaches-1000-mark/article38090569.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:02 IST,KARNATAKA||Fresh start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fresh-start/article38090557.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||Out in the cold||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/out-in-the-cold/article38090586.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Govt. aims to make State electronics hub: Minister||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government aims to make Kerala an electronics production hub, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve has said. He was speaking at a function organised to hand over a sonar array, which forms part of Mareech — an advanced anti-torpedo decoy system, manufactured by the Kerala State Electronics Development Corporation (Keltron) at Aroor in Alappuzha on Saturday. Keltron produced the sonar array using the technology developed by the Naval Physical and Oceanographic Laboratory (NPOL) under the Defence Research and Development Organisation). Mr. Rajeeve said the government would establish the electronics hub centred on Keltron. “The government is implementing various projects to strengthen the public sector. We are in the process of examining the master plans of public sector companies, including Keltron,” he said. N.Narayanamoorthy, Chairman and Managing Director, Keltron, handed over a prototype of the sonar array to NPOL Director S. Vijayan Pillai. Mareech is capable of detecting, locating, and neutralising incoming torpedoes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-be-electronics-hub-rajeeve/article38090841.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:09 IST,KERALA||Dialysis unit at Thuravoor taluk hospital||The State has made strides in improving its health infrastructure in recent years, Health Minister Veena George has said. She was virtually inaugurating a modern dialysis unit at the Government Taluk Hospital, Thuravoor, on Saturday. The dialysis unit has 15 machines, including 10 newly acquired ones. The building for the unit was constructed at a cost of Rs. 1.65 crore sanctioned by A.M. Ariff, when he was an MLA representing the Aroor constituency. Officials said ten dialysis machines, dialysis chairs, beds, and reverse osmosis plants were bought using funds sanctioned under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dialysis-unit-at-thuravoor-taluk-hospital/article38090894.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||Ranjith murder: three more held||The police on Saturday arrested three persons, including two assailants, in the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) OBC Morcha State secretary Ranjith Sreenivas. The police have not yet revealed the names of the two assailants but identified them as Social Democratic Party of India activists from Alappuzha. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Alappuzha, N.R. Jayaraj said they were nabbed from other districts. The duo were directly involved in the killing of Ranjith and revealing their identity would impact the probe. The third person booked has been identified as Saifudeen, 48, of Valiyamaram in Alappuzha. The police said he had taken part in the murder conspiracy. The police also arrested a Punnapra native, Mohammed Badusha, for providing SIM cards using fake documents to the assailants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ranjith-murder-three-more-held/article38090864.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||GCC begins preparation for civic elections||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started preparations for monitoring vulnerable and critical polling booths as the local body elections are expected to be announced anytime after January 7. Over 61 lakh voters in 200 wards in the 426 sq km of Chennai are expected to elect 200 councillors, including the Mayor and Deputy Mayor in a few months. Following Madras High Court orders, the Corporation has started making arrangements for web streaming of polling booths categorised as vulnerable and critical. Arrangements have been made for video recording the proceedings in all polling booths. According to data of Assembly elections held in 2021 in Chennai, 648 polling booths are considered vulnerable and critical. This number is expected to rise to 850 after the inclusion of additional wards that are part of added areas. The exact figure will be known after the civic body holds another meeting with the police officials in the next few days. Vulnerable polling booths are identified based on the reports about the presence of anti-social elements in the neighbourhood and the occurrence of untoward incidents during past elections. Critical booths are identified based on the votes polled, with usually high (more than 90%) polling during the previous elections or the dominance of a single candidate in previous elections. Micro observers A few days ago, the civic body held a meeting with senior officials of banks to mobilise micro observers for vulnerable and critical polling booths. At least 1,00 bank managers are expected to be drafted for overall supervision of vulnerable and critical polling booths during the local body elections. The Corporation plans to prepare a draft list of 34,870 personnel for election duty. At least 28,000 personnel are expected to man the 5,794 booths in Chennai. Ward 159 in Alandur zone has the least number of electors, with only 3,116 on the rolls. Ward 137 in Kodambakkam has the highest number of electors, with 58,620 residents set to elect their councillor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gcc-begins-preparation-for-civic-polls/article38090596.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:11 IST,KERALA||Reconsider Wayanad dam plans: greens||Environmental organisations have urged the government to reconsider its plan to construct two more big dams in environmentally fragile regions in Wayanad. The announcement by Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine that the government was seriously considering constructing two dams across the Thondar and Chundalippuzha rivers in the district was against public interest as people in the areas had already stated that they would conserve their land and water at any cost, said Wayanad Prakruthi Samiti president N. Badusha. Crores of rupees had been spent for constructing two huge reservoirs like Karapuzha and Banasura Sagar to utilise water awarded to the State by the Cauvery tribunal around five decades ago. Those projects were yet to be materialised but they could eliminate the social and ecological stability of the hill district, said Mr. Badusha. They stood as monuments of corruption, maladministration, and cheating of the farming community, he added. Karapuzha project The Karapuzha irrigation project envisaged a dam across the Karapuzha, a tributary of the Cauvery, a reservoir and channels to irrigate 5,221 hectares of land in nine panchayat areas of three taluks in the district. As many as 1,238 hectares of 1,250 hectares of land have been acquired for the reservoir and 126 hectares of land for the construction of channels. Work started in 1980 with the approval of the Planning Commission coming in 1978. Preliminary estimate The preliminary estimate was Rs. 7.6 crore for the completion of the project. Though more than Rs. 500 crore had been spent on the project, the construction work of irrigation canals was yet to be completed, said Mr. Badusha. Now, the Minister has said that the construction work of 25 km of the 129 km of the water canal had been completed. Moreover, a huge amount had been earmarked in the budget for augmenting the water storage capacity of the reservoir and the completion of the canals. The Banasura Sagar dam was a water bomb as many a time the reservoir created flood-like situation during monsoon in the district, he said. The government got sanction from the Central Water Commission on the assurance that 30% of the water would be used for irrigation purposes, but not a single drop was used for irrigation, he added. The government should give priority to rejuvenating water sources in the district, instead of constructing more dams in the ecologically fragile region by spending a huge amount, said Mr. Badusha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-urged-to-reconsider-wayanad-dams-plan/article38090835.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||Over 500 surveillance cameras to be set up in Greater Kochi area||Even as the Rs. 27-crore Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS) of Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) launched in October last year to streamline traffic flow and penalise rule violators is yet to become fully automated, efforts are on to increase the number of surveillance cameras in the Greater Kochi area from 100 at present to 500 by April. The agency will ensure their upkeep for the first five years, following which law enforcement agencies will be tasked with their maintenance. They also help the police combat and detect crimes. The CCTVs installed under ITMS on the Fort Kochi-NH Bypass stretch had helped the police gather visuals on the mystery behind the death of two models in a car accident at Chakkaraparambu near Palarivattom on the NH Bypass on November 1, sources said. The high-resolution, night-vision cameras installed at Thevara and Kadavanthra are capable of automatically detecting rule violations, including jumping red light at signal points. They will soon be linked to the Vahan portal which has data of all vehicles, to automatically generate challans. Detection of multiple rule violations will lead to suspension of driving licence. They will shortly be installed at High Court Junction and Madhava Pharmacy Junction, once Banerjee Road is resurfaced. For now, the police are issuing manual challans based on visuals and snap shot of vehicles taken from CCTVs. The ITMS control room at Revenue Tower is manned by 10 police personnel in multiple shifts. “The challaning system will shortly shift to the fully automated mode. This will act as a bigger deterrent for rule violators,” said Vinod Pillai, Assistant Commissioner of Police, City Traffic Police (West). The automated system relies on Artificial Intelligence-enabled cameras to keep track of rule violators and traffic pattern.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-500-surveillance-cameras-to-be-set-up-in-greater-kochi-area/article38090844.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||Pro-Chancellor can exercise powers: lawyer||The provision in the Kerala University Act that the Pro-Chancellor shall exercise the power and perform all the functions of the Chancellor in his absence or inability to act could apply as Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has expressed his unwillingness to be the Chancellor of State universities, according to Kaleeswaram Raj, a lawyer at the Supreme Court of India.  “His absence as Chancellor of State universities is a reality now. The provision in the Act has to be interpreted purposively to ensure that no vacuum is created,” he told The Hindu amidst the continuing deadlock after the Governor announced his decision to relinquish the post of Chancellor, alleging political interference by the LDF government over the appointment of Vice Chancellors. R. Bindu, Minister for Higher Education, is the Pro-Chancellor of Kerala University.  ‘On his own volition’ Stating that the enactment should be given a meaning that serves the purpose for which it is made, Mr. Kaleeswaram Raj pointed out that an absence is created by the Governor on his own volition. “Given the stipulations contained in the statutory provision, you will have to interpret the rule in such a way that the vacuum is filled up by a person who is named in the enactment,” he said. On reports that the Governor as Chancellor had recommended the Kerala University Vice Chancellor to confer honorary DLitt on President Ram Nath Kovind, Mr. Kaleeswaram Raj said the role of the Governor, as Chancellor, was not Constitutional. “It’s only a statutory role. Therefore, you cannot rely on the Constitution to define the matters where the Governor can exercise the power. What remains is the statutory provision, which says that he will be the Chancellor,” he said. “As Chancellor, he can make a recommendation or a suggestion, but not anything more. That recommendation or a suggestion will not be binding on the university as it is a decision that lies with the other bodies of the university and to be delivered as per the provisions of the Act,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pro-chancellor-can-exercise-powers-lawyer/article38090867.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||Woman, two children found dead||A woman, aged 36, and her two children, aged five and eight, were allegedly killed by her husband who unsuccessfully attempted to take his own life at their house on K.P. Vallon Road here. Narayanan, 41, who was allegedly found with self-inflicted wounds, was rushed to a nearby hospital where his condition was said to be stable. The South police have registered a case charging him with murder. The shocking incident came to light after the woman’s brother dropped in at her house around 9 a.m. He found his sister and two children motionless, while her husband showed signs of life. Following that, he alerted the South police. Though the woman and her children were rushed to hospital, they were declared brought dead. “The accused had served his wife and children with sleeping pills. But as they proved ineffective, he strangulated them. He also had sleeping pills and tried to strangulate himself unsuccessfully. He then cut his neck and hands probably with a blade,” the police said. The police suspect that piling debts probably led the accused to commit the crime. He was a wholesale dealer of flowers, which he used to procure from Tamil Nadu. His business then reportedly nosedived into debt following successive floods. He had approached his brother-in-law the previous day seeking financial help but was turned away. The brother-in-law rang up the accused on Saturday and demanded that his children be put on line only to be told that they were sleeping. “He felt something amiss, as the accused sounded evasive,” the police said. His arrest will be recorded, and he will be produced in court once he is discharged. Helpline - 0484-2540530||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-two-children-found-dead/article38090848.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:11 IST,KERALA||Venkaiah hails islands’ shift to green energy||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu inaugurated two colleges of arts and sciences on Kadmat and Androth islands on his first State visit to the Union Territory of Lakshadweep. He lauded the Lakshadweep administration for its ban on single-use plastic and shifting to green energy, said a communication from the Press Information Bureau here on Saturday. The Vice President, who is on a two-day tour of Lakshadweep, was received by Administrator Praful Patel. He was also accorded a guard of honour. Islands’ uniqueness Addressing a gathering at Kadmat on Saturday, Mr. Naidu expressed happiness at his first official visit to the islands as Vice President. He said Lakshadweep boasts a unique confluence of ancient cultural heritage and pristine natural beauty, and that he was humbled by the hospitality of its people. Praising the beauty of Lakshadweep, he said everyone must try to visit the islands at least once in their lifetime. Inaugurating the colleges, Mr. Naidu said the courses being offered would help students of the islands, especially girls, overcome geographical constraints and pursue quality higher education. Employability The Vice President is also the Chancellor of Pondicherry University to which the colleges are affiliated. He also advised the administration to start more courses in skill development to enhance the employability of youth. Highlighting the immense eco-tourism and fisheries potential of Lakshadweep, he called upon youth to utilise courses offered in aquaculture, tourism, and hospitality and strive for excellence in the sectors where they have a natural advantage. Lakshadweep Administrator Praful Patel, Mohammed Faizal P.P., MP; Gurmeet Singh, Vice Chancellor, Pondicherry University; senior officials, students, and teachers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lakshadweeps-shift-to-green-energy-lauded/article38090845.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||Police encounter hilarious scenes during night curfew enforcement||It was well past midnight on Friday, and the city roads were largely deserted with the New Year revelry dampened by night curfew. A patrol team from the Palarivattom station spotted a youngster standing outside a women’s hostel with a motorcycle by his side. He had come to meet his lover, a resident of the hostel. The girl, however, did a vanishing act as soon as she saw the police vehicle leaving him stranded. It emerged that he had come all the way from Palakkad just to deliver his lover New Year wishes. The police were, of course, unimpressed by his gesture to impress the girl. He soon found himself at the station where he was slapped with a fine before being allowed to go. He then had to trudge back to fetch his motorcycle before taking the long journey back to Palakkad. The police engaged in the rather serious business of curfew enforcement came across many more such hilarious situations. A middle-aged man was lying on the road. His two friends were desperately trying to get him back to his feet though he appeared way too drunk. But then the police jeep appeared, and the man sprang back to his feet and simply fled leaving his friends dumbstruck. To make matters worse, they were slapped with a fine. In Santhipuram Colony, residents had assembled. When the police tried to send them back home, a youngster bemoaned how a New Year comes only once a year, and that they be allowed to at least burst crackers. The residents promised the police that they would keep things under control, and the police left it at that. In another part of the city, the police waved down a cab. The passenger said he was a journalist and was returning home after night shift. The officer then burst into a monologue over how wrong it was for media personnel themselves to violate the curfew despite reporting about it. The journalist had to gently remind him that he had to be outside to report, and now that he had done his job, he had to return home. People, however, more or less complied with the curfew, said an officer at the Kadavanthra station. And, in the case of violators, the police used a mix of coercion and persuasion with a fine thrown in to keep things under check.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-encounter-hilarious-scenes-during-night-curfew-enforcement/article38090847.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||Traffic regulations in city for VP’s visit||The Kochi City police have enforced traffic restrictions on Sunday in connection with the visit of Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu. The police said restrictions on Banerjee Road and Civil Line Road would kick in from 12 p.m. and will be in place till 6 p.m. Commuters headed to Ernakulam through Kalamassery via Civil Line Road and Banerjee Road should take the Pookattupady-Edappally Toll-Elamakkara/BTS Road. Those travelling through Sea Port-Airport from Thripunithura and Infopark regions should take the Eachamukku-Palachuvadu Road-Vennala-Bypass-Vyttila route to reach Ernakulam, while those headed to Ernakulam from Aluva should take the Container Terminal Road. Those proceeding to Ernakulam from Alappuzha should use the Vyttila-SA Road. Those heading towards Aluva and Edappally from Kaloor and Thammanam should take the flyover after reaching the Thammanam-Palarivattom bypass, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-regulations-in-city-for-vps-visit/article38090846.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||Car gutted at Vyttila, passenger safe||A car caught fire while being driven at Vyttila on Saturday around 6.30 a.m. The owner of the sedan was on his way to Thrissur when the fire broke out in the front portion of the vehicle near Gold Souk mall. The owner managed to storm out before the flames spread. Traffic between Vyttila and Gold Souk was held up for a while, as the incident happened right in the middle of the road. Electrical short circuit is suspected to have triggered the fire. Two units of fire tenders from the Gandhinagar station rushed to the spot and doused the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/car-gutted-at-vyttila-passenger-safe/article38090852.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||171 persons detained in special drive||The Ernakulam Rural police detained 171 persons in a special drive held on Friday night to enforce curfew between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. and keep New Year revelry in check. The drive spearheaded by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik was targeted at anti-socials, goondas, and drug peddlers. While 50 persons were detained in the Aluva sub division by invoking preventive detention rules, 44 were arrested in Perumbavoor, 39 in Munambam, 27 in Muvattupuzha and 11 in Puthencruz sub divisions. Peaceful Much to the relief of the police, New Year celebrations passed off peacefully. Around 1,500 policemen were deployed across the Ernakulam Rural police limits on the New Year’s eve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/171-persons-detained-in-special-drive/article38090849.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||One arrested under KAAPA||The Ernakulam Rural police on Saturday arrested a man accused in several chain snatching cases by invoking the Kerala Anti-social Activities (Prevention) Act. The arrested is Samad, 27, of Pattimattom. KAAPA was invoked against him on the basis of a report prepared by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. The police said the accused was involved in 10 chain snatching cases registered at Perumbavoor, Kunnathunadu, Chengamanad, Edathal, Thadiyittaparambu and Muvattupuzha police stations. He was accused in five cases in the months of July and August alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-arrested-under-kaapa/article38090853.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:09 IST,KERALA||3,84,851 households to get water connection||As part of the Jal Jeevan Mission, 3,84,851 households in the district will be provided drinking water connection spending Rs. 1,511.45 crore, N.K. Premachandran, MP, has said. He was speaking at a meeting of the district development coordination and monitoring committee (DISHA) recently. Under the mission, administrative sanction has been given for providing 3,01,347 domestic connections in 2020-21 and 83,504 connections in 2021-22. It was also decided at the meeting to convene a special meeting of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, Housing Board, Revenue department, and various local bodies to prepare separate plans for toilet, drainage, and solid waste treatment facilities in tsunami colonies. The meeting observed that an error in the existing local market value list of the Public Works department, which is important in the implementation of centralised projects, is creating a crisis in fixing the estimate and tender of projects such as the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana and the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme. The meeting directed the District Development Commissioner to convene a joint meeting of the officers concerned and take immediate action to update the list. Change software At present, beneficiaries those who do not own land are not able to get approval in the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana software. It was decided to ask the Centre to make necessary changes in the software and modify it so that those who are late in finding land can also avail themselves of the benefits of the scheme. It was decided to visit the site of the Rurban project in Thrikkovilvattam grama panchayat and convene a review meeting on January 5 to assess the progress of work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/384851-households-to-get-water-connection/article38090895.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:09 IST,KERALA||1,033 applications got at ex gratia adalat||An ex gratia adalat organised at the six taluk offices in the district for the dependents of those who died due to COVID-19 received a total of 1,033 applications. The number of applications received at various taluks are Karunagapally 243, Kollam 198, Kunnathur 159, Kottarakara 168, Pathanapuram 84, and Punalur 181. Applications uploaded online will be checked by the respective village officer and submitted to the District Collector after rectifying the defects. With the approval of the Collector, the benefit will reach the bank accounts of eligible persons through the treasury. District Collector Afsana Parveen has instructed the kin of COVID-19 victims to submit their applications through Akshaya centres or village offices at the earliest. Those in the general category will get a lump sum aid of Rs. 50,000 and those in the BPL category Rs. 5,000 per month for three years. Applications can be submitted through the website relief.kerala.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1033-applications-got-at-ex-gratia-adalat/article38090898.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:09 IST,KERALA||Date extended||The last date for accepting applications for the post of nutritionist at the Nutrition and Parenting Clinic in various ICDS and SPC offices under the Department of Women and Child Development has been extended to January 7. For details, call 0474-2793069 or visit htttps: //bit.ly/nutriklm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/date-extended/article38090896.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:09 IST,KERALA||Applications invited||Applications have been invited for the post of data entry operator at the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme Ombudsman office at the Kollam Collectorate. The contract basis appointment is for one year. Biodata and attested copies of certificates should be sent to the Joint Programme Coordinator, MGNREGS District Office, District Panchayat Compound, Thevally, Kollam - 691009 on or before 5 p.m. on January 7. More details, contact 0474 - 2798534.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited/article38090897.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Drones take over pesticide spraying||Hovering low over the green carpet , it moves on a GPS-defined route and drops doses of pesticides, herbicides, and fungicides on targeted areas before flying towards the next location. The stereotypical image of farm labourers lugging heavy tanks and hand-spraying pesticides is getting a 21st century makeover in northern Kuttanad with an increasing number of paddy farmers roping in drone sprayers. KVK initiative The new technology, promoted by the Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Kumarakom, is fast catching up in view of its capacity to address the perennial issues of labour shortage and efficiency in pesticide application. According to G. Jayalakshmi, KVK programme coordinator, the device is much superior to manual spraying as it does a quick job and ensures uniform spraying of pesticides covering the entire crop. Since drones do not touch soil, they also help avoid crop damage through compaction. Specific role “Considering the topography of the region with a huge network of waterbodies, we are limiting the usage of these machines only for the supply of bio-inputs and micronutrients and not fertilizers to avoid water contamination. The efficiency in its application is already visible on the crop after just two rounds of spraying and we are counting on this to reflect on the yield this season,” says the official. Devan Chandrasekharan, managing director of Fuselage Innovations, a business start-up which operates sprayer drones, says the technology is being used in about 800 acre of paddy fields in northern Kuttanad in the ongoing season. The drones can quickly analyse a field and determine how much pesticide the crop requires, making it easier for farmers to judge their input needs and estimate the crop size. Precision farming “The operations follow a precision farming protocol that helps bring down input costs while ensuring additional yield. The expenditure per acre for spraying will be around Rs. 3,000 while the return assured per acre will be around Rs. 12,000,” he says. The technology, according to him, has many takers across the kole fields in Thrissur, though it is yet to become popular among farmers in the core areas of Kuttanad. Farmers, meanwhile, too count on the technology bringing in a better yield this time. “People still have a strong impression of farming as a hard-labour job, but it’s no longer all true thanks to gradual mechanisation,” says a paddy farmer from Pallikkayal, near Kumarakom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drones-take-over-pesticide-spraying/article38090890.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||Revamped KPPL begins operation||Kerala Paper Products Ltd. (KPPL), a State-owned public sector unit, began its operations here on Saturday with the repair and upgrading of machinery in three of the six plants in the factory unit at Velloor, near here. Officials said the operations had begun with the restoration of the paper machines, a pulp recycling unit, and a power boiler-turbine generator. As many as 105 workers joined the company on the first day. The upgrade of the mechanical, electrical, and instrumentation engineering wings will be completed in five months at a cost of Rs. 34.3 crore while the industrial production will start with imported pulp and the recycled pulp stock in the plant. Next phases The second phase, which envisages accelerated production of mechanical and chemical pulps and activation of other plants, will begin by March. The phase will witness the production of newsprint, notebooks, and textbooks. The third phase will witness diversification of production to premium grade paper boards. An investment of Rs. 650 crore is expected, which will be completed in 27 months. The fourth phase requires an investment of Rs. 350 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revamped-kppl-begins-operation/article38090865.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||NSS to scale down Mannam Jayanti fete||Considering the COVID-19 situation, the Nair Service Society (NSS) has decided to cancel all public events to be held in connection with the birth anniversary celebrations of its founding leader Mannathu Padmanabhan on January 2. According to the NSS leadership, the occasion will be observed by lighting a lamp in front of the photo of Mannathu Padmanabhan and offering floral tributes at 11 a.m. on Sunday at taluk union offices, Karayogam units, and NSS institutions across the State. This is for the second consecutive year that the community organisation is observing the occasion in a subdued manner. Floral offerings NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair said the floral offerings at the Mannam Samadhi mandapam at Perunna would commence at 7.30 a.m. “Community members and well-wishers of the NSS can participate in this offering in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol,” he said. Mannam Jayanti celebration used to be the most significant annual event of the NSS. Community members, political leaders and prominent persons across the State would arrive at the NSS headquarters at Perunna to participate in the delegates’ meet and the Jayanti Sammelan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-to-scale-down-mannam-jayanti-fete/article38090899.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:09 IST,KERALA||Vice President in Kottayam tomorrow||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu, who returns from Lakshadweep on Sunday, will arrive in Kottayam to attend a function at Mannanam on Monday. According to authorities, the Vice President will be the special guest at a function to be held at the St. Ephrem’s Higher Secondary School, Mannanam, on Monday as part of the 150th death anniversary of St. Chavara Kuriakose Elias (Chavarayachan). The Vice President, who will land at a ground near the Institute of Child Health, Arpookkara, at 9.45 a.m. from Kochi, will proceed to the venue by road. He will return to Kochi by 11.15 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vice-president-in-kottayam-tomorrow/article38090891.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:53 IST,KERALA||Two flyovers to be built to ease traffic congestion in Kozhikode||Minister for Tourism and Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas said two flyovers were to be constructed on National Highway 66 to alleviate traffic congestion in the southern parts of Kozhikode city. One of the flyovers is to come up between Vattakkinar and Areekkad, while the other will come up at Cheruvannur junction. Opening the first anniversary celebrations of the present council of the Kozhikode Corporation here on Saturday, the Minister also launched a ‘Smart Parking’ system to further ease traffic. He said the six-laning of the NH Bypass from Ramanattukara to Vengalam was progressing on a war footing, and that the development of a water transportation network using the Kallai River and the Conolly Canal was also actively being considered. Minister for Ports and Museums Ahammad Devarkovil launched a booklet on the Corporation’s ‘Hygiene Protocol’ along with its theme song. Lyricist Rachana Subrahmanian and singer Anwar Sadath were honoured on the occasion.  The song was composed by Mohan Sithara. Sithara Krishnakumar rendered voice to the theme song which starts as Kerala Manninu Keli Pakarnnoru Kozhikodin Makkal Naam... .  100-day action plan Thottathil Raveendran, MLA, was the guest of honour on the occasion. He released the 100-day action plan of the Corporation. The action plan includes implementation of smart parking, foundation stone laying for Basheer Museum, paper work for converting the old Corporation office into a museum, setting up a food street at Valiyangadi, renovation of Lions Park, training for Disaster Management task force, setting up of Miyyawaki forests across the city, foundation for a parking plaza at Kidson corner, GIS mapping of the city, and Research Centre and Library at Moidu Moulavi Museum. Presiding over the function, Mayor Beena Philip said the civic body could complete several programmes within a year despite the pandemic owing to the cooperation between councillors and the Corporation staff. Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahamed said the Hygiene Protocol being implemented by the Corporation encompassed a lot of factors that could determine the happiness index of the city, and that it was a continuing education programme that would change the lifestyle of city residents drastically. The Corporation is also observing its 60th anniversary in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-flyovers-to-be-built-to-ease-traffic-congestion-in-kozhikode/article38090832.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||Good roads may hit SilverLine: DPR||The viability of the proposed SilverLine semi-high-speed rail project will hinge on multiple factors as the existing rail and road network is expected to improve transportation and save travel time in the coming years. In its detailed project report (DPR), the Paris-based multinational engineering and consulting group SYSTRA says the improvement projects of National Highways (NHs) and State Highways (SHs) such as road widening and construction of bypasses to NH 66, NH 766, SH 69, and the Kasaragod- Kanhangad road which are parallel to the alignment of the SilverLine project will have a negative impact on its ridership. However, the DPR suggests that if the NHs and SHs are made to toll roads, due to higher costs, it may lead to a positive shift to SilverLine. In case of NH 544, 85, 744, 966, 183, 183 A and 185 and the SH perpendicular to SilverLine, the project may act as a feeder network. The widening of these roads will improve the travel time of first-mile and last-mile journey either by private vehicle or public transport. This may have a positive impact on the ridership of SilverLine with additional provisions of inter-modal and interchange facilities with park and ride facilities, the DPR says. Congested networks The 529.45-km SilverLine project, to be implemented by the Kerala Rail Development Corporation (K-Rail), a joint venture company under the State government and the Union Ministry of Railways, connecting Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram is expected to reduce the total travel time to less than 4 hours. Regarding the impact of electric bus operations on SilverLine, the DPR says buses may have to operate on congested networks in future and may reduce the benefits received from reduction in operational cost and ultimately fares. On the impact of privatisation of train operations, the DPR says it would bring efficiency and punctuality in operations, but may increase the fares. Any impact on the SilverLine ridership due to operation of trains by private player is based on the fare setting. Fare factor Also, the doubling of lines, addition of a third line and improvement to curves and improving speed on the existing railway operations will have an impact on the ridership of the SilverLine. With no increase in fares, passengers travelling by sleeper and third AC class may not be willing to shift to SilverLine, the DPR says. However, the K-Rail says NH development will bring only short-term relief. As per traffic survey, within five years these national highways will be choked again. Hence every 5-10 years, Kerala has to plan for more NHs or plan for Express Highways in green corridor. Besides, the land requirement for the SilverLine project will be half of that of a six-lane NH and can carry three times the traffic. SilverLine has been planned to take care of the traffic requirement in the next 50 years. Traffic on the NHs and railway tracks here is 30-40% slower than in other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-roads-may-hit-silverline-dpr/article38090855.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||NIT-C honours first batch of staff, students||As part of its diamond jubilee celebrations, the National Institute of Technology, Calicut, (NIT-C), on Friday honoured the first batch of its faculty members, staff and students who joined the institute, formerly Regional Engineering College (REC), in 1961. Sapling planted Seven faculty members, seven staff members and 11 students belonging to the first batch along with their families participated in the event held on the NIT-C campus. They also planted a sapling in ‘Smrithi Vanam’ in memory of all the departed members. About 120 students had joined the first batch of REC. Inaugurating the function, NIT-C director Prasad Krishna outlined various development activities on the anvil with the active involvement of the alumni, including the setting up of a satellite campus in Kochi. He stressed the need for chalking out an alumni engagement strategic plan and a 10-year vision document for the NIT-C. The institute needed to align its curriculum and infrastructure to the needs of the country and the global community in line with the new NEP, he said. Dr. Bharathan, who was one of the first faculty members in the electrical and engineering department, said that he wished the NIT-C would grow to greater heights while Sivaramakrishnan Nair of the first batch expressed gratitude on being honoured by the institute. Ever-rolling trophy The first batch also instituted an ever-rolling trophy to be awarded to the best all-round performer among BTech students graduating from the NIT-C. Nithyanand Kamath, former secretary of the NIT-C Alumni Association and vice president of the Malabar Chamber of Commerce, spoke. An interaction between the first batch alumni and the students was held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nit-calicut-honours-first-batch-of-staff-students/article38090830.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:53 IST,KERALA||HSS exam schedule unscientific: teachers||Teachers have termed the Education Department’s announcement of exam schedule for higher secondary classes as ‘unscientific’ at a time when there are restrictions on academic days and classes because of the pandemic. A few teachers pointed out on Saturday that most of the academic days of the first three months of the New Year would have to be set apart for exams and evaluation of answer scripts. Plus One improvement exams have been scheduled to begin from January 31. Plus Two practical exams will start on February 21. Model exams will be on from March 16 and public exams from March 31. Teachers are supposed to finish the focus areas of study from each subject before all these. Meanwhile, the centralised evaluation of answer scripts for Plus One improvement exams too will have to be completed during the period. K.K. Sreejesh Kumar, general secretary, Kerala Aided Higher Secondary Teachers Association (KAHSTA), said on Saturday that teachers and students were under pressure. Though there is a section within the General Education Department for the higher secondary classes, teachers were not taken on board before deciding the dates. He said the academic sessions should be rescheduled and exams postponed to April-May. The credibility of the examination system will be questioned if exams are held without a proper calendar, he added. Meanwhile, some other teachers highlighted the delay in announcing the dates for Plus One final exams. “Plus One students too are appearing for a board exam, as the marks will be considered for higher studies. There has been a demand for avoiding Plus One marks in this regard,” one of them said. KAHSTA has also sought revision of wages for exam and answer script evaluation duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hss-exam-schedule-unscientific-teachers/article38090833.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:53 IST,KERALA||Over 100 cases registered for protocol violations||The police registered nearly 100 cases in three days against owners of major hotels, restaurants, and shopping centres in the city on charges of flouting the COVID-19 protocol. A majority of violations included overlooking of social distancing norms during New Year celebrations. Restrictions on late-night celebrations worked well. The police had issued notices in advance to all prominent hotels and event planners to call off their scheduled cultural events. Only residential gatherings were allowed. “There were a few residents who complained of noise pollution from the neighbourhood during private celebrations. The cooperation of the public was satisfactory,” said a senior police officer. He added that there were no major incidents of drug trafficking. The police said intensified surveillance and surprise inspections would continue. Highway patrol squads will oversee the enforcement of night curfew, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-100-cases-registered-for-protocol-violations/article38090842.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:11 IST,KERALA||Fee fixed for one-time examination||The University of Calicut has fixed the maximum fees for one-time special supplementary exams at Rs. 15,000. A release said on Saturday that the one-time chance was for undergraduate and postgraduate students who had exhausted all their chances to appear for exams. Till now, each paper was being charged Rs. 2,760 up to five papers, and Rs. 1,000 if that limit was exceeded. Many students are to write more than 10 papers as courses such as B.Tech and LLB have more semesters and papers. Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj said the decision to fix the fees would help students from economically weaker sections. The maximum number of applications for the one-time examination is from B.Com students now. The part-one English paper in undergraduate courses too has a large number of applicants. Those who wrote the final year undergraduate exams in 1995 are being considered for the exam now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varsity-fixes-fee-for-one-time-exam/article38090834.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Karimadom pond to be revived||Yet another attempt will be made to revive the Karimadom pond, which was at one time crucial as a flood control mechanism over a large area, under the city Corporation's Smart City project. A Rs. 5-crore project is being envisaged to remove all the waste that has been dumped in the pond over the years and to revive the pond. The area around the pond is also proposed to be beautified as part of the project. “Some rounds of discussions have already been held with top officials of the Kerala Water Authority and the Urban Affairs Department. The Minor Irrigation Department is also learnt to have proposed a project with similar aims. These two projects will be merged to work towards a common goal. The technical details of the project proposal has to be vetted, before we can go ahead with it,” said an official of the Corporation’s Smart City project. The Karimadom pond, spread over an area of 1.8 acres, is connected to a network of drains, which are part of the pre-independence era drainage network in the capital. Drains from the Chala area flow into the pond, while the outflow from the pond drains into the Killi River through the Kuriathi Canal. The interconnected network of drains and larger water bodies like the Karimadom pond used to prevent the flooding of East Fort and surrounding areas in the earlier days. However, with constant dumping of waste and the growth of invasive species, the pond has almost ceased to exist. One of the major attempts to clean it was made during the implementation of the Operation Anantha flood mitigation drive in 2015. However, the constant sewage flows from various sides and the large amount of accumulated waste prevented the drive from being successful. Waste removal Three years later, an NGO teamed up with the Suchitwa Mission to remove the plastic waste accumulated on top. Though this endeavour was somewhat successful, much more needs to be done to revive the pond.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karimadom-pond-to-be-revived/article38091009.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Ramesh Chennithala visits Puravimala tribal settlement||Former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday alleged that ‘mafias’ were scheming to steal funds intended for the tribal communities. Public meeting Mr. Chennithala was addressing a public meeting at Puravimala tribal settlement near Amboori in the district as part of the Gandhi Gramam project.The project was envisaged for the development of the Dalit and tribal settlements when he was the KPCC president. Funds earmarked for tribal welfare are being siphoned off and efforts to curb this have not been fully successful, he said.Mr. Chennithala said he will pressurise the government to develop the infrastructure at the Puravimala settlement in a time-bound manner. Several schemes He also announced several schemes for the Puravimala settlement under the Gandhi Gramam project. This included housing schemes and marriage and educational assistance. Former panchayat president of Amboori, P. A. Abraham, presided over the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ramesh-chennithala-visits-puravimala-tribal-settlement/article38091002.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:11 IST,KERALA||Books brought out under Braille-audio library project||Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty will inaugurate a Braille-audio library project at Government School for the Visually Impaired at Vazhuthacaud here on January 4, World Braille Day. The day marks the 213th birth anniversary of Louis Braille, the man behind the Braille system, a language system of reading and writing that is used by the visually impaired. The Braille-audio library project at the school has been implemented under the supervision of the District Library Council with financial assistance from the Kerala State Library Council. Cash awards The Minister will also give away cash awards to students who have been selected the best readers of Malayalam Braille in the State, a pressnote issued here said oday. They are Akshay Krishna S. of SMV School here and Aswini N. Kini of the School for the Blind, Aluva, the pressnote added. Minister for Transport Antony Raju will preside over the function. Twenty-eight audio books and seven Braille books brought out as part of the Braille-audio library project will be distributed to schools for the visually impaired and rehabilitation centres for free. A Braille calendar for 2022 will be released on the occasion. The Malayalam Braille calendar will be distributed to nearly 300 visually impaired people for free. Ward councillor Rakhi Ravikumar, Kerala State Library Council secretary V.K. Madhu, District Library Council president V.P. Murali and secretary Perayam Sasi will be present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/books-brought-out-under-braille-audio-library-project/article38090967.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Minister launches work on Kattakada rest house||The Public Works Department is the biggest hospitality team in the State, Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. He was speaking after inaugurating the construction of a rest house at Kattakada here on Friday. The Minister said the department had an extensive rest house network. A large number of bookings had been received from the time the rest houses were thrown open to the public on November 1. The department had also registered excellent earning through the rest houses , he said. Monitoring panel Mr. Riyas said a monitoring committee had been set up in all district centres to monitor the department’s activities. I.B. Satheesh, MLA, presided. District panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar was present. The two-storey Kattakada rest house will measure 7,000 sq ft and have facilities such as conference hall, VIP room, visitor room, and six rooms with double beds. It will be constructed at a cost of Rs. 2.68 crore in one year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-launches-work-on-kattakada-rest-house/article38091003.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||Kudumbashree Pink Cafes in all districts by March||The Kudumbashree mission will expand its Pink Cafe brand to all districts by March. The Pink Cafes are functional in five districts at present—Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Kottayam, Idukki, and Kozhikode. The cafes are run by Kudumbashree’s catering groups. The crisis that the catering groups found themselves in following the COVID-19 pandemic led to the setting up of the first Pink Cafe in Thiruvananthapuram last year. The Kudumbashree food fetes that were a main source of livelihood for the catering groups could not be held in the wake of the pandemic. In order to provide the catering group women a source of income, the mission came up with the idea of launching the Pink Cafes. Each of the cafes is entrusted to a catering group. The catering units are also provided training before launching the cafes. The first Pink Cafe, with stress on steam-cooked food, came up at East Fort here in a condemned Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus that was refurbished. Another came up at the Thampanoor bus terminal. The buses were made suitable for the cafes by the KSRTC and then renovated by the catering unit. Besides a refundable deposit of Rs. 1 lakh for each bus, a monthly rent of Rs. 20,000 is given to the KSRTC. In Kottayam, the Pink Cafe is not a bus, but rather a kiosk on the Kottayam medical college hosptal campus. In Idukki, instead of an actual bus, the kiosk at Pallivasal is made to resemble a bus. Another cafe, on a KSRTC bus, is coming up at Munnar. The cafe in Kozhikode, again a kiosk, is located in Kayanna grama panchayat. The latest cafe began functioning at Kollam on a KSRTC bus attached to the city bus stand depot garage. As the cafes have been registering good sales, the mission intends to start at least one in every district. A proposal to open more cafes where there is demand for them has also been mooted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-pink-cafes-in-all-districts-by-march/article38090857.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Hospitalisation data not updated: Centre||The Union Health Ministry has flagged the failure of the State to provide updates on the hospitalisation of COVID patients in two districts. In a letter to the Principal Secretary, State Health Department, Rajan N.Khobragade, the ministry observed that Alappuzha and Thiruvananthapuram districts had not been updating the hospitalisation data on the COVID India portal. The letter sent by Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said the data from Alappuzha was last updated on November 1, 2021 while the input from Thiruvananthapuram was last received on December 20. Pointing out that the ministry was analysing the hospitalisation data to monitor the situation and plan its response in collaboration with States, the letter said accurate data was crucial in the battle against the pandemic for timely and effective decision-making at the district and State-level and for smooth and quick coordination between the States and Centre. “It is a crucial time to strengthen all our efforts made so far in curbing the spread of infection to efficiently manage the challenges posed by the Omicron variant.” “It is therefore imperative for States to plan in terms of healthcare infrastructure, logistics like ventilators, oxygen requirement, PPE kits, N-95 masks and trained manpower to effectively manage any surge in hospitalization cases,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hospitalisation-data-not-updated-centre/article38090893.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||Modi urged not to give nod for K-Rail||A group of activists, academics, and journalists have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to refrain from giving sanction to the SilverLine project being implemented in the State. The letter expresses concern that the project is being undertaken against the wishes of the people and will have undeniable impact on the economic, ecological, and the social fabric of the State. It says that apart from misgivings about the financial viability of the SilverLine semi-high-speed rail project, included in the National Rail Plan with the Kerala Rail Development Corporation (K-Rail) at the helm, they are convinced about the adverse environmental, social, and cultural impacts of the project. A report by the Centre for Financial Accountability has asked pertinent questions, including whether Kerala really needs such a project. The financial debt that the State will have to incur and the ambiguity of funding sources have already raised eyebrows, says the letter. Fragmentation The environmental vulnerability of the State will double as the project that extends from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod cuts across 11 districts. This fragmentation will lead to the devastation of several crucial ecosystems that form the foundation for livelihood of the population. “This along with the technical way in which 80% of the rail line will be constructed on tall concrete embankments will result in blocking natural hydrological cycles along with land use pattern changes, all of which we cannot afford at this stage of crisis that we are in,” it says. The land acquisition process has started in many parts of the State without prior intimation to the public, leading to protests and reactions from the affected people. The Chief Minister says the State will meet the “entire land acquisition cost of Rs. 13,700 crore.” “We understand with shock that the NITI Aayog had earlier communicated to the Kerala government that the project cost would come to almost double the estimate of the State government (which is Rs. 63,490 crore) to Rs. 1,26,000 crore.” Public debt The public debt of the State, the letter says, is expected to touch Rs. 3.27 lakh crore in the current fiscal. The SilverLine project, if implemented by the State government without any democratic, transparent and informed consultation, will be a total breach of human rights, ecological, and social justice, says the letter endorsed by B.R.P. Bhaskar, Civic Chandran, K.T. Rammohan, Sajitha Shankar, Kalpetta Narayanan, Anwar Ali, O.V. Usha, Satish Chandran, Santhi, and Radha Gopalan and others.  A report by the Centre for Financial Accountability has asked if Kerala really needs such a project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/modi-urged-not-to-give-nod-for-k-rail/article38090858.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Congress leader Vellanad Sasi arrested||District panchayat member Vellanad Sasi, who was arrested for destroying a plaque at a health-care centre two months ago, found himself on the wrong side of the law yet again when he forcibly shut down a State-run store in Vellanad on Saturday. Lease expiry Mr. Sasi, who heads the Vellanad Service Cooperative Bank, alleged a Triveni supermarket run by the Consumerfed operated in the bank’s building despite the expiry of the lease period. The Congress leader prevented attempts made by the employees of the store to enter the premises around 10 a.m. on Saturday, sources said. He also allegedly damaged a telephone and issued threats to those who had arrived for work. Soon, he pulled down the shutter and locked it as the workers looked on. With Mr. Sasi remaining firm on his stance despite being asked by the Aryanad police to reopen the supermarket, he was taken into custody despite attempts made to resist police action. His arrest was subsequently arrested. Claims credit The district panchayat member was arrested in November for allegedly destroying a plaque installed at a health sub-centre over non-inclusion of his name. He claimed credit for establishing the facility during his term as president of the Vellanad grama panchayat, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-leader-vellanad-sasi-arrested/article38091005.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Six farmers’ groups get equity grant||Six farmer producer organisations (FPO) formed under the Centre for Innovation in Science and Social Action (CISSA) have received Rs. 41.96 lakh as equity grant from the Centre. Prime Minister Narendra Modi released financial benefits to 351 FPOs across the country in a virtual event on Saturday. In six FPOs formed in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam, the beneficiaries are 2,098 shareholders. Farmers in Kerala attended the virtual meet of the Prime Minister. CISSA general secretary C. Suresh Kumar said eight more FPOs are being formed under CISSA in Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-farmers-groups-get-equity-grant/article38090892.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||4 hydel projects may be commissioned in 2022||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) aims to commission four delayed hydel projects, including the 60-MW Pallivasal extension scheme, in 2022, according to Minister for Electricity K. Krishnankutty. Work is progressing on the projects with a 2022 commissioning date in mind, Mr. Krishnankutty said in a New Year address to KSEB employees on Saturday. The other three are the 24-MW Poringalkuthu, 40-MW Thottiyar, and 24-MW Bhoothathankettu projects. The KSEB would achieve operating profit in the current fiscal itself by avoiding extravagance and replacing costly power purchase deals with less expensive ones, he said. . The State would achieve 3,000-MW installed capacity in solar power through the green energy mission during the current government’s term. 2022 would be observed as year of safety and welfare in the State power utility. He added that a memorial would be established at the KSEB headquarters at Pattom here to commemorate employees who lost their lives while on duty. Mr. Krishnankutty urged the employees to adopt a consumer-friendly approach by tapping the possibilities offered by the Service @ Doorstep scheme launched by the KSEB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-hydel-projects-may-be-commissioned-in-2022/article38090861.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||e-office system opened||The implementation of the e-office system in all offices of the Public Works Department will make the offices free from corruption and ensure transparency, Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A.Mohamed Riyas has said. He was speaking after inaugurating the e-office system at the PWD’s office at PMG Junction here on Saturday. He said that the estimates and bills are currently being provided through the Price software. The implementation of the e-office system will lead to a fully digitised handling of files. The network connects 12 circle offices and 68 division offices through the Kerala State Wide Area Network (KSWAN) and 206 sub division offices and 430 section offices through VPN networks. The system will enable the tracing of file movement and also the time taken at each level in taking action on files. The files can move seamlessly between the various offices, reducing the time taken in decision-making. Department Secretary Anand Singh said that the public works is the first department to implement an e-office system till the lowest level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-office-system-opened/article38091010.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:11 IST,KERALA||Govt. ignoring useful projects: Satheesan||The State Government is pressing forth with the SilverLine semi high-speed rail project by ignoring development projects that are useful to the people, the Leader of Opposition V. D. Satheesan has alleged. Mr. Satheesan was speaking after inaugurating a protest organised by the road development action council demanding speedy completion of road development works on the Balaramapuram-Kalayikkavila stretch. It would take generations to complete the 529.45 km SilverLine project In Kerala where it takes 11 years to develop 10 kms of road, he said. The government should prepare a priority list for implementing development projects that benefits the public, he added. Mr. Satheesan urged the government to complete the development of the Balaramapuram-Kalayikkavila road stretch in a time-bound manner, terming it a major development initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-ignoring-useful-projects-satheesan/article38090966.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||Select services of LSGD to be merged from Feb.||The merger of common services under the Local Self-Government department (LSGD) will be effective from the third week of February. Inaugurating a workshop on Saturday for all department heads and senior officials ahead of the merger, Minister for Local Self- Governments M.V. Govindan said the merger of five departments, directorates, and allied agencies of a similar nature as a single department would ensure people-friendly service delivery. Official redeployment The two-day workshop is being organised to decide on the redeployment of officials and the responsibilities of the district and State offices after merger. As per the current arrangement, the works related to grama panchayats, block panchayats, urban affairs, engineering, and town and country planning are handled as separate departments. This has created difficulties in the planning process. Mr. Govindan said the merger of the departments would create a unified support system for the local bodies at all levels. Transparent service He said the merger was aimed at delivering transparent and quick service delivery for the public and to develop a system that was friendly to the people. The official declaration of the merger of common services would be made in the third week of February as part of the 100-day action plan of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s first anniversary. The State office would also be inaugurated on the occasion. The Public Service Commission had also completed vetting the special rules for the common service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/select-services-of-lsgd-to-be-merged-from-feb/article38090860.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||New Year eve’s liquor sale put at Rs. 82.26 crore||The State saw a record sale of liquor via government-owned outlets on New Year’s eve. As per Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) provisional figures, customers bought liquor worth Rs. 82.26 crore on December 31 as against the Rs. 70.55 crore sold on the same day last year. An official said the revenue increase was also partly due to the enhanced price of liquor. The Bevco outlet on Power House Road, Thiruvananthapuram, alone sold Rs. 6 crore worth of liquor on December 31. The Bevco retail outlet at Palarivattom in Kochi followed with a sale of Rs. 81 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-year-eves-liquor-sale-put-at-rs-8226-crore/article38091012.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||New city police chief takes charge||Inspector General of Police G. Sparjan Kumar assumed charge as the Thiruvananthapuram City Police Commissioner on Saturday. He replaced Balram Kumar Upadhyay who was promoted and posted as Additional Director General of Police, Training during the major reshuffle in the top echelons of the police force. Mr. Sparjan, who had earlier helmed the City police for one-and-a-half years until August 2017, stated his intentions to crack down on drug proliferation in the State capital. Divya V. Gopinath and Ankit Asokan also took charge as the District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Traffic), Thiruvananthapuram City.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-city-police-chief-takes-charge/article38091007.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||1,296 fully vaccinated among 2,435 new patients||As many as 2,435 persons in Kerala tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday when 48,658 samples were tested. Thiruvananthapuram registered the highest number of cases at 481, followed by Ernakulam with 400 and Kozhikode with 299. The pandemic toll in the State rose to 48,035 with 22 deaths registered over the last few days and 219 mortalities accounted for as per the Supreme Court guidelines. The active caseload marginally dipped to 18,904 on Saturday and 1,09,032 persons were under surveillance in various districts. Of the 2,435 fresh cases, 38 had arrived from outside the State, 2,241 were infected through contact, and the source of infection remained unknown in 134 cases. An official press note issued here said 1,296 of the fresh cases were breakthrough infections in fully vaccinated citizens and 154 had received one dose of COVID vaccine while 681 were unvaccinated. A total of 2,704 COVID patients were discharged from hospitals on Saturday after they tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1296-fully-vaccinated-among-2435-new-patients/article38090863.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||SHRC seeks explanation from bank||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has sought an explanation from a cooperative bank on a complaint that it was not allowing an 85-year-old elderly woman to withdraw a fixed deposit that was the result of her work as a domestic worker. Acting on a complaint from P. Padmavathi of Vallakkadavu, commission chairperson Antony Dominic sought the explanation from the secretary of the Ananthapuram cooperative bank within four weeks. The complaint said the bank manager was refusing withdrawal of the money without a letter from the cooperative secretary. The money was put in fixed deposit to be of use in old age.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-seeks-explanation-from-bank/article38091000.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Three held for theft||The police have arrested three persons on the charge of theft of construction material for the elevated highway at Kazhakuttam. They were identified as Pradeep, 39, of Karyavattom, Maniyan, alias Njandu, 42, of Menamkulam, and Subair, alias Kundru, 44, of Kazhakuttam. It was on Tuesday that the accused stole iron brackets stored between the pillars of the elevated highway under construction opposite the Kazhakuttam police station. The police who registered a case on a complaint from the manager of the construction firm inspected local CCTV camera visuals and identified the accused, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) G. Sparjan Kumar said. A team led by Kazhakuttam Station House Officer Praveen J.S. arrested the accused, who were in hiding, on the basis of secret information received by Kazhakuttam Cyber City Assistant Commissioner of Police Hari C.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-for-theft/article38091001.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||481 new COVID cases in capital||The district recorded 481 COVID-19 cases and 487 recoveries as the number of active cases stood at 3,135 on Saturday. A test positivity rate of 6.8% was recorded on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/481-new-covid-cases-in-capital/article38091004.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||Plus One supplementary allotment||Results of the Plus One third supplementary allotment will be published on Monday. Admission as per the supplementary allotment will begin at 2 p.m. the same day and continue till 5 p.m. on Wednesday. Allotment details are available onwww.admission.dge.k erala.gov.in There were 28,046 vacancies for which 9,113 applications were considered for allotment. As many as 205 were not considered. Seats vacant after the supplementary allotment will be published at 9 a.m. on Thursday for spot admission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-supplementary-allotment/article38090859.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||‘BJP’s losing streak in State shows shifting support’||Fresh from the Congress victory in the local body election in Karnataka, State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar speaks on poll prospects in 2023, the anti- conversion law and attempts by the State Government to end control over temples.... Congress has registered an impressive win in the local body election, as State unit president how do you view this with regard to the Assembly poll? As an organisation, we are hard at work to face electoral and political challenges. As State unit president I can say that I’m not allowing anyone in the organisation to rest on their laurels. People are demonstrating that they have confidence in the Congress and we are trying hard to help them, going into the Assembly poll as well. Can victory in local body election be extrapolated on to Assembly poll due in 2023? The BJP has lost not just the local body polls, but council polls, and bypolls to Assembly seats. In such polls, the ruling party is conventionally supposed to have an advantage, and the defeats are, therefore, especially significant. The BJP under Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has been on a losing streak, which I think is significant, as it points to unrest within the BJP’s own organisation and government and also the reason he [Bommai] is pushing legislation like anti-conversion law and taking temples and places of worship from under government control. Why do you say that? This losing streak has demonstrated shifting support for the BJP, which is why the Chief Minister has been pushing for legislation he thinks will emotionally engage his party’s base and, of course, avoid serious questions by the Congress on the bitcoin scam during the Assembly session. First they got the Anti-Cowslaughter Bill, then the Anti-Conversion Bill and now they are talking about a bill that takes away government control over temples and places of worship. All these issues do not address any of the governance challenges facing Karnataka. The aim for the plan to remove temples and places of worship from government control is very simple, they want to hand over these to BJP workers, who will then control the crores in revenue that these places generate. If the Congress is voted to power, it will reverse all this and the BJP knows this, so they trying to create litigation when that happens. The resources that are with our temples and places of worship are immense, but there are other concerns as well. In my view this is the worst piece of legislation ever moved by any government in the history of Karnataka. What are the issues that you are going to highlight then, instead of only reacting to govt. moves? Our big campaign going into the new year is the Mekedatu ‘padayatra’, a foot march between January 9 and 19 covering nearly 160 km, passing through Kanakpura, Ramnagara and Bidadi and finally through Bengaluru to build pressure on the Central and State governments to build the balancing reservoir at Mekedatu. Drinking water itself will become scarce for the people of the State, especially Bengaluru and adjoining areas, not to mention irrigation needs of the surrounding rural areas. The BJP is in power at the Centre and in the State and they are yet to address this issue.  People are demonstrating that they have confidence in the Congress and we are trying hard to help them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjps-losing-streak-in-state-shows-shifting-support/article38090584.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:11 IST,KERALA||Traders’ grouse||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-grouse/article38090969.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||First day of New Year||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-day-of-new-year/article38090869.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||Waterworld||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waterworld/article38090851.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:53 IST,KERALA||Sea wrath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sea-wrath/article38090837.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blatant violation of COVID norms in Anantapur||Large New Year-eve gatherings at several places and blatant violation of COVID-19 protocols despite the impending danger of the third wave marked the New Year celebrations in Anantapur district. The number of the COVID positive cases, which were in single digit for a long time after the second wave, went into double digits with 18 cases reported on Saturday, and at least three Omicron variant cases detected in the last 15 days. The appeals by the Central government and the State Health Department to refrain from resorting to celebrations in mass gatherings, were not heeded even by the ruling party leaders. Face masks were the first casualty among people at all gatherings and outdoor places, and ironically, even the police personnel controlling the unruly behaviour of youth on streets were seen without a mask. The police personnel, however, were successful in checking rash driving of bikes and large gatherings on the streets at midnight. The threat of municipal authorities and the police to impose penalties on those not wearing masks was not taken seriously. Both the Members of Parliament from Anantapur orgnasied gatherings at their houses to treat some groups to sumptuous food. At Roddam in the district, a ZPTC member organised his birthday celebrations on a grand scale with thousands of followers gathering to greet him and having lunch on New Year day. At Tanakallu, a TDP leader organised free meals for the locals and there were a near-stampede condition. All this went unnoticed. In Kurnool city, however, the police led by Ch. Sudheer Kumar Reddy imposed strict rules and there was no gathering seen on the streets, except for small gatherings on the city outskirts in hotels and resorts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blatant-violation-of-covid-norms-in-anantapur/article38090940.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:41 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low visibility on major roads as foggy conditions prevail in Anantapur, Kurnool||Foggy conditions are prevailing in Anantapur and Kurnool districts due to the cold wave in the North and the minimum temperature remaining between 13.3° and 13.6° Celsius for the past few days. Many accidents have been taking place in the district and one of them was fatal with two persons dying recently at Pampanur in Anantapur district. Meteorologist K. Ashok Kumar said that visibility was very low as the moisture content in the atmosphere was 81-84% in the morning and 45% in the afternoon when the temperatures were rising to 32.5° C. Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli had appealed to the youth and citizens in general not to venture out in the night on the streets in view of the threat from the Omicron variant of the COVID-19 and also the foggy conditions. Restrictions were imposed on mass gatherings and revelry on the streets during the New Year’s Eve and New Year’s Day. While in urban areas the temperatures were slowly rising to 18° C in various places of Kurnool district like Dhone, Nandyal, and Kurnool city, the two major National Highways passing through the district -- NH 44 and NH 40 -- posed difficult driving conditions. The Orvakal to Nandyal road and Nandyal to Belum Caves road were covered with thick fog in the morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-visibility-on-major-roads-as-foggy-conditions-prevail-in-anantapur-kurnool/article38090951.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor sales jump on New Year’s Eve||Liquor sales in Anantapur district witnessed a massive jump of 71.5% from a daily average sale of Rs. 3.62 crore to Rs. 6.21 crore on Friday alone, though the sales counters were opened only for one hour additionally in both government outlets and service in bars. The entire State recorded a sale of Rs. 120 crore on a single day. Anantapur Nodal Prohibition and Excise Superintendent Rangoon Srinivasan Kumareswaran said that since December 19, when the liquor prices on some brands were reduced by 40% to 45%, the volumes had gone up and the cross-border smuggling from Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, and Telangana had come down. Kurnool and Anantapur districts have a long border with Karnataka, but the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) had been able to effectively block the flow, but after the reduction in prices, the A.P. brands had been doing better and liquor flow Karnataka had stopped automatically. But the illicitly distilled liquor was the worst enemy and the SEB was hard-pressed to control these operators. Anantapur district is in the second position in the A.P. in controlling the smuggling of liquor. “Earlier, when private players used to have license, they used to keep a check within their jurisdiction and give information to the excise/police personnel, but now the police, excise, and SEB sleuths are forced to keep a tab on them,” said Mr. Kumareswaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-sales-jump-by-715-on-new-years-eve/article38090941.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 5 cr. donation promised to temple||Sri Lalitha Enterprises founder Matte Satya Prasad on Saturday pledged a donation of Rs. 5 crore to Sri Veera Venkata Satyanarayana Swamy Vari Devasthanam temple at Annavaram in East Godavari district. According to an official release, Rs. 5 crore would be spent on the construction of new ‘prasadam’ manufacturing house and renovation of Kalyana Mandapam. Headquartered at Peddapuram town, Sri Lalitha Enterprises is engaged in the rice trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-5-crore-donation-promised-to-temple/article38090975.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalits attacked for conversion in Karnataka; seven booked||The police have booked seven members of a right-wing organisation under of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and some provisions of the Indian Penal Code on the charge of carrying out an attack on Dalits on December 29, 2021 for what is said to be conversion. The police gave the names of the accused as Shivanand Gotur, Ramesh Dandapur, Parasappa Babu, Fakirappa Bagewadi and Krishna Kanitkar, all from Tukkanatti village, Chetan Gadadi from Kankanawadi village and Mahantesh Hattaraki from Hattaraki village. A written complaint has been submitted by Kavita Karaganavi stating the brutal attack in gruesome detail. It said that the group entered the house of Akshay Kumar Karaganavi, Kavita Karaganavi’s husband, at around 1 O’Clock in the afternoon. It accused them of organising Bible prayers with an intention to convert their neighbours and villagers to Christianity. It also said that the Bible prayers being organised were meant to convert their neighbours and relatives to Christianity by allurement, force and fraud. The complaint said that the assailants used profanities against the members of the Karaganavi family and their cousins, the Vyapari family. They beat up Akshay Kumar and his nephew Sudhakar Vyapari and kicked them after throwing them to the ground. The accused beat up Kavita Karaganavi, Bharati Vyapari and Mahadevi Jogi, abused their caste and accused them of being without character. Another accused, Shivanand Gotur, tore the clothes of Mahadevi Jogi, the complaint said. Parasappa Gudagol pushed around Bharati Vyapari. He took hot sambar that was on a stove and threw it at her. He also hit her knee with the vessel that contained the sambar. The victim has suffered burns. She is still under treatment in Mudalagi, the complaint said. Ramesh Dandaur, one of the accused, snatched a gold chain belonging to Sudhakar. Before leaving, the group threatened to burn them to death, if they tried converting people again, the complaint said. “They abused us in the name of our caste as a group of toilet cleaners and chappal-makers and that we were betraying the Hindu faith that we were born into,’’ Akshay Karaganavi told the police. Now, the police have booked the case under the Prevention of Atrocities Act 1989 and the Atrocities Act Amendment Ordinance of 2014. Apart from this, a First Information Report (FIR) also contains charges under IPC Sections 143-unlawful assembly, 147-rioting, 148-rioting armed with deadly weapon, 149-unlawful assembly with common criminal intention, 322-causing hurt, 326-causing grievous hurt by dangerous means, 341-wrongful restraint, 354-outraging the modesty of woman, 392-robbery, 448-house trespass, 504-insults and provocation and 506-criminal intimidation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dalits-attacked-for-conversion-in-karnataka-seven-booked/article38090178.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka govt. cuts guidance value on all properties by 10%||In a move to boost revenue, the Karnataka Government has reduced property guidance value across the State by 10% for the next three months, and provided an opportunity for buyers to get registrations done at the earliest. Speaking to medipersons on Saturday, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said the State Government has reduced the guidance value for the purchase of property, whether it is revenue land, site, building, or a flat, by 10%, which would be applicable across Karnataka till March 31, 2022. The Minister termed it a ‘New Year’s Day gift to the public’, which would come into effect on January 1, 2022. “This is an offer for those who are pushing time with a General Power of Attorney and agreements on properties. Also, it is for those who are planning for property registration. This will be effective from January 1 to March 31,” the Minister said. Mr. Ashok said the 10% cut in guidance value would also help people who had been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic for the last 20 months. He urged people who had purchased property to use this opportunity to register it. Guidance value is the minimum selling price of a property fixed by the Government, depending on the locality and type of structure. The announcement was made after several rounds of discussions between the Finance and Revenue Departments, Inspector-General of Registration, and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai for the last one month, Mr. Ashok said. The 10% cut would be applicable across Karnataka for all kinds of property registration, whether it is dry or irrigated land, flat, or site. It would be applicable to all and this may have some impact on the revenue to the Government but would also benefit common people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-govt-cuts-guidance-value-on-all-properties-by-10/article38090180.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why Congress delayed Mekedatu, asks BJP||Ahead of the padayatra by the Opposition Congress against delay in executing the Mekedatu project, the ruling BJP government on Saturday accused the former of being “irresponsible” with respect to the project when it was in power. Speaking to reporters, Water Resources Minister Govind M. Karjol termed the padayatra scheduled on January 9 as “political gimmick” and said the party had launched similar protests on January 7 and 14, 2013, accusing the then BJP government of failure to expedite projects under the Upper Krishna Project. ‘Explosive information’ “Wait for some days. I will provide explosive information in the interest of people of the State. When it was in power in the State, the Congress demonstrated its laxity in implementing the Mekedatu project.” The Congress should make public if it has made any efforts towards implementation of the project in the years it ruled, he demanded. Tamil Nadu unanimously passed a resolution urging the Union Government not to accord permission to Karnataka for the Mekedatu dam in the Cauvery basin. Minister for Revenue R. Ashok too hit out at KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar for neglecting the project when the party was in power on its own and later, in the coalition Government. ‘Assembly polls’ The padayatra was aimed at garnering votes ahead of the 2023 Assembly elections, Mr. Ashok said. On enforcement of COVID-19 norms by the Government for padayatra, Mr. Shivakumar said “no one launches protests by seeking permission from the Ggovernment”. He also blasted Mr. Ashok and said the Minister has no concern for Bengaluru city and drinking water shortage faced by its residents. He criticised Home Minister Araga Jnanendra for his statement that “COVID-19 norms are applicable to all political parties”. The Congress locked horns with JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy on the Mekedatu issue. The JD(S) termed the padayatra a “mere show” as the party leaders know nothing would be achieved. ‘Apolitical’ Meanwhile, Mr. Shivakumar maintained that his party’s Mekedatu campaign is apolitical, and that he had invited actors and pontiffs to join. He termed the BJP government’s plan to free Hindu temples from State control as “a historic blunder”. “Temples are the wealth of the Government and the wealth of the treasury. The BJP Government is trying to take a political stand by looking at other States. The Congress will oppose it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-congress-delayed-mekedatu-asks-bjp/article38090182.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wet weather to continue over T.N. till Tuesday||Just like many of the previous years, the northeast monsoon has spilled over into January. Wet weather is set to continue over Tamil Nadu till Tuesday and the Cauvery delta districts may receive heavy rain at a couple of places on Sunday. As the strong northeasterly winds prevails off the Tamil Nadu coast at the lower levels, many other districts may receive scattered, light to moderate rain on Sunday. Rain may shift to the southern parts of the State from Monday and decrease gradually after January 5, said officials of the India Meteorological Department. A cyclonic circulation lies over the southwest Bay of Bengal off the south Sri Lanka coast at the mid-tropospheric levels. Chennai may receive thunderstorms, with light to moderate rain, and experience a partly cloudy sky on Sunday. On Saturday, the weather stations at Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam received less than 1 cm of rain till 5.30 p.m. While many other weather stations across the State recorded rain, Nagapattinam and Thanjavur (5 cm each) and Karaikal and Lalpet in Cuddalore district (3 cm each) received moderate rain till the evening. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said the convergence of easterlies at the lower level of atmosphere and the westerly trough at the upper level would influence rain over the State for the next few days. “We will have to wait for the current spell to cease and a sustained dry weather to declare withdrawal of the northeast monsoon.” The State has received 71.4 cm of rain against its normal of 44.9 cm between October and December, 59% more than its normal. Chennai district recorded 1,360 cm, 74% more than the average for the season. Meanwhile, the Water Resources Department has reduced the release from the Red Hills reservoir to 2,000 cubic feet per second (cusecs) around 6 p.m. as the inflow dropped to 1,700 cusecs on Saturday. Officials said areas downstream such as Vadakarai, Grand Line and Samiyarmadam were heavily inundated after the recent rain and the discharge from the reservoir. “We have decided to decrease the discharge to let the stagnant water recede in the downstream areas. The Red Hills reservoir has touched 3,297 million cubic feet of water against its capacity of 3,300 mcft,” said an official. The combined storage of the five major reservoirs, which supply drinking water to the city, was 11,296 mcft, nearly 96.08% of their total capacity. Surplus water is also discharged from the Chembarambakkam and Poondi reservoirs in accordance with the inflow. On Saturday, the city was supplied with nearly 1,007 million litres per day of drinking water, of which nearly 782 MLD was made through pipeline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wet-weather-to-continue-till-tuesday/article38090614.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP govt. working for uplift of poor’||Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy on Saturday said that the prime objective of the social pensions was to uplift the poor and helpless sections of society, and the benefits would continue to be extended to all the eligible persons. The Deputy Chief Minister was inaugurating the distribution of the enhanced pensions to the beneficiaries at the Nagaiah Kalakshetram here. Chittoor Mayor S. Amuda, MLA J.M.C. Srinivasulu, ZP chairperson G. Vasu and senior officials were present. Mr. Narayanaswamy said that the Jagan Mohan Reddy government has been relentlessly carrying out the scheme for the elderly people, widows, physically challenged, and the destitute women for the last two and half years. He said that the benefits were extended to people without any bias. He said that despite criticism from the opposition parties, the State government was committed to inititating many more welfare schemes for the poor and downtrodden sections. “In addition to the old-age pensions, the YSR Aarogyasri has come in handy to the segment,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-govt-working-for-uplift-of-poor/article38090944.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to decide soon on degree courses at school for hearing impaired||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Saturday said that a decision would be taken at the TTD Trust Board meeting regarding the provision to allow degree courses for the benefit of hearing impaired students at its S.V. Badhira Patashala at Tirupati. The Executive Officer was inspecting the school along with senior officials. During interaction with the students, the officer was informed that the students were unable to pursue their education beyond 10th class and Intermediate. At the request of the students and parents, Mr. Reddy said a suitable decision would be taken on the issue soon. The school under the TTD administration was established in 1974. Apart from general education and vocational training, students here are also given training in yoga courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-decide-soon-on-degree-courses-at-school-for-hearing-impaired/article38090945.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:41 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD EO visits children’s heart hospital||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Saturday inspected Sri Padmavati Children‘s Cardiac Hospital at Tirupati and made some suggestions. The EO said the hospital was inaugurated by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in 2021. The hospital had become a backbone for poor since November 11 onwards as nearly 45 surgeries were performed, of which 50% were open heart surgeries and rest were cath lab procedures. He said there was a waiting list of over 200 patients, and 20 surgeries a week were being mulled to be performed by a dedicated team of doctors with the aid of sophisticated medical equipment. Super speciality hospital The official said as a next expansion plan in its medical services for poor, the TTD commenced action plan for a super speciality hospital in Tirupati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-eo-visits-childrens-heart-hospital/article38090942.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temples, picnic spots see huge rush||Unmindful of the COVID-19 restrictions, public congregations became a common sight at many temples, picnic spots, and restaurants in Chittoor district on Saturday, celebrating New Year’s Day. Big congregations were witnessed at the temple of Lord Siva at Srikalahasti, Kapilatheertham and Srinivasa Mangapuram in Tirupati, and popular picnic spots at Talakona, Kaigal, and Ubbalamadugu waterfalls. After a lull of several months, a sense of joyousness gripped the people a majority of whom had thrown the COVID norms to the wind. However, as the public gatherings consisted of mostly local people, the officials felt relieved in the backdrop of Omicron threat. Horsely Hills, near Madanapalle, also overflowed with the revellers, mostly local youth and families. Expecting the heavy rush, the tourism department officials had made arrangements such as drinking water and refreshment stalls. A large number of people from the eastern mandals made their way to Pulicat lake, Nelapattu bird sanctuary, Mypadu, and Tupilipalem beaches in SPSR Nellore district. Lord Varasiddi Vinayakaswamy temple at Kanipakam saw a heavy rush of devotees and local people from early hours till afternoon. “For the convenience of devotees, four special services from Chittoor and three from Tirupati were operated to Kanipakam,” said Mr. Bhaskar, Deputy Chief Traffic Manager (APSRTC) at Chittoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/temples-picnic-spots-in-chittoor-see-huge-rush/article38090943.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan launches enhanced pension programme||Coinciding with the New Year, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday launched the distribution of enhanced pension programme, and released Rs. 1,570 crore for the purpose for the month of January. Under YSR Pension Kanuka, pensioners, who were hitherto getting Rs. 2,250, would now be receiving Rs. 2,500 every month. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy launched the programme at Prathipadu village in the presence of a large number of people, many of them senior citizens. “The government is on a mission to fulfil all the promises made in the manifesto. In the last 30 months, 62 lakh beneficiaries were provided pension of Rs. 2,250 at their doorstep by a team of dedicated volunteers. This year, they will receive Rs. 2,500 as pension,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. “During the TDP term, only 39 lakh beneficiaries had been given a pension of Rs. 1,000 each. We have enhanced the amount to Rs. 2,250 soon after forming the government, benefiting almost 62 lakh people. With the fresh enhancement, the monthly expenditure will go up to Rs. 1,570 crore,” he added. “Besides providing social security pension to the elderly, widows, and the disabled, the government is giving pension to patients suffering from critical illnesses,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, and added that “Andhra Pradesh is the only State to come up with such an initiative.” On YSR Pension Kanuka alone the government had spent over Rs. 45,000 crore since inception, he said. Taking a dig at the Opposition, he said there were many who criticise though the government had been providing financial support to those who were unable to eke out a living. “The opposition parties are going to courts against the house site distribution programme in Amaravati citing demographic imbalance. They are also objecting to the OTS scheme knowing well that it enables the poor gain full rights over their houses. They politicise introduction of English medium in government schools, distribution of house sites, and even regulation of the price of cinema tickets,” he said. Stating that the government did not hold back any welfare initiative despite financial difficulties induced by the COVID-19 crisis, he suggested those having difficulty in receiving pension to contact the village / ward secretariats, or the volunteers immediately, or dial the toll-free number 1902 for help. Later, the Chief Minister sanctioned the construction of PHC building at Pedanandipadu. He also sanctioned CC roads, drains, sports development centres and drinking water for Prathipadu. He said the government sanctioned Rs. 256 crore for the Guntur channel expansion works. Home Minister M. Sucharitha and Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy were among others present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-launches-enhanced-pension-programme/article38090184.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Damage to A.P.’s economy inestimable’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday said he was unable to fathom out the extent of financial decline the YSRCP government had caused in Andhra Pradesh in the past three years. Addressing the media at the party national office here, Mr. Naidu said many Chief Ministers had served in the combined and residual Andhra Pradesh, but none of them had caused this kind of an “inestimable and irreparable damage” to the State’s economy. “The ongoing destructive rule is denting the brand image of the once progressive State such as Andhra Pradesh both nationally and internationally,” Mr. Naidu observed. Stating that all sections of people were losing hope in the future of the State, Mr. Naidu said, “From industrialists to daily-wage coolies, all are looking at other States for work opportunities and livelihood.” “A sort of reverse migration is being witnessed. In the past, people used to come from Bhubaneswar to Visakhapatnam for better opportunities. Now, the scene has reversed. People are going from Visakhapatnam to Bhubaneswar,” he said. ‘Reign of terror’ Alleging that the ruling YSRCP was spearheading a reign of terror by misusing the ACB and the CID, Mr. Naidu said people were remaining silent as they were afraid of being humiliated at the hands of the ruling party leaders. “People are tolerating the lawless activities of the YSRCP government as they are left with no other option now. They will decide the fate of the ruling YSRCP in the elections,” he said. Referring to the rumours doing the rounds that there would be early elections in the State, Mr. Naidu said the TDP was ready for it. “The talk of electoral alliances is hypothetical. The TDP will not comment on such issues at this juncture,” he made it clear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/damage-to-aps-economy-inestimable/article38090958.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hyderabad’s longest flyover launched||Union Minister for Tourism G. Kishan Reddy urged the State government for allocation of land for establishment of Science City and development of Regional Ring Road, so that the works could be taken up as early as possible. Addressing a meeting after launch of the flyover in the city between Shaikpet and Whisper Valley here on Saturday, Mr. Reddy said the Central government is committed for the development of Hyderabad, and sought cooperation of the State government in this regard. Science City The Centre is keen on establishment of Science City which would require 25 acres of land. Works could be started as soon as the State government completes land acquisition, Mr. Reddy said. Regional Ring Road Regional Ring Road, which was sanctioned by the Centre, could be a game changer for the development of Hyderabad, he said, and requested the State government to complete the land acquisition process as early as possible. Development of National Highways has speeded up in Telangana during the last 7.5 years when compared with the previous 75 years, he said, and indicated that more highways are in the pipeline. KTR’s appeal Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao reiterated his request for land clearance from Defence Ministry for the sky ways from Patny to Kompally and from Jubilee Bus Station to Turkapally. Repeated requests have not yielded any response from any of the four Defence Ministers over the past six years, he said, and urged Mr. Reddy to use his offices to secure the clearance. He also made requests for opening of 21 roads in the Cantonment area, which had been arbitrarily closed by the Defence establishment and for allocation of land belonging to the Home Ministry at Rasoolpura Junction for SRDP, besides seeking the Centre’s cooperation in obtaining recognition for Hyderabad as UNESCO Heritage City. Minister’s assurance He assured complete cooperation from the State government with regard to establishment of Science City and development of Regional Ring Road. The Shaikpet flyover running a length of 2.7 kilometres is touted as the longest in the city. It covers four junctions at Seven Tombs, Film Nagar, OU Colony and Whisper Valley respectively, and establishes a signal free corridor of 11 kilometres between Nanal Nagar and Khajaguda up to ORR. Constructed at a cost of Rs. 333.55 crore, it serves as an intermediate ring road connecting Inner and Outer Ring Roads, and also facilitates traffic movement to the corridor from Biodiversity Junction to JNTU Junction, GHMC officials informed. Ministers Talasani Srinivas Yadav, Sabitha Indra Reddy and Mohammed Mahmood Ali were present at the launch besides legislators and officials, including Special Chief Secretary Arvind Kumar, and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hyderabads-longest-flyover-launched/article38090176.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Kadapa sees fall in crime in 2021’||The number of crime cases registered in Kadapa district took a dip by 800 for the year 2021 against the 5,279 cases registered in 2020, which is projected as an improved crime rate in the district. While 886 children were rescued and sent to schools under ‘Operation Muskaan’, the department also prevented 119 child marriages. Cases registered under the SC/ST Atrocities Prevention Act also came down by 8% this year. The complaint receiving platforms increased with the introduction of Spandana, central command control unit, Disha and Cyber Mitra apps. The department also reached out to distressed women in several cases. “The culprit who had cheated 300 women by misusing social media platforms was arrested and PD Act was invoked against him. A woman from Porumamilla was rescued from New Delhi using the Disha app. Badvel girl Sirisha’s murder was also busted and the accused arrested in no time. The Ethiopian woman stranded in Kadapa was safely sent home by our Special Branch police.” said Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan, during the year-ender meeting in Kadapa. The district, known earlier for faction violence, did not witness a single case last year, which the police attributed to the sensitisation programmes like ‘Palle Nidra’ and ‘Parivarthana’ conducted by them in the trouble-prone villages. 226 red sanders smugglers held On the redsanders front, the department registered 61 cases in 2021 against 54 in 2020, arresting 226 accused and seizing 21,000 metric tonnes of wood and 59 vehicles. “We have ensured that the grievances in the form of petitions received in village/ward secretariats are redressed within a week. We have received 12,000 petitions through Mee Seva and 9,000 in Spandana programmes, most of which have been resolved.” Mr. Anburajan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kadapa-sees-fall-in-crime-in-2021/article38090947.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:53 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Old-age pension will soon be increased to Rs. 3,000: Viswaroop||Social Welfare Minister Pinipe Viswaroop on Saturday said that the old-age pension would soon be increased from Rs. 2,500 to Rs. 3,000 in the State. Mr. Viswaroop and Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu launched the distribution of pension with the hike from Rs. 2,250 to Rs. 2,500 for the elderly persons here. Addressing the beneficiaries here, Mr. Viswaroop has said that the State government is providing financial aid through the 15 social pensions to cover every eligible section of the society. Mr. Kannababu has said that the State government had distributed Rs. 4,700 crore to the 6.79 lakh beneficiaries of the social pensions since 2019 in the East Godavari district. Secretariat system “The State government will guarantee the social pension to every beneficiary. The existing Secretariat system will enable the beneficiary to get the new pension within 21 days,” said Mr. Kannababu. Zilla Parishad Chairman Vipparthi Venu Gopala Rao, MLA P. Raveendrababu, Kakinada city MLA D. Chandrasekhar Reddy and officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/old-age-pension-will-soon-be-increased-to-rs-3000-viswaroop/article38090976.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala High Court launches paperless court, e-filing modules||Paperless court, e-filing, and e-office projects of the High Court of Kerala will be building blocks to digitise and modernise the Indian judiciary, as they will simplify and speed up the judicial process, while ensuring decentralisation of justice, Supreme Court judge D.Y. Chandrachud (who is also chairperson of e-committee of the court) said on Saturday. Such measures will considerably lessen the burden of stakeholders, mainly litigants and lawyers, by taking justice delivery to the doorstep of litigants. Being a pioneer in education and literacy, Kerala must ensure 100% computer literacy for lawyers and other stakeholders through easy-to-e-file guidelines, he said at the inauguration of paperless court, e-filing modules for the High Court and the State judiciary, and e-office in courts within the State. Maintaining that e-filing of documents makes them more accessible to litigants and lawyers, he urged the State government to ensure necessary digital literacy for all. E-seva kendras will help implement it. It is also important to incentivise litigants and the Bar to use digital platforms. In addition, the State must make e-filing of all litigations mandatory, Mr. Chandrachud said, adding that he had stopped using physical files ever since the Supreme Court went virtual from June 2020. Many benefits On the multiple benefits of e-files, he said court hearing would become more efficient, while records could be stored and transmitted easily. “It should not be treated as a stop-gap measure confined to the pandemic period. Initial concerns can be redressed by constant engagement with the Bar. Free training must be given to litigants,” he said. Digital solution, a norm Inaugurating the paperless court project, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said digital solutions had become the norm post pandemic. An e-office system is in place in the government Secretariat, which helps the public track file movement, increasing efficiency and transparency. A process is also on to link all government offices with the e-office system. Over 500 online and app-based services have been readied to do away with queuing up at government offices and to ensure doorstep delivery of services. The Executive, Legislature, and the Judiciary imbibing technology to become more people-friendly could be the first in India, he said. 20 more courts Linking prisons and courts through videoconferencing will ensure speedy justice to undertrials and further the rights of prisoners. The government is committed to filling vacancies in the judiciary, by setting up more courts. A total of 20 more courts are being constructed, Mr. Vijayan said. Chief Justice of Kerala High Court S. Manikumar said the e-office project would improve judicial productivity. Six court rooms in the High Court have been transformed into digital court rooms, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-high-court-launches-paperless-court-e-filing-modules/article38090186.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||SIT returns custody of 4 in migrant workers case||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the violent clashes between migrant workers and the police on the night of December 25 is in the process of piecing together the sequence of events by verifying the statements of the accused and witnesses and matching them with the pieces of evidence being gathered. The SIT had returned the custody of the four accused, before which a detailed evidence collection was held by taking them to the labour camps where they were accommodated by the company that engaged them. The four accused were identified for custody considering the pivotal role they were suspected to have played in damaging the police vehicle and property. On seeking custody “We have collected detailed statements from the four accused and witnesses. We will verify the statements, which should help reconstruct the events. Based on that, we will take a call on whether to seek the custody of more accused,” said a senior officer associated with the probe. As per police first information reports (FIR), migrant workers turned against the police who arrived at the scene after being alerted that around 500 migrants split into groups were fighting with one another. 174 arrested The SIT has so far arrested 174 persons in connection with the incident. Fresh arrests have not been ruled out either, which, the officer said, would depend on evidence emerging during the probe. The police have also collected CCTV footage and other videographic evidence, including videos captured by the public. The SIT is confident of submitting charge sheets within 90 days. The police had registered two FIRs, one each on the assault of Inspector V.T. Shajan and for arson and damage of public property worth around Rs. 12.05 lakh arraigning in a total of 300 identifiable persons. The accused were from 11 States and were sent to different jails at Kakkanad, Muvattupuzha, and Thrissur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sit-returns-custody-of-4-in-migrant-workers-case/article38090187.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A special day for police personnel||New Year’s Day turned out to be indeed special for the families of home guards and constables in Krishna district as their bosses made a surprise visit to their homes and celebrated the occasion with them. It was a pleasant surprise for the family members of home guard P.V. Narasimha Rao when Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal walked into their house with a bouquet, sweets, chocolates and cakes and conveyed New Year greetings to them. He enquired about their health and the education of the children and spent some time with them. “We had seen him only in photographs, but today we met him personally. He walked into our house and celebrated the New Year with us,” said the elated family of Armed Reserve constable N. Rambabu soon after the SP visited their home. Constable A. Ramachandar Rao’s joy knew no bounds when Mr. Siddharth Kaushal went to his house at Ullipalem village and joined the family in celebrating the New Year. The SP took the children into his lap and asked them about their studies and ambitions in life. ‘It’s my responsibility’ He also interacted with the senior citizens in the families and asked them about their health and medical aid.  “As the head of the department, it is my responsibility to look after the welfare of my police family. Today is a special day for me too,” Mr. Siddharth told The Hindu .  More than 100 police officers, including Gudivada DSP N. Satyanandam, Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu, Nandigama DSP G. Nageswar Reddy, Special Branch DSP K. Dharmendra and Machilipatnam DSP Masum Basha visited the houses of nearly 500 staff in various divisions in the district. ASP Prasad, Avanigadda DSP Mehaboob Basha, Disha DSP G. Rajiv Kumar and other officers cut cakes along with the families of the staff. “This is the first time ever that the SP and other higher officials have visited our houses. We thank Mr. Siddharth for the gesture,” said the staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-special-day-for-police-personnel-in-krishna/article38090208.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four killed in blast at fireworks unit||New Year began on a tragic note on Saturday for the fireworks industry in Virudhunagar district, with the death of four workers in a blast at R.K.V.M. Fireworks at Kalathur near Watrap. Out of eight others who were injured, M. Muniyandi, 35, of Mangalam, has suffered 20% burns. The rest have sustained bleeding injuries as the flying debris hit them. All the injured were admitted to the government hospital at Sivakasi. According to initial reports, the blast occurred around 8.30 a.m. However, it came to light only after 9 a.m. when the Fire and Rescue Services got an alert. A team of firemen, led by District Fire Officer K. Ganesan, rushed to the spot and put out the flames. The deceased were identified as S. Kumar, 38, of Mettupatti; P. Periasamy, 65, of Servaikaranpatti; and S. Veerakumar, 40, and S. Murugesan, 35, of P. Paraipatti. Mr. Ganesan said a friction while chemicals were handled at the mixing room triggered the explosion at the unit, which is owned by C. Vazhividu Murugan, 38, of M. Mettupatti. The other injured have been identified as M. Velmurugan, 38, of P. Paraipatti; R. Gopalakrishnan, 35, and his son G. Mano Aravindhan, 8, of Sanarapatti; P. Kaliyappan of P. Paraipatti; P. Alagarsamy, 33, of Servaikaranpatti; and V. Kanagarathinam, 36, and M. Muniyasamy, 38, of P. Paraipatti. The police said the workers had come to the unit for a puja to mark the New Year. Gopalakrishnan had brought his son along. Deputy Inspector-General of Police (Madurai) N. Kamini, Superintendent of Police M. Manohar and District Revenue Officer R. Mangalasubramanian rushed to the spot. The police said Velmuruan, Gopalakrishnan, Mano Aravindhan and Muniyandi have been referred to the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. The bodies of the four workers were handed over to their families after post-mortem, the police said. The Nathampatti police have booked the unit owner under Sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 337 (negligent act endangering human life) and 304 (A) (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code and under the provisions of the Indian Explosive Substances Act. The licence of the unit has been suspended.  The bodies of the four workers were handed over to their families after post-mortemPolice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-killed-in-blast-at-fireworks-unit/article38090574.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A guest house replaces ‘evil house’ of Konda Reddy tribe||The group of 44 households of the Konda Reddy tribe, classified as Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG), now got a unique guest house built by the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA-Chintoor). The guest house is otherwise a progressive initiative that is aimed at banning the tribe’s age-old unhygienic practice of ‘Evil House’. According to practice, every household at Tekuloddi village in Kunavaram Mandal has a small hut. The hut is called the ‘evil house’ in which it is mandatory that women of the family must stay during their menstruation period. Post-natal period, the women should also stay in the same house for 45 days. The same practice applies to girls when they attain puberty. The Konda Reddy tribals believe that allowing women during their menstruation and post-natal period to stay along with the family would attract evil forces.  In December 2020, The Hindu had carried an article on the evil practice with the title ‘Andhra tribe’s ‘evil house’- an epitome of menstrual taboo’. Later, the ITDA-Chintoor authorities swung into action to tackle the menstrual taboo of the Konda Reddy tribe along the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border in East Godavari Agency.  Unique house ITDA-Chintoor Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana on Friday inaugurated the guest house here. Mr. Ramana said it was an attempt to persuade the Konda Reddy tribals to give up their practice of the ‘evil house’ by utilising the guest house. The guest house has safe accommodation facilities with all hygienic precautions. It has two portions each with a three-bed facility. “Three beds are dedicated for menstruating women. The other three beds are for women in the post-natal period. We have put every effort to convince the tribal people to ban their practice and realise the benefit of using the new guest house for their better health.” he added. The local panchayat had been tasked to maintain the guest house and health care staff would also visit it often. The guest house is named after Divya, who passed away last year in the Tekuloddi village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-guest-house-replaces-evil-house-of-konda-reddy-tribe/article38090960.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala Governor has acted unlawfully: Opposition leader||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan seems to get scant support from Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan in the simmering dispute between the Raj Bhavan and the government over university appointments and grants of honorary degrees. Mr. Satheesan said on Saturday that Mr. Khan had acted unlawfully if he had indeed summoned the Vice-Chancellor and asked the latter to award an honorary degree to “any person.” Mr. Khan had earlier suggested that political cronyism in university appointments lay at the heart of his decision to discontinue as Chancellor. The Governor revealed that he had flagged an issue related to “national dignity and prestige” in a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan detailing why he was constrained to stay away from his duties as Chancellor. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala had seized on the comment and asked the government to clarify whether it had denied an honorary D.Litt. to President Ram Nath Kovind. Mr. Satheesan said the Governor had rubber-stamped the government’s illegal decision to extend the tenure of the Kannur University Vice-Chancellor beyond the retirement age. Later, Mr. Khan backtracked and purportedly claimed that Higher Education Minister R. Bindu had pressurised him to grant his imprimatur to the arbitrary decision. Ideally, Mr. Khan should have sought the Vice-Chancellor’s resignation or ejected the latter out of office. The government had filed an affidavit in the High Court that the Kannur Vice-Chancellor’s appointment had the Chancellor’s approval. The High Court had issued a notice to the Governor. However, Mr. Khan seemed reluctant to give an affidavit that disputed the government’s testimony. Instead, he had forwarded it to the government. Mr. Satheesan alleged that Mr. Khan had raised the controversy of denying Honorary D.Litt. to the President to “hide” from the real issue at hand and stay away from discharging his duty as Chancellor. Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Surendran has taken strong exception to Mr. Satheesan’s position. The State government had insulted the President by denying him an D.Litt. Instead of holding Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to account for the humiliation, Mr. Satheesan attacked the Governor. He said that Mr. Satheesan had acted as a member of Mr. Vijayan’s Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-governor-has-acted-unlawfully-opposition-leader/article38090190.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fracas with tourist: SI suspended in Kerala||With the high-handed approach of a group of police officers towards a Swede in Kovalam on the New Year’s eve coming under scrutiny, the Thiruvananthapuram City police placed a grade Sub-Inspector (SI) under suspension on Saturday. Grade SI Shaji attached to the Kovalam police station was placed under suspension pending inquiry following a preliminary inquiry by the Special Branch. CM’s instructions The action came close on the heels of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan instructing the State Police Chief to institute a thorough probe into the incident. The incident in which the foreigner, Stefan Asberg, who has been running a homestay in Kovalam for nearly four years, was seen emptying two bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor after being questioned by a police team evoked much criticism with various quarters lamenting the unfriendly attitude towards tourists. Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas termed the incident ‘unfortunate’ while lamenting such tendencies could hamper the tourism prospects of the State. Probe sought Demanding a probe, the Minister felt the behaviour of the police went against the government’s policies. Such actions cannot be tolerated in a State that has been tirelessly exploring new avenues to attract tourists in the post-pandemic period. Nonetheless, he expressed optimism that such incidents would not dampen the interest among tourists to visit Kerala and explore its tourist destinations. General Education and Labour Minister V. Sivankutty, who invited the Swede to his official residence, said the incident was an isolated one. Shortly after the Kerala Police Officers Association conveying its protest against the decision to suspend the sub-inspector, Mr. Sivankutty said it was unfair to project the entire police force in a bad light. The Kerala Police has been functioning in an efficient manner across the State, he said. Feels sorry for officer Finding himself in the vortex of a controversy unexpectedly, Mr. Asberg told media persons that he regarded police officers as his friends. Uninterested in submitting a formal complaint against the police, he said he felt sorry for the suspended official. Nonetheless, City Police Commissioner G. Sparjan Kumar said the department-level investigation will continue in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fracas-with-tourist-si-suspended-in-kerala/article38090191.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pilgrim turnout moderate in Tirumala||The temple of Lord Venkateswara here witnessed a moderate pilgrim turnout on the New Year day on Saturday. Soon after completion of the predawn rituals such as Tiruppavai, Archana and Thomala Seva, the temple was thrown open to public at 2.30 a.m. The relatively low turnout in the VIPs proved to be a blessing in disguise to the ordinary pilgrims. As resolved earlier, the TTD released about 20,000 online special entry darshan tickets of Rs. 300 each and around 10,000 sarva darshan tokens in adherence to the COVID-19 norms. Though there was a big clamour for the New Year darshan tickets, the TTD stood to its stand and obliged only genuine requests. This apart, clear instructions had also been given to the personnel manning the Alipiri checking plaza in Tirupati to allow only those having darshan tickets. Despite intermittent rain and chilly climatic conditions, thousands of devotees reached the town the previous evening for an overnight stay. The cottage allotment counters, which functioned normally during the day, started buzzing with pilgrim activity since the evening. Unlike in the past, no special electrical and floral decorations were made inside the temple. Meanwhile, TTD member-trustee S.R. Viswanath donated a new car worth Rs. 29 lakh to the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pilgrim-turnout-moderate-in-tirumala/article38090188.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD invites applications for Prabandha Parayanam||The TTD has invited applications from qualified Sri Vaishnava Brahmins to discharge duty as examiners in the TTD Nalayira Divya Prabandha Parayanam Scheme for the year 2021-22. The candidates will be recruited on monthly salary basis and they will have to perform Parayanam at Srivari temple, Tirumala. Interested can access details on TTD website www.tirumala.org and submit filled-in applications to ‘The Special Officer, Nalayira Divya Prabandham Parayanam Scheme’, TTD, SVETA Bhavan, Tirupati – 517 502’ by January 25. For details, call 0877226 4519.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-invites-applications-for-prabandha-parayanam/article38090961.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||11-day book festival gets under way||The 32nd edition of the Vijayawada Book Festival began at Swaraj Maidan (PWD Grounds) here on Saturday. The 11-day event being organised by the Vijayawada Book Festival Society (VBFS) has about 170 stalls compared to over 300 in the previous years and the allocated space is less than a fourth of the earlier editions.  Inaugurating it virtually, Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan said it was apt to quote the Telugu adage ‘Pustakam hasta bhooshanam’ meaning ‘a book is like an ornament in hand.’ “A book takes us into a world of knowledge, entertainment, and new thought-process and make us more knowledgeable,” he said, adding, “while in prison during the Emergency period and later on, I have availed the great resources for writing books such as Raana Pratap , Maru Bataas , Manasi etc. in Odiya.”  “The late Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee once said ‘I owe all that credit, if any, only to book reading’,” the Governor said. “As a writer and book lover, I strongly appeal to all parents to inculcate the habit of book-reading among children at a young age to empower them with knowledge as they grow up,” he said, adding “a child who reads will be an adult who thinks.” Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas, Vijayawada (Central) MLA Malladi Vishnu, Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi, Vijayawada Book Festival Society president Manohar Naidu, secretary Lakshmiah, coordinator Vijay Kumar and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-day-book-festival-gets-under-way/article38090210.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. gearing up to jab teenagers||As the registration for vaccination of teenagers aged between 15 and 18 began on Saturday, the State government is gearing up to vaccinate at least 25 lakh beneficiaries in the week beginning January 3. The government plans to reach out to the eligible beneficiaries and administer the vaccine to them at their doorstep. Health and Family Welfare Department Commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar said that in line with the guidelines issued by the Central government, the Health Department had made necessary arrangements to administer the vaccine against COVID to teenagers from January 3. He said over 40 lakh doses of Covaxin were available in the State and all the 19 lakh ANMs in the State would be roped in to reach out to the beneficiaries and administer vaccine dose at their doorstep. He said all the arrangements to reach out to 25 lakh teenagers had been made. Mr. Bhaskar said that booster doses for senior citizens with comorbidities and health and frontline workers would be given from January 10. He said there were over 14 lakh such beneficiaries in the State. Mr. Bhaskar said that so far 40,000 persons from various foreign countries came to the State in recent times and 16,000 persons of them from vulnerable countries were tested. He said the whereabouts of the foreign returnees who arrived at airports in neighbouring States were being collected and tests would be conducted on them soon. He said that the impact of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus on the body was lesser compared to the previous variants of the virus and COVID appropriate behaviour was key to keep the virus at bay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-gearing-up-to-jab-teenagers/article38090955.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 176 COVID-19 cases||The State reported 176 more COVID-19 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. There were no deaths during the period. The number of cases registered during the day was the highest in the last 23 days. For the first time since the “peak week” witnessed during the second wave in May last, the State reported 25% rise in the number of infections in the last one week (December 26 to January 1) compared to the previous week (December 19 to 27) with 911 and 727 infections respectively. As a result, the number of active cases increased. The active case tally, which had come down to 1,049 three days ago, increased to 1,227 as of Saturday with only 103 patients recovering in the past day. The cumulative tally increased to 20,77,321 and the death toll remained at 14,495. The number of recoveries increased to 20,61,599, while the recovery rate came down to 99.24%. The test positivity rate of the 30,717 samples tested in the past day was 0.57% and that of the 3.135 crore samples tested so far was 6.62%. Vizag leads tally chart Visakhapatnam reported 40 infections in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor (29), Krishna (26), Guntur (21), Anantapur (18), Nellore (9), Srikakulam (8), East Godavari (7), West Godavari (7), Kurnool (5), Prakasam (3), Vizianagaram (2) and Kadapa (1). The district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,95,123), Chittoor (2,48,824), West Godavari (1,80,097), Guntur (1,79,349), Visakhapatnam (1,58,957), Anantapur (1,58,284), Nellore (1,47,133), Prakasam (1,38,810), Kurnool (1,24,239), Srikakulam (1,23,724), Krishna (1,20,762), Kadapa (1,15,996) and Vizianagaram (83,128).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-176-covid-19-cases/article38090954.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC judge celebrates New Year at VMC old age home||Andhra Pradesh High Court judge Justice Battu Devanand along with his wife Padmakumari, managing trustee of Battu Venkata Ratnam Charitable Trust, celebrated the New Year with the inmates of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation’s old age home in the city on Saturday. Accompanied by Municipal Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh and his wife, Justice Devanand and family spent time with the inmates who were rescued from the streets by municipal employees. The home is an initiative of the municipal employees led by Mr. Prasanna Venkatesh. The judge’s family took part in cake cutting and served food to the inmates besides donating them clothes. Justice Devanand appreciated Mr. Venkatesh and the VMC staff for setting up the old age home and taking care of the senior citizens who required food, shelter and proper care. He said other civic bodies could draw inspiration and set up similar homes for the needy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-judge-celebrates-new-year-at-vmc-old-age-home/article38091025.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu calls on Radha, assures full support||Telugu Desam Party president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday demanded a comprehensive probe into the “recce conducted with an alleged intention to kill his party leader Vangaveeti Radha.” On Saturday evening, Mr Naidu visited Mr. Radha’s house in Vijayawada and enquired about the “recce” incident and wanted them to ensure adequate security measures. “It’s been a week since the incident occurred. I have also written a letter on the issue to the Director-General of Police, and yet the Police Department has not done what it is supposed to do,” he said. He said the party would fully support its leader who was being allegedly targeted by the ruling party. Later, speaking to reporters, Mr. Naidu said no action was being taken against the culprits despite sufficient evidence of alleged murder attempt on Mr. Radha. Mr. Naidu said the scene of “miscreants conducting scrutiny of the place” was captured in the CC cameras and yet no action was being taken to bring the culprits to book. TDP leader Mr. Radha recently expressed threat to his life and said that “unknown miscreants had held a recce with an intention to kill him. Vijayawada City Police Commissioner Kanti Rana Tata, responding to it, said the department had not received any complaint in this regard, and informed that the CC camera footage was being examined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-calls-on-radha-assures-full-support/article38090962.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police probing ‘recce’ done near Radha’s house||The police have taken up investigation of the alleged recce done by some miscreants near the house of TDP leader and former MLA Vangaveeti Radha. However, Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata has clarified that there is no complaint from the TDP leader in this regard. “Based on his comments, the police have taken up investigation. The probe is under way. The police have also stepped up security for Mr. Radha,” he said. Mr. Kanthi Rana Tata has appealed to the people not to make unnecessary comments on the issue. “Stern action will be taken against those who try to disturb peace and create panic among the people,” he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-probing-recce-done-near-radhas-house/article38090953.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Priests bless Governor Harichandan on New Year||Priests of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) and Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam, blessed the Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan and his wife Suprava Harichandan, on the occasion of New Year at Raj Bhavan here on Saturday. Chairman of the Durga temple Somi Naidu, Secretary, Endowments Department G. Vani Mohan and the temple Executive Officer D. Bhramaramba offered him the prasadam .  Chief Information Commissioner and member of A.P. Information Commission P. Ramesh Kumar, Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma, Director General of Police Gautam Sawang, Chief Electoral Officer K. Vijayanand, Vijayawada Police Commissioner Kanti Rana Tata, Director of B.C. Welfare P. Arjun Rao, Chairman A. Sridhar Reddy and general secretary of AP State branch of Indian Red Cross Society A.K. Parida also called on the Governor at Raj Bhavan and greeted him. Earlier, Mr. Harichandan released the 2022 calendar brought out by Raj Bhavan, in the presence of the Special Chief Secretary to Governor R.P. Sisodia, Joint Secretary A. Shyam Prasad and other officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/priests-bless-governor-harichandan-on-new-year/article38090212.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Merger with govt. a turning point for APSRTC’||Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao on Saturday said the New Year 2022 marked the completion of two years of the new chapter in the history of the corporation. Addressing a gathering of the RTC officials and employees as part of the New Year celebrations, Mr. Rao said the merger of the RTC employees with the government on January 1, 2020, was a turning point in the history of the public sector transport company. Sort out issues He said hurdles and challenges galore in the aftermath of the merger, but the officials at the helm of the organisation worked with diligence to sort out issues in a phased manner. Speaking about his own experience, he said in a short period of seven months of his assuming charge, he had been able to address few key issues related to the employees. He said despite challenges, the APSRTC continued to serve the commuters even even in the most difficult of times, especially when the pandemic was raging. RTC Executive Director (Administration) A. Koteswara Rao, ED (Engineering) Krishna Mohan, ED (Operations) K.S. Brahmanandam and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/merger-with-govt-a-turning-point-for-apsrtc/article38091031.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||45 drink and drive cases booked||The police conducted special drive at several places in the city on the intervening night of December 31 and January 1, and booked 45 persons on charges of drunken driving. Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata said the special drive was conducted at Benz Circle, Police Control Room, Gandhi Nagar, Ramavarappadu Ring Road and other centres. Police officers of different wings checked vehicle riders with breath analysers and booked cases against those who were driving under the influence of alcohol. As a precautionary measure, all the main roads and the flyovers were closed on Saturday night, the Police Commissioner added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/45-drink-and-drive-cases-booked/article38091030.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Winners of CII quality circle contest||Mangal Industries Limited (Vivekananda-01 QC team) has bagged the first place, Aurobindo Pharma Ltd (Badlav QC team) the second and Amara Raja Electronics Limited (Power zone QC team) the third place in a State-level quality circle competition, organised by the Andhra Pradesh chapter of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Saturday. Online competition The 34th edition of the competition was organised online and 13 teams participated in it. The teams would now compete at the southern regional level to qualify for the national round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/winners-of-cii-quality-circle-contest/article38090211.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven-member robber gang busted||In a joint operation, the Central Crime Station (CCS) and the law and order Andhra Pradesh police busted a seven-member gang which was involved in several bank robbery cases. In a pre-dawn raid following a tip-off, the police swooped down on the accused in a house in Vijayawada rented by them a few days ago, said Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata here on Saturday. Three members of the gang who were released from prison in June struck at a bank at Dummugudem in Telangana and made away with Rs. 19 lakh. Later, they came to Nuzvid in Krishna district and conducted a recce on a bank at Chatrai. “We suspect that the gang might have targeted more banks,” Mr. Tata said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-member-bank-robbery-gang-busted/article38090177.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID cases jump from 7 to 40 in four days||The COVID-19 cases in the district jumped from a daily count of 7 to 40, within a span of just four days, signalling a rise in cases and cautioning about the possible third wave. On December 28, the number of cases recorded in the district was just seven and on December 29 it was 17. Thereafter it was 30 on December 30, 31 on December 31 and 40 on January 1, 2022. The rise has been steady and the medical fraternity is watching the trend cautiously. Though it is too early to say that it could be a confirmed indication for the predicted third wave, but it is definitely a clear signal for caution, said P.V. Sudhakar, the Principal of Andhra Medical and District COVID Special Officer. Festive rush As per the initial assessment of the medical experts, festive shopping rush, lavish weddings and rush at places of worship, could be the possible cause for the sudden rise in cases. Though there is a rise in the cases, the experts are unable to confirm whether the rise continue to be with the Delta variant or the new variant Omicron. Experts feel that since cases have just begun to rise and the numbers are still under 100 per district, it is advisable that samples of all positive cases be sent for genome sequencing. “Only then we will be able to say whether the Delta continues to hold its sway or the new one is making its presence felt,” said a senior doctor from King George Hospital. The experts feel that the more number of genome sequencing machines should be procured by the State government and established in all major cities. As of now, Tirupati and Vijayawada have got the machines but they are still to be operational. The experts feel that another machine should be installed at Visakhapatnam in the laboratory at KGH. Currently the samples are being sent to CCMB, Hyderabad, and it takes about a week’s time for the result. In the USA the results are given on the same day and that is why they are able to track the virus variant. If we have three machines operational at Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Tirupati, then we can have the results in one or two days at least. And since the cases are now below 100, all samples can be sent for genome sequencing, “Once it exceeds 100, then we can randomise the sequencing. But by that time, we will be in a position to confirm and track the variant,” said Dr. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-covid-cases-jump-from-7-to-40-in-four-days/article38091028.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only a united struggle will prevent VSP privatisation, says Tapan Sen||Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) general secretary Tapan Sen on Saturday said that only a united struggle would prevent the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) Addressing a relay hunger strike organised by the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee against the privatisation of VSP at Kurmannapalem here, he said that the BJP government was trying to sell national assets and it has to be prevented at any cost, he said. The agitation that is now being spearheaded by the committee was now a guiding force to all agitations against privatisation across the country, Mr. Tapan Sen said. He said that they were organising a two-day nationwide strike on February 23 and 24 against the anti-labour policies of the Union Government. The VSP agitation will play a crucial role in the agitation, he said and added that they were chalking out plans to make the steel plant agitation a national movement. Porata committee leaders Ch. Narasinga Rao, Ayodhya Ram, D. Adinarayana, Mastanappa, Y.T. Das, Dommeti Appa Rao and others were present. CPSU meet today Meanwhile, the CITU will be hosting its All India Committee of Public Sector Unions (CPSU) Coordination Committee meet here on Sunday. Over 200 CITU leaders representing various sectors such as steel, coal, power, engineering and oil will be attending the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/only-a-united-struggle-will-prevent-vsp-privatisation/article38091026.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three killed, one critical as bikes collide||Three youth died while another person received severe injuries in a road accident, when two motorcycles collided head-on on the BRTS Road at Arilova here in the early hours of Saturday. The police suspect that overspeeding could be the reason for the accident. The deceased were identified as Rakesh and Rambabu from Vivekananda Nagar, Arilova, and Nitish from Pydimamba Colony, Vepagunta, all aged around 21 to 25 years. According to the police, Nitish and another youth were heading towards Arilova from Vepagunta, while Rakesh and Rambabu were going towards Simhachalam from Vivekananda Nagar. They were using the middle-road of the BRTS. Near Apollo Hospitals area, the bikes collided reportedly due to overspeeding. The accident occurred at around 6.20 a.m. and there was not much fog either, said Inspector of Arilova Police Station Emmanuel Raju. While three died on the spot, another injured youth from Vepagunta was shifted to a private hospital. The condition of the youth is said to be critical. The police are yet to ascertain whether the youth were under the influence of alcohol. Arilova police have registered a case. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-killed-one-critical-as-bikes-collide/article38090952.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||22-year-old held, booty seized||The city police (Crime Wing) arrested a 22-year-old serial offender, who was involved in as many as 11 house break-ins (HB) during night at various places under MVP Police Station limits, here on Saturday. The police have recovered 23.5 tolas of gold, 30 tolas of silver ornaments and cash, all worth about Rs. 6.02 lakh, from him. The arrested was identified as Marada Sai alias Sorapittalu, a resident of Kommadi Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, DCP (Crimes-i/c) Sravan Kumar said Sai was an ex-offender and a suspect sheet holder at MVP Police Station. He was sent to jail after being involved in seven crimes in various areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/22-year-old-held-booty-seized/article38091033.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New Year’s Eve revelry a low-key affair in city||For the second time in a row, New Year revelry in the city was a low-key affair. As per the police, the ushering of the New Year was peaceful without any unfortunate incidents in the intervening night. Most of the people limited the celebrations to their homes. The number of apartment associations which came forward to organise New Year’s Eve events was also on a low-key, compared to the previous years. Beach Road stretch from Yarada to Bheemili was closed for visitors from 8 p.m. Flyovers were closed and barricades were arranged along BRTS roads from 10 p.m. Due to weekend, many people thronged the Agency areas in the district to welcome the New Year. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana, said major issues like racing, dangerous and zig-zag driving were not reported from any where in the city. Even before 8 p.m., most of the visitors left the beaches cooperating with the police. Wine shops were also closed by 8 p.m. “No hotels were allowed to organise any parties and events, restaurants were closed within time so there was no movement of people after 11 p.m.,” the ADCP added Special drive The city police organised a special drive and booked 134 cases of drunken driving on the New Year’s Eve. The police teams have also generated e-challan against as many as 1,020 people for driving vehicles by not wearing helmet. Only nine cases of dangerous driving were registered. The traffic police are also written to the Transport Department officials to cancel driving licence of about 104 people who were caught in drunken driving in the last couple of days. Temples witnessed crowds as people welcomed New Year on a positive note. Tourists places, including Kailasagiri, Tenneti Park, R.K Beach, Rushikonda, and zoo park, have seen huge crowds including tourists from other places to spend the first day of the year. People flocked to restaurants and coffee shops with friends and families to celebrate the New Year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-years-eve-revelry-a-low-key-affair-in-city/article38091034.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Noted Odia writer Punya Prava Devi dead||Noted Odiya writer and Kendra Sahitya Akademi award winner Punya Prava Devi (83) died here on Friday after a brief illness. She had won the national award for best children’s literature in 1960, the Akashvani Award for a her marital songs in 1962, and Shishu Sahitya Ratna - Bal Sahitya Puraskar by the Kendra Sahitya Akademi in 2010. Born in Odisha, she made Visakhapatnam her home after her marriage with Prahlad Chandra Mohanty. Despite being a school dropout after suffering an eye infection, her quest for literature and language continued even after her marriage. Apart from Odiya, she was proficient in Telugu, Hindi, Bengali and English.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/noted-odia-writer-punya-prava-devi-dead/article38090530.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourism Minister launches YSR Pension Kanuka||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao handed over the enhanced pension of Rs. 2,500 to the beneficiaries during the launch of YSR Pension Kanuka, at the VMRDA Children's Arena here on Saturday. The State Government has enhanced pension from Rs. 2,250 to Rs. 2,500 from this month. Speaking during the programme, the Minister said that the State government has been implementing welfare schemes for all sections of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tourism-minister-launches-ysr-pension-kanuka/article38091035.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||KGH renaming: CPI(M) leaders slam BJP||Members of the CPI(M) Greater Visakha City Committee condemned the statements of BJP State president, Somu Veerraju demanding renaming of King George Hospital. The CPI(M) party leaders alleged that the BJP is trying to create an issue in the name of KGH just for their political benefits. Party State Secretariat Member Ch Narasinga Rao said the BJP is trying to create disputes among people of Visakhapatnam for a long time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kgh-renaming-cpim-leaders-slam-bjp/article38091027.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanitary workers cut cakes||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation welcomed the New Year in a unique way. The sachivalayam staff organised celebrations in the offices in all wards. Sanitary workers were made to cut the cake . Later, the staff took a pledge to put their efforts to make Vizag clean city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sanitary-workers-cut-cakes/article38091032.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijaya Kumar is new AMC Vice-Principal||K.V.V. Vijaya Kumar, Professor and HoD of Pulmonary Medicine has been nominated by P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical Colleges, as Vice- Principal (Administration) in place of A. Bhaygalakshmi, who retired on December 31, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vijaya-kumar-is-new-amc-vice-principal/article38091037.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIM-Visakhapatnam achieves 100% placement||Indian Institute of Management (IIM)-Visakhapatnam has closed the year by achieving 100% placement for its outgoing sixth batch of pass-outs. As per an IIM-V release, the highest average package for this year was Rs. 14.6 lakhs per annum, which was 16% more than the previous year and the highest package was Rs. 23.5 lakhs per annum. Over 75 companies participated in the process, said IIM-V Director M. Chandrasekhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iim-v-achieves-100-placement/article38090979.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy turnout||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-turnout/article38090193.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prepping up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prepping-up/article38090949.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inviting trouble||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inviting-trouble/article38090964.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mirth and merriment||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mirth-and-merriment/article38090978.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||Two killed in Bhadradri||In a ghastly incident, two women were killed when a container lorry ran amok before ploughing into the compound wall of a roadside house at Prashanthnagar Colony on the outskirts of Paloncha town on Saturday afternoon. The deceased were identified as G Venkatanarsamma, 45, and S Koteshwari, 53. The duo were sitting in front of a makeshift stall near their roadside houses when the container lorry fatally mowed down them, sources said. Locals rescued the seriously injured driver and shifted him to the government hospital in Paloncha town. Paloncha police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-killed-in-bhadradri/article38090997.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||Jayaprakash Reddy targets Revanth yet again||The dissidence in Congress went a step farther on Saturday with Sangareddy legislator T. Jayaprakash Reddy targeting State unit chief A. Revanth Reddy yet again by sending an audio clip of the latter making indecent remarks against former Union Minister Shashi Tharoor, and demanded that the TPCC disciplinary committee seek explanation from him. The audio clip was related to Mr. Revanth Reddy making some inappropriate remarks against Mr. Shashi Tharoor in a private conversation with reporters where he compared him with a ‘donkey’ for praising the TRS government during his visit to Hyderabad as part of the Parliamentary Standing Committee meeting. When the audio was leaked Mr. Revanth Reddy withdrew his remarks and personally called Mr. Tharoor to apologise and also explained the context in which the remark was made. Mr. Tharoor too tweeted accepting his apology. However, Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy has now sent the audio clip to G. Chinna Reddy, Chairman of the TPCC Disciplinary Committee, asking him to seek an explanation from the TPCC chief. How can the TPCC chief make such derogatory comments against a national leader, he asked. “The disciplinary committee was enthused to seek a personal explanation from me for writing to Ms. Sonia Gandhi against the Congress chief. It should show similar enthusiasm now,” he said. Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy argued that the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee chief cannot work in isolation or as per his whims and fancies. Senior leaders who had been elected four or five times as MLAs were now feeling stifled due to the personal agenda of Mr. Revanth Reddy, he claimed. Earlier, the disciplinary committee felt that it was improper for the Sangareddy Legislator to leak to the media the letter he had addressed to Sonia Gandhi. Enraged over this Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy has now shot off this letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jayaprakash-reddy-targets-revanth-yet-again/article38090818.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Alluri Sitarama Raju’s heroics need nation’s attention||Revolutionary freedom fighter who gave sleepless nights to the mighty British Alluri Sitarama Raju’s 125th birth anniversary celebrations will begin on January 2, amidst the demand for national recognition for the revolutionary hero. A household name Despite being a household name in two Telugu States, the ‘Manyam Hero’ and his battles with the British during the Independence struggle were obscured by time or history’s bias. His struggle is slowly moving out of the younger generation’s minds when the country is now, unearthing new war heroes. The national bias is what annoys the old-timers who were brought up on his revolutionary tales. Recently, the Government of India had celebrated tribal leader Birsa Munda’s birth anniversary as ‘Janjathiya Gaurav Divas’ and for the first time, the art and culture of the entire country’s tribal society, their contribution to the freedom movement and nation building, was being remembered and honoured with pride. “Similar respect should be given to Sitarama Raju’s role and his heroics should be taken nationwide,” say P. Naga Raju, president and N. Nani Raju, general secretary of Kshatriya Seva Samiti. Unparalleled courage They recall the unparalleled courage and valiant efforts of Sitarama Raju in leading a full-scale war against the colonial police and army in a tribal protest known as the Rampa Rebellion (1922-1924). This was against forest grievances in the Madras Presidency. Between August 1922 and May 1924, for close to 2 years, Sitarama Raju led one of the most intense uprisings against the British. The fact that the British government had to spend over Rs. 40 lakh in those days to defeat the rebellion speaks volumes about the success of Rampa Rebellion. At 27 years, Sitarama Raju became a martyr falling to the British bullets. The Kshatriya Seva Samiti reminds how the awe-inspiring heroics were appreciated by Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose and Mahatma Gandhi. Many others have compared him to Rana Pratap and Chhatrapati Shivaji. “It’s time the country recognises his role and the Government of India celebrates it,” says Mr. Naga Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/alluris-heroics-need-nations-attention/article38090822.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||New COVID cases over 300 despite fewer tests||For the second consecutive day, the State recorded over 300 new cases of COVID-19 even as 12 more Omicron cases came to light on Saturday, taking the tally of the new variant to 79. All 12 of them are international passengers. Of the 79 Omicron patients detected so far, 27 had recovered and been discharged by Saturday night. On Saturday, the first day of the new year, 317 persons tested positive for the infectious disease in the State and two patients died. The previous day, 311 cases of COVID had been recorded in Telangana — the last time more than 300 infections were logged was in September 2021. However, what is alarming is the number of tests conducted in the past two days. On Friday, a total of 36,759 samples had been examined while on Saturday, the number of tests dipped sharply to 28,886. Despite that, the daily caseload was higher. Of the new 317 infections, the highest of 217 or 68% were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region. Of the total cases, 3,733 were active as of Saturday evening. The death toll stands at 4,029. On Thursday, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao had cautioned that the current spike in cases was the beginning of the third wave of COVID-19, which could see high number of hospitalisations. The two to four weeks when COVID takes deep roots will also hopefully mark the end of the pandemic with minimal damage, he had stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/311-new-covid-cases-despite-fewer-tests/article38090795.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||Zero tillage can save ryots Rs. 180 cr.||Farmers across the State can save about Rs. 180 crore by following zero tillage technology in the coming summer season if they go for irrigated and dry (ID) crops where only paddy was harvested. This experiment conducted at village in Kangti mandal of Sangareddy district and the yield by the farmer who experimented in his filed was same like other farmers. The saving per acre will be around Rs. 3,000 per acre. Dry crops Amid crisis on growing paddy in the coming summer season, the farmers are looking at alternative crops that would offer them good remuneration. Majority farmer are looking at irrigated and dry (ID) crops maize, jowar and sun flower. However, agriculture experts suggests that without tilling operations of farm lands, where paddy was cultivated as previous crop, farmer can grow one of these three crops. Tilling operation involves ploughing, using cultivator and levelling. This will save about Rs. 3,000 per acre to the farmer. An experiment was conducted in one of the farms in Kangti mandal where maize seeds were directly sown in the paddy wet lands. Once paddy was harvested, one irrigation was supplied and then after 24 hours the maize seed was directly dibbling in soil. This experiment conducted in a field at Tadkal village of Kangti mandal in Sangareddy district in 2019 has not only saved money for farmer but also time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/zero-tillage-can-save-ryots-rs-180-cr/article38090999.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||Grievances box at Raj Bhavan||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has opened a suggestions and grievances box at the Raj Bhavan to enable people to share their ideas, suggestions, and bring their grievances to the notice of Raj Bhavan. The suggestions box will act like a bridge between the government, its agencies and people, said Ms. Soundararajan, who interacted with media personnel on the occasion of the New Year. She said that Telangana State, although the youngest, is one of the fast progressing States in the country. She exhorted all sections of people to join hands for the continued development of the State. She called upon all the sections of the people to worship their work and contribute for the State and nation’s development. She asked the people to promote and eat traditional and nutritional food so as to improve immunity in times of pandemic. She asked all people to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour to keep the pandemic at bay with the collective will and efforts. Laptops distributed On the occasion, the Governor handed over laptops to 20 needy students to enable and empower them to be an equal learner in the online education mode too. Seven of the beneficiaries were physically challenged, while the remaining belonged to the underprivileged sections. The Governor appreciated the laptops contribution by philanthropic organisations and individuals. The donations were in response the an earlier call given by the Governor asking the Information Technology companies, organisations, individuals and others to donate laptops and tabs to distribute to the needy. The Raj Bhavan has received around 2,000 requests from students for laptops. Earlier, leaders, senior officials, police, and people from different walks of life visited the Raj Bhavan and extended New Year greetings to the Governor. Secretary to Governor K. Surendra Mohan and other senior officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/grievances-box-at-raj-bhavan/article38090808.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||Modi means inflation and price rise: Congress spokesperson||Stating that the Narendra Modi government’s new year gift to the nation was inflation and price rise, Congress national spokesperson Mohan Prakash said the revised GST slab rates will increase tax on goods that are part of the lives of 80% of people. Mr Prakash, who was in Hyderabad as part of Congress’ campaign against Modi government’s ‘loot’ of the country, said the country was seeing the highest ever unemployment and the inflationary pressure mounting at 14.23% - the highest in the last 10 years. But this government was least bothered unlike the previous governments that had intervened to ease pressure on the common man. Speaking to reporters along with TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy, working president Mahesh Kumar Goud and senior leaders Mallu Ravi, Sravan Dasoju and Vinod Reddy here, he said the new year will force the poor and middle class to spend more on basic needs including clothes, footwear and even withdrawing own money from the ATMs. He said with the government increasing the GST on textiles from 5% to 12% (which has now been deferred till February 28) the impact is more on clothes purchased by the common man given that 85% of the clothes sold are priced below Rs. 1,000. Similarly, the GST rate on footwear costing up to Rs. 1,000 per pair has also been hiked from 5% to 12%. The FMCG (Fast Moving Consumer Goods) prices will increase by up to 10% from this month, while people have to pay more for withdrawing their own money from the ATMs. He said the Modi government had not even spared auto-rickshaw and taxi rides imposing 5% GST on the bookings through apps from January 1. Prices of automobiles, cement and steel had also gone up due to the increased taxes, he said, adding except the top businessmen of the country no one was spared. All that Modi government did in the last 7 years was to increase petrol prices from Rs. 71 per litre to Rs. 108; cooking gas cylinder from Rs. 400 to Rs. 1000; cooking oil from Rs. 90 to Rs. 250 per Litre; pulses from Rs. 60 per kg to Rs. 150 per kg and even tea from Rs. 120 per kg to Rs. 300 to Rs. 400 per kg. He said the TRS and YSRCP governments in Telangana and AP respectively too were responsible for this chaos as they continue to support the Modi government and they cannot escape from people’s wrath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/modi-means-inflation/article38090816.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||Numaish back in Hyderabad||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan inaugurated the 81st edition of the All India Industrial Exhibition (Numaish) in the city on Saturday. “The exhibition is not just an occasion for shopping but is a much-needed outing for families,” said Dr. Soundararajan. The event, which was not held last year due to COVID, kicked off amidst suspense as the government did not give permission till the last day. “The expo shows the unity of India where products from different parts of the country are brought here by entrepreneurs to sell. You can get products from Kashmir to Uttar Pradesh here,” she said. She also referred to the role played by the Exhibition Society that is running 19 educational institutions with 30,000 students and creating direct and indirect livelihoods for at least 10,000 people. Police have created 11 free parking lots inside government offices and on roads for visitors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/after-a-year-numaish-back-in-city/article38090799.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||Singareni Collieries faces a tall order in Q4||The Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) faces a daunting task of producing an average of 7.16 million tonnes (MT) of coal every month in the last quarter of the current fiscal to achieve the target of 68 MT, in spite of best of its efforts in the first three quarters by extracting 46.52 MT coal. The three-day strike by the miners from December 9 to 11 against the Centre’s plans to privatise four mines in the Singareni areas in the first tranche and more in the next tranche has not only impacted the coal production to some extent but has also made the task of production target in the remainder of the fiscal difficult further as the extraction of coal in the first nine months of 2021-22 fiscal is already short by 3.04 MT against the target. “Against the coal production of 49.56 MT planned till December-end, the achievement is 46.52 MT in the first nine months and the three-day strike by the miners has also contributed not merely in numbers but in terms of pace of production too,” a senior executive admitted adding that although the coal production in December 2021 was highest for a month in the first three quarters, it was incidentally the only month in which the production was lesser compared to 2020 month-wise. The three-day strike has not only deprived the company extraction of at least 4.5 lakh tonnes coal but also resulted in financial loss of Rs. 120 crore. “To make up the production loss not only of the strike period but also the short-fall in extraction in the first nine months, the company needs extra and special efforts to reach the year’s target or at least to be in its vicinity”, the executive said. However, the company could take some solace in the 46.52 MT production achieved in the first three quarters of the current fiscal compared to only 32.65 MT achieved during the same period in the COVID-hit previous fiscal. In coal dispatches, the achievement has been better at 48.18 MT against target of 49.76 MT till December-end compared to 31.79 MT achieved during the same period last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/singareni-collieries-faces-a-tall-order-in-q4/article38090813.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||Want the MLA ticket, then meet the membership target||Congress leaders hoping to get the party nomination in the next Assembly elections will be eligible to cross the first line of applying for the party form if they enrol a minimum of 50,000 members in their respective constituencies. “Their applications will not even be considered if they fail to cross the 50,000-mark in their constituency in the ongoing membership drive,” a senior party leader revealed. Unlike previous years they can’t get the fake membership since the present process is through digitisation and every move will be monitored and the members’ details digitized at the AICC level. Similarly, the Lok Sabha constituency hopefuls will have to cross the 3.5 lakh mark for each constituency in coordination with the MLA ticket-hopefuls. The performance of the mandal level leaders will be judged only if their contribution crosses 10,000-mark. The party has also appointed coordinators for each constituency who will constantly monitor the work of the MLA-hopefuls during the membership drive detailing their movements like how many meetings they organised, attended or coordinated for the purpose. Party hopes to enrol 30 lakh members in the ongoing digital membership drive. TPCC chief A. Revanth Reddy was said to have given clear instructions on the numbers with a warning that he will not be able to help them as the entire data of the membership and the contribution of the hopefuls will be with the AICC. “This is the first line of eligibility fixed to instil seriousness among leaders as part of bringing in a new work culture in the party,” he told the hopefuls. Mr. Reddy apparently is planning to invite Mr. Rahul Gandhi to Telangana for a day long inspirational workshop where these ‘achievers’ will be personally honoured by Mr. Gandhi. “Those achieving the target will either be taken to New Delhi for personal meeting with Mr. Gandhi if he is unable to come to Telangana,” he said.  Those enrolled as members of the Telangana Congress will be covered by Rs. 2-lakh insurance cover. “We always had a great number of sympathisers and voters apart from active members. We want to streamline the system now, keeping the party workers’ welfare as central theme,” Mr. Revanth Reddy told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/want-the-mla-ticket-then-meet-the-party-membership-target/article38090819.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||A year that took a heavy psychological toll on students||Almost all the students passed academically in 2021 but the psychological toll has been enormous. In the past fortnight, about six Intermediate students ended their life after failing in their exam. After the students’ deaths, the Intermediate Board announced that all the students will be promoted to the next class, but the damage was done. The death of students in close succession highlighted the mental health crisis unleashed by COVID-19 pandemic. Instead of summer examinations, the ICSE, CBSE and different State boards promoted their students. It came as a relief for the students after a year of doubts and distress but it did not lower the mental stress for students. Some of the children poured out their agony in blogs, in social media, and a lucky few to their psychological counsellors. “The number of calls fielded by our volunteers went up substantially. A number of students said they missed their classmates, the regular interaction with their friends. At homes, they were under constant adult supervision which they didn’t like,” said a volunteer who fields calls at a suicide helpline in the city. The economic distress due to COVID-19 lockdown impacted a large number of students pursuing education in budget private schools in the State and city. Many of the schools charging fees ranging between Rs. 300 and Rs. 1200 per month were forced to shut down as many parents either could not, or refused, to pay for online classes. The result: a 9.3% drop in the number of private schools. In Hyderabad, private schools numbered 2083 before the pandemic and now the number stands at 1888; and in Rangareddy district the number dropped from 1415 schools to 1396. While a large number of student shifted to government-run schools due to the shutting down of private schools, parents were made to jump through hoops to get transfer certificates from private schools. The closure of schools led to many teachers and ancillary staff of the schools losing their jobs. At schools which were functioning, the teachers saw their take-home salary decline substantially. Officials in the State Education Department rose to the task at hand and did not demand TCs ensuring children up to class VIII could get admission easily. Online classes for nearly 18 months created a class divide as some of the students did not have access to computers and followed their teachers on the cellphones of their parents. It was not just academics that was impacted due to lockdown but internship opportunities, sports, field trips, and other extra-curricular activities were affected robbing children of real-world learning opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-year-that-took-a-heavy-psychological-toll-on-students/article38090821.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||All 360 drunk driving cases in Rachakonda involved men||All the 360 violations recorded by Rachakonda police personnel during intense drunk driving checks on New Year’s eve were made by men. And about 80% of these violations were by men aged between 21 and 40 within the urban limits. As per a report released by Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat, Uppal and Kushaiguda traffic police stations in the limits recorded the highest of 77 and 76 violations. Revellers in Bhongir zone, which includes the three semi-urban traffic police stations of Bhongir, Yadadri and Choutuppal, were comparatively well-behaved. The zone, in all, recorded 36 cases of drunk driving. Vanasthalipuram and L.B. Nagar police station limits, which are on the arterial route to the busy NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada), and the connecting State highways, also showed worrying numbers of 62 and 57 violations respectively. The report also stated that 299 two-wheelers, 52 four-wheelers and a few commercial vehicles were the modes of transport in these offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-360-drunk-driving-cases-in-rachakonda-involved-men/article38090990.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Over 58K e-challans in a month for mask violations||In December alone, Telangana police issued 58,578 e-challans for mask-related violations across the State. Of them, 14,596 challans were issued by the Hyderabad city police to those not properly wearing or not wearing masks in adherence to COVID-19 protocol. With a sudden spike in COVID cases and several Omicron cases, police have once again intensified the ‘No Mask’ drive and started issuing contactless and spot e-challans to violators in the State. According to the data shared by the police, after Hyderabad city police, a large number of challans have been issued by Rachakonda police. Between December 1-29, the Rachakonda police fined 7,011 people found not wearing masks in public places, followed by 6,754 cases in the Cyberabad Police Commissionerate. “As many as 28,361 ‘No Mask’ challans were issued in Greater Hyderabad limits, which include all the three urban commissionerates, while over 30,000 tickets were issued in various police units,” an officer said. A penalty of Rs. 1,000 was imposed on each violator. On the advice of Health officials, police have resumed the enforcement drive for the safety of people, he said. “This drive will continue. Most of the challans are contactless,” the officer added.  As many as 28,361 ‘No Mask’ challans were issued in Greater Hyderabad limits, which include all the three urban commissionerates. A police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/unmasked-over-58k-e-challans-in-one-month-for-violations/article38090797.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||S S Rajamouli’s ‘RRR’ defers its theatrical release. Prabhas-starrer ‘Radhe Shyam’ on course for now||Director S.S. Rajamouli’s pan-India film RRR (Rise, Roar, Revolt) , scheduled to release in theatres worldwide in multiple languages on January 7, 2022, has been postponed.  The film starring NTR, Ram Charan, Alia Bhatt, Ajay Devgn and Shriya Saran among others is one of the most anticipated big-budget films in recent times. Over the past few days, speculation was rife that the makers might defer the theatrical release due to surge in COVID-19 cases across the country and several States having imposed night curfew and restrictions in cinemas. However, Rajamouli had stated that the team will go ahead with the release. On January 1 midnight, speculations again rose in film circles that the team had finally succumbed to pressure from distributors and exhibitors to defer its release date. The team issued an official statement on Saturday evening: “In spite of our relentless efforts, some situations are beyond our control. As many Indian States are closing theatres, we are left with no choice but to ask you to hold on to your excitement. We promise to bring back the glory of Indian cinema, and at the right time, we will.”  Meanwhile, the makers of Prabhas and Pooja Hegde-starrer Radhe Shyam affirmed there is no plan to change the release scheduled for January 14.  The film directed by Radha Krishna Kumar is slated to release in multiple languages across India.  With RRR opting out of the January race, other Telugu films are likely to consider a Sankranti theatrical release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/s-s-rajamoulis-rrr-defers-its-theatrical-release-prabhas-starrer-radhe-shyam-on-course-for-now/article38090800.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||UoH granted patent||The University of Hyderabad (UoH) has been granted a patent “Novel anti-HIV-1 heteroaromatic compounds targeted to HIV-1 associated Topoisomerase II beta kinase.” This discovery of new compound was accomplished by a team under the supervision of Prof. Anand K. Kondapi for treatment of HIV-1 infection, as a new line of therapy, at the Laboratory for Molecular Therapeutics, Department of Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, School of Life Sciences. Human immunodeficiency virus type I (HIV-1), a causative agent for AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome), infects human T helper cells and replicates with the help of host and viral proteins. The current novel anti-HIV-1 drug candidates were prepared in a two-step process; the first one follows an eco-friendly green chemistry process involving water as solvent, while in the second step, salt is formed. The result of this invention brings out several novel features such as water solubility of the drug candidates, and non-toxic and even higher anti-HIV-1 activity leading to a highly significant inhibition of virus replication. Other members of the team involved in the research are Kurumurthy Kammari, Akhila Bommakanti, Kiran Devaraya, Satyajit Mukhopadhyay and Sarita Swain, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-granted-patent-on-anti-hiv-compounds/article38090803.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||CS takes stock of pandemic situation||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar held a high-level meeting with senior officials here on Saturday to review the prevailing COVID-19 situation in the wake of rapidly increasing cases of Omicron variant in several States, including Telangana. As the cases are on the rise, there is a need to exercise precautions and adequate preventive measures to contain the spread of the infection, he said. The managements of public transport systems, shops, malls, establishments, offices and others had also been instructed to ensure mandatory wearing of masks, maintaining physical distance, frequent sanitisation of premises, provision for hand hygiene and screening at entry points with infrared thermometer or thermal scanners, the Chief Secretary said at the meeting. Further, the managements of schools and other educational institutions had been asked to ensure that all staff and students wear masks and follow COVID-appropriate behaviour. He also wanted the authorities to strictly enforce the imposition of fine of Rs. 1,000 on people for not wearing mask in public places. Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy, Secretary (Education) Sandeep Kumar Sultania, Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) S.A.M. Rizvi, Director of Public Health G. Srinivas Rao, Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy, Officer on Special Duty (Health) to Chief Minister T. Gangadhar and TSMIDC managing director K. Chandrashekar Reddy attended.  Managements of educational institutions have been asked to follow COVID safety protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-takes-stock-of-pandemic-situation/article38090793.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||Cyclist killed in Kondapur accident||A cyclist, who was knocked down by a speeding car driven by a drunk 25-year-old Air India employee, near Botanical Garden at Kondapur on Friday, succumbed to his injuries on Saturday. The victim, Nitin Agarwal, 44, from Ramky Towers, along with two others, was cycling on the opposite side of Palapitta cycling park, when S Shashank, 25, from Masjid Banda, hit them around 5.45 a.m., Gachibowli inspector G Suresh. Shashank, a cabin crew member of Air India, along with two others, was returning to his house after having tea at Madhapur, he said. “All of them consumed liquor at his place and went out to have tea,” Mr Suresh said. While returning home, the accused lost control of the wheel and hit Nitin and others. Nitin suffered multiple fractures and was rushed to AIG Hospital for immediate medical assistance, where he died while undergoing treatment. When subjected to breath analysis, Shashank’s blood alcohol concentration was 182 mg /100 ml.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cyclist-killed-in-kondapur-accident/article38090994.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:51 IST,TELANGANA||Three killed in separate road accidents||Three persons, including a homemaker, were killed in separate road accidents in Cyberabad Police Commissionerate limits on Friday night and Saturday morning. At Rajendranagar, a woman riding pillion on a bike was mowed down by an RTC bus on Saturday. In another accident at Moinabad, an alleged drunk driver hit a bike that resulted in the death of a person and left a woman injured. The accident took place around 6.20 p.m. on Friday when the accused, Rama Chander Reddy, a farmer, hit S. Narasimha’s (43) bike from the opposite direction. At Kadthal, a 28-year-old biker was killed in a road accident near Bharat petrol pump on NH 65 at Karkala Pahad village around 10.30 p.m. on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-killed-in-separate-road-accidents/article38090810.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||New in-charge General Manager for SCR||South Western Railway General Manager Sanjeev Kishore assumed charge as in-charge General Manager of South Central Railway (SCR) on Saturday. An alumnus of Indian Railway Institute of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering (IRIMEE), Jamalpur, he has worked in various capacities in Indian Railways, having served in North Eastern Railway, Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, Central Railway, Centre for Railway Information Systems, New Delhi, Railway Board, and Rail Wheel Factory, Yelahanka, Bengaluru, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-in-charge-general-manager-for-scr/article38090806.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||‘Issue appointment orders’||Telangana High Court has instructed the State government to issue appointment orders to candidates who appeared for selection test of 151 posts of Assistant Public Prosecutors in criminal courts of the State. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice N. Tuakramji issued this direction to the government after hearing a PIL petition seeking filling of the posts. The bench made it clear that the government should comply with the direction within a week. A compliance report should be filed, it said. Government counsel informed the bench that the process of selection was complete. The government was verifying antecedents of candidates. Verification of the background of nearly 30% selected candidates was over. Counsel sought time for verification of the antecedents of the remaining candidates. Soon after finishing the background verification process, the appointment orders would be issued, he told the bench.The matter was posted for January 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/issue-appointment-orders/article38090814.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||Five killed in two road accidents||Five persons were killed and three others injured in two road accidents that took place in Sangareddy district on the New Year day. Four persons were killed on the spot when a car lost control, jumped into the air and hit a motorcycle at Didgi near Zaheerabad on Saturday. According to sources, those travelling on the motorcycle – Balaraju (28) Sravani (22) and Ammulu (eight months) — were killed on the spot. It was stated that they were petty traders involved in selling clothes. They belonged to Bachupalli village in Gooty mandal of Anantapur district in Andhra Pradesh. Another person Fareed (25), resident of Patlur village in Marpally mandal of Vikarabad district, travelling in the car was also killed in the accident. In another accident that took place at Kansanpally in Andol mandal on Friday night, one person was killed and three were injured when an auto-trolley hit a car. Saraswati, travelling in the car, was killed in the accident. Her husband Naveen Goud and two children were injured and they were shifted to a hospital in Hyderabad for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-killed-in-two-road-accidents/article38090995.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:51 IST,TELANGANA||NIA takes over espionage case||The National Investigation Agency’s Hyderabad unit recently took over the investigation of the espionage case from Andhra Pradesh police and registered a fresh FIR. Confirming the development , sources said an FIR was registered against over 20 persons who were involved in the case. They said that between 2014 and 2019, some officers of unidentified intelligence agencies hatched a conspiracy and started securing sensitive information in connection with eastern and western sea coasts in the country to carry out anti-national activities. They tried to get classified information from Nellore, Visakhapatnam and other places in Gujarat by ‘honey trapping’ a few civilians and officers of Armed forces, through social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nia-takes-over-espionage-case/article38090811.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:51 IST,TELANGANA||No Prajavani on January 3rd at Siddipet Collectorate||There will be no Prajavani programme on Monday, January 3, at Siddipet integrated Collectorate office. In a release, Collector M Hanumantha Rao said that as the administration was busy with posting and transfer of employees, the programme was cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-prajavani-on-january-3rd-at-siddipet-collectorate/article38090815.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||IRISET DG retires||Director General of Indian Railways Institute of Signal Engineering & Telecommunications (IRISET) S.K. Goel demitted office on superannuation after 38 years of railway service in various important positions on Friday. He has been responsible for many new initiatives in training manpower in railways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iriset-dg-retires/article38090993.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||New Year calendar on road safety awareness||The town-based NGO, Indian Youth Secured Organisation (IYSO), has brought out the “2022 calendar” containing traffic signs as part of road safety awareness. Additional Collector Shyam Prasad Lal on Saturday released the New Year calendar here. Karimnagar One Town Circle Inspector Natesh, IYSO founder president Ghansham Ojha, and members of the Safer Indian Roads campaign, among others, were present. According to a press release, all traffic signs and road safety slogans have been printed on the calendar in an impressive manner to spread awareness and prevent road accidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-year-calendar-on-road-safety-awareness/article38090805.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:23 IST,||Centre to defer GST hike on textiles||Ahead of the Vibrant Gujarat summit, the State’s flagship biennial event, the Centre yielded to Gujarat government’s demand for a deferment of the hike on Goods and Services Tax (GST) on textiles from 5% to 12% from January 1. The Centre was going to raise the GST on textiles, of which Gujarat is a hub, from January 1, but it decided to defer the move after State Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel, party chief and Navsari MP C.R. Paatil, and Surat MP and Minister of State for Textiles Darshna Jardosh swung into action, persuading Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman from going ahead with the tax hike. Originally, the GST Council had on September 17 decided to correct the inverted duty structure in the textile sector and decided that a 12% uniform GST rate will be applied on textile products, including readymade garments, except cotton. The decision was put on hold after the Gujarat CM and others lobbied against the move which, they contended, would have adversely affected Surat’s textile industry. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera on Saturday said the decision was deferred due to the ruling BJP’s fears over possible defeat in the Gujarat Assembly polls later this year. According to sources, the Gujarat government had contended that raising the tax would not only fuel already rising inflation but would also adversely affect industries engaged in textiles and readymade garments in Surat and other places. Textile dealers and traders had threatened to launch an indefinite strike against the hike in Surat, India’s largest hub for textiles. Any strike or protests by traders and businessmen ahead of the Vibrant Gujarat summit to be held from January 10-12 and to be inaugurated by the Prime Minister himself would have created a “negative image”, and thus the top functionaries of the State and the ruling party ensured that the move was deferred, sources said. The State government on Friday said the Heads of State of five nations would attend the Vibrant Gujarat summit in which as many as 26 nations will be “partner countries”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/centre-to-defer-gst-hike-on-textiles/article38090679.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:33 IST,||Ganja confiscation leads to overcrowding in Odisha jails||Arrests of people involved in large scale cultivation of cannabis and subsequent transportation of the weed has led to overflowing of prison in Malkangiri, the southernmost district of Odisha. An estimate says 90% of under trial prisoners (UTPs) lodged in Malkangiri district jail and Jeypore jail in Koraput are linked to detection of commercial quantity of ganja from their possession. As provisions under Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985 are stringent, many of the offenders don’t secure bail easily. In Malkangiri jail, as against the capacity of 314 inmates, the number of prisoners was found to be 818 – 260% of the capacity – by October 31. Jeypore Town Police station in Koraput district is perhaps among the top police stations across the country under whose jurisdiction highest volume of ganja consignment has been tracked. In the past one year, more than 25,000 kg of ganja, valuing over Rs. 25 crore, have been seized in 60 hauls in Jeypore. According to senior police officers, trial of people caught under NDPS Act is a tedious process, for which UTPs stay in jails for a longer period. “In Koraput, prior to October 31, 2021 against a scheduled accommodation of 739, the prison population was 737. It then became 904 and this included 167 convicts and 737 UTPs,” prison authorities said. “By December 15, 2021 the UTP population in Koraput had grown from 737 to 869 primarily due to transfer of UTPs from the Malkangiri sub-jail, which in turn was overcrowded,” they said. Anshuman Dwibedi, the Sub-Divisional Police Officer posted in Malkangiri, said, “when a person is arrested under NDPS Act, we submit chargesheet within six months. Since large quantities of ganja is confiscated from smugglers, the offence is described as grave. They don’t secure bail easily.” Similarly, hemp plants have been destroyed during past three months. The value of illicit cannabis plants could be in the range of Rs. 675 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ganja-confiscation-leads-to-overcrowding-in-odisha-jails/article38090876.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:33 IST,||ASI suspended for stealing goats in Odisha||An Assistant Sub-Inspector of Odisha police was on Saturday suspended for allegedly stealing goats for a party on the eve of the New Year. The incident took place in Sindhekela police station in Balangir district. Two goats belonging to one Sankirtan Guru had strayed into the police station on Friday afternoon. ASI Suman Mallick with the help of other staff members caught hold of them and slaughtered them. The goat owner’s daughter claimed she had seen the goats being killed. Soon Mr. Guru informed other villagers, who besieged the police station. “A preliminary enquiry indicates involvement of the police personnel. An ASI has been suspended,” said Kusalkar Nitin Dagudu, Balangir SP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/asi-suspended-for-stealing-goats-in-odisha/article38090683.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:24 IST,||Curbs are back in Haryana||The Haryana government has ordered closure of all schools, colleges and coaching institutes in the State, besides shutting down cinema halls and multiplexes in Gurugram, Faridabad, Ambala, Sonipat and Panchkula. The shopping malls and markets are allowed to remain open only till 5 p.m. in the five districts. The restrictions will remain in force from January 2 to January 12. Omicron variant In a three-page order imposing the restrictions in view of the emergence of the Omicron variant and the persistent rise in the COVID-19 cases, Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal directed all schools, colleges, polytechnics, Industrial Training Institutes, coaching institutions, libraries and anganwadi centres and creches under the Woman and Child Development Department across the State to remain closed from January 2. The number of people at funerals and weddings has been capped at 50 and 100 respectively with strict adherence to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. The non-government organisations and the Local Bodies Department have been directed to distribute masks to the members of public. However, in view of high infection rate in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Ambala and Panchkula, all cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes have been directed to shut down in these five districts. The shopping malls and markets will be allowed to remain open only till 5 p.m. in the five districts. 50% capacity The bars and the restaurants are allowed to operate with only 50% capacity, and the government and the private offices are advised to function with 50% staff attendance. All sports complexes, stadia and swimming pools will remain shut except for the training of the sportspersons for participation in the national and the international events. Only fully vaccinated individuals are allowed at public places in the State from January 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/curbs-are-back-in-haryana/article38090685.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:33 IST,||Maharashtra waives property tax for flats||The Maharashtra government on Saturday announced a New Year’s gift for the Mumbaikars by waiving of the property tax on flats up to 500 square feet. This decision is likely to benefit 16 lakh families in the city. Announcing the decision, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said he was fulfilling the promise made by the Shiv Sena in the 2017 Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation election campaign. The announcement also marks the Sena kicking off its campaign for the civic polls. “Mumbai citizens pay highest taxes and contribute to the development of the State. Shiv Sena has never forgotten that this city is built through the sweat of the working class,” he said. Mr. Thackeray directed Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal to ensure the implementation of the decision at the earliest. Opposition BJP claimed that the decision was taken after the issue was raised by Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. “We won’t believe until the citizens start getting zero bills,” said BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-waives-property-tax-for-flats/article38090882.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:33 IST,||Maharashtra might see 2 lakh active cases, warns official||Maharashtra might see 2 lakh active cases by the third week of January, cautioned Health Secretary Dr. Pradeep Vyasin. He wrote to the District Collectors to not be lulled by the narrative that the third COVID-19 wave or the Omicron wave is mild and not fatal. The letter has directed to the district administration to increase focus on vaccination. The letter asks district administration to think rationally and scientifically. “The number of COVID-19 infections in the third wave is going to be high. Even if 1% case fatality is presumed, we can still land up with 80,000 deaths, if there are 80 lakh COVID-19 cases,” the letter warned. On Saturday, Deputy CM Ajit Pawar said 10 Ministers and 20 MLAs had tested positive for COVID-19. Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the Maharashtra government has not yet decided on imposing lockdown but may increase restrictions. “The State will face lockdown when the oxygen requirement will cross 700 MT. It is important to know whether the patient is affected with Delta or Omicron variant... there will be restrictions,” he said. On Saturday, Maharashtra recorded 9,170 positive cases and seven deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-might-see-2-lakh-active-cases-warns-official/article38090881.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:22 IST,||Need for a home that heals||Three years since she was abandoned by her husband, Anita Mourya, 30, has come a long way from a being a homeless mother of two to a self-dependent woman earning for her family and planning a future for them. Her biggest support in this journey has been a shelter home for women in Karol Bagh, which not only provided her a roof and food but also gave her the confidence to rebuild her life from scratch. Regular counselling and skill training sessions at the shelter home, managed by Aashray Adhikar Abhiyan – an organisation working towards the betterment of homeless people since 2000 — helped Ms. Mourya step out and earn and save for her family. “I am working hard to educate my children and provide them a home they can call their own,” said Ms. Mourya while discussing her future plans. While the sight at the Karol Bagh centre gives hope and relief, the picture is far from similar at several other shelters for women run by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB).  Caretakers and managers at most of the shelters for homeless women visited by The Hindu agreed that while the number of such facilities are few, the challenges there go beyond just providing food, beds and washrooms.  ‘Underestimated’ figures  According to the last census (2011), Delhi had 46,724 homeless people. However, Sanjay Kumar, co-director, Aashray Adhikar Abhiyan , said the number is “close to 1,00,000”. He added that there are at least “10,000” homeless women in Delhi and the total number of shelters might be limited in comparison to the figure.  Out of more than 200 DUSIB shelters, only 20 are dedicated to women and 25 are marked for families, according to DUSIB member Bipin Rai, who emphasised that these shelters were set up according to the demand. Sunita, who looks after a 50-bed facility at Nizamuddin, said women who came seeking refuge in the recent weeks left within two to four days as regular counselling sessions were not held. “We have tried to provide salon skill training to the women but very few show interest and it is hard to convince them. Some end up leaving the facility despite being providing with all basic amenities,” she said, adding that there was a gap in communication which could be bridged by providing regular counselling. Chitrarekha, who manages a recovery shelter for women in Kabir Basti, said while regular counselling was provided at the facility, which houses women suffering from depression and other mental ailments, the need for skill-based training was lacking.  “In 2020, we had a livelihood project through which homeless women were trained to take up jobs and earn for themselves. Fifty women were able to find jobs through this but the project was not renewed because of some funding issues. Counselling and regular exercise help calm these individuals, who are generally very hostile, but skill training can actually help them get jobs and not remain homeless,” she said.  Rashmi Singh, Special Secretary-cum-Director, Department of Women and Child Development, said while the concept of night shelters had come up as a temporary measure, the rehabilitation plans were developed over the years but they were not standardised across the board. “We have a holistic approach where we also provide vocational training because the aim is to also work on their behavioural skills and to help them earn a livelihood. The need for caregivers at shelters to provide emotional and social support is crucial because the homeless have to be brought out of their state of misery,” said Mr. Sanjay Kumar. Varying objectives Responding to these observations, Mr. Rai said there is variation in the nature of each shelter, citing the example of the shelter at Kabir Basti which focuses on improving the condition of mentally ill women. “Each shelter is different from the other. At Nizamuddin, we were providing training which had led to jobs but there have been disruptions due to the pandemic. DUSIB focuses on providing shelter and facilities but other areas such as health will require the respective departments to step in. I agree that there is room for improvement and whether it is a rehabilitation process for slums or shelter, it requires a holistic approach,” said Mr. Rai. According to Mr. Kumar, a fresh census of the homeless should be conducted as their number in Delhi is heavily underestimated. He added, “Even in the 2011 Census, 9,240 women were cou- nted to be on the streets. Activists said a proper methodology was not followed and the number was underestimated... We are far behind in creating basic services and facilities for the protection of homeless women.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/need-for-a-home-that-heals/article38090674.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:22 IST,||Delhi logs 2,716 new COVID cases||The surge in COVID-19 cases continued on Saturday with 2,716 new infections being reported over 24 hours, the highest in seven months, according to a Delhi government bulletin. This is a 51.2% increase from 1,796 fresh cases reported on Friday. The test positivity rate also increased to 3.64%, up from 2.44% a day earlier and the total number of cases stood at 14,50,927. There was one new COVID-19-related death over 24 hours, taking the toll to 25,108. Of the total cases, 14,19,459 people have recovered and there are 6,360 active cases, up by 44.2% in a day. 97% beds vacant Over 97.2% of the total 8,883 hospital beds were vacant on Saturday. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said there has been no serious case related to the Omicron variant of COVID-19 till now in the city and the situation is under control. “The Delhi government has the appropriate infrastructure to treat patients and curb the spread of the virus. The Omicron variant is less dangerous than the Delta one, hence, patients do not need to be admitted to hospitals. At present, no patient of Omicron has required oxygen,” Mr. Jain said. More than 3,000 beds have already been prepared for children, Mr. Jain said. He added that Delhi has enough vaccination centres to inoculate three lakh people per day. “The government is fully prepared to vaccinate children between 15-18 years. We have a stock of booster doses available for the people of Delhi,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-logs-2716-new-covid-cases/article38090668.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:22 IST,||Cab aggregators, delivery services to switch to electric vehicles soon||Cab aggregators, food and other doorstep delivery services in the city would soon have to switch their entire fleet to electric vehicles as a proposal in this regard has been approved by the departments concerned, an official source told The Hindu .  Another proposal to make Pollution Under Control (PUC) certificates mandatory to buy petrol and diesel at filling stations for all vehicles has been approved by the departments. Both proposals are now with Environment Minister Gopal Rai and are expected to be cleared soon, the source said. “The shift will be in a phased manner and they (aggregators, delivery services) will be given time till March 2023 to shift 50% of their fleet to electric vehicles. More time will be given for 100% transition,” the source said. Vehicular emission is one of the main causes of air pollution in the city and the measures are aimed at controlling it. “When we had done an audit of the number of people getting PUCs a few years ago and found that the level of compliance was low. This is a welcome move but the government has to ensure proper enforcement of the proposed rule,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, Executive Director of Centre for Science and Environment, a research and advocacy NGO. It is also important to ensure that PUC tests are done properly and the centres are audited periodically for credible testing, she said. Transition part of policy Transition to electric vehicles is part of the Delhi Electric Vehicles Policy, 2020, which aims to increase the share of battery electric vehicles (BEVs) to 25% of all the new vehicles registered in the city by 2024. “It is expected that the incentives provided by the policy shall encourage delivery service providers to switch to electric two-wheelers... All delivery service providers shall be expected to convert 50% of their fleet operating to EVs by March 31, 2023 and 100% by March 31, 2025,” the policy reads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cab-aggregators-delivery-services-to-switch-to-electric-vehicles-soon/article38090669.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:22 IST,||Civic hospital building to be sealed||The Delhi government has ordered to seal the “dilapidated and hazardous” building ofRajan Babu TB Hospital, run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said Urban Development Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday. “Keeping in view the safety of the patients and staffers, strict orders have been issued to stop the services of doctors and paramedics at the hospital being run by the municipal body,” he said. “This is the culmination of the civic body’s negligence. For the time being, patients will be shifted to other hospitals,” Mr. Jain said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the order to seal the hospital building is a politically motivated move “with an intention to malign the image of the north municipal corporation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/civic-hospital-building-to-be-sealed/article38090672.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:22 IST,||‘Over 600 traffic challans issued on New Year’s Eve’||With COVID-19 restrictions in place, over 600 people were fined on New Year’s Eve for violations, including drunken and dangerous driving, the police said on Saturday. According to data shared by Delhi Police, 36 challans were issued for drunk driving, 103 for dangerous driving, 370 for driving without helmet, 48 for triple riding and 100 for other violations. The total number of challans issued was 657, the police said. This year, an increase of 38% in cases of drunken driving was reported. At least 26 cases were reported on the New Year’s Eve last year. There was a decrease of 40% in dangerous driving with 174 cases being reported last year. Overall, however, there was a decrease of 50.8% in the total challans issued this year as the number stood at 1,336 last year. The police said the numbers are less because night curfew has been put in place in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases. For night curfew violations, the police registered 294 cases of disobedience to order and issued 870 challans for not adhering to COVID-appropriate behaviour from 11 p.m. on Friday to 5 a.m. on Saturday. The police had made elaborate security arrangements on New Year’s Eve to implement the Delhi Disaster Management Authority guidelines. According to the Delhi government data, 4,997 violations related to COVID-appropriate behaviour were reported on Friday. As many as 4,808 were related to not wearing face masks, the data stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-600-traffic-challans-issued-on-new-years-eve/article38090671.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:24 IST,||Two-day Delhi Assembly session begins tomorrow||The Delhi Assembly will convene a two-day session starting Monday. Two Bills related to the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee and another Bill related to specialised schools are on the agenda, said sources. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said the Opposition will seek answers from the government during the session. “A meeting of the BJP Legislature Party was held in which the issues to be raised in the Assembly session were discussed,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “The issues include increasing cases of COVID-19, new liquor policy, public transport, death of children due to wrong medicine in mohalla clinics and malpractices with the farmers of Delhi,” he said. ‘Evades discussion’ Mr. Bidhuri alleged that the Delhi government “runs away from discussion in the Assembly” on serious problems related to the people as it does not have answers. However, this time, the BJP MLAs will raise the issues “vigorously” so that the government will be forced to reply, he said. “We demand that if needed, the Assembly session should be extended for three more days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-day-delhi-assembly-session-begins-tomorrow/article38090686.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:33 IST,||‘Recognition’ of Bhima Koregaon memorial reflects shift in narrative||The violent clashes that erupted in the village of Bhima Koregaon and surrounding areas on New Year’s Day in 2018 seared Maharashtra’s social fabric, while heightening social tensions across the State. The clashes resulted in massive destruction of property belonging to Ambedkarite members and its reverberations were felt throughout the country. Since then, Ambedkarite outfits have accused the State police of dragging its feet over investigations into the clashes under the watch of the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government. Outfits such as the Pune-based Republican Yuva Morcha (RYM) have alleged that the former BJP government shielded the alleged perpetrators of the violence, including radical Hindutva leaders Milind Ekbote and Sambhaji Bhide. Four years on, while the quest for justice in the violence continues to elude them, Ambedkarite groups nonetheless notice a shift in the narrative. This time, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government organised celebrations on a grand scale. The State’s Social Welfare Department, in collaboration with the Pune district administration, made arrangements to cater to the lakhs of visitors paying homage to the Koregaon Bhima ‘Jaystambh’ (‘victory pillar’) on the 204th anniversary of the battle, which took place in Perne near Bhima Koregaon — and was the scene of the 2018 violence. The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) arranged free bus services to ferry visitors to Perne. The ‘Jaystambh’ is an obelisk in Bhima Koregaon village commemorating the British East India Company soldiers who fell in a battle on January 1, 1818, where the British, with just 834 infantrymen — about 500 of them from the Mahar community — and 12 officers defeated the 28,000-strong army of Peshwa Bajirao II. It was one of the last battles of the Third Anglo-Maratha War, which ended the Peshwa domination. Babasaheb Ambedkar’s visit to the site on January 1, 1927, revitalised the memory of the battle for the Dalit community, making it a rallying point and an assertion of pride. This year, the obelisk has been decorated with flowers, the Indian Tricolour and the distinctive insignia of the Mahar Regiment. “Today, the Maharashtra government has, in a way, realised Dr. Ambedkar’s efforts and objective in his historic visit to the pillar. Earlier, several retired officers of the Mahar Regiment used to pay homage here. But this time, serving officers from the regiment will be present. A lot has changed since the clashes and the obelisk is now getting official recognition,” said Rahul Dambale, president, RYM. He observes that though the perpetrators of the violence have not yet been brought to book, it is for the first time that official recognition has come from the government. “Hindutva forces have repeatedly tried to undermine celebrations at this obelisk. But the MVA’s efforts in organising celebrations at the monument can, in itself, be construed as a victory for the Ambedkarite community. The Bhima Koregaon obelisk has now impressed itself in popular consciousness in a way that it had not been 15 years ago, when we took up the task of organising celebrations at the victory pillar,” Mr. Dambale said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/recognition-of-bhima-koregaon-reflects-shift-in-narrative/article38090678.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:22 IST,||Large part of Bastar free of Maoists, says Baghel||Claiming that a major portion of the Bastar region was now free of Maoist insurgency, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday hailed the security forces for their successes against the rebels. During his New Year gathering with State police and paramilitary personnel at the Police Parade Ground here, he said his government has changed Chhattisgarh’s image as an insurgency-affected State. “I am happy that our police have been doing excellent work in Maoist-affected areas. Maoism is not just a law and order problem, but also a political and social problem. Security forces have set up camps in Maoist strongholds which pushed the rebels on the back foot,” the Chief Minister said. “Now the forest-dwellers, mostly tribals (in Maoist-affected areas), consider security personnel as their friends and understand that they have been deployed there for their own safety,” he added. “This all could become possible because the police are helping locals, and development works, including the construction of roads, bridges and culverts, are taking place. A major portion of Bastar has got rid of the Maoist menace,” Mr. Baghel said. Earlier, when it came to Chhattisgarh, people outside the State spoke only about naxalism, “but our government has changed this thinking and image,” he said. “Now people look at Bastar with hope of development as amenities like roads, hospitals, schools, are reaching the area.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/large-part-of-bastar-free-of-maoists-says-baghel/article38090675.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:30 IST,||U.S., Russia looking for a breakthrough||After tough talk between Presidents Joe Biden and Vladimir Putin over the Russian troop build-up on the Ukraine border, U.S. and Russia insist they are hopeful that a pathway to easing tensions could open during diplomatic talks set for January. But with less than two weeks to go before senior U.S. and Russian officials are to meet in Geneva, the chasm is deep and the prospect of finding an exit to the crisis faces no shortage of complications. Mr. Biden on Friday told reporters that he advised Mr. Putin when they spoke by phone a day earlier that the upcoming talks could only work if the Russian leader “deescalated, not escalated, the situation” in the days ahead. “I made it clear to President Putin that if he makes any more moves into Ukraine we will have severe sanctions,” Mr. Biden said. “We will increase our presence in Europe with NATO allies.” Meanwhile, Mr. Biden’s national security team on Friday turned their attention to preparation for the Geneva talks, set for January 9 and 10, to discuss the Russian massing of some 1,00,000 troops on its border with Ukraine. Mr. Biden is scheduled to speak by phone on Sunday with Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Friday debriefed Canadian Foreign Minister Mélanie Joly, Italian Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg on the Biden-Putin call and discussed preparations for the upcoming summit. A top Putin aide on Friday reinforced that Russia stands by its demands for written security guarantees. Moscow wants it codified that any future expansion of NATO must exclude Ukraine and other former Soviet bloc countries and demands that the bloc remove offensive weaponry from countries in the Russian neighborhood. “We will not allow our initiatives to be drowned in endless discussions,” Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told the state RIA-Novosti news agency Friday. “If no constructive answer comes in a reasonable time and the West continues its aggressive course, Russia will have to take all necessary measures to maintain a strategic balance and remove unacceptable threats to our security,” he added. The Biden administration and NATO allies have made clear that the Russian demands are non-starters. Former envoys’ letter Following the Biden-Putin call, a group of 24 former U.S. national security officials and Russia experts — a group that includes several officials who served in the Obama, George W. Bush and Clinton’s administrations — released a statement calling on Mr. Biden to immediately, and publicly, lay out the penalties Russia would face if Mr. Putin were to move forward with military action. The Russians for their part continue to make the case that they are facing an existential threat with Ukraine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-russia-looking-for-a-breakthrough/article38090113.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:30 IST,||Ukrainian soldier killed as tensions with Russia soar||Ukraine said on Saturday one of its soldiers was killed in fighting with pro-Moscow separatists, as the U.S. again warned Russia against any attacks on the country. In his New Year’s eve address, Mr. Zelensky said ending the war in the east remains his “main goal”. “One serviceman of the Joint Forces was fatally wounded,” the Army said in a statement. It also added that separatists had launched three attacks within 24 hours, using grenade launchers and small arms. The Army gave no further details of how the soldier was killed. Tensions with Moscow have soared in recent months, with Russia massing troops near Ukraine’s borders. The West has accused the Kremlin of planning an invasion. On December 22, international monitors said Russia and Ukraine had agreed to restore a ceasefire, but as early as the next day, Kiev and separatists accused each other of new violations. The soldier’s death on Saturday was the first since the truce was agreed. All previous ceasefires crumbled. Kiev has been battling a pro-Moscow insurgency in two breakaway regions bordering Russia since 2014, when the Kremlin annexed Ukraine’s Crimean peninsula.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ukrainian-soldier-killed-as-tensions-with-russia-soar/article38090110.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:30 IST,||Rockets fired from Gaza Strip land off central Israel’s coast||Rockets fired from the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip on Saturday landed in the Mediterranean Sea off central Israel, the Israeli military said. It was not immediately clear whether the rockets were meant to hit Israel, but Gaza-based militant groups often test-fire missiles toward the sea. There were no reports of casualties. Apart from a single incident in September, there has been no cross-border rocket fire since a cease-fire ended an 11-day war between Israel and Hamas in May. In a statement, the Israeli army said the rockets fell off the coast of the Tel Aviv Metropolitan Area. “According to protocol, no sirens were sounded and no interception took place,” it added. High tensions Witnesses in Gaza said they woke up to the sound of outgoing missiles around 7 a.m. and pictures circulated on social media showed whiffs of white smoke from the launching area. The cease-fire, brokered by Egypt and other mediators, has been fragile. The militant Hamas group says Israel did not take serious steps to ease the blockade it imposed on Gaza. Tension are also high as other groups like the smaller but more hard-line Islamic Jihad threaten military escalation if Israel doesn’t end the administrative detention of a Palestinian prisoner who has been on a hunger strike for over 130 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rockets-fired-from-gaza-strip-land-off-central-israels-coast/article38090111.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:30 IST,||China to scrap subsidies for new electric vehicles||China will end subsidies for electric and hybrid cars at the end of the year, authorities have announced, saying the strength of sales in the sector meant state support was no longer needed. In a statement published on Friday, the Ministry of Finance said purchase subsidies would be reduced by 30% from the beginning of 2022 before being scrapped completely by the end of the year. “Given the growth of the industry for vehicles with new energy, the sales trends and the smooth transition of manufacturers, the subsidies... will end on December 31,” the Ministry said. “Vehicles registered after December 31, 2022 will not be subsidised.” Sales of electric and hybrid cars have boomed in China, with increases of more than 100% year-on-year in recent months. The cars are set to represent 18% of all vehicle sales in 2022, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers (CAAM) estimated last week. In 2019, they accounted for only 5%. Of the 27.5 million vehicles set to be sold this year, according to CAAM, five million will be electric and hybrids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-to-scrap-subsidies-for-electric-vehicles/article38090101.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:30 IST,||Nuclear, gas energy likely to receive ‘green’ tag in EU||The EU is planning to label energy from nuclear power and natural gas as “green” sources for investment despite internal disagreement over whether they truly qualify as sustainable options. The proposal, aims to support the 27-nation bloc’s shift towards a carbon-neutral future and gild its credentials as a global standard-setter for fighting climate change. But the fact the European Commission quietly distributed the text to member states late on Friday, in the final hours of 2021 after the much-delayed document had been twice promised earlier in the year, highlighted the rocky road to draft it. If a majority of member states back it, it will become EU law, coming into effect from 2023. Opposing views France has led the charge for nuclear power — its main energy source — to be included, despite robust opposition from Austria and scepticism from Germany, which is in the process of shutting all its nuclear plants. Fossil-reliant countries in the EU’s east and south have also defended the use of natural gas, at least as a transitional source, even though it still produces significant greenhouse emissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-may-label-nuclear-gas-energy-green/article38090102.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:30 IST,||Focus on economy, food production for 2022: Kim||North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un put the economy front and centre of an agenda-setting speech at the end of a key ruling party meeting, state media reported on Saturday, with no mention of the United States. In a speech at the end of the party meeting on Friday, Mr. Kim acknowledged the “harsh situation” in 2021 as he laid out plans for the coming year. Mr. Kim said battling the pandemic was one of the main goals for the coming year. Mr. Kim did not mention the United States or directly address foreign policy. But he said Pyongyang would continue to build up its military capabilities keeping in mind “the military environment of the peninsula” and the changing international situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/focus-on-economy-food-production-for-2022-kim/article38090106.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:30 IST,||Modest requiem for a titan: South Africa bids farewell to Tutu||South Africa said farewell on Saturday to Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the last great hero of the struggle against apartheid, in a funeral stripped of pomp but freighted with glowing tributes and showered with rain. Tutu died on last Sunday at the age of 90, triggering grief among South Africans and tributes from world leaders. Famous for his modesty, Tutu gave instructions for a simple, no-frills ceremony.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/modest-requiem-for-a-titan-south-africa-bids-farewell-to-tutu/article38090104.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:52 IST,||UN urges Yemen govt. to allow new equipment for Sanaa airport||The United Nations has called on Yemen’s internationally recognised government to allow the entry of communications equipment to the airport in the rebel-held capital Sanaa. Sanaa airport was closed for several days in December after the Sasudi-led coalition pounded it with air strikes The Houthis reopened it on December 27. UN humanitarian coordinator welcomed the airport’s reopening, but said communications equipment there had been found to be faulty.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/un-urges-yemen-govt-to-allow-new-equipment-for-sanaa-airport/article38090108.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:52 IST,||Prince Charles pays tribute to human rights defenders||Britain’s Prince Charles urged people in a New Year message to “take a moment” to recognise those “standing up for freedom and human rights” around the world. The heir to the throne paid tribute to people in places such as Afghanistan, Syria and Myanmar facing persecution alongside increasingly dire humanitarian situations.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/prince-charles-pays-tribute-to-human-rights-defenders/article38090107.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:29 IST,||Maruti, Hyundai passenger vehicle wholesales slid in Dec.||Passenger vehicle (PV) market leaders Maruti Suzuki and Hyundai on Saturday said wholesales declined in December, although homegrown majors Tata Motors and Mahindra & Mahindra reported growth, even as the semiconductor shortage continued to impact output. India’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India reported a 4% fall in wholesales to 1,53,149 units in December compared with a year earlier. Domestic sales slipped 13% to 1,30,869. “The shortage [of electronic components] primarily affected the production of vehicles sold in the domestic market,” Maruti said in a statement. The auto major reported a 13% year-on-year growth in wholesales in 2021 as it dispatched 13.97 lakh units to dealers. MSI senior ED (Marketing and Sales) Shashank Srivastava told PTI the company is optimistic about 2022 with pending orders alone exceeding 2.3 lakh units. However, there is still uncertainty regarding the state of the economy and the semiconductor shortage, he said. Hyundai Motor India reported a drop of 26.6% in total wholesales to 48,933 units in December. Domestic dispatches dipped 31.8% to 32,312. Total dispatches rose 21.6% in 2021 to 6,35,413. Tata Motors reported a 50% jump in total PV sales to 35,299 units in December. M&M also reported a 10% rise in domestic PV sales to 17,722 units last month. “We have seen growth in segments, including PVs, commercial vehicles and international operations, [due] to... strong demand across the product portfolio,” M&M CEO (Automotive Division) Veejay Nakra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/maruti-hyundai-passenger-vehicle-wholesales-slid-in-dec/article38090216.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:29 IST,||‘Use of IPO funds to become transparent with new rules’||Tighter norms approved earlier this week by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) for Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) will bring in transparency and discipline to the process, said analysts. Several new-age tech firms have in recent months raised significant sums for purposes of acquisitions without having identified target firms. Tweaked norms capped the amount that can be raised in this way. The regulator also put in place a mechanism to monitor the deployment of proceeds. “To stitch together a higher valuation, several new-age tech companies mentioned vague ‘objectives’ in the offer documents without making it clear,” said Geetanjali Kedia, primary markets head, SP Tulsian Investment Advisers. ‘First-time risk’ “Investors are not used to valuing such companies and are exposed to such risk for the first time. These are very pragmatic norms,” she added. The new norms mandate that the amount — meant for acquisition targets that have not been identified at the time of IPO — ‘shall not exceed 25% of the amount being raised’. The rules also state that in combination, the amount for such unidentified acquisition objects and ‘the amount for general corporate purpose (GCP) shall not exceed 35% of the total amount being raised’. Currently, the portion for GCP is capped at 25%. Independent analyst Ambareesh Baliga pointed out that companies raising funds would need to display genuine intent by showing clarity on the use funds. “What do you mean by ‘future acquisitions’? Investors should know what the acquisition is and where the money will be deployed,” he said. Also at stake is the nature of the business that one is investing in. “If an issuer does not specify the acquisition, the entire nature of the company may change with an unrelated large acquisition,” said J.N. Gupta, MD, Stakeholders Empowerment Services and former wholetime director of SEBI. “A new-age tech company may acquire a pharma or a shoe company if the ‘future acquisition’ is not specified. SEBI is now giving some lever in the hands of investors,” he added. Advisory firm Kejriwal Research founder Arun Kejriwal said Zomato — which raised Rs. 9,375 crore in its IPO earlier this year, including primary issue and offer-for-sale, of which approximately Rs. 4,200 crore came from anchor investors — is a case in point. “Zomato raised about Rs. 9,000 crore as part of the primary issue. Thirty-five per cent of that amount would have been about Rs. 3,150 crore, whereas they had indicated, without specifying portions, that Rs. 6,750 crore would be used for funding inorganic and organic growth initiatives. A company raising funds today would need to specify funds utilisation under the inorganic head.” Additionally, he pointed out that the new norms may well have been the result of firms not being accommodative when the regulator informally flags concerns. “There are instances when SEBI, rather than issuing an order, informally tells issuers and merchant bankers to take corrective measures [at] the application stage, and if [they don’t comply], then it cracks the whip with its order to discipline the process,” he said. He also highlighted that the change in norms was necessary as some firms that raised funds from the market about 5-6 months earlier were still to deploy them for the intended purpose.  A tech company may buy a pharma or a shoe firm if the ‘future acquisition’ is not specified J.N. Gupta MD Stakeholders Empowerment Services||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/use-of-ipo-funds-to-become-transparent-with-new-rules/article38090222.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:29 IST,||I-T returns filed dip to 5.89 cr.||Almost 5.89 crore Income Tax Returns (ITRs) had been filed by the December 31 deadline, the Finance Ministry said on Saturday, a decline of about six lakh from the previous year. More than 46.11 lakh returns were filed on Friday alone, the Ministry said after refraining from further extending the ITR filing deadline despite strong pleas from several chartered accountants struggling with the fledgling new income tax portal developed by Infosys. In comparison, when the ITR filing deadline for Assessment Year 2020-21 was extended till January 10, 2021 in view of the pandemic, 5.95 crore returns were filed by the deadline, indicating the number of taxpayers filing returns dipped by about six lakh this year. Last year, 31.05 lakh ITRs were filed on the day of the deadline. While Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had set a September 15, 2021 deadline for Infosys and the Department of Revenue to work out the chinks in the portal discovered after its unveiling in June, accountants had reported persistent problems in the filing process after that deadline had passed. “The Department gratefully acknowledges the contribution of the taxpayers, tax practitioners, tax professionals and others who have made this possible. We reiterate our resolve to work tirelessly to ensure a smooth and stable taxpayer service experience to all,” said the Revenue Department.  “To assist taxpayers with a smooth experience on the portal, 16,850 taxpayer calls and 1,467 chats were responded to by the helpdesk . In addition, the Department has been proactively reaching out to taxpayers and professionals for assistance on its official Twitter handle,” it added, stating more than 230 tweets from taxpayers and professionals seeking assistance were responded to on December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/i-t-returns-filed-dip-to-589-cr/article38090218.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:29 IST,||Future Retail misses date for Rs. 3,495-crore payment||Future Retail on Saturday said it had missed the due date for payment of Rs. 3,494.56 crore to banks and lenders as it could not sell assets due to its ongoing litigation with Amazon, impacting its monetisation plans. Future Retail had last year entered into a one-time restructuring (OTR) scheme, for COVID-19 hit companies, with a consortium of banks and lenders and was to discharge “an aggregate amount of Rs. 3,494.56 crore” on or before December 31. The Kishore Biyani-led Future group firm would be “co-operating for completing the monetisation of the specified business within next 30 days” as per directions of the banks to resolve the current situation, according to a filing. “Due to ongoing litigations with Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC, the company was not able to complete the planned monetisation of the specified business as contemplated in OTR plan to discharge the aforesaid obligations to banks/lenders, on due date,” as per the filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/future-retail-misses-date-for-rs-3495-crore-payment/article38090221.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:29 IST,||RIL to raise up to $5 bn, retire existing debt||Reliance Industries Ltd. on Saturday said it would raise up to $5 billion in foreign currency-denominated bonds, to help retire existing borrowings. The bond sale is set to be the single largest such borrowing by an Indian firm. While RIL did not divulge details in its filing on either the timing or the pricing of the bonds, it is expected that the 10-year debt may be offered at about 110 to 130 basis points over the U.S. Treasury benchmark, and the 30-year debt may be at 130 to 140 basis points over similar maturity treasuries. RIL had unveiled ambitious plans for its new energy unit while expanding its digital and retail ventures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ril-to-raise-up-to-5-bn-retire-existing-debt/article38090219.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:29 IST,||The Indian pace battery is at full charge||These are glory days for Indian pace bowling. The sight of Jasprit Bumrah and Mohammed Shami running in and tormenting the batsmen is one for eternity. This pace pack hunts down batters with ruthless efficiency. The execution of plans is clinical. As India eyes a historic maiden Test series win on the South African soil, the focus will be on its rampaging pacemen. India now has plenty of gunpowder. It can blow away line-ups. As pace predators, Bumrah and Shami are a study in contrast, compounding batsmen’s woes. Deceptive action Bumrah is tall, has a unique high-arm action. His load-up is so much away from the body that it is incredible his arm is stretched fully and is straight and high as he delivers the ball. The bounce he gets is natural. And for a long-lever bowler, he has a deceptively, whippy, quick-arm action that generates speed. His victims pick his action a fraction late; by then the damage is done. In the Centurion Test, brushing away an ankle niggle, Bumrah showcased his full repertoire. He had castled Rassie van der Dussen with a delivery that came in sharply from outside off, and also took the ball away sharply from the off-stump. And he had the yorker ready — bowling incisive yorkers is a lot about understanding your release point — for night-watchman Keshav Maharaj. The intelligent Bumrah has compelling pace variations, alters the angles. The manner in which he trapped a battling Dean Elgar leg-before on the final day of the first Test is a case in point. The role of India’s previous bowling coach Bharat Arun in Bumrah’s development has been significant. Returning to the land where he made his Test debut in 2018. Bumrah has 106 wickets from 25 Tests at 22.33 (strike rate 50.5). In 2021, Bumrah had 30 scalps from nine Tests at 26.53 (SR 61.7). Shami’s methods are different. Firstly, he is much shorter than Bumrah and his arm is not as high at the point of release. If Bumrah’s bounce is steepling, Shami is a skiddy customer. Shami’s seam position is exemplary and his ability to seam the ball both ways from an off-stump line makes him dangerous. With Shami, you get speed, precision and two-way movement. Once he finds his rhythm, he can be a handful. He can reverse-swing the ball capably, too. Not for nothing does he have 203 wickets from 55 Tests at 27.00 (SR 49.2). He finished 2021 with 23 scalps from five Tests at 22.47 (SR 43.4). Both Bumrah and Shami can be a distinct threat to the southpaws as well, adeptly switching angles. And both are accurate with their length and line. They can also mix up their length to disrupt batsmen’s footwork. The supporting cast The lively Mohammed Siraj has a beautiful away-swinger and a potent in-dipper. He is a capable support seamer with 36 wickets from 11 Tests at 27.94 (SR 54.8). And Shardul Thakur (16 wickets, five Tests, at 23.75, SR 41.17) can provide crucial breakthroughs with bounce and subtle movement. And to think that Ishant Sharma (311 Test wickets) and Umesh Yadav (156 scalps) are sitting out. These are truly glory days for Indian pace bowling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-indian-pace-battery-is-at-full-charge/article38090089.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:04 IST,||CFC hopes for a turnaround||Chennaiyin FC will hope to have a better fortune in 2022 when it takes on Jamshedpur FC at GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Sunday after ending the previous year with three losses in its last four matches. The two-time champion has had a terrible run with heavy losses against Kerala Blasters FC and Bengaluru FC in its last two matches. The team’s strength in the initial set of matches was a compact defence and it did not concede too many goals even though it struggled to score frequently. However, in the last few matches the defence has been brutally exposed against quality sides and combined with lack of attacking firepower, the team has been caught on the backfoot. Goalkeeper Vishal Kaith has also struggled in front of the goal and the team paid the price for his errors in the last match against Bengaluru FC. Coach Bozidar Bandovic on Saturday hinted that there might be a change of custodian on Sunday. One positive news for CFC is the signing of striker Nerijus Valskis from Jamshedpur FC on free transfer. The Lithuanian is expected to add teeth to CFC’s attacking front after Rafael Crivellaro was ruled out for the rest of the season. Valskis, however, won’t be available for Sunday’s fixture. Jamshedpur FC has had two draws in the last two matches and will hope to take advantage of CFC’s weak defence and pick up full points. “Everybody would accept that Jamshedpur has done really well and deserve more points on the board. What we have to do is focus on the remaining games and make sure we keep ourselves in those top spots,” said JFC coach Owen Coyle.  Sunday’s matches: Kerala Blasters vs FC Goa, 7.30 p.m.; Jamshedpur FC vs Chennaiyin FC, 9.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cfc-hopes-for-a-turnaround/article38090588.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:29 IST,||South Africa is going through a cycle, says Klusener||They called him Zulu, one from the warrior clan. On the field, he was very much that, whether hustling the batsmen with speed or dismissing the ball to the distant corners. Beginning his career as a tearaway quick who could leave the batters with bruised limbs and dented egos, Lance Klusener, after injuries, bowled effective cutters. With the bat, he was a destroyer and a game changer. A true blue all-rounder, Klusener, now 50, was.  Talking to The Hindu , Klusener felt the present South African team was going through a cycle. “It’s cyclical, there are times when you are on top, and then you rebuild. Big players have retired. Not easy to fill their shoes.”  Klusener added: “Two years from now, when this South African team has more experience, it could be a very different side.” Heavy workload Asked why there were only a few genuine pace bowling all-rounders in Test cricket presently, Klusener replied, “the cricketers have to play three formats now and the workload can be heavy. Probably that’s the reason.” Queried about the present-day pace bowling all-rounders he admired, Klusener said, “Ben Stokes and Hardik Pandya, if he can be free of injuries and bowl with pace.” Kallis, the best Klusener played in the era of exceptional pace bowling all-rounders. Asked who was the best, he observed, “Jacques Kallis without a doubt. He was an astonishing batter and a skilful bowler with pace.” And who was the big-hitter the explosive Klusener admired the most? The South African answered, “M.S. Dhoni hit the ball hard. Probably he is not the hardest hitter of them all but I liked the way he handled a chase, taking the game deep, running swiftly between the wickets, and launching into the big blows at just the right time.” Klusener added, “it takes a lot of skill to do that.” Sadly, Klusener was part of a moment that would haunt South African cricket forever. He stroked one down the ground and set off for the winning run in the 1999 World Cup semifinal against Australia and made his ground, only to see last man Allan Donald, ball watching, dropping his bat and being run-out at the wicket-keeper’s end in a tense, emotion-filled climax. “I want to forget that. We have not had the luck too in ICC tournaments. We have been on the wrong side of the weather, lost out on run-rates. We need to win one ICC event to get the monkey off our back,” Klusener said. Talent in Afghanistan He resigned as the Afghanistan head coach recently after taking up the job in 2019. “There is amazing talent there, and if there is consistency in selection, there will be consistency in performances.” Klusener is open to the job of coaching an IPL team. “I would love that challenge.” The Zulu has more to offer to the game.  Probably Dhoni is not the hardest hitter of them all but I liked the way he handled a chase||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africa-is-going-through-a-cycle-says-klusener/article38090092.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:30 IST,||Marcinkevica meets Ekaterina||Fifth seed Diana Marcinkevica of Latvia defeated Naho Sato of Japan 6-2, 7-5 to make the final of the $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament on Saturday. It will be the second succesive final for Diana, who had lost to Moyuka Uchijima of Japan in Pune last week. In the final, the 29-year-old Diana, who has won seven singles titles in the ITF women’s circuit, will play Ekaterina Reyngold of Russia, who knocked out second seed Nefisa Berberovic of Bosnia and Herzegovina in three sets. Fourth seeds Zhibek Kulambayeva and Diana Marcinkevica won the doubles title.  The results:   Singles (semifinals): Diana Marcinkevica (Lat) bt Naho Sato (Jpn) 6-2, 7-5.   Ekaterina Reyngold (Rus) bt Nefisa Berberovic (BIH) 6-3, 4-6, 6-3.   Doubles (final): Zhibek Kulambayeva (Kaz) & Diana Marcinkevica (Lat) bt Anna Danilina (Kaz) & Valeriya Strakhova (Ukr) 6-3, 4-6, [10-6] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/marcinkevica-meets-ekaterina/article38090655.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:29 IST,||Rodri’s strike sinks Arsenal||Rodri scored a 93rd-minute winner as Manchester City took another huge step towards retaining the Premier League title with a 2-1 win over 10-man Arsenal on Saturday. Pep Guardiola's men are now 11 points clear at the top, thanks to an 11-game winning run, but were made to toil until deep into stoppage time by the Gunners. A 5-0 thrashing to City when the sides last met in August saw Arsenal off to its worst start to a league season in 67 years. But Mikel Arteta’s men have rallied to rise to fourth in the table and showed why as they led at half-time through Bukayo Saka's seventh goal of the season. Riyad Mahrez levelled from the penalty spot before Gabriel got himself sent off for two quick bookings just before the hour mark. And the 10 men just failed to hold out for a point when Rodri poked home from close range after Aymeric Laporte’s shot was blocked. Plastic bottles rained down on the Spanish international as he celebrated, the Arsenal supporters furious as they voiced their frustration at the officiating after seeing a penalty appeal of their own waived away in the first half. Arteta was forced to watch the game from home after he tested positive for coronavirus for the second time earlier this week. However, that did not disrupt the Gunners’ fine form. With Arteta’s assistant Albert Stuivenberg directing operations, the Gunners ran the champions and runaway leaders ragged in the first half. But it was to no avail In LaLiga, Raúl de Tomás and Javi Puado scored late goals as Espanyol fought back to win 2-1 at 10-man Valencia on Friday and earned its first away victory of the season. The match that closed out 2021 will be the last one to be played with 100% occupancy for at least a month in Spain. Health authorities have reinstated caps of 75% seating for games during January given the sharp rise in coronavirus cases.  The results:   Premier League: Arsenal 1 (Saka 31) lost to Manchester City 2 (Mahrez 57-pen, Rodri 90+3).   LaLiga: Friday: Valencia 1 (Alderete 50) lost to Espanyol 2 (Raul de Tomas 83-pen, Puado 88) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rodris-strike-sinks-arsenal/article38090090.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:28 IST,||Tsitsipas skips singles, Greece loses to Poland||Stefanos Tsitsipas pulled out of his singles against Poland’s Hubert Hurkacz at the ATP Cup on Saturday with an elbow issue, but then took the court for a doubles clash, saying he was taking it “match-by-match”. The Greek World No. 4 was to face the World No. 9 after compatriot Michail Pervolarakis lost 6-1, 6-4 to Kamil Majchrzak, but Aristotelis Thanos took his place. The 23-year-old had right elbow surgery in late November after pulling out of the ATP Finals in Turin. Thanos, ranked 1,076, stood no chance against a polished Hurkacz, who raced past him 6-1, 6-2 to seal the tie for Poland. But Tsitsipas then appeared for the dead doubles rubber alongside Pervolarakis, showing no obvious signs of the problem as they won 6-4, 5-7, 10-8. Later, Serbia’s Filip Krajinovic beat Viktor Durasovic 6-2, 7-5 before Norway’s World No. 8 Casper Ruud hit back beating Dusan Lajovic 6-3, 7-5. Serbia won the deciding doubles to take the tie. Serbia won the inaugural edition of the ATP Cup in 2020, but that was with world number one Novak Djokovic. He is not in Sydney after withdrawing last week, heightening doubts over whether he will defend his Australian Open title. Earlier, Roberto Bautista Agut got Spain off to a perfect start with a crushing 6-0, 6-3 win over World No. 17 Chilean Cristian Garin as he spearheads the team in Rafael Nadal’s absence. In other action, Argentina cruised past Georgia with World No. 13 Diego Schwartzman annihilating 22nd-ranked Nikoloz Basilashvili 6-1, 6-2 and teammate Federico Delbonis thrashing Aleksandre Metreveli by the same score. The top team from each of the four groups will make the semifinals.  The results:   Group A: Spain bt Chile 3-0 {Roberto Bautista Agut bt Cristian Garin 6-0, 6-3; Pablo Carreno Busta bt Alejandro Tabilo 6-4, 7-6(4); Alejandro Davidovich Fokina & Pedro Martinez bt Tomas Barrios Vera & Tabilo 7-6(3), 4-6, [10-7]}.   Serbia bt Norway 2-1 {Filip Krajinovic bt Viktor Durasovic 6-2, 7-5; Dusan Lajovic lost to Casper Ruud 3-6, 5-7; Nikola Cacic & Krajinovic bt Durasovic & Ruud 7-6(3), 6-3}.   Group D: Poland bt Greece 2-1 {Kamil Majchrzak bt Michail Pervolarakis 6-1, 6-4; Hubert Hurkacz bt Aristotelis Thanos 6-1, 6-2; Hurkacz & Jan Zielinski lost to Stefanos Tsitsipas & Michail Pervolarakis 6-4, 5-7, [10-8]}.   Argentina bt Georgia 3-0 {Federico Delbonis bt Aleksandre Metreveli 6-1, 6-2; Diego Schwartzman bt Nikoloz Basilashvili 6-1, 6-2; Maximo Gonzalez & Andres Molteni bt Saba Purtseladze & Zura Tkemaladze 6-1, 6-2} .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tsitsipas-skips-singles-greece-loses-to-poland/article38090083.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:30 IST,||Ballerina may score an encore||Trainer K.S.V. Prasad Raju’s Ballerina, who won in her last start, may score an encore in the Byerly Turk Million (Gr. 3), the feature event of Sunday’s (Jan. 2) races. NEXT MOVE PLATE (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only — 2.15 p.m.: 1. Adamas (6) C.S. Jodha 56, 2. Carlisle (3) D.S. Deora 56, 3. China Town (2) A.A. Vikrant 56, 4. Golden Inzio (7) Aneel 56, 5. High Reward (8) Nakhat Singh 56, 6. Black Opal (4) G. Naresh 54.5, 7. Clefairy (1) Kiran Naidu 54.5 and 8. Meridia (5) R. Ajinkya 54.5.  1. ADAMAS, 2. MERIDIA, 3. HIGH REWARD COMMON LAND PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 2.45: 1. Bloom Buddy (3) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Multimoment (9) C.S. Jodha 59.5, 3. Malaala (4) Mukesh Kumar 57.5, 4. Quality Warrior (1) N.B. Kuldeep 57, 5. Sweet Melody (2) P. Gaddam 57, 6. Georgia Peach (10) Abhay Singh 55.5, 7. Lightning Fairy (5) Antony Raj 54.5, 8. Team Player (8) Nakhat Singh 54, 9. Dillon (7) B. Nikhil 53.5 and 10. Despang (6) Surya Prakash 52.5.  1. MALAALA, 2. BLOOM BUDDY, 3. DESPANG SWEET GIRL PLATE (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II) — 3.15: 1. Balius (12) Rupal Singh 61, 2. Chuckit (13) Aneel 60.5, 3. Mirana (6) Santosh Raj 60.5, 4. Brilliant View (1) Mukesh Kumar 60, 5. One Wish (9) C.S. Jodha 59, 6. Red Snaper (10) D.S. Deora 58, 7. Four One Four (5) Ashad Asbar 57, 8. Good Connection (8) Gaurav Singh 57, 9. Angel Tesoro (11) B.R. Kumar 56, 10. Green Turf (4) Antony Raj 55, 11. Aerial Combat (7) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 12. Mark My Day (2) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 13. Max (3) N.B. Kuldeep 53 and 14. Rhythm Selection (14) Md. Ismail 50.5.  1. AERIAL COMBAT, 2. BRILLIANT VIEW, 3. GOOD CONNECTION COMMON LAND PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 3.45: 1. Star Babe (6) Rohit Kumar 60, 2. Wallop And Gallop (4) Ajeeth Kumar 59, 3. Campania (9) Akshay Kumar 58, 4. Dream Station (1) Suraj Narredu 57.5, 5. Call Of The Blue (5) A.A. Vikrant 56, 6. Grand Duke (7) R.S. Jodha 54.5, 7. Majestic Show (10) Rafique Sk. 54.5, 8. 9. Gurbaaz (2) D.S. Deora 53.5 and 10. Ashwa Sultan (3) Mukesh Kumar 53.  1. DREAM STATION, 2. CAMPANIA, 3. STAR BABE BYERLY TURK MILLION (Gr. 3) (1,200m) (Terms) Fillies, 3-y-o only — 4.15: 1. Ballerina (5) Suraj Narredu 56, 2. Happy Go Lucky (4) Nikhil Naidu 56, 3. Arabian Queen (1) Ashad Asbar 52, 4. Candy Girl (7) Nakhat Singh 52, 5. Kaitlan (6) C.S. Jodha 52, 6. Malibu (8) D.S. Deora 52, 7. N R I Superpower (3) Akshay Kumar 52 and 8. Sensibility (2) S.J. Sunil 52.  1. BALLERINA, 2. N R I SUPERPOWER, 3. ARABIAN QUEEN TRADE FAIR PLATE (1,600m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III) — 4.45: 1. Asturias (9) Santosh Raj 62, 2. Cash Register (7) Surya Prakash 62, 3. Greek’s Ace (3) Gaurav Singh 62, 4. Over Joy (2) Nikhil Naidu 62, 5. Sorry Darling (1) Aneel 62, 6. Arrowtown (5) Deepak Singh 61.5, 7. Spectaular Cruise (4) A.A. Vikrant 61.5, 8. Wot’s Up Jay (8) Antony Raj 61.5, 9. Solo Winner (10) Abhay Singh 60, 10. It’s My Life (11) P. Gaddam 57 and 11. Epsom (6) D.S. Deora 55.  1. WOT’S UP JAY, 2. CASH REGISTER, 3. OVER JOY  Day’s Best: MALAALA .  Jackpot: 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6; Mini Jackpot: 3, 4, 5 & 6. Treble (i): 1, 2 & 3; (ii): 4, 5 & 6. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ballerina-may-score-an-encore/article38090534.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:30 IST,||Players should put country ahead of IPL: Atherton||In the wake of the England’s disastrous Ashes campaign in Australia, former captain Michael Atherton feels the English cricketers should not miss international duty to play in the IPL.  “Players should not miss international duty to play in the IPL, nor be rested and rotated to allow them to play elsewhere. The carry-on during the winter, and at the start of the English summer, should not happen again,” Atherton wrote in his column for The Times .  The former captain also had other suggestions to help improve England’s performance in the international arena’s red-ball format. “The leading multi-format players are paid seven-figure sums, but, incredibly, the ECB washes its hands of them for two months of the year during the Indian Premier League. “The players should be told that, while the ECB will be accommodating of the request to play in the IPL, a 12-month contract is exactly that, and the granting of a no-objection certificate to play in the IPL and other franchised competitions is contingent on it being in the best interests of the England team,” Atherton said. “There have been so many errors here, from selection to strategy, that the captain has to bear personal responsibility. This could have been a much closer series had Root got things right on the field,” Atherton wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/players-should-put-country-ahead-of-ipl-atherton/article38090531.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:30 IST,||Valskis back at CFC||Chennaiyin FC on Saturday announced the signing of Nerijus Valskis on a free transfer for the remainder of the season. His return will provide a much-needed boost to CFC’s attack. Valskis had an exceptional maiden ISL outing at CFC, when he played a crucial role in Marina Machans’ runners-up finish in 2019-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/valskis-back-at-cfc/article38090533.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:28 IST,||Conway ton anchors New Zealand||New Zealand batsman Devon Conway continued his phenomenal rise in Test cricket, scoring 122 as New Zealand finished day one of the first Test against Bangladesh in a strong position here on Saturday. In only his fourth Test, and first since recovering from a broken hand, Conway lifted New Zealand, asked to bat, from one for one to close the day at 258 for five with Henry Nicholls on 32 and Tom Blundell out off the last ball for 11. “It’s a very special feeling,” Conway said of scoring a century in his first home Test and being in partnership with New Zealand icon Ross Taylor when he reached triple figures. It is the fourth time in seven Test innings that Conway has passed the 50-mark, and it lifted his average to 71.57. But after setting New Zealand up for a big score he gave his wicket away to an innocuous Mominul Haque delivery.  The scores: New Zealand 258/5 in 87.3 overs (Will Young 52, Devon Conway 122, Ross Taylor 31, Henry Nicholls 32 batting) vs Bangladesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/conway-ton-anchors-new-zealand/article38090085.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:30 IST,||Aman Dahiya misses out on Australian Open||Aman Dahiya’s dream of playing in the Australian Open junior tennis event in Melbourne could not materialise owing to strict vaccination rules. “We have got the visa for Aman, but the Australian Open officials have been very firm in sticking to their stipulation. We did explain that under-18 vaccination had not yet started in India. We were also thinking of getting the vaccination done in some other country, but nothing worked out,” said coach Jignesh Rawal, who trains Aman at the Altevol Academy in Ahmedabad. The 17-year-old Aman, ranked 142 in the world among juniors, was scheduled to compete in the qualifying event of the Australian Open. Before that, he was also scheduled to play a grade-1 junior event at Traralgon in Australia. “You will not be allowed to play the Australian Open junior championships or J1 Traralgon events if you are not fully vaccinated,” wrote Francis Soyer from Tennis Australia. An exemption was sought for Aman, but after consultation with the “independent expert medical panel”, the organisers denied the same. “Under current Australian guidelines, the applicant would be considered eligible for vaccination and therefore does not qualify for exemption,” said the communication from Australia. Rawal said that the focus would now be to prepare Aman for the French Open in May, by which time the vaccination process would have also been completed. “Aman will play the two grade-2 junior events in Delhi and Kolkata. We will prepare for the French Open in the best possible way,” said Rawal.  We will prepare for the French Open in the best possible way Jignesh Rawal Aman’s coach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aman-dahiya-misses-out-on-australian-open/article38090659.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:29 IST,||Gayle dropped from West Indies squads||Veteran Chris Gayle was a surprise omission from the West Indies squads named on Friday for the home white-ball series against Ireland and England. Kieron Pollard returns from injury to lead the ODI and T20 squads. The 42-year-old Gayle had been expected to be given his international farewell in front of his home crowd at Sabina Park in Kingston. But the Jamaican government announced that fans would not be allowed at sporting events due to the pandemic. The West Indies hosts Ireland in a three-match ODI series and a one-off T20 International from January 8 to 16. The two-time World Champion then travels to Barbados to face England in five T20Is at Kensington Oval from January 22 to 30. Pollard, 34, returns having missed the tour of Pakistan after failing to recover from a hamstring injury he sustained during the T20 World Cup.  The squads:   ODIs vs Ireland: Kieron Pollard (Capt.), Shai Hope (Vice-Capt.), Shamarh Brooks, Roston Chase, Justin Greaves, Jason Holder, Akeal Hosein, Alzarri Joseph, Gudakesh Motie, Jayden Seales, Nicholas Pooran, Romario Shepherd, Odean Smith and Devon Thomas; Reserves: Keacy Carty, Sheldon Cottrell.   T20Is vs Ireland and England: Pollard (Capt.), Pooran (Vice-Capt.), Fabian Allen (England only), Darren Bravo (England only), Chase, Cottrell, Dominic Drakes, Hope, Hosein, Holder, Brandon King, Kyle Mayers, Rovman Powell, Romario Shepherd, Smith and Hayden Walsh Jr.; Reserves: Seales, Joseph and Thomas .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gayle-left-out-of-west-indies-squad/article38090087.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:30 IST,||Hitakamya beats Riya||Hitakamya Singh Narwal beat third seed Riya Sachdeva 4-6, 6-0, [10-8] in the girls’ first qualifying round of the ITF grade-3 junior tennis tournament on Saturday.  The results (qualifying, first round)   Boys: Deep Munim bt Parag Jain 6-1, 6-0; Tharakesh Ashokar bt Rushikesh Sonawane 5-7, 7-5, [10-5]; Krish Tyagi bt Satyik Singla 6-0, 6-0; Chandan Shivaraj bt Lakshya Chugh 6-1, 3-6, [10-5]; Aryan Arora bt Raghav Sundararaman 6-3, 6-3; Arnav Yadv bt Yashvardhan Singh 6-4, 3-6, [10-7]; R. Rakshit Dhankhar bt Svarmanyu Singh 6-1, 6-3; Akarsh Gaonkar bt Prajwal Tewari 6-3, 6-2; Arunava Majumder bt Krish Karpe 6-4, 6-1; Yashvardhan Gaur bt Tarun Sharma 6-3, 6-3; Arya Ganapathy bt Arnav Bishnoi 6-2, 6-3; Kabir Chhabria bt Jasmeet Duhan 6-2, 6-4; Rethin Pranav bt Arjun Premkumar 6-0, 7-6(1); Shyam Sundar bt Chinmay Mitul Patel 6-1, 6-1; Omaansh Choudhary bt Dhanush Varma 6-2, 1-6, [10-7]; Hitesh Chauhan bt Jashandeep Singh 6-0, 6-0.   Girls: Samaira Malik bt Bhumi Kakkar 6-4, 6-2; Saijayani Banerjee bt Isheeta Midha 6-1, 6-4; Sreenidhi Reddy bt Kotistha Modak 7-5, 7-6(1); Pushti Laddha bt Soha Singh 6-3, 3-6, [11-9]; Maitree Diksha Rout bt Shagun Kumari 6-2, 6-2; Tamanna Takoria bt Anastasia Timoshenko (Rus) 6-2, 6-0; Diya Bhatia bt Millee Chug 6-4, 6-1; Hitakamya Singh Narwal bt Riya Sachdeva 4-6, 6-0, [10-8]; Suhani Gaur bt Sia Mahajan 6-1, 6-0; Rhea Arora bt Rhosyn William 6-2, 6-2; Janani Ramesh bt K. Chenani 6-3, 6-1; Sree Tanvi Dasari bt Saumrita Verma 6-7(6), 6-2, [10-8]; Suryanshi bt Vihana Shresta Manikanti 6-3, 6-2; Harnoor Sidhu bt G. Thaniya Sarai 6-2, 6-3; Harleen Kaur Dhanda bt Gauri Mangaonkar 7-6(6), 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hitakamya-beats-riya/article38090657.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:30 IST,||EB goes back to Rivera seeking salvation||SC East Bengal announced the appointment of its former assistant coach in the I-League, Mario Rivera, as the new head coach for the remainder of the season. The club had parted ways with Spanish head coach Jose Manuel Diaz after East Bengal failed to secure a win after playing eight rounds in ISL. Diaz’s assistant and former India captain Renedy Singh took over as interim head coach before the side signed Rivera with the hope of rescuing itself from its current position at the bottom of the table. The Spaniard guided East Bengal to a second-place finish in the I-League in the 2019-2020 season. Rivera will undergo the mandatory quarantine period as per ISL regulations and will take over thereafter. This means that Renedy will be at the helm when East Bengal will take on Bengaluru FC in its ninth round match at Bambolim on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eb-goes-back-to-rivera-seeking-salvation/article38090224.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:17 IST,||Blasters take on a struggling FC Goa||All Kerala Blasters needs to catch up with Mumbai City at the top of the ISL table is a win on Sunday. Ivan Vukomanovic’s boys will not be short of motivation when they take on FC Goa at Vasco’s Tilak Maidan Stadium. They are now placed fifth with 13 points. But if they could take three points off Goa, they will draw level with Mumbai (16). They should be feeling they could do it. They are in form. They may have had to settle for a 1-1 draw in their last match, against Jamshedpur, but that was preceded by 3-0 wins against Chennaiyin and Mumbai. With the talented Sahal Samad finally starting to convert his promise into goals and Adrian Luna, Alvaro Vazquez and Jorge Peryera Diaz all looking in good nick, the Blasters could threaten any defence. And defence hasn’t exactly been Goa’s strength of late. The Goans will want to put behind them their disappointing effort against ATK Mohun Bagan in their last game. They had lost 1-2. It was Derrick Pereira’s third game since he took over as coach, after Juan Ferrando left for ATK Mohun Bagan. Pereira had begun with a draw, against Odisha. After the loss to ATK Mohun Bagan, he would be looking for a win. Goa – on eight points from as many games —needs a win to come out of the bottom half; it is lying ninth in the 11-team league. It may not be easy though against a rival that hasn’t lost in seven games.  Sunday’s matches: Kerala Blasters vs FC Goa, 7.30 p.m.; Jamshedpur FC vs Chennaiyin FC, 9.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-take-on-a-struggling-goa/article38090538.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:29 IST,||Super Saturday’s exciting ties||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/super-saturdays-exciting-ties/article38090095.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:29 IST,||‘Asia Cup win will boost confidence for U-19 WC’||National Cricket Academy (NCA) head V.V.S. Laxman feels the Indian Under-19 team’s Asia Cup title triumph becomes more praiseworthy as it came despite the players’ preparations being hit by inclement weather in the run-up to the tournament. Laxman also called the result an “ideal confidence-booster” ahead of the ICC U-19 World Cup, which is scheduled to be held in the West Indies from January 14 to February 5 in the West Indies. “Congrats to the India U-19 side on the #AsiaCupU19 triumph! Their preparations were hit by the weather, among other things, but it’s heartening to see them improve by the game. “That’s as satisfying as the title win itself. Ideal confidence-booster for the World Cup,” Laxman tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asia-cup-win-will-boost-confidence-for-u-19-wc/article38090093.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:30 IST,||Adil, Brown duo loses||Adil Kalyanpur and Preston Brown of the US was beaten 7-5, 6-7(4), [10-3] by the top seeds Ray Ho and Beibit Zhukayev in the doubles semifinals of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament here.  Other results: $15,000 ITF women, Giza, Egypt: Doubles (semifinals): Sapfo Sakellaridi (Gre) & Youmi Zhuoma (Chn) w/o Anastasia Zolotareva (Rus) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/adil-brown-duo-loses/article38090539.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 04:19 IST,||Airliner Academy clinches title||An unbeaten 108 by Yash Bhoj and an unbeaten 96 by Vansh Arora saw Airliner Cricket Academy beat Tuli Cricket Academy by 74 runs to lift the seventh R.P. Dhoundiyal tournament. Netik Yadav added 65 runs and picked up three wickets while Akshay Tehlan also took three. Bhoj was named best batsman of the tournament, Ritik Sharma the best bowler and Shubh Singh Rawat named the best all-rounder.  The scores:   ACA 325/5 in 30 overs (Yash Bhoj 108 n.o., Vansh Arora 96 n.o., Netik Yadav 65, Ritik Sharma 3/21) bt TCA 251 in 26 overs (Shubh Singh Rawat 89, Kartik Sharma 48, Chetan 37, Akshay Tehlan 3/45, Netik Yadav 3/50).    Raghav Hada and Nikhil Yadav took three wickets each and Parv made 41 not out as Delhi Capital Ballpark defeated Ace Center by five wickets in the first M.S. tournament.  The scores:   Ace Center 132 in 38 overs (Gourav Lohiya 37, Kunal Malik 32, Raghav 3/12, Nikhil Yadav 3/22) lost to DCB 133/5 in 27 overs (Parv 41 n.o.).    Vishal Bhorwal top-scored with 55 while Arvind Verma added 35 runs and also picked up three wickets as Rajeev Rathor Cricket Academy beat Swasthik Sports by 49 runs in first D.R. Sharma memorial tournament.  The scores: RRCA 208 in 39.3 overs (Vishal Bhorwal 55, Arvind Verma 35, Ajay Chaudhary 4/30) bt Swasthik Sports 159/9 in 40 overs (Arvind Verma 3/18) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/airliner-academy-clinches-title/article38090656.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 06:30 IST,||U-23 sprinter Taranjeet fails dope test||India’s fastest under-23 sprinter, Taranjeet Kaur of Delhi, failed an in-competition dope test conducted by National Anti-Doping Agency, sources said on Saturday. The 20-year-old Delhi sprinter has been one of the country’s best performing youngsters in 2021. She won gold in 100m and 200m in the National U-23 Championships in September, clocking 11.54 and 23.57 — her personal best — respectively. The name and nature of the banned drug as-well-as the competition during which the dope sample was taken could not be ascertained.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/u-23-sprinter-taranjeet-fails-dope-test/article38090223.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 10:02 IST,||Sudoku — January 2, 2022||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-2-2022/article38091043.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 05:30 IST,||Writing 2022 with a blade of grass||The reasonable question, ‘So what’s happening in Indian fashion?’ makes my mind go blank. Whether it is from apologists of fashion who know what is happening but dangle a bait anyway or from satirists emphasising fashion’s irrelevance — even philosopher Slavoj Žižek did that last year in an interview — the question provokes perplexity. Because it means pushing back the procession of bridal lehengas looming in the mind to fluidly describe the experimental, original, risqué work that co-exists in fashion.  Notice the hubris? Lament the regressive tide increasingly apparent in art, culture and comedy, following the course of politics, and then switch right back to writing on all these issues, business as usual. Gripe about the pandemic’s ravages and fashion’s supposed non-essentialism in the face of climate change, then argue for its growing importance as an interlocutor of our times. My New Year detox begins with first dodging the influence of visual narratives as ‘what’s happening in India’. Or in Indian fashion. Especially on social media. The visuals create a deceptive cocktail of romantic nostalgia. When examined carefully, many just remix insular old ideas. For instance, the saturated coverage of the reign of red lehengas worn by actors Patralekha and Katrina Kaif for their recent weddings turned into a shindig on ‘women’s fashion’ and all its attendant “problems”. Those who derided their pretty sameness saw celebrity brides toeing time-worn ideas, unwilling to wear individuality. Those who applauded, hailed the girls for remaining true to tradition. Few noted that the bridegrooms — Rajkummar Rao and Vicky Kaushal in this case — too played willingly stereotypical parts in the syrupy, botanical sundowners. Keep silent, keep the peace? The ‘old is new’ demon made stooges out of us in 2021 (and the year or two before). Sociologists may call it the moral price of an era as the right eclipses the left, but my discord is more mundane. It is about the conspicuous silence of fashion media when a group of decorated damsels in luxurious palaces wearing silken brocades, twittering over jewellery are sent out as “fashion” in videos on Indian couture. When influencers who unbox new products every day for a fee remind us to pay homage to our grandmother’s old saris and call themselves sustainability advocates. When a beautiful, young, tall girl from India is crowned Miss Universe after multiple rounds of body-beauty contests under the guise of empowerment and we are supposed to clap in the name of patriotism. Those who dissent are called entitled feminist “expletive”.  The pretense of ‘old is new’ isn’t as easy to duck perhaps. It even convinced the global, multi-hyphenate Priyanka Chopra Jonas to promote the Bulgari Hindu mangalsutra as emblematic of a financially independent woman’s purchasing power. Thus attempting to turn one of the oldest symbols of patriarchy into a feminist accessory. Then the same Chopra Jonas broke old ground to admirably roast her husband Nick Jonas for TheJonas Brothers Family Roast on Netflix. Earlier this month, she slammed a reporter who called her the “wife of Nick Jonas”.   That was the time to ask why Chopra Jonas sold us an enslaving wedding ornament for women in the first place? Or why are we interested in the halwa Katrina Kaif made as her first bahurani cookout? Why do fashion designers believe that consumers will buy into their tokenism for inclusivity-diversity-disability-durability just because they rope in a constellation of short, dark, gay, plus-sized and salt-haired models?  Many such questions sit unasked in my notes: Are Banarasi weaves in fashion because tradition is the newest trend or because of new design interventions? Are crafts organically sustainable, or is this just a poorly investigated correlation? Are ayurvedic beauty potions selling more because they are marketed in pretty ‘recyclable’ bottles? Make room for solutions These ideas confused me particularly in the last year. But they also open the potential of cultural reporting beyond the ‘old is new’ tyrant. To write sharply, freshly, with a blade of grass in 2022. By arguing for handloom weaving as a practical subject for schools. By questioning brands and designers who call their products sustainable without conforming to globally established guidelines that range from supply chain inspections to sourcing and manufacturing checks to gender parity and wage fairness. By calling out every couturier who perpetuates gilded maharani culture.  Let’s highlight new and emerging designers this year who create non-conformist fashion and represent youth culture beyond the Great Indian Wedding. And applaud genuine faces of newness like British diver Tom Daley who was seen publicly knitting between athletic events at Tokyo and knitted himself an Olympic- themed cardigan. Look beyond mainstream media’s selective engagement to highlight less publicised ideas like Shillong-based YouTuber duo CatxLizz who uses music and recycled fashion to comment on social issues. Dwell on the seductive relationship between publicity and anonymity through Kim Kardashian’s stark black Balenciaga dress for the Met Gala in October. It completely obscured her famous body and revenue generating face. Look for the new, new. Like Raw Mango founder Sanjay Garg’s recent collection Sher Bagh, handwoven in Banaras and conceptualised with Anjali Singh of SUJAN. Garg inverts the traditional shikargah (hunting lodge) vocabulary in Indian textile design by eliminating the hunter. Arguing thus for wildlife conservation.  Sustainability: not a white-collar indulgence  Writing in 2022 with a blade of grass will also mean challenging the impression that sustainability is the prerogative of the fashion industry. It is not. Nor is it a white-collar indulgence just as recycling is not only about buying vintage or repeating an expensive outfit on Instagram. So, unless goals of conservation, reuse and reassembling move beyond class issues or elitist trends, and fashion becomes humble enough to reach out to other industries for co-existence, cross-pollinated action and awareness, our writing will indeed slip into lament. At the moment, most cultural reporting is in a state similar to what the greatest gymnast of all times, Simone Biles, called “the twisties”. A mental hiccup that left her unsure, as she told Time magazine, of her whereabouts, while she was mid-air, high above the vault at the Olympics.  As a blade of grass intern, I turn for inspiration to Rest in Power designer Virgil Abloh, who passed away in November. The Louis Vuitton artistic director and founder of Off-White tried to create a race-equal ecosystem. He also said: “I am not made for a podium. But I will design a podium that ushers in systemic change.” Shefalee Vasudev is editor-in chief, The Voice of Fashion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/writing-2022-with-a-blade-of-grass/article38090870.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:50 IST,||Not enough seats at Vadapalani terminus||There are certainly amenities at the Vadapalani bus terminus that can be highlighted. A small patch of green space, a dedicated counter for monthly bus pass renewal, a space for staff to have lunch and a lactation room. But it will do well to have a few more, particularly better seating arrangement. There is need for more seats. Out of 30 seats in the terminal, 23 are in a good condition and commuters do not get to occupy them. A majority of them are used by vagabonds. “The terminus sees a good number of people even during lunch hours, and for that, the seating facility is no way satisfactory,” says K Dasan, a commuter. The terminus is a halting point for route numbers from Porur, Iyyappathangal and Saligramam that ply towards George Town, Mint and Anna Square bus termini. V. Kanmani, a commuter, says, “Like the facility at Vallalar Nagar in Mint, the entrance and exit of Vadapalani terminus can be used for seating facilities” A few other improvements need to be made at the facility including announcements over public address systems and regular cleaning of the space. At present, the area along the gates of the terminus is used to dump garbage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/not-enough-seats-at-vadapalani-terminus/article38090458.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:45 IST,||Fulvous whistling duck: Putting a cousin in the shade||Unlike the Bengal weaver and the Asian pied starling, which have been clawing their way through Andhra, before checking into Chennai and advancing into the further reaches of the south, the Fulvous whistling duck’s range expansion does not follow a clear-cut geographical progression. Ornithologist V Santharam explains: “In south India, it was always reported, but nobody knew how common it was. Professor KK Neelakantan was on the lookout for it; he said he had once seen it in Kerala and he even mentioned it in one of the books he authored. But it was definitely not very common in south India those days, even after making allowance for the possibility that it could be mistaken for the lesser whistling duck. If you look at its distribution, you would see that it is fairly widespread — it is found in different countries and different continents. It is found in North America, south-east Asia and Kolkata was one of the places where they used to see large numbers of this species. In India’s north-east, it is fairly common.” And we can add Chennai to the list. The bird was first sighted and documented in Chennai in July 2009, by eBird reviewer Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi when he was birding in Pallikaranai Marsh along with a birder-friend. “There was a flock of seven birds when we first sighted the species at Pallikaranai in July 2009; and in the next few months, we started seeing big flocks. In the Sholinganallur IT SEZ, in 2011, we found evidence of the fulvous whistling duck breeding in Chennai,” says Gnanaskandan, adding that the Fulvous whistling duck has now put the lesser whistling duck in the shade, in Chennai, being found in plentiful numbers. “In contrast, lesser whistling duck sightings have become sporadic,” remarks Gnanaskandan. “The fulvous whistling duck has pushed its way up to Madurai.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fulvous-whistling-duck-putting-a-cousin-in-the-shade/article38090381.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:50 IST,||Fulvous whistling duck: Putting a cousin in the shade||Unlike the Bengal weaver and the Asian pied starling, which have been clawing their way through Andhra, before checking into Chennai and advancing into the further reaches of the south, the Fulvous whistling duck’s range expansion does not follow a clear-cut geographical progression. Ornithologist V Santharam explains: “In south India, it was always reported, but nobody knew how common it was. Professor KK Neelakantan was on the lookout for it; he said he had once seen it in Kerala and he even mentioned it in one of the books he authored. But it was definitely not very common in south India those days, even after making allowance for the possibility that it could be mistaken for the lesser whistling duck. If you look at its distribution, you would see that it is fairly widespread — it is found in different countries and different continents. It is found in North America, south-east Asia and Kolkata was one of the places where they used to see large numbers of this species. In India’s north-east, it is fairly common.” And we can add Chennai to the list. The bird was first sighted and documented in Chennai in July 2009, by eBird reviewer Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi when he was birding in Pallikaranai Marsh along with a birder-friend. “There was a flock of seven birds when we first sighted the species at Pallikaranai in July 2009; and in the next few months, we started seeing big flocks. In the Sholinganallur IT SEZ, in 2011, we found evidence of the fulvous whistling duck breeding in Chennai,” says Gnanaskandan, adding that the Fulvous whistling duck has now put the lesser whistling duck in the shade, in Chennai, being found in plentiful numbers. “In contrast, lesser whistling duck sightings have become sporadic,” remarks Gnanaskandan. “The fulvous whistling duck has pushed its way up to Madurai.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fulvous-whistling-duck-putting-a-cousin-in-the-shade/article38090467.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:50 IST,||The cloudburst of December 30: The surprises on the ground||On the front yard of Aditya Ashwin Apartments on Dr. Ranga Road, a raintree has grown bridled, its gnarled buttress illustrating how it has made the most of the narrow strip of earth available to it. The tree is an apt symbol for the apartment which seems to be straining every tired old sinew to tackle modern civic challenges, despite being dreadfully rooted in the past. Its most recent laurel: It flaunted a dry driveway on the morning of December 31, following the previous day’s cloudburst. The 37-flat apartment turned 35 this November, and as apartments go, anything fast approaching 40, suggests senior citizenry, not so much for the number of years that has passed as for the count of modern advantages that has been missed. While a majority of disadvantages can be tolerated, being plonked lower than younger neighbours who stand on raised foundations can be vexatious during the monsoon. On this section of Dr Ranga Road, there is no stormwater drain, reveals CR Ashok, a resident of another apartment — Jains Aishwarya, a millennial among ageing apartments like Aditya Aswin Apartments and Anand Apartments (42 years old). “In Dr. Ranga Road, I think from Farida Stores junction towards Warren Road, there is a natural slope; I guess even if you put a stormwater drain connecting these two points, the water flow would still be blocked. That is my assumption. The moment you drain, outside my apartment, it would be dry, and water goes down to the end, and that it where it would accumulate. They try to divert the water to the nearest draining point,” explains Ashok As an old apartment, Aditya could not duck waterlogging, especially where most other apartments stand on raised earth, notes Lakshmi Viswanathan, secretary of the residents association at Aditya Ashwin Apartments. Though waterlogging was a problem for nearly three-and-half decades, it appeared niggling against the backdrop of something that is best described as a thorn in the flesh — “regulated water supply” from its borewell-driven water management system, stretching from 6 a.m. to noon or thereabouts. While addressing the issue of restricted water-supply, the apartment serendipitously discovered the solution to water-logging. Lakshmi recalls how in moments of lucidity, the water-supply situation begged the question: “When all other apartments could sustain a 24-hour water supply, why could not ours? What was wrong with our apartment?” The apartment had put up with the issue for 32 years without taking much of concerted action. She observes: “Every borewell we kept on digging was only going deeper and not yielding the results. They were only giving us muddy water. If one borewell went dry, the solution that was offered to us was sink another borewell. “A lady who had come here as tenant — Karpagavalli — suggested that we meet Sekhar Raghavan from The Rain Centre. He demystified the concept of recharge wells for us, putting it across to us in the simplest of terms. ‘Whenever there is rain, all you are doing is collect the water in one place and sending it to the water table. You are basically helping increase the water table across the locality. Every two recharge wells in your apartment not only improves the water level or water quality in your area, but across the locality. And when you send water to the water table, the borewell will yield water,’ he told us.” Ashok observes that Dr Raghavan, who has worked with a few other communities on the road as well, stipulated that they “start having recharge wells well within twenty feet, and start using rainwater.” The well-under-twenty-feet math factors in the level at which the water table is found in the locality. Aditya Ashwin Apartments constructed six recharge wells — two at the front, another two at the rear, and the other two on the flanks — positioned the way the six-spot ground beetle wears its spots. “There is 24-hour water supply now; and water quality — that is, its colour — has improved by 50 p.c. After rains, for a couple of weeks, the water is crystal clear,” reveals Lakshmi. “In exactly three to four hours after a heavy downpour, the water gets drained.” An older neighbour Accommodating 52 flats, Anand Apartments has more heft than Aditya Ashwin Apartments. More age too — at 42 years, it is clear a super senior to Aditya. When it had two recharge wells constructed on its premises under Sekhar Raghavan’s guidance, it seemed to be taking a leaf out of its neighbour’s book. There were clear parallels: It was guzzling water during rains, standing as it on lower ground. There was a nauseating colour and odour to the problem of stagnation. “Whenever there was a drainage block, sewage and rainwater would get mixed,” reveals D Koil Raj, committee member of the residents’ association at Anand Apartments. It had an advantage — two open wells — but their yield was not sufficient to meet the water needs of the 52 households. “We were using Metro water. When there would be a shortfall, we would buy tanker water,” he points out. Following the construction of two recharge wells close to the open wells, the maintenance bill reads different. They had arrived just in time to make the most of the spells of copious out-of-season rain during June-August and then during this north-east monsoon. The community seems to have finally had a taste of water self-sufficiency. Just like Aditya Ashwin, this community had put an elaborate RWH system in place, but the groundwater runoffs remained to be utilised. “We have connected pipes from the terrace to the open wells for rainwater harvesting. Recharge wells take the water from the floor faster than before and deposit it in the open wells, thereby ensuring much more of the rainwater is effectively used,” explains Koil Raj. “The water logging problem has been largely — not completely — addressed. The capacity of the recharge wells, the inflows from the road during heavy rains are factors that determine the extent of the waterlogging. Comparatively, it is good. If there are more recharge wells, the problem of waterlogging could also be entirely solved.”  Every two recharge wells in your apartment not only improves the water level or water quality in your area, but across the locality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-cloudburst-of-december-30-the-surprises-on-the-ground/article38090459.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:49 IST,||Old problems haunt Madley Road||For many, Madley Road is notorious for waterlogging and related issues. Since the work to develop a skywalk began more than a year ago, connecting the terminus and Mambalam railway station footover bridge, the road has gone from bad to worse. From the entry gate of T. Nagar bus terminus (Police Quarters Road, T. Nagar), the road is pockmarked with potholes, testing the patience of motorists and pedestrians. The rains had done enough damage: so much that the surface has lost its top coat despite having been relaid, says R Sridhar, an academician and a resident of West Mambalam. “It is risky during rains and uneven surfaces are submerged under water. As a result, a number of pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists have lost balance and fallen down,” he says. The bad road surface is affecting free flow of vehicular traffic. “It will take months to execute this project. The authorities concerned in the civic body should take immediate steps to carry out patchwork to prevent accidents,” says S Parthasarathy, a resident of Postal Colony in T. Nagar. On the lane towards Madley subway, pedestrians have little space to walk on the road. The skywalk passes through Madley Road vehicular subway and Railway Border Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/old-problems-haunt-madley-road/article38090453.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:50 IST,||How about welcoming the new year with a fitness challenge?||One thousand and still counting. Each of us can help Chennai bag the top place at the inter-city Freedom to Walk and Cycle Challenge being organised by the Smart Cities Mission of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. Christened “Singara Chennai 2.0 – Veedhi Vizha” by the Greater Chennai Corporation, this is a 26-day challenge that opened on January 1. There is a choice of events — cycling, running or walking. One can register for them, choosing a convenient day and time. Chennai is competing with 75 other cities across India and as per the latest count it is in the top position with the maximum number of registrations (Ajmer, Belagavi, Lucknow and Chandigarh are among cites that are giving Chennai a tough fight). The city that covers the maximum distance in these two events will be declared winner and recognised by the Ministry, which means greater the number of participants,the greater the chances of being on the top. All that one has to do is register for the challenge by downloading STRAVA app and sign up for ‘Freedom2Walk’ or ‘Freedom2cycle’ event. Strava is required to track the rides/walks and it should be linked in the All for Sports (AFS) portal to make sure the tracked exercise is counted in the city challenge. Such campaigns to promote green mobility is not new. In June 2020, the Smart Cities Mission launched India Cycles4Change Challenge to encourage cities to empower more people to access and use cycles, thereby pushing for infrastructural interventions to ensure road safety and personal security. Freedom to Walk and Cycle challenge is an extension of the campaign, with walking as a new addition. The challenge is being conducted to celebrate 75 years of Independence and to push citizens to take a new year resolution to work towards a healthy lifestyle. For Chennaiites, this is another opportunity to push the civic body to introduce and improve the cycling and walking infrastructure. The permanent ramp that was constructed recently on the Marina beach is an example of citizens and government working together to create inclusive spaces. The Namma Chennai app is going to have a feature called ‘Road Sharing’ that will inform the public about amenities available at various public places. Christy Leema E, public engagement and partnerships officer at Chennai Smart City, says to drum up support from various fitness groups, they have been holding meetings. Notifications were sent to all users of SmartBikes. “We are expecting around 5000 registrations,” says Christy. The top 10 participants from Chennai will be honoured by the GCC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-about-welcoming-the-new-year-with-a-fitness-challenge/article38090464.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:45 IST,||How about welcoming the new year with a fitness challenge?||One thousand and still counting. Each of us can help Chennai bag the top place at the inter-city Freedom to Walk and Cycle Challenge being organised by the Smart Cities Mission of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. Christened “Singara Chennai 2.0 – Veedhi Vizha” by the Greater Chennai Corporation, this is a 26-day challenge that opened on January 1. There is a choice of events — cycling, running or walking. One can register for them, choosing a convenient day and time. Chennai is competing with 75 other cities across India and as per the latest count it is in the top position with the maximum number of registrations (Ajmer, Belagavi, Lucknow and Chandigarh are among cites that are giving Chennai a tough fight). The city that covers the maximum distance in these two events will be declared winner and recognised by the Ministry, which means greater the number of participants,the greater the chances of being on the top. All that one has to do is register for the challenge by downloading STRAVA app and sign up for ‘Freedom2Walk’ or ‘Freedom2cycle’ event. Strava is required to track the rides/walks and it should be linked in the All for Sports (AFS) portal to make sure the tracked exercise is counted in the city challenge. Such campaigns to promote green mobility is not new. In June 2020, the Smart Cities Mission launched India Cycles4Change Challenge to encourage cities to empower more people to access and use cycles, thereby pushing for infrastructural interventions to ensure road safety and personal security. Freedom to Walk and Cycle challenge is an extension of the campaign, with walking as a new addition. The challenge is being conducted to celebrate 75 years of Independence and to push citizens to take a new year resolution to work towards a healthy lifestyle. For Chennaiites, this is another opportunity to push the civic body to introduce and improve the cycling and walking infrastructure. The permanent ramp that was constructed recently on the Marina beach is an example of citizens and government working together to create inclusive spaces. The Namma Chennai app is going to have a feature called ‘Road Sharing’ that will inform the public about amenities available at various public places. Christy Leema E, public engagement and partnerships officer at Chennai Smart City, says to drum up support from various fitness groups, they have been holding meetings. Notifications were sent to all users of SmartBikes. “We are expecting around 5000 registrations,” says Christy. The top 10 participants from Chennai will be honoured by the GCC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-about-welcoming-the-new-year-with-a-fitness-challenge/article38090375.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:49 IST,||‘Restore bus stop on Thanikachalam Road’||Residents of T. Nagar feel the need to restore the MTC bus-stop near Hindi Prachar Sabha on Thanikachalam Road. The stop was removed many years ago forcing commuters to board and alight from buses at Holy Angels school stop on Thyagaraya Road. However, a few services of MTC halt at this stop. “The bus-stop is necessary mainly for residents of Crescent Park Street, Saravana Street, Neelakanta Mehta Street, Raja Street, Arcot Street, and Vaidyaraman Street,” says S. Poornima, a long-time resident of Neelakanta Mehta Street. Services providing connectivity to Adyar, Besant Nagar, and Thiruvanmiyur used to halt at this stop. “Today, except 147A (T. Nagar - Mogappair East), 147B (T. Nagar - J. J. Nagar West), and 147C (T. Nagar - Ambattur Old Terminus), none of the other services halt at this stop. This includes 47 (Besant Nagar - Villivakkam), 47A (Thiruvanmiyur - Villivakkam) 47D (Thiruvanmiyur - Avadi) and A47 (Thiruvanmiyur - Avadi). At times, 18G (Tambaram West - George Town) halts on request,” says V. Rajasekaran, another resident of Vaidyaraman Street. According to residents, there is adequate space to accommodate a bus-stop with facilities including shelter, seating arrangements and an information board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/restore-bus-stop-on-thanikachalam-road/article38090444.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:50 IST,||Ending the year on a healthy note||It’s New Year’s eve and 19-year-old Jai Aswani is camping with a group at a resort at Sam, a desert town inJaisalmer district ofRajasthan. He is tired but the energy in his voice indicates his excitement over completing another edition of the ‘Last Long Run 2021’. As in the previous years, the run is led by model-actor Milind Soman to celebrate health and the new year to come. Eight runners from various cities participated in the two-day event that covered around 110-km from Lathi to Sam in Rajasthan. Jai is the only representative from Chennai. “When you have a group of like-minded people with you the endurance levels are high,” says Jai, an undergraduate student of social work at Hindustan College of Arts and Science. “We ran 45 kilometres today and 62 km on December 30 with the former being more challenging as the road was narrow and the speeding vehicles forced us to run on the uneven surface,” says Jai, who was also part of the two-day run held last year that was from Guwahati to Cherrapunji.  The group started their run around 7.30 a.m. taking a short break of 10-15 minutes every 15 km and winding up before sunset. En route they stop to interact with groups. The messages written in Hindi and English on their t-shirts also do the talking for them.  What is the kind of preparation that goes into the run? As a member of Chennai Runners Kilpauk Striders, Jai says the group has been his biggest strength. “I run thrice a week and Sundays are meant for long runs,” says the cycling and swimming enthusiast. Just before starting to train for the event, in the first week of November, Jai met with a freak accident near Chetpet Eco Park injuring a knee and left elbow. “That was a big blow as I needed at least two months of rigorous training before the Last Long Run 2021 but the doctor advised me bed rest for three weeks,” Jai says he had also put on weight. He says every run throws up its own set of challenges. Last year, the surface had an incline and they even had to climb hills. “This time, we did not have any such difficulties but my shoes gave me trouble. I had carried two pairs but the second pair I had only used for a few days so after 30 km my feet developed blisters. A lesson learnt: for long-distance runs make sure to wear shoes that have been used well, at least for a few months,” says Jai, who is ambassador of the Born To Win Research Foundation Trust. One advice he will always remember from Milind Soman is “never give up whatever be the situation”. Bharatiya Sindhi Welfare Association sponsored Jai’s trip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ending-the-year-on-a-healthy-note/article38090463.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:50 IST,||Bengal weaver: Another artisan in our midst||It seemed a bad fit; the choice of habitat raised ornithological eyebrows. There was even an acute sense of being let down, as the news of Bengal weaver ( Ploceus benghalensis ) sightings out of the species’ range had whipped up jumbo-sized expectation. But then, when have birds run their lives by human wisdom? There is a lot going on in that tiny birdbrain, one capable of greater ingenuity than humans would credit it with.  This was in January 2015, by which time reports of Bengal weaver sightings in and around Chennai made the hottest birding topic. Ornithologist V Santharam had joined with eBird reviewer Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi and the duo along with two other birders headed to Nayapakkam in Thiruvallur district. In those early days, Nayapakkam Eri promised a sure-fire Bengal weaver sighting. At the waterbody, the bird was waiting to hold court, and recalling his first impressions, Santharam says “When I saw the habitat, I was quite struck, because that kind of lake is all over Chengalpet district — waterbodies with some kind of coarse grass growing in them. It did not look attractive for birding. In the past, we had gone to such places and not seen much, and we were surprised to note that this is the kind of habitat used by this bird. The streaked weaver is drawn to typha, and the Bengal weaver seems to be drawn to more open, less dense vegetation. Though it may not be common, the Bengal weaver is being seen in many places. The shape of the Bengal weaver’s nest is different from the Baya weaver’s and it is not built on tall trees, but on shrubs and even grasses. At Nayapakkam, we saw an abandoned nest. Now, the Bengal weaver is all over Chennai.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bengal-weaver-another-artisan-in-our-midst/article38090465.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:50 IST,||Asian pied starling: Making its presence felt at every turn||The first recoded sighting of the Asian pied starling near Chennai is from August 2010 when Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi and his birder-friends documented the species near the Poondi reservoir. Three years ago, the routine of a pair of pied mynahs — as the Asian pied starling is also called — at the Ram Nagar swamps (Madipakkam) — an informal name given to water-filled vacant spaces — was much studied. The credit for documenting the movements and even their love life goes to birder Aravind AM who would say his howdy to the pair during his morning walk every day. Other pied mynahs successfully stole the spotlight from this famous pair, as they soon began to put in more than an appearance in other parts of Chennai, most notably at Kamakotti Nagar in Pallikaranai where birder Sundaravel Palanivel was documenting the birds’ increase. Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi, eBird reviewer, notes that the species is regularly seen at Karapakkam, and also logs in at many parts of north Chennai, and in Thiruvallur district. He puts it down to as much to increase in the number of birders in these parts as to a spurt in pied mynah numbers. Gnanaskandan points out the Thiruvallur is the immediate door they would have to push open as they expand their range into Chennai, its surroundings and well into the south. Ornithologist V Santharam notes: “The previous outer limits of Asian pied starling’s range was the Krishna river. Now, it is also being reported from southern Andhra Pradesh, may be in Chittor district. The first time I saw the Asian pied starling, I was on a train headed to Orissa. It was early morning and the train just crossed Krishna river and was entering the Vijayawada station, and there I saw the pied mynah for the first time.” The much-studied pair of pied mynahs at Madipakkam would unfailingly rummage in the trash found in an open plot. Gnanaskandan explains that poking around in garbage is a typical starling behaviour. “The biggest flock of rosy starlings I have seen has been at the dump section of Pallikaranai.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/asian-pied-starling-making-its-presence-felt-at-every-turn/article38090466.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:49 IST,||Saligramam residents seek better MTC service||During the first week of December, Metropolitan Transport Corporation introduced small bus services from the following metro rail stations: Alandur, Airport, Tiruvottiyur, and Koyambedu – to nearby areas. Also, MTC restored its 5B service which was connecting T Nagar and Mylapore plying via Adyar which was withdrawn a few years ago. At this juncture, Saligramam residents request MTC to provide a small bus service to Koyambedu and T. Nagar. Also, restore, 12C service which was terminated sometime in 2017. The 12C service was connecting Saligramam and Mylapore via T Nagar. It received good patronage. However for reasons unknown, the service was stopped much to the dismay of the Saligramam residents. In the past five years, we have given several representations in this regard to the Metropolitan Transport Corporation. But of no avail. In the absence of a government-run transport service, residents are at the mercy of autorickshaw drivers who fleece them with exorbitant fares. N.S. Ramachandran is a resident of Saligramam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/saligramam-residents-seek-better-mtc-service/article38090451.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:45 IST,||Asian pied starling: Making its presence felt at every turn||The first recoded sighting of the Asian pied starling near Chennai is from August 2010 when Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi and his birder-friends documented the species near the Poondi reservoir. Three years ago, the routine of a pair of pied mynahs — as the Asian pied starling is also called — at the Ram Nagar swamps (Madipakkam) — an informal name given to water-filled vacant spaces — was much studied. The credit for documenting the movements and even their love life goes to birder Aravind AM who would say his howdy to the pair during his morning walk every day. Other pied mynahs successfully stole the spotlight from this famous pair, as they soon began to put in more than an appearance in other parts of Chennai, most notably at Kamakotti Nagar in Pallikaranai where birder Sundaravel Palanivel was documenting the birds’ increase. Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi, eBird reviewer, notes that the species is regularly seen at Karapakkam, and also logs in at many parts of north Chennai, and in Thiruvallur district. He puts it down to as much to increase in the number of birders in these parts as to a spurt in pied mynah numbers. Gnanaskandan points out the Thiruvallur is the immediate door they would have to push open as they expand their range into Chennai, its surroundings and well into the south. Ornithologist V Santharam notes: “The previous outer limits of Asian pied starling’s range was the Krishna river. Now, it is also being reported from southern Andhra Pradesh, may be in Chittor district. The first time I saw the Asian pied starling, I was on a train headed to Orissa. It was early morning and the train just crossed Krishna river and was entering the Vijayawada station, and there I saw the pied mynah for the first time.” The much-studied pair of pied mynahs at Madipakkam would unfailingly rummage in the trash found in an open plot. Gnanaskandan explains that poking around in garbage is a typical starling behaviour. “The biggest flock of rosy starlings I have seen has been at the dump section of Pallikaranai.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/asian-pied-starling-making-its-presence-felt-at-every-turn/article38090379.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:44 IST,||Ending the year on a healthy note||It’s New Year’s eve and 19-year-old Jai Aswani is camping with a group at a resort at Sam, a desert town inJaisalmer district ofRajasthan. He is tired but the energy in his voice indicates his excitement over completing another edition of the ‘Last Long Run 2021’. As in the previous years, the run is led by model-actor Milind Soman to celebrate health and the new year to come. Eight runners from various cities participated in the two-day event that covered around 110-km from Lathi to Sam in Rajasthan. Jai is the only representative from Chennai. “When you have a group of like-minded people with you the endurance levels are high,” says Jai, an undergraduate student of social work at Hindustan College of Arts and Science. “We ran 45 kilometres today and 62 km on December 30 with the former being more challenging as the road was narrow and the speeding vehicles forced us to run on the uneven surface,” says Jai, who was also part of the two-day run held last year that was from Guwahati to Cherrapunji.  The group started their run around 7.30 a.m. taking a short break of 10-15 minutes every 15 km and winding up before sunset. En route they stop to interact with groups. The messages written in Hindi and English on their t-shirts also do the talking for them.  What is the kind of preparation that goes into the run? As a member of Chennai Runners Kilpauk Striders, Jai says the group has been his biggest strength. “I run thrice a week and Sundays are meant for long runs,” says the cycling and swimming enthusiast. Just before starting to train for the event, in the first week of November, Jai met with a freak accident near Chetpet Eco Park injuring a knee and left elbow. “That was a big blow as I needed at least two months of rigorous training before the Last Long Run 2021 but the doctor advised me bed rest for three weeks,” Jai says he had also put on weight. He says every run throws up its own set of challenges. Last year, the surface had an incline and they even had to climb hills. “This time, we did not have any such difficulties but my shoes gave me trouble. I had carried two pairs but the second pair I had only used for a few days so after 30 km my feet developed blisters. A lesson learnt: for long-distance runs make sure to wear shoes that have been used well, at least for a few months,” says Jai, who is ambassador of the Born To Win Research Foundation Trust. One advice he will always remember from Milind Soman is “never give up whatever be the situation”. Bharatiya Sindhi Welfare Association sponsored Jai’s trip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ending-the-year-on-a-healthy-note/article38090373.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:50 IST,||Has the Iyyappanthangal MTC terminus become a thoroughfare?||Metropolitan Transport Corporation’s terminus at Iyyappanthangal on Mount Poonamalle Road is being misused as a thoroughfare. People driving cars, motorcycles, and auto-rickshaws use the terminus as a shortcut to reach the nearby Gangai Amman Koil Street. Besides, some drive into the terminus to drop commuters near the bus. According to MTC staff and commuters, these motorists come at a good speed and accidents are a near miss here. Narrating a recent incident, M. Selvam, driver of small bus S24, says “A two-wheeler rider drove through the bay meant for 11G service at a good speed. I entered the terminus and was about to turn to enter the bus bay. I was caught unaware when the motorist came at a breakneck speed in my path. Luckily, I applied the brakes and prevented a mishap.” There are no measures in place to prevent this practice. “A staff should be deployed to bar motorists from entering the terminus. The motorists come from nowhere, startling the public. Commuters have to exercise utmost caution. Trespassing is rampant in the bay meant for 11H and S24 services. It is all the more dangerous because there is a sharp curve raising the risk of accidents,” says A. Sumathi, a commuter. Water stagnation Another issue plaguing the terminus is water stagnation near the entry gate of the terminus. Commuters have to wade through water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/has-the-iyyappanthangal-mtc-terminus-become-a-thoroughfare/article38090455.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:49 IST,||Free skill development courses||Tamilnadu Skill Development Corporation and Mangalyan Technical Workers’ Co-operative Society Ltd will be starting free employable short term skill training courses like Accounts Executive and GST Accounts Assistant for unemployed graduates and postgraduates. The inaugural and orientation sessions will be held at 10.30 am on January 3 and 4 at Mangalyan Technical Workers Cooperative Society Ltd Training Centre at Saraswathi Vidyalaya, 19 KK Street, MKB Nagar, Ambattur. Successful trainees will get TN Government certificate, concession on transport and placement assistance. Pre-registration is must. For details, contact the training co-ordinator at 9869041169 or by mail to mangalyantwcs @gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/free-skill-development-courses/article38090442.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:50 IST,||‘We want citizens to take up projects in their neighbourhood’||Sneha Divakaran, deputy commissioner, Education, Greater Chennai Corporation, who also oversees public engagement initiatives, says the main objective behind Veedhi Vizha is to encourage people to get themselves into any fitness regime. “Once citizens’ participation is ensured, we get better feedback and that helps us to plan various people-friendly projects,” says Sneha. The all-women night cycle rally held in September 2021 was an attempt to gauge the safety of women cyclists that exists and work on improving infrastructure where it’s grossly inadequate. One of the most fervent pleas from cyclists has been to create dedicated lanes to offer them a safe and shared space. Sneha says that is a policy decision and needs discussion with various stakeholders. “Meanwhile what we can ensure is make lanes safe by ensuring there are no potholes or other obstructions and providing street lights,” says Sneha. For pedestrians using pavements, she says, placing bollards was an attempt to discourage motorists from parking on them. Towards encouraging citizens to embrace a healthy lifestyle, Sneha says GCC is turning OSR lands into parks with minimal infrastructure like a walkway, some trees and benches. “This is being done under Namakku Naame Thittam, wherein the public can also take up projects in their neighbourhood,” says Sneha. She says both Singara Chennai and Nalmigu Chennai focuses on playfields and parks. “Based on public consultation the GCC is currently developing 28 parks and eight playfields,” she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/we-want-citizens-to-take-up-projects-in-their-neighbourhood/article38090460.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:44 IST,||‘We want citizens to take up projects in their neighbourhood’||Sneha Divakaran, deputy commissioner, Education, Greater Chennai Corporation, who also oversees public engagement initiatives, says the main objective behind Veedhi Vizha is to encourage people to get themselves into any fitness regime. “Once citizens’ participation is ensured, we get better feedback and that helps us to plan various people-friendly projects,” says Sneha. The all-women night cycle rally held in September 2021 was an attempt to gauge the safety of women cyclists that exists and work on improving infrastructure where it’s grossly inadequate. One of the most fervent pleas from cyclists has been to create dedicated lanes to offer them a safe and shared space. Sneha says that is a policy decision and needs discussion with various stakeholders. “Meanwhile what we can ensure is make lanes safe by ensuring there are no potholes or other obstructions and providing street lights,” says Sneha. For pedestrians using pavements, she says, placing bollards was an attempt to discourage motorists from parking on them. Towards encouraging citizens to embrace a healthy lifestyle, Sneha says GCC is turning OSR lands into parks with minimal infrastructure like a walkway, some trees and benches. “This is being done under Namakku Naame Thittam, wherein the public can also take up projects in their neighbourhood,” says Sneha. She says both Singara Chennai and Nalmigu Chennai focuses on playfields and parks. “Based on public consultation the GCC is currently developing 28 parks and eight playfields,” she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/we-want-citizens-to-take-up-projects-in-their-neighbourhood/article38090366.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:47 IST,||‘We want citizens to take up projects in their neighbourhood’||Sneha Divakaran, deputy commissioner, Education, Greater Chennai Corporation, who also oversees public engagement initiatives, says the main objective behind Veedhi Vizha is to encourage people to get themselves into any fitness regime. “Once citizens’ participation is ensured, we get better feedback and that helps us to plan various people-friendly projects,” says Sneha. The all-women night cycle rally held in September 2021 was an attempt to gauge the safety of women cyclists that exists and work on improving infrastructure where it’s grossly inadequate. One of the most fervent pleas from cyclists has been to create dedicated lanes to offer them a safe and shared space. Sneha says that is a policy decision and needs discussion with various stakeholders. “Meanwhile what we can ensure is make lanes safe by ensuring there are no potholes or other obstructions and providing street lights,” says Sneha. For pedestrians using pavements, she says, placing bollards was an attempt to discourage motorists from parking on them. Towards encouraging citizens to embrace a healthy lifestyle, Sneha says GCC is turning OSR lands into parks with minimal infrastructure like a walkway, some trees and benches. “This is being done under Namakku Naame Thittam, wherein the public can also take up projects in their neighbourhood,” says Sneha. She says both Singara Chennai and Nalmigu Chennai focuses on playfields and parks. “Based on public consultation the GCC is currently developing 28 parks and eight playfields,” she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/we-want-citizens-to-take-up-projects-in-their-neighbourhood/article38090423.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:45 IST,||RWAs as change agents||Resident Welfare Associations can push for meaningful change that the government wants, by encouraging citizen participation. The government noticeably acknowledged this role of RWAs, this year. Besides outsourcing park maintenance, Greater Chennai Corporation invited corporates, non-governmental organisations and RWAs to adopt the green spaces. A similar call was made to help it maintain the vertical gardens at flyovers. It also invited residents’ groups to plant and maintain trees at designated locations as part of its Pasumai Chennai project. In the middle of the second wave, Federation of OMR Resident Associations noted in its FB page that for the first time a lockdown order mentions RWAs and the challenges encountered by them. This came in the backdrop of the Federation relentless representations to the government to make changes in the e-pass portal so as to look into the needs of RWAs and the essential staff working for people residing in these mini-townships.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/rwas-as-change-agents/article38090383.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:51 IST,||RWAs as change agents||Resident Welfare Associations can push for meaningful change that the government wants, by encouraging citizen participation. The government noticeably acknowledged this role of RWAs, this year. Besides outsourcing park maintenance, Greater Chennai Corporation invited corporates, non-governmental organisations and RWAs to adopt the green spaces. A similar call was made to help it maintain the vertical gardens at flyovers. It also invited residents’ groups to plant and maintain trees at designated locations as part of its Pasumai Chennai project. In the middle of the second wave, Federation of OMR Resident Associations noted in its FB page that for the first time a lockdown order mentions RWAs and the challenges encountered by them. This came in the backdrop of the Federation relentless representations to the government to make changes in the e-pass portal so as to look into the needs of RWAs and the essential staff working for people residing in these mini-townships.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/rwas-as-change-agents/article38090468.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:51 IST,||A united front||People never band together as well as when they see a crisis looming on the horizon. Seven residents’ welfare associations joined hands to form a Federation for West Mambalam, and the trigger point was the inundation during the November rains. In the southern suburbs, the Federation of Radial Road Residents Association was launched to represent the concerns of seven gated communities. Likewise, the defunct Shenoy Nagar Residents Welfare Association was revived thanks to residents who wanted to know their new neighbours and restore the lost charm of the locality by planting more trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-united-front/article38090472.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:51 IST,||A ‘jab’ well done||Coopting residents into efforts to solve larger issues concerning the state is a sustainable approach. Software engineers from Chennai Shyam Sundar Nagarajan and Vikram Ravi Ramanathan were roped in by the Greater Chennai Corporation to make the jab registration process easy. The two leveraged the low-code technology offered by Zoho Creator to launch the vaccination booking portalhttps://gccvaccine.in/in July. Features like notification alert about vaccine availability and multi-lingual language feature ensured a smooth and quick registration process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-jab-well-done/article38090471.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:51 IST,||From toll fee to toll free||Resident groups’ on Rajiv Gandhi Salai excitedly welcomed the state government’s decision to close the toll gates at Perungudi, Okkiam Thoraipakkam, ECR- OMR Link Road and Sholinganallur, in September 2021. Currently, the only operational toll plaza on the IT corridor is at Navalur. Various organisations including the National Association of Software and Service Companies and residential associations had urged the government to remove the toll plazas as they are located in areas that come within the city limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-toll-fee-to-toll-free/article38090470.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:51 IST,||A ‘save and manage’ strategy||Call it the result of climate change, the monsoon seems to be unpredictable. It either fails us miserably by being miserly or, as was the case this November, it is a tad too generous for our liking. So, communities have to invest in best practices in flood management and water conservation. Jains Pebble Brook, a gated community in Thoraipakkam, became a case study with its rainwater harvesting initiatives. The Municipal Administration and Water Supply (MAWS) department in coordination with Chennai Metro Water and Sewerage Board recognised it for its “Rainwater Harvesting Implementation”. The RWA won praise for consistently maintaining its RWH installations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-save-and-manage-strategy/article38090469.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:45 IST,||A ‘jab’ well done||Coopting residents into efforts to solve larger issues concerning the state is a sustainable approach. Software engineers from Chennai Shyam Sundar Nagarajan and Vikram Ravi Ramanathan were roped in by the Greater Chennai Corporation to make the jab registration process easy. The two leveraged the low-code technology offered by Zoho Creator to launch the vaccination booking portalhttps://gccvaccine.in/in July. Features like notification alert about vaccine availability and multi-lingual language feature ensured a smooth and quick registration process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-jab-well-done/article38090389.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:45 IST,||RWAs as change agents||Resident Welfare Associations can push for meaningful change that the government wants, by encouraging citizen participation. The government noticeably acknowledged this role of RWAs, this year. Besides outsourcing park maintenance, Greater Chennai Corporation invited corporates, non-governmental organisations and RWAs to adopt the green spaces. A similar call was made to help it maintain the vertical gardens at flyovers. It also invited residents’ groups to plant and maintain trees at designated locations as part of its Pasumai Chennai project. In the middle of the second wave, Federation of OMR Resident Associations noted in its FB page that for the first time a lockdown order mentions RWAs and the challenges encountered by them. This came in the backdrop of the Federation relentless representations to the government to make changes in the e-pass portal so as to look into the needs of RWAs and the essential staff working for people residing in these mini-townships.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/rwas-as-change-agents/article38090392.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:46 IST,||A ‘save and manage’ strategy||Call it the result of climate change, the monsoon seems to be unpredictable. It either fails us miserably by being miserly or, as was the case this November, it is a tad too generous for our liking. So, communities have to invest in best practices in flood management and water conservation. Jains Pebble Brook, a gated community in Thoraipakkam, became a case study with its rainwater harvesting initiatives. The Municipal Administration and Water Supply (MAWS) department in coordination with Chennai Metro Water and Sewerage Board recognised it for its “Rainwater Harvesting Implementation”. The RWA won praise for consistently maintaining its RWH installations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-save-and-manage-strategy/article38090393.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:46 IST,||A ‘jab’ well done||Coopting residents into efforts to solve larger issues concerning the state is a sustainable approach. Software engineers from Chennai Shyam Sundar Nagarajan and Vikram Ravi Ramanathan were roped in by the Greater Chennai Corporation to make the jab registration process easy. The two leveraged the low-code technology offered by Zoho Creator to launch the vaccination booking portalhttps://gccvaccine.in/in July. Features like notification alert about vaccine availability and multi-lingual language feature ensured a smooth and quick registration process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-jab-well-done/article38090395.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:46 IST,||A united front||People never band together as well as when they see a crisis looming on the horizon. Seven residents’ welfare associations joined hands to form a Federation for West Mambalam, and the trigger point was the inundation during the November rains. In the southern suburbs, the Federation of Radial Road Residents Association was launched to represent the concerns of seven gated communities. Likewise, the defunct Shenoy Nagar Residents Welfare Association was revived thanks to residents who wanted to know their new neighbours and restore the lost charm of the locality by planting more trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-united-front/article38090396.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:45 IST,||A united front||People never band together as well as when they see a crisis looming on the horizon. Seven residents’ welfare associations joined hands to form a Federation for West Mambalam, and the trigger point was the inundation during the November rains. In the southern suburbs, the Federation of Radial Road Residents Association was launched to represent the concerns of seven gated communities. Likewise, the defunct Shenoy Nagar Residents Welfare Association was revived thanks to residents who wanted to know their new neighbours and restore the lost charm of the locality by planting more trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-united-front/article38090391.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:50 IST,||E-waste drive||Residents Welfare Association Exclusively For Bollineni Hilllside Phase Two in Perumbakkam is organising an e-waste from January 2 to 7. It is conducted in association with Attero, an e-waste recycling company. In return of e waste, the company gives money. As per the price list put out by the company, smart phones are priced at Rs.100, desktop computer at Rs.650, laptop at Rs.800, washing machine automatic at Rs.400 and top-load at Rs.500, keyboard and mouse at Rs.10 each, refrigerator (upto 180 litres) at Rs.550, refrigerator (from 180 to 350 litres) at Rs.650, refrigerator (above 350 litres) at Rs.800 and many more. The association has come with an option called “donating e-waste” in which one can donate their e-waste and the proceeds will be distributed to the house-keeping staff of Bollineni Hilllside Phase Two. For those opting for donation, the association will make arrangements to come and collect the e waste at their door step. Those who want money are expected to come in person and handover their e waste to the Attero team who will be visiting the gated community on January 8. For details, call 97899 40569.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/e-waste-drive/article38090456.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:44 IST,||Tiruppavai sessions||Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan is organising Tiruppavai Upanyasam from January 1 to 15 at 7.30 am by U. Ve Kalyanapuram R. Aaaravamudachariar at is Mylapore premises. The programme is open to all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tiruppavai-sessions/article38090359.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:49 IST,||venice in venkatesh nagar||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/venice-in-venkatesh-nagar/article38090450.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:51 IST,||‘I don’t always recognise the border between prose and poetry’||On October 7, 2021, Abdulrazak Gurnah got a call from the Permanent Secretary of the Swedish Academy 15 minutes before the announcement of the Nobel Prize for Literature was made. He half-thought he was being pranked. Gurnah was convinced only when he saw the news flashing that he has won the most prestigious literary prize for his “uncompromising and compassionate penetration of the effects of colonialism and the fates of the refugee in the gulf between cultures and continents.” Born in Zanzibar, an island off the coast of Tanzania, in 1948, Gurnah grew up looking at the docks from the window of his bedroom. He saw sailors and traders from Gujarat, Oman and Yemen make merry and money — “it was impossible not to know you were part of a wider world with its own centre of gravity,” he says. After the brutal revolution of 1964 in Zanzibar that led to the overthrow of the Arab government, the harbours became empty. Soon after, Gurnah left for England to study, and later, to teach as a professor of post-colonial literature at the University of Canterbury. He never traced back that journey.  Today, he lives in Canterbury with a British passport. But his novels keep transcribing the distance between one home and the other, filled as they are with yearning for a place where one can feel free, even if one necessarily isn’t. In a Zoom interview, Gurnah talks about the guilt and gumption of being a post-colonial writer.  In your Nobel lecture, you spoke of how you began writing in your schooldays — “I wrote because I was instructed to write, and because I found such pleasure in the exercise.” Over the decades, as your relationship with writing changed, what has it done to the pleasure and innocence of the act? In my childhood I did not think what writing was for. It was the teacher asking us to tell something, and everybody would just sit quietly for an hour and see what comes. Always, something came. But when you are writing fiction, you are making something up, intended for someone you don’t know. You are speaking to the world, an unspecified audience, and so you’re crafting something that will, hopefully, be read forever. As to pleasure, I remember there was a time, not so long ago, when we would write long letters, intended just for one person. When you are writing or reading a letter, it is almost like that person is in front of you. You might laugh or smile at the jokes. There is something very intimate about that. Writing fiction, you are much more self-conscious about what it is that the words are doing and what you want them to do. The pleasure in writing fiction is in having an approach or an idea, and actually delivering it, conveying it with beauty — though not always successfully. Your sentences are spare. You don’t succumb to emotions easily. Is this a conscious choice?  In Afterlives I wrote short sentences, but elsewhere I have written very long sentences. It depends on the kind of voice you are trying to generate, particularly if the voice is in the first person — whether the characters wants to speak directly or in a fuller, more mellifluous, poetic way. I think about my sentences, for sure, but I don’t necessarily torture them too much.  Your books read like testimonies. What is the relationship between testimony and literature? When does testimony become literature? There is a genre called testimony — mostly a Latin American form which is used for polemics.  But there is another way of giving testimony, which is what I am interested in — to tell your story, something that has been suppressed, which needs to be revealed. I used this form in The Last Gift and Gravel Heart, where a father tries to explain to his son the meaning of certain events in the past. Here, it is not inviting judgement. It is a gesture, sometimes a gift, an attempt at explaining. This has a different tone. I am interested in how families are secretive about certain things — usually for what they think are good reasons. Sometimes these are quite big things, and they create something sad and sorrowful among family members.   I remember a journalist talking to me about The Last Gift — where the father and mother keep their secrets from their children. She said that only when her mother died, she found out that she had one of those tattoos stamped on inmates of concentration camps. That is the kind of thing I am talking about.  You quoted D.H. Lawrence’s poem in your Nobel acceptance speech. Poetry is interspersed with your prose too. Why do you keep reaching out to poetry? I don’t always recognise the border between prose and poetry, to be honest. Sometimes, poetry is useful as a way of being intertextual — bringing in another text which enables a swift and complex connection, enlarging the idea you want to explore. It is a way of expressing how a person’s imagination works. There are often Indian-origin characters in your novels. What is your sense of India? My sense of India has always been comprehensive. The part of Zanzibar I grew up in had a large population of Indians — Hindus, Ismailis, Ithna’asharis, Bohras. They were shopkeepers, traders, builders and contractors. So I grew up with Indian boys, played hockey and cricket together, visited each other’s houses. This mixing wasn’t odd or exceptional — there were marriages sometimes, but not very often because of religious and other considerations that communities used to closed themselves in. After the revolution of 1964, there was panic because it targeted business and moneyed people. There was a great exodus of Indians. Many of those who didn’t leave were targeted. If you go to Zanzibar now you will find only a handful of Indians and empty streets where they used to live. Their influence, however, is still there in the architecture, in the food, in the Swahili that folded in various Hindi and Indian-language words. But the people themselves are not there any more. You have often spoken about the “miserliness” of European culture vis-à-vis the refugees it refuses to accept. Yet this is the culture you chose to live in. Your novels also have this uneasy relationship between the home you were born in and the home you later make for yourself. Is this tension something yourcharacters inherited from you? I would say it is one of the subjects I am deeply interested in. Partly because it is my experience. But what makes it so interesting is that it is the phenomenon of our times, where millions of people are in the same situation as I am in — not living in the same place one started from. Both these places — the absent and the actual one — have a vitality and a compelling engagement. As a subject, it is rich, full of possibilities. But of course, there is something tragic as well because of what a person loses in the process of being separated from people, or memories, or just the conviviality of a people who would understand you more fully than those in the place you are living. Is there guilt then, in writing about a culture you no longer physically inhabit? You mean, is there guilt about living away from your home? Of course, there is guilt. The guilt is to do with the people you have left behind, and how they are coping, and whether you are doing enough to help them. Perhaps the guilt is also that you are living among people who don’t need you. With time, you learn to live with it. Have you been able to read and write through this haze of fame? Since the announcement of the Nobel, I haven’t been doing anything other than talking to people like you (laughs). Is that a good or a bad thing? Well, for a while, it is unavoidable. It is global. It is wonderful. And if people want to know you or and hear you, that’s fine too. The writer is a critic with a weekly online newsletter titledprathyush.substack.com  The part of Zanzibar I grew up in had a large population of Indians — Hindus, Ismailis, Ithna’asharis, Bohras... So I grew up with Indian boys, played hockey and cricket together, visited each other’s houses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/i-dont-always-recognise-the-border-between-prose-and-poetry/article38090485.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:52 IST,||Complexities of a culture||At one place in her latest book Ancient India: Culture of Contradictions , Upinder Singh invokes “indulgent lovers in metropolitan cities inviting a backlash by the moral police who argue that this sort of celebration of love is against Indian culture.” It is such contemporary problems that have led Singh to explore, what is Indian culture? One of the results is unearthing, in the present book, some contradictions in ancient India.  Tensions in the past  Singh’s historical accounts of ancient and medieval India examine who we are and how we got here. Singh teaches history at Ashoka University,and her main interest as a historian has been ancient Indian history and archaeology. Among several of her books on different themes in the area, A History of Ancient and Early Medieval India: From the Stone Age to the 12thCentury (2008) became a classic textbook for courses on Indian history, and her Political Violence in Ancient India (2017) tried to address the myth created about India having a non-violent culture at the time of building a modern independence movement on the principle of non-violence (ahimsa).  The present volume examines contradictions in ancient Indian civilisation, continuing her epistemic faith that ideas and attitudes in early Indian history are still discernible in India today, and therefore, why it is not only relevant but essential to study early India. Singh is not interested in “offering a detailed chronological history of ancient India, or rather South Asia. Instead, she has chosen a few themes that are central to understanding ancient Indian history, culture and thought, by focusing on the coexistence of certain radical tensions and oppositions — between social inequality and salvation, desire and detachment, goddesses and misogyny, violence and non-violence, and debate and conflict.” These tensions, arranged in five chapters, are illustrated with an informed understanding of primary sources and secondary sources including visual materials. The Introduction of the book invites readers to abandon simplistic stereotypes and try to grasp some complexities of Indian culture, and the Epilogue addresses the present state: in India, according to Singh, “it has become fashionable to talk about the ancient Indian tradition of debate and dissent and to present this as an inherent aspect of Indian culture and civilization. But we should not forget that participation in these was circumscribed by the unequal, hierarchical nature of social structures.”  Drawing on textual resources including Manusmriti , Mahabharata , Ramayana , Jain and Buddhist texts, vachanas, Sangam literature, Vatsayana’s Kamasutra , Kalidasa’s Raghuvamsa , Sudraka’s Mrichhakatika, Kautilya’s Arthashastra , among others, Singh shows tensions, conflicts, complexities, rival philosophies and readings of texts in India. We also come across local traditions such as Virashaiva or Lingayat sect and Shramana cultures contributing to the making of counter cultures in Indian history.   It is impossible to explore all practices and ideas that have contributed to the making of contradictions in the subcontinent, but one wonders at the absence of references to Sikhism, and also to the works of those who could be her interlocutors with regard to Hinduism such as Wendy Doniger, S.N. Balagangadhara and Manu V. Devadevan, whose A Prehistory of Hinduism (2016) is absent in the bibliography.  Theory and practice  Singh tries to understand the complexity of Indian civilisation with the category of ‘contradiction’. She reads, for example, the Manusmriti as “a text that makes pro-women as well as misogynistic statements, and tries to explain the contradiction in terms of the gap between theory and practice; the juxtaposing of different opinions; the context in which the statements are made; and the point sought to be emphasised.” According to Singh, if Rama is an exemplar of virtues for some, in Periyar’s writing, he is a symbol of northern Aryan tyranny. Likewise, Singh reveals diametrically different views and practices coexisting in India.  Singh’s conceptual framework of contradiction follows a long tradition of historical analysis. To use Walter Benjamin’s formulation, “there is no document of civilisation which is not at the same time a document of barbarism.” All cultures involve power relations and resistance, and therefore tensions and contradictions are a given. A fine narrative  What Singh has achieved in the volume is a cogent account of practices, ideas and religious traditions in India by interestingly arranging her material. Therefore, Ancient India provides an engaging sourcebook for Indian students and students of India Studies, combining different strands on Indian history, philosophy and culture. Singh offers the vignette of India’s past in lucid prose that does not obstruct the reader’s pace nor test their patience. It is indeed a fine narrative that gives the experience of reading the story of India.   Further, Singh is pretty clear about the craft of a historian and the limits of writing history. For example, references to the Mahabharata and the Ramayana abound in her illustration, but she is aware of to what extent they can be considered as historical documents. Similarly, she is cautious about applying our present standards and norms retrospectively while reading ancient texts. If the past is a foreign country, Singh knows how to find her way within it, but her feet are firmly on contemporary India: she writes, “In ancient India, there were multiple religious communities, but no state religion. Perhaps there is a lesson for our own times.”  The reviewer teaches English literature at Tumkur University.  Ancient India: Culture of Contradictions Aleph||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/complexities-of-a-culture/article38090498.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:53 IST,||Hindutva’s caste masterstroke||Ever since erstwhile champions of secular values have begun differentiating between Hindu and Hindutvawadi, a whole lot of intellectuals are bristling. They are arguing how these nuanced metaphysical differentiations hold no relevance on the street. Mostly from the Hindu elite, these are the same scholars who will argue that Islam should be separated from Islamism, and clarify that invaders of India should be described as Persianised Turks and not Muslim warlords. Religion as a word found favour in the 19th century. It referred to monotheistic mythology, which deemed god as a fact, despite the growing influence of science. For most colonisers, there was only one religion — their version of Christianity, either Catholic or Protestant. They saw Judaism as outdated and Islam as heresy, despite their common roots. Beliefs of the populations in the nations they colonised were deemed pagan and idolatrous, hence invalid, as superstitions and not religion. Then, however, it became difficult to access Japanese markets as the Emperor of Japan did not appreciate missionary activities. That is when the idea of ‘respecting other people’s religion’ gained political currency. In other words, in the 19th century, it was the market that forced Europeans to acknowledge the validity of multiple religions. Indian identity It is not a coincidence, therefore, that during this period, Buddha was ‘discovered’ by Europe and widely appreciated. Indians were told that Buddhism was a better idea to emerge from India, a counter to casteist Hinduism. This is when words like Hinduism and Hindutva were invented, the former in the early 19th century by Raja Rammohan Roy who believed in social reform, and the latter in the late 19th century by Chandranath Basu who opposed social reform. Before this period, identity in India was based on caste, tribe, and region. One saw fishermen as belonging to the fisherman caste. It did not matter who they worshipped. Landlords were landlords — some Muslim, some Rajput, some Brahmin, some Thakur, some Kayastha. The British successfully formalised religion as a category through the medium of census. Hindus never had a centralised religion until the British told them they did. It was constructed as a creation of Brahmins to enforce caste hierarchy, just as prophets and priests enforced divine law in Christianity. This new vocabulary of religion enabled Britain to justify its rule of India, and ‘save’ Hindus from Muslim rulers, and ‘lower’ caste Hindus from the ‘upper’ caste elite. Later, it enabled elite Muslims to divide India and ‘protect’ Muslims from the now powerful Hindu elite. And it is now being used to ‘unite’ India from the so-called ‘Marxist’ anti-caste forces that want to divide Hindus, and hence India itself. Seen through the lens of religion, even pre-Partition India was a Hindu majority state. Seen through the lens of caste, India has always been a land of many minorities. Religion makes more sense than caste for the politician because democracy is based on numbers. As long as they were fighting elite Hindus, the Muslim politician could unite Muslim elites of North India to create Pakistan. But then the Bengali elite refused to bow to the Punjabi elite, and this led to the division of Pakistan and the creation of Bangladesh. Talking about caste The fear of further division plagues both countries, for everyone knows the people of South Asia have strong caste and tribal roots, religion notwithstanding. However, both Pakistan and Bangladesh will resist conversations around caste in their respective Muslim communities, insisting caste is a Hindu and not a South Asian word. Academicians rarely push back despite vast evidence to the contrary. Is there anything Hindu outside of caste? If you do not talk about caste, a Hindu is accused of being an elite Hindu who uses privilege to deny caste. If a Hindu talks about caste, then they must only talk about it in terms of oppression and its annihilation. Any other conversation about caste, say, in terms of cultural and vocational diversity makes a Hindu a caste-admiring bigot. Thus, conversations are cleverly gagged to reinforce the idea that Hinduism is nothing but caste. Politicians never had a problem evoking caste, as it generates vote banks, and they can always justify it by appealing to minority rights. When it came to Islam, politicians could invoke religion and justify it by appealing to minority rights once again. But when it came to Hinduism, evoking religion did not really help. Other than Islamophobia, there was nothing really uniting Hindus. Powerful force The Mandal Commission changed that. It acknowledged that over 50% of Indian castes are actually backward communities, neither elite nor scheduled, neither savarna nor avarna. Hindutva became a powerful force when these backward communities were reminded of their caste histories, and made to feel proud of their Hindu heritage. This was the Hindutva masterstroke; it now speaks of Hinduism by speaking to the neglected middle of the bell curve of caste. At one end, hundreds of thousands of Indians have been told that they are being denied access to an institute or a job, not because of merit, but because their ancestors instituted and benefited from the caste hierarchy. They are paying for the crimes of their ancestors. It is social justice. Sounds rational and moral and ethical. But it does not take away the rage. It does not make you give up your caste, it makes you cling to it even more defiantly. At the other end, the academic assumption that the under-privileged castes want to give up caste is not based on fact. You cling to your caste identity to get that certificate that will give you access to education and a job. You may hide it to gain entry into elite circles. Considering the sheer size of India, not everyone benefits from the positive discrimination. There are still many without wealth and power and education who find solace in their caste identity, for that is the only family history they have. And Hindutva acknowledges it. Cynically, one might argue. But it is acknowledged nevertheless, winning the hearts of voters. Hindu vote banks Caste embarrassed elite Hindus. The idea of annihilating caste made many intellectuals feel morally superior just as annihilating religion made 19th century intellectuals feel morally superior, and annihilating gender makes 21st century intellectuals feel morally superior. But anti-caste movements seemed increasingly anti-Hindu, and by extension anti Hindu Rashtra hence anti-national. Meanwhile, Hindutva has successfully strengthened Hindu vote banks by acknowledging the reality of caste as well as the underlying Islamophobia and unabashedly equating it with nationalism. Most politicians now acknowledge that secularism does not win the heart of the Hindus who make up the largest vote share. They can sense a new vote bank emerging among those Hindus who do not identify themselves through Islamophobia or caste. As they go about creating this new vote bank, Hindutva ideologues are obviously alarmed. But so are secular intellectuals who had once granted themselves the exclusive privilege of defining Hinduism through the straitjacket of caste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hindutvas-caste-masterstroke/article38090520.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:53 IST,||Magical spot cards||West’s pre-emptive bid put North under pressure. North felt that two aces and four-card heart support entitled him to bid four hearts, but East disagreed and announced his opinion loudly with a double. South won the opening spade lead with his ace and led a club to dummy’s jack at trick two. East won with the queen and led the 10 of clubs to dummy’s ace. South led a diamond to his jack, relieved to win the trick. He cashed the king of diamonds and needed an entry to dummy. The only possibility was a club ruff, so he cashed the king of clubs and ruffed his last club in dummy, leaving this position: GRID 2 South cashed the ace of diamonds to discard his spade and led the four of hearts from dummy. East could take no more than two heart tricks no matter what he did. The most interesting variation was for East to play the three. South must win with his eight and lead the 10 of heart to East’s jack. Should East exit with his last diamond, South must ruff with the five and overruff in dummy with the seven. The lead of a spade from dummy will let the king of hearts score the tenth trick. Well done!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/magical-spot-cards/article38090512.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:53 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 Born on January 2, 1947, Jack Hanna, a zookeeper, was the former director of the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium. His many appearances on prime time TV with talk show hosts and a range of rare animals were responsible for the growth of zoo tourism in the U.S. His affable persona and relationship with animals started off on a local TV show that started in 1981, and later expanded across the world. What was the name of the show, which was a reference to a Biblical character who was supposed to have saved many animals in the Old Testament? 2 These animals found in South America have three stomach compartments that allows them to consume lower quality, high cellulose foods which are usually found in the high altitude places they inhabit. One of the most characteristic behaviours of these animals is its ability to spit when angry. Depending on how angry they are they can reach further back into the stomach and spit more material. This is referred to in a humorous instance in a Tintin book where Captain Haddock gets into a spitting fight with one of these animals. What delightful sounding animals are these? 3 These mammals have a unique form of social justice (thereby proving that it is not a unique characteristic of human beings). These animals drink half their weight in blood from cattle and horses every day. If one of them goes hungry, another will regurgitate up blood for the friend. If one hungry member goes to another and that animal refuses to help, the rest of the colony will then punish the selfish member when it can’t find any food by refusing to help it. Which species named after a mythical creature has this interesting system of justice?  4 The scientific name of this animal is Boselaphus tragocamelus . This translates to the very confusing ‘cow-horse goat-camel’. The common name comes from the fusion of the local words for a colour it can take on and the type of animal it was. What is the common name for this large Asian Antelope found anywhere from Himalayas to Mysore?  5 This beautiful animal has been revealed to be genetically linked to the tiger, but gets its name from another big cat. It is estimated that only around 7,000 of these animals remain. They have thick fur and wide paws to distribute their weight evenly and long tails which help them jump gracefully between rocky crevices. Unlike other big cats, this cat cannot roar and only hisses and mews. What lovely animal is this that can be seen in the Indian Himalayas or onscreen fighting pandas?  6 The common name for these mammals from the family Manidae comes from the Malay word for ‘something that rolls up’. They are the only known mammals who have protective keratin scales that cover their skin which unfortunately cannot help them against poaching by humans. These animals are highly endangered as they are the most trafficked in the world because of their meat and scales and are also endangered due to heavy loss of habitat. What are these unfortunate animals?   7 There are seven tiger subspecies and their scientific name mostly all refer to the geographical area of incidence. Example, amoyensis (Amoy), balinicus (Bali), sumatraensis (sumatra) etc. Only one subspecies has a scientific name that honours an individual. That is the Indochinese tiger. To whom is the name dedicated?  8 This species split from its more prevalent cousin about 40 million years ago. The area they mainly inhabit gets its name from the Greek word for the animal and the antipodal region gets its name from the fact that this animal does not exist there. Currently numbering around 20,000 individuals, they are dwindling fast due to climate change as they need hard strong ice to carry their weight. What animals are these? 9 This is a rare venomous mammal which hunts by tracking electrical signals like a shark. Because it has no teeth it uses gravel to break down food like a bird. When it was first discovered and taken for classification, the scientists thought it was a prank played on them. Its DNA shares genes with reptiles, birds and mammals, and recently it was discovered that it glows under UV light. What is this disorienting animal, which became more popular, thanks to a children’s TV series featuring one that is a secret agent? 10 This animal was not known to the world till 1869, when the skin of one was studied with great interest. Every single one of the 2000 animals on the planet is from one country only. They have lived on Earth for millions of years and they almost got wiped out by humans in the last few decades. Unanimously described as ‘cute’, the collective noun for a group of these animals is ‘an embarrassment of ______’. What animal is this that adorns the logo for one of the biggest wildlife organisations in the world? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article38090517.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:53 IST,||Vaccine for Ebola a pivotal moment for COVID-19 shot||The coronavirus epidemic has profoundly influenced humanity’s response to many things that seemed unimaginable. Think lockdowns, repeated tests for a virus, wearing masks, and a new vaccine within a year of the blight. In the pre-pandemic era, the default wisdom on vaccines was that they took a minimum of 10-15 years from concept to being available as a commercial product. Potential vaccine candidates have to be tested if they can destroy bacterial or virus cells in test tubes, then in small animals, large animals and finally, people. This is a three-stage process with phase-1 trials testing if healthy people inoculated with a vaccine produce the necessary antibodies, then it’s tested on small groups to see if those who get the vaccine are better protected than those who did not and finally, a similar process is repeated in thousands in hospitals across the country, or even internationally, to see if the protection holds. At every stage potential side-effects and adverse events are keenly watched — after all, the purported benefits cannot outweigh possible harm. A headstart  There are reasons for the long gestation and seen in this light, to have several viable vaccines within a year of COVID-19 is a miracle of sorts. Vaxxers , by Sarah Gilbert and Catherine Green, is the “inside story” of how one of these vaccines, Oxford AstraZeneca, marketed as Covishield in India, was developed. Both scientists are part of the team at Oxford University that developed the vaccine. The book is a readable guide to the steps to developing vaccines. The authors, who alternate on chapters, highlight the challenges of adapting to a life of incessant scrutiny, the barrage of public interviews along with managing the daily grind of scientist life: writing grants, conducting experiments, managing laboratories.  However, the most important insights lie in how the Oxford vaccine got a headstart. Gilbert and her group were already working on designing vaccines against emerging pathogens. Pivotal moment The 2014 outbreak of the deadly Ebola virus in Guinea, West Africa, that killed nearly 11,000 people, is a pivotal moment in the quick development of a COVID-19 vaccine. Gilbert, a professor of vaccinology, was involved in the testing of an Ebola vaccine. “These experiences formed the foundations of what we’ve done… because of what happened with Ebola, learning what worked well and what did not, we were able to design, make and test a vaccine with unprecedented speed and with high levels of confidence in the outcome,” she writes. From the Ebola vaccine they got the idea to develop a vaccine that was a “replication-deficient recombinant simian adenoviral-vectored vaccine”. Novel approach An adenovirus is a virus that easily infects human cells. Removing a single gene creates a form of the virus that still infects people but can’t replicate within the body. Unlike bacteria, viruses can only make more of themselves by taking over the replication machinery of cells. This excised gene is replaced with another which, once inside the body’s cells, instructs cells to make a particular protein against which the body’s immune system triggers a response. The resultant antibodies and the priming of the immune system against the proteins that characterise a particular virus then protect the person from a future live infection. The novelty of this approach is that the gene that is added can be either an Ebola virus gene, or a coronavirus gene or whatever infection is doing the rounds. While there are several alternate technologies to make vaccines, each has relative advantages and demerits.  The book does not answer why in spite of such rapid development much of Africa has not been vaccinated even as other countries are already rolling out booster (third) doses as a new variant Omicron causes havoc. While much more will be written of this period in human history, Vaxxers will certainly be an integral part of this bibliography.   Vaxxers: The Inside Story of the Oxford AstraZeneca Vaccine and the Race Against the Virus Hodder & Stoughton/ Hachette||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/vaccine-for-ebola-a-pivotal-moment-for-covid-19-shot/article38090508.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:51 IST,||Bengaluru to Ballari||Kannada writer Vasudhendra caught the attention of the English-reading world with the translation of Mohanaswamy , his collection of short stories focused on the LGBTQIA+ community. The book, which marked his own coming out as a gay person, was preceded by over a dozen works in Kannada on various themes.  The Unforgiving City and Other Stories offers us a peek into his larger oeuvre. The 12 stories in this collection, published between 2008 and 2017, are about characters caught in a fast-changing, fast-urbanising India. The manner in which identities are lost, gained or transformed in the process plays out here.  Quite predictably, Bengaluru and its IT workforce inhabit many of the stories. This is a world Vasudhendra knows up close, having been an IT professional before he decided to become a full-time writer and publisher. Here one encounters, for instance, a young woman who has to choose between the desire to be a mother and her corporate job; a family that finds new avenues in the city for their differently-abled son but at a cost; individuals or whole communities caught in the snare of social media, and more. Despite the book’s title drawing attention to the city-based stories, more gripping are the ones set in the smaller towns of North Karnataka. While the Bengaluru stories sometimes have a thinly veiled didactic tone, rendering the characters flat, those from beyond the metropolis are always unpredictable and quirky. The women of “Ambrosia”, “Broken Tumbler” and “Two Rupees”, for example, refuse to stay put in straitjackets. The most haunting story in the collection, “Red Parrot”, is set in Sandur in Ballari district, which happens to be Vasudhendra’s hometown. Once an idyllic small town, it shot to infamy after illegal iron ore mining ravaged its fertile, red soil to fill the pockets of the mining mafia and its political beneficiaries in the 2000s. The story, published in 2008, stands out for its rich detailing of the wrecked landscape, of people who manage to escape the town to build a life elsewhere and those who remain trapped. The very title of the story is a remarkable inversion of a childhood image that reveals the scale of environmental devastation in a flash.  The Unforgiving City and Other Stories Penguin Viking||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bengaluru-to-ballari/article38090481.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:52 IST,||Rooting for Lalee||With such a straightforward title, what the reader expects is a Shonagachhi crime, and that is what the reader gets. To unravel the backstory to the deed, we are taken to South Asia’s largest red-light district with all its murk, heartbreak, violence and unexpected pockets of comfort.  The protagonist Lalee is a sex worker who has managed to survive by repressing all memories of her past and adopting a carapace of indifference, under which simmers much anger. Lalee has a babu , an unlikely admirer and regular visitor by the name of Trilokeshwar ‘Tilu’ Shau, a man who “possessed all the charm of a leftover roti.” It is with him that Rijula Das chooses to start her story.  The first chapter is laugh-out-loud funny, with a less-than-charitable description of Tilu — a writer of penny eroticas who is in thrall to the city’s past. So deceptively witty is the beginning that the reader is lulled into thinking this is going to be a quirky thriller. But no. The story then dives into a darker place involving the usual suspects: a the merciless brothel owner, a faux-Russian hooker, some sweet young sex workers, an evil Maharaj and his acolytes, and cops who are reluctant to take up this particularly gruesome murder case because they think sex workers are low on the money-making chain. Within a few chapters though, Das blows the cops’ premise apart, showing us how sex workers can be found across Kolkata’s tony areas, hotels and parties, blurring the lines between ‘respectable’ and ‘disreputable.’  Das employs a measured pace; there is a restraint to her prose through which the pain of most of the characters (pimp and cop included) peeps through. And if the ending is pretty much de rigueur , if the female characters are better drawn than the male ones, that’s alright, because somewhere along the way, the reader has started rooting for Lalee and Co.   Not quite a murder mystery, not quite a crime novel, more a pointillist story about a sex worker’s life, A Death in Shonagachhi is a skilled debut.  The Bengaluru-based writer is an author, journalist and manuscript editor.  A Death in Shonagachhi Picador India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rooting-for-lalee/article38090487.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:51 IST,||Have you had a kindness shown?||My six-year old grandniece was asked in her online class about her best friend. She promptly gave the name, but could not answer where the friend lived, her father’s name and other questions. The child was quick in responding to the last question, “Why do you like her?” “Because she is kind.” “What else?” “Isn’t kindness enough,” she retorted.  The dialogue reminded me of my father who developed dementia later in life. Once, he suddenly asked me, “ Ammai , who are you? Where are you from? You are talking to me so kindly.”  Kindness is well appreciated in the extremes of age and is an effective tool to blunt the thorns in life. If kindness is so good, why do kind people feel let down at times? Perhaps, it is because kindness is misconstrued by some as weakness or even taken for granted. If a kind act is acknowledged and reciprocated, the tender filament of relationships remains strong. The enlightened ones say, “Do good without any expectation,” but lesser mortals do feel good if their actions are noticed and appreciated. When some of my elderly patients rue about being alone and uncared for, I urge them to communicate explicitly with their children or relatives and friends. A desire to manage by themselves for as long as they could and not wanting to trouble children may lead to a lack of involvement, even if assistance is required. In the 1970s, when I moved to another city, I stayed in touch with my mother through long descriptive letters. Later, I switched to telephone calls, but my mother was not pleased. She would say, “I could read your letters repeatedly and feel your presence. Now, the moment I put the receiver down, you are gone.” In digital world Yet I could not bring myself to the old habit of writing letters. For the past 10 years, I am connected more than ever before with my tech-savvy relatives and long lost friends. But my 90-year-old mother has remained out of the frenzied digital world. She never complained and considered herself fortunate to be living with a caring son and his family. No technology can replace the tenderness with which she holds hands while squinting her eyes to identify the person and indulge in kind conversation. In this fast-paced materialistic world, will kindness and proximity survive? I hope they do.  Recently as I was about to climb some steps, my grandson shouted, “ Paati , wait. I will hold your hand.” He told his sister, “Paatiis getting old. She needs to be helped.” Much as I could walk without assistance and hate being called “old”, I didn’t want to snuff out the little angel’s innate desire to help.  Taking his little fingers in my hand, I resolved to be kind to “the kind”. vijayacardio@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/have-you-had-a-kindness-shown/article38090479.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:52 IST,||Remnants of a separation||How do conflicts and the mass movements they trigger impact societies? The Goethe-Instituts in Kolkata and Dhaka launched a collaborative project in 2015 called ‘Inherited Memories’ to find out whether there was a ‘culture of remembrance’ in relation to the Partition of 1947 like the ‘Erinnerungskultur’ in Germany, and which traumas and memories were passed on from generation to generation. While the west (Punjab) did see memorialising, the east (Bengal region), which had witnessed two Partitions and a liberation war, deserved much more attention than it was given.  That is the gap Inherited Memories seeks to fill, by talking to children and grandchildren of Partition refugees and understand how memory is “passed down, what is retained or lost, and how it is owned and shared by subsequent generations.” In the introduction, Firdous Azim says “these are the memories of third-generation descendants of migrants/ refugees, who have no direct experience of life before the 1947 Partition... The story they weave is complex, with many strands, where differences pertain not only to religion, but also to ethnicity and language.”  Identity battles Since 1940 onwards, says Meghna Guhathakurta in her essay, the people of Bengal were caught in battles around the question of identity politics. “First, the movement for a nation that would be a safe haven for Muslims (Pakistan), and then the Language Movement for Bengalis that matured into the movement for an independent state. People in this region found themselves being hurled from one nationality to another within a span of four decades.” Some like Kazi Jahanara Islam, whose grandfather worked in the Air Force and was first in Pakistan and then came away to Bangladesh, rued the fact that because of the separation of two countries (India and Bangladesh), “an unexplained distance” crept into blood relations as well despite both being predominantly Bengali. Being positive Dolly Akter’s ancestors are from Bihar and she heard stories about Biharis who had moved to Bangladesh being called ‘razakars’ or people who have tortured Bengalis. In reality, she tells the interviewer, they were just inhabitants of Calcutta who had to move when the situation became volatile and it was a few years before East Pakistan became Bangladesh. She remembers her grandfather’s love for India though his father had to move to East Pakistan on a night when the long knives (or ‘da’) were out. He got separated from his sister in the process. Dolly likes to see the positive side of things, the fact that she can speak both Hindi and Urdu is an advantage, though her mother tongue is Bengali. “This has been possible because I’m a Bihari. Many feel shy disclosing their identity as Bihari [in Bangladesh], but I don’t feel that way.” But as Khaled Hussain, a campaigner for the citizenship rights of Biharis in Bangladesh, there is an underlying “sense of loss and dispossession” despite the “intensity of the struggle to belong to Bangladesh.” M. Haque “describes a life of easy movement,” right up to the 1990s, when one could go across the border to India and be back in Bangladesh the next day for breakfast. For Hindu Bengali migrants who moved from East to West Bengal, they passed on stories “full of nostalgia of pristine rural life, and accounts of greater prosperity.” What is the truth of these pasts? It lies, as Azim poignantly writes, in “what we hold in our memories, in the stories we tell each other.”  Inherited Memories: Third Generation Perspectives on Partition in the East Zubaan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/remnants-of-a-separation/article38090500.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:51 IST,||Feedback||The Honours List 2021 (Dec. 26) is a real tribute to our unsung heroes. The selection is quite exhaustive and illustrated well. Particularly, the details about the frontline workers, the Pulitzer-winning photographer Danish Siddiqui, and virologist Gagandeep Kang, who helped disseminate scientific information about the pandemic, were noteworthy. K. Balakrishnan nNeeraj Chopra becoming the first Indian to win an Olympics gold in athletics was easily the most significant achievement in sports this year, and no wonder he became the toast of the nation. The most distressing event, however, was the unfortunate passing of Fr. Stan Swamy. For a country that thumps its chest and crows from the rooftops about being the largest democracy in the world, Fr. Swamy, suffering from an advanced case of Parkinson’s, being denied a sipper/ straw, leave alone bail, marked a new low even by the standards prevailing in the country. C.V. Aravind n2021 has been a treacherous year full of uncertainities for everyone. But, the 10 individuals/ groups featured in the cover story have kept the flag of hope and human resilience flying high. The stellar role played by virologist Gagandeep Kang in disseminating scientific and authentic information on COVID-19, and dispelling the fears of people, is noteworthy and deserves top honours. While it is true that no honours list can be exhaustive, the displaced Bru people in Tripura (featured in  an earlier Magazine story), who have shown tremendous fortitude and foresight during the pandemic, are inspirational and deserved a place  in the list. Kosaraju Chandramouli nThe various people and institutions highlighted here picked up the threads of their lives with indomitable spirit and resilience. They all said the crisis was not out there in the world, but within our consciousness. Gold medallist Neeraj Chopra teaches us all to be together, the Bonda tribe shows us how to return to our roots with sustainable farming, and Danish Siddiqui held up a mirror to society with his work. More power to such champions of humanity. K.M.K. Murthy   The best books listing (‘Top 10 in fiction and non-fiction’; Dec. 26) is a wonderful ready reckoner for the times. Books of all kinds have helped many of us get by during the pandemic. Dhwani Kishore   With subtle humour (‘Thank god for small mercies’; Dec. 26), the writer has rightly pointed out how the phrase “Due to COVID reasons” has been used in the recent past as an excuse to explain away some restrictions. This reason was also conveniently dished out to customers by some companies selling gadgets and appliances, for not carrying out maintenance of their products as per the Annual Maintenance Contract. N. Rama Rao   I’m sure book lovers benefitted the most (‘All are invited’; Dec. 26) from the pandemic as it allowed them to participate in literature festivals, discussions and other related activities without having to commute. As we all know, everything has its pros and cons. COVID-19 made everything accessible to everyone all over the world setting aside all social barriers. Sandhya Suresh V.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/feedback/article38090477.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:53 IST,||Tamil Migrants: A Demographic, Social and Economic Analysis||S. Irudaya Rajan, Bernard D’ Sami & Others Orient BlackSwan Rs. 1,095 Tamil Nadu has received large numbers of migrants, and many Tamils have ventured outside the State too. This volume explores the demography of the State, its migration history, and their implications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tamil-migrants-a-demographic-social-and-economic-analysis/article38090506.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:51 IST,||Saat: 7 Short Stories||Abhimanyu Jamwal Vishwakarma Publications Rs. 205 The seven short stories are poised on the thin line between reality and fantasy. What if a pigeon could resolve the Kashmir issue? What if in 2040 dreams come true and the truth is nothing but a dream? Abhimanyu Jamwal calls his writing style provocative literary fiction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/saat-7-short-stories/article38090483.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:52 IST,||Not Just Cricket||Pradeep Magazine HarperCollins Rs. 599 At the core of this book are accounts of some of the important events in India’s cricketing history woven around encounters with several cricketers. The veteran journalist also draws a portrait of modern India, talking about Kashmir, and the impact of religion and Mandal politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/not-just-cricket/article38090495.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:52 IST,||Run for the Shadows||Sridala Swami Context Rs. 499 The poems in this collection are about the jagged edges of our lived experience. While responding to the ecological and political crises of the moment, they also imagine an arc of time that encompasses both the deep past and the far future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/run-for-the-shadows/article38090489.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:52 IST,||The Book of Dog||Edited by Hemali Sodhi HarperCollins Rs. 699 Releasing on January 17, this anthology is a tribute to our furry best friends. It has 45 original pieces by some of India’s leading writers, all of whom have contributed for free. All royalties from the book will go to registered animal welfare charities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-book-of-dog/article38090491.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:52 IST,||Putham House||Hephzibah Jesudasan, trs G. Geetha Rupa Rs. 395 Lizzy, trapped in a patriarchal household that wallows in its former eminence, falls in love with a young man from the palmyra-climbing community. This is a scrupulous portrayal of the palmyra-climbers, whose lives are as precarious as that of women under patriarchy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/putham-house/article38090493.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:52 IST,||Field Notes from a Waterborne Land||Parimal Bhattacharya HarperCollins Rs. 499 In the late 2000s, when the Left Front rule in Bengal was nearing its end, Bhattacharya began travelling outside the city centres to different parts of the region. This is his despatch from the Sundarbans, villages on the Bangladesh border, tribal Jangalmahal and the Simlipal forests in Odisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/field-notes-from-a-waterborne-land/article38090502.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:52 IST,||The Eastern Gate||Sudeep Chakravarti Simon & Schuster Rs. 899 In a narrative that begins in mid-2014, Chakravarti says he aims to highlight the mechanics of peace-making. The Naga peace process saw an uptick in 2015, but made no headway since, even as the region continues to protest against the Armed Forces (Special) Powers Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-eastern-gate/article38090504.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:53 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3183||Across 1 Old boy spouts about traditional knick-knacks (6,4) 6 Namby-pambies knocked back casserole (4) 9 Perhaps fillies west of Tennessee oddly lacking judgment (5,5) 10 Unattributed, somewhat uncanonical (4) 12 Since I’m talking to a techie: play in a forest! (2,3,4,2) 15 Inebriated tennis legend admitted by second doctor (7) 16 Confines criminal instead (7) 17 What’s often part of underwear, laciest pants (7) 19 Cat given stroke the wrong way by Everyman sore at each end (7) 20 Misappropriation setter concealed. ‘Not entirely perfect?’ That’s outrageous! (3,4,4) 23 Lazy superstar, we’re told (4) 24 Crude gluten isn’t causing concern (10) 25 Very, very average (2-2) 26 Coquette and Romeo finding depravity in China (3,7) Down 1 Line for throwing in East End ball game (4) 2 In France, I will take starters of raw kidney – idiot! (4) 3 Strangely, he dreamt that he drank with a dormouse (3,3,6) 4 Apparently innocent, like Cupid? (3-4) 5 Echo about coastal inlet (7) 7 Reinserted fancy culinary implement (10) 8 One smelling the roses, with an accent? (4,6) 11 Treat pet with trip to resort with gentle sounds (6-6) 13 Discovers a discoloration’s covering half of saucer (10) 14 Persuade Greek character: talk up trinkets (10) 18 Spicy pepper: Rod has urge to tuck in (7) 19 Baits burrowing creatures (7) 21 Image of head seen in Identikit (4) 22 Primarily obscenely/ greedily/ lecherously eye? (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3183/article38090515.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:51 IST,||Rainbow Tutu||“Be nice to whites, they need you to rediscover their humanity,” said Archbishop Desmond Tutu of South Africa at the height of the country’s anti-apartheid movement in 1984. A contemporary of Nelson Mandela, he too advocated a multi-racial democracy and fought alongside the former President in the nation’s decades-long struggle against racial segregation. Although a human rights champion and well-loved figure globally, Tutu faced fierce opposition at home, both from white South Africans and a section of black anti-apartheid activists, for his ideologies and actions. The Nobel Peace Prize awarded to him in 1984 was seen as a gesture of international support. As chair of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission set up after the fall of apartheid in 1996, Tutu stressed on ‘restorative justice’ in the spirit of the African philosophy ofubuntu, and praised survivors of violence who expressed forgiveness towards their perpetrators. He was also a supporter of gay rights and criticised the Anglican church for not being welcoming of the LGBTQIA+ community, famously declaring: “If god, as they say, is homophobic, I wouldn’t worship that god.” With his passing last week, the world has lost a moral giant and true lover of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rainbow-tutu/article38090476.ece
02 January 2022||January 02 2022 03:31 IST,||Punishing hate speech||The story so far : A recent religious conclave held in Haridwar witnessed inflammatory and provocative speeches by proponents of Hindutva, many of them leaders of religious organisations. Reports say many of the speakers called for organised violence against Muslims and hinted at a Myanmar-type ‘cleansing campaign’. There was a threat that if the government resisted the formation of a ‘Hindu Rashtra’, there will be an ‘1857-like’ revolt against the state. Political parties and concerned citizens have termed these as ‘hate speech’ and demanded legal action against those involved in the propagation of hate and violence.  What is ‘hate speech’? There is no specific legal definition of ‘hate speech’. Provisions in law criminalise speeches, writings, actions, signs and representations that foment violence and spread disharmony between communities and groups and these are understood to refer to ‘hate speech’. The Law Commission of India, in its 267th Report, says: “Hate speech generally is an incitement to hatred primarily against a group of persons defined in terms of race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, religious belief and the like ... Thus, hate speech is any word written or spoken, signs, visible representations within the hearing or sight of a person with the intention to cause fear or alarm, or incitement to violence.” In general, hate speech is considered a limitation on free speech that seeks to prevent or bar speech that exposes a person or a group or section of society to hate, violence, ridicule or indignity. How is it treated in Indian law? Sections 153A and 505 of the Indian Penal Code are generally taken to be the main penal provisions that deal with inflammatory speeches and expressions that seek to punish ‘hate speech’. Under Section 153A, ‘promotion of enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony’, is an offence punishable with three years’ imprisonment. It attracts a five-year term if committed in a place of worship, or an assembly engaged in religious worship or religious ceremonies. Section 505 of IPC makes it an offence to making “statements conducing to public mischief”. The statement, publication, report or rumour that is penalised under Section 505(1) should be one that promotes mutiny by the armed forces, or causes such fear or alarm that people are induced to commit an offence against the state or public tranquillity; or is intended to incite or incites any class or community to commit an offence against another class or community. This attracts a jail term of up to three years. Under 505(2), it is an offence to make statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes. Under subsection (3), the same offence will attract up to a five-year jail term if it takes place in a place of worship, or in any assembly engaged in religious worship or religious ceremonies. What has the Law Commission proposed? The Law Commission has proposed that separate offences be added to the IPC to criminalise hate speech quite specifically instead of being subsumed in the existing sections concerning inflammatory acts and speeches. It has proposed that two new sections, Section 153C and Section 505A, be added. Its draft says Section 153C should make it an offence if anyone (a) uses gravely threatening words, spoken or written or signs or visible representations, with the intention to cause fear or alarm; or (b) advocates hatred that causes incitement to violence, on grounds of religion, race, caste or community, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, place of birth, residence, language, disability or tribe. It proposes a two-year jail term for this and/or a fine of Rs. 5,000 or both. Its draft for Section 505A proposes to criminalise words, or display of writing or signs that are gravely threatening or derogatory, within the hearing or sight of a person, causing fear or alarm or, with intent to provoke the use of unlawful violence against that person or another”. It proposes a prison term of up to one year and/or a fine up to Rs. 5,000 or both. Similar proposals to add sections to the IPC to punish acts and statements that promote racial discrimination or amount to hate speech have been made by the M.P. Bezbaruah Committee and the T.K. Viswanathan Committee. At present, the Committee for Reforms in Criminal Laws, which is considering more comprehensive changes to criminal law, is examining the issue of having specific provisions to tackle hate speech.  The Law Commission has proposed that separate offences be added to the IPC to criminalise hate speech instead of being subsumed in existing sections. It has proposed the addition of two new sections||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punishing-hate-speech/article38090097.ece
