04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||More than 40 lakh adolescents get first shot of COVID vaccine||More than 40 lakh adolescents in the 15-17 age group received their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on the first day of the vaccination drive for the cohort till 8 p.m., Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted on Monday. According to the CoWIN dashboard, more than 49 lakh in this age group have registered for the vaccine so far. The vaccination programme, carried out in consultation with schools, is being held at hospitals and health centres. Covaxin, an indigenous COVID-19 vaccine, will be administered in this age group in two doses with a gap of 28 days. “Only Covaxin is approved for less than 18 years. The 18+ (i.e. born in 2004 or before) — are eligible for all vaccines, including Covishied. For 15-17 years (born in 2005, 2006, 2007) are eligible only for Covaxin. Validations in place in CoWIN,” Vikas Sheel, Additional Secretary, Health Ministry, said. In Delhi, vaccination for more than 10 lakh adolescents began at 159 centres on Monday, official sources said. A Delhi government spokesperson said a total of 20,998 children were vaccinated on the first day till 6 p.m. More than 54,000 got their jab on the the first day of the vaccination drive in Haryana. Nine dedicated centres The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has designated nine vaccination centres where students can either walk in or pre-register online. The BMC aims to vaccinate nine lakh students in this drive, which was virtually launched by Maharashtra Tourism and Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray. A large number of students from various civic schools arrived at the jumbo centre in the Bandra Kurla Complex to get vaccinated. In neighbouring Pune, the vaccination for adolescents commenced at 40 centres, Suryakant Devkar, chief immunisation officer, Pune Municipal Corporation, said. At several centres, teenagers were offered flowers, pens and masks after vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-than-40-lakh-adolescents-get-first-shot-of-covid-vaccine/article38103906.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:53 IST,||Two Omicron cases in Dharwad||Amid apprehensions about a possible third wave of COVID-19, Dharwad district has recorded two new cases of the new Omicron variant with a 53-year-old woman and 14-year-old girl testing positive. Speaking to presspersons after inspecting a drive to inoculate students in the 15-18 age group at JSS PU College in Dharwad on Monday, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said that both the patients have already been given the requisite treatment and they are under observation in home isolation. Both the patients are residents of Hubballi and 395 people who came in contact with them have been tested for the infection. “However, all have tested negative for the pandemic. But now that the two have tested positive for Omicron, steps have been taken to get all their primary and secondary contacts tested. Till both the woman and the girl tested negative for the infection, they will be under home isolation and under observation by the health staff,” he said. Mentioning that COVID-19 cases are on the rise in the State and in Dharwad district too, he said that positive cases are increasing gradually. Though there is no need to panic, people should be extra cautious to prevent themselves from getting infected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-omicron-cases-in-dharwad/article38104169.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:49 IST,||NIA arrests woman from city said to be in touch with IS cadre||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday arrested a woman from the city in connection with the ongoing investigation of terrorist activities of Mohammed Ameen alias Abu Yahya of Kerala and his associates. Police sources said that Deepthi Marla, alias Mariyam, was arrested by the NIA team comprising Deputy Superintendent of Police and Assistant Investigating Officer Krishna Kumar and Police Inspector Ajay Singh. The sources said that Mariyam was suspected to be in touch with Islamic State (IS) cadre.  The NIA had registered a suo motu case against seven known and other unknown accused in connection with alleged terrorist activities of Ameen and his associates, who have been running various IS propaganda channels on social media platforms for propagating violent jihadi ideology of the IS and radicalising and recruiting new members for the IS module. Ameen and his associates reportedly succeeded in expanding the IS network in Kashmir and parts of Kerala and Karnataka.  The NIA conducted simultaneous raids in Kashmir, Bengaluru and Mangaluru on August 4, 2021 on those suspected to be in touch with Ameen and his associatesand also those who were said to be financing IS activities. They had arrested Obaid Hamid of Srinagar, Muzammil Hassan Bhat of Kashmir, Ammar Abdul Rahiman of Ullal in Mangaluru and Shankar Venkatesh Perumal, alias Ali Muaviya from Bengaluru. As part of the probe, the NIA questioned Mariyam, wife of Abdul Rahiman, a resident of Masthikatte, Ullal. Rahiman is the son of writer and former Ullal MLA, the late B.M. Idinabba.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-arrests-woman-from-city-said-to-be-in-touch-with-is-cadre/article38104390.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||China constructing bridge on Pangong lake in Ladakh||China is constructing a bridge in eastern Ladakh connecting the north and south banks of Pangong Tso (lake), which will significantly bring down the time for the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to move troops and equipment between the two sectors, two official sources independently confirmed on Monday. “On the north bank, there is a PLA garrison at Kurnak fort and on the south bank at Moldo, and the distance between the two is around 200 km. The new bridge between the closest points on two banks, which is around 500 m, will bring down the movement time between the two sectors from around 12 hours to three or four hours,” one of the sources said. The bridge is located around 25 km ahead of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the source stated. The construction had been going on for some time and it would reduce the overall distance by 140-150 km, the other source said. Earlier, the PLA had to take a roundabout crossing the Rudok county. But now the bridge would provide a direct axis, the first source said, adding that the biggest advantage with the new bridge was the inter-sector movement as the time would come down significantly. “They need to build piers for the bridge, which has been under way,” the source stated. The bridge is in China’s territory and the Indian Army would have to now factor this in its operational plans, the source noted. India holds one-third of the 135-km-long boomerang-shaped lake located at an altitude of over 14,000 feet. The lake, a glacial melt, has mountain spurs of the Chang Chenmo range jutting down, referred to as fingers. The north bank, which has much higher differences in perception of the LAC than the south bank, was the initial site of the clashes in early May 2020, while tensions on the south bank flared up later in August. The Indian Army got tactical advantage over the PLA on the south bank in August-end by occupying several peaks lying vacant since 1962, gaining a dominating view of the Moldo area. On the north bank too, the Indian troops set up posts facing PLA positions on the ridge-lines of Finger 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/china-constructing-bridge-on-pangong-lake-in-ladakh/article38103895.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:59 IST,||Row prompts govt. to look to other States||The State government is closely monitoring developments in the higher education sectors of Maharashtra and West Bengal where the Chancellor’s powers in universities have either been trimmed through legislation or bypassed for political reasons. The developments have been unfolding at a time when Kerala is witnessing an extraordinary scenario of the Governor locking horns with the government over administrative decisions in universities. Various possibilities are being explored to prevent an administrative impasse in the face of Governor Arif Mohammed Khan’s refusal to accept files concerning State universities. The Assembly of Maharashtra recently passed the Maharashtra Public Universities (Third Amendment) Bill, 2021, which paves way for changes in the appointment of Vice Chancellors. Hereafter, the selection committee will recommend five names to the post and the State government will shortlist two among them before submitting them to the Chancellor for appointing one of them within 30 days. The Act also provides a greater role for the Pro-Chancellor. The West Bengal government, which has been considering making the Chief Minister the Chancellor of universities, had in 2019 introduced rules that abolished the Chancellor’s secretariat and minimised the Chancellor’s powers in choosing Vice Chancellors. Other Opposition-ruled States, including Odisha, have also witnessed efforts to enhance the State government’s role in the higher education sector. According to sources, such precedents are being observed by the State government as well as the commissions appointed to recommend reforms in the higher education sector. Nonetheless, the government is unlikely to take a drastic step. The prevailing political situation, which requires the LDF to focus its energies on drumming up support for the SilverLine project, has rendered such a move improbable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/row-prompts-govt-to-look-to-other-states/article38104209.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||Jagan raises key issues of State with Modi||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to fulfil the promises made to the State at the time of bifurcation and handhold Andhra Pradesh during the transition phase. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was meeting the Prime Minister after more than a year. While conveying New Year greetings to the Prime Minister, he pressed for the Centre’s assistance to the State government which was reeling under severe financial stress. In the more than one-hour meet in New Delhi on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy raised key issues such as release of pending bills of the Polavaram project, revenue deficit, arrears of electricity bills, allotment of food grains under the National Food Security Act and site clearance for the Bhogapuram airport. The Chief Minister urged Mr. Modi to approve the revised cost estimates of Rs. 55,657 crore at 2017-18 price level, which includes drinking water component of Rs. 4,000 crore and also to release the pending payments of Rs. 2,100 crore already incurred by the State government towards the Polavaram project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-raises-key-issues-of-state-with-modi/article38103904.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:49 IST,||City’s daily TPR rises to 2.36%, rings alarm bells||Bengaluru Urban, which is one of the 15 high-burden districts in the country, added 4,664 positive cases in the last seven days. With 1,041 new cases reported in the last 24 hours, the day’s Test Positivity Rate (TPR) has touched 2.36% causing concern among experts and policy makers. Bengaluru contributes 84.3% (9,575) of the total 11,345 active cases in the State. Nearly 80.7% of the total cases reported on Monday are from Bengaluru Urban and this has been the trend during the last six days. There has been nearly a four-fold rise in the number of cases reported in the last one week (ending January 2) compared to the previous (week ending December 26). A look at the zone-wise average positivity trend for the last seven days shows that Mahadevapura has the highest WTPR at 1.23% followed by the East Zone at 1.21%. While the WTPR is inching towards 1% in Bommanahalli and South zones, it is ranging between 0.44% and 0.51% in the remaining zones. Bengaluru now has the second highest number of total cases with 12,66,392 after New Delhi that has 14,54,396, according to data from the BBMP war room. While officials attribute the sudden rise in cases to cluster outbreaks and movement of international and inter-State travellers, the State’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has reiterated that the situation is worrisome and strict restrictions should be imposed with immediate effect. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has convened a meeting of experts on Tuesday to discuss the recommendations made by the TAC and take a call on imposing stringent curbs. “Restrictions based on the TAC’s recommendations should have been imposed from January 1 itself when the weekly TPR crossed 1% in Bengaluru. Currently, the WTPR here is 1.43% and as per our classification, Bengaluru now falls under orange zone,” TAC sources asserted. While recommending weekend and night curfews if the WTPR is between 1% and less than 2%, the TAC has said educational institutions will have to switch to remote learning and offices to work from home if the WTPR is between 2% and 3%. Lockdown should be considered if the WTPR goes above 3%. The committee had earlier fixed the threshold for lockdown as 5%. According to the TAC’s recommendations, if the WTPR is between 1% and less than 2%, cinemas and auditoria, schools and colleges, pubs and bars, restaurants, offices and factories, recreational clubs, public transport including Metro trains and salons/ barber shops function with 50% capacity. Malls and shopping complexes should function only between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. and gathering of people in marriages and social events should be restricted to 200 and 300 respectively. “The Chief Minister will take a call on these recommendations after examining the daily and weekly TPRs at the meeting with experts on Tuesday,” said K.V. Trilok Chandra, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health). Pointing out that the civic body had increased the number of tests conducted daily from 25,000 to nearly 45,000, the Special Commissioner said Bengaluru has the highest caseload because more than half of the daily tests are done here. “We are focussing on targeted testing now and are taking up aggressive contact tracing. All positive and secondary contacts of positive patients are being isolated without any delay. Besides, all ILI and SARI cases are also tested,” the official said. TAC chairman M.K. Sudarshan, who asserted the need to extend the ongoing night curfew in Bengaluru, said early mitigation measures are essential to avoid a second wave like situation. “We have also recommended that daily tests should be increased to 1.5 lakh from the 80,000 done till mid-December. This is the beginning of the third wave and people should not be complacent. In fact, they should not wait for the Government to impose restrictions and instead behave responsibly themselves,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/citys-daily-tpr-rises-to-236-rings-alarm-bells/article38103953.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||Devas shareholders seize over $30 mn of AAI assets||Devas shareholders on Monday said they had seized more than $30 million of Airports Authority of India’s (AAI) money held by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), following an order from a Canadian court in connection with the arbitration award the telecommunications firm had won against the Indian government. The move also impacts Air India. “Devas’ shareholders have been granted the right to garnish property belonging to Airports Authority of India held by the International Air Transport Association in Montreal. These actions represent the first fruits of a globally focused effort to attach assets of the Indian government to satisfy the Devas Multimedia’s awards,” a Devas spokesperson said. “Air India being one of the biggest users of AAI is highly impacted,” the spokesperson added. The enforcement strategy requires IATA to “garnish” air navigation charges, aerodrome charges, among others, held by it on behalf of the AAI, either at its head office in Montreal or at any of its branches worldwide. “The Commercial Division of the Quebec Superior Court accepted to designate a judge on an urgent basis to hear the applications to quash and stay the seizures/garnishing. The hearing will take place on January 4,” a senior official at the Union Finance Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/devas-shareholders-seize-over-30-million-of-aai-assets-held-by-iata/article38103897.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||Engineering student detained in app case||The Cyber Cell of the Mumbai Police detained an engineering student in Bengaluru on Monday evening in connection with the controversial Bulli Bai app. He is reported to be one of the four followers of the app. The student is being brought to Mumbai and is expected to be arrested soon, said an officer of the Cyber Cell. No other details were disclosed till the time of going to print. The Delhi Police on Monday said they had written to hosting platform GitHub seeking information on accounts which posted photos of Muslim women on the app, where they were being “auctioned”. Officers, however, said no breakthrough had been achieved in identifying any suspect. Sources said the police have also written to Twitter seeking information about the account which first tweeted about the application. In the case of a similar app, Sulli Deals, in August, the police had said that a notice under the CrPC was issued to GitHub to share the IP address from where the photographs of Muslim women were shared, but the company asked the police to approach it through the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty. Earlier, an FIR was lodged in Delhi under IPC Sections 354A (Sexual Harassment and Punishment for Sexual Harassment), 509 (Words, gesture or act intended to outrage modesty of a woman) and 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, etc.) at the Cyber Crime Police Station of Southeast District based on a complaint filed by a woman. Officials had said they were trying to identify accounts that were involved in uploading the pictures and were deactivated after the complaint was filed. The incident came six months after “Sulli Deals” was uploaded on the same hosting platform. Two separate FIRs were lodged at that time, one in Delhi and the other in Noida. No one has been identified in that investigation, officials said. The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) has also taken cognisance of the case and issued summons to the Delhi Police to provide case files of both Sulli Deals and Bulli Bai before January 6.  Notice issued to GitHub to share more details||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/engineering-student-detained-in-app-case/article38103954.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||India records 33,000 cases||India recorded more than 33,000 new COVID-19 cases in the 24 hours till 8 a.m on Monday. The number of deaths increased by 123, taking the total to 4,82,000. Authorities said that even as the cases have started to rise rapidly in the country, hospitalisations have not gone up.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rising-trend-in-all-states/article38103898.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:59 IST,||Omicron: 29 new cases||The Health department confirmed on Monday that 29 more COVID-19 patients in the State had tested positive for the Omicron virus variant. This takes the total Omicron tally in the State to 181. Of these, 42 patients have been discharged so far, while the rest 139 are being cared for in special care facilities in various districts. Of the 29 new cases reported on Monday, 10 were from Thiruvananthapuram, seven from Alappuzha, six each from Thrissur and Malappuram. Two of these are contact cases reported from Alappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-29-new-cases/article38104210.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:22 IST,||Governor calls up CS on arrest||Telangana Governor and Lt. Governor of Puducherry Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan has sought a report on the arrest of BJP State president Bandi Sanjay in Karimnagar. According to highly placed sources, Dr. Tamilisai, who is presently camping in Puducherry, is said to have spoken to the Telangna Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Monday evening and enquired about the developments in Karimnagar leading to the arrest of the Karimnagar MP. It is understood that she sought a report from the government on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/governor-calls-up-cs-on-arrest/article38104186.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||03brief1||Over 4.62 lakh teenagers aged between 15 and 18 received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine across the State on Monday, the first day of the vaccination drive for teenagers across the country. A majority of the vaccine doses were given at schools and junior colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/03brief1/article38103900.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||03brief2||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Somu Veerraju on Monday said that Amaravati would be developed as the capital city at a cost of Rs. 12,000 crore if his party is voted to power in the State in the 2024 Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/03brief2/article38103901.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:55 IST,||Centre seeks urgent listing of EWS quota case||The Union government on Monday pressed the Supreme Court to list on Tuesday the hearing of a case raising questions about the Rs. 8 lakh income criterion for identifying EWS to provide them reservation in jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-seeks-urgent-listing-of-ews-quota-case/article38104087.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:49 IST,||Rs. 1,100 cr. for MESCOM for upgrading facilities||Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar said on Monday that Mangaluru Electricity Supply Company Ltd. (MESCOM) will get Rs. 1,100 crore for upgrading power infrastructure under the Union Government’s Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme. Of the grants, Rs. 290 crore will be spent in Dakshina Kannada, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-1100-cr-for-mescom-for-upgrading-facilities/article38104389.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:17 IST,||‘Congress will not destabilise BJP Govt.’||The former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Monday said the Congress would not destabilise the BJP Government in the State, but was ready for early polls if the Government falls on its own. He was talking to reporters in Mysuru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-will-not-destabilise-bjp-govt/article38104260.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:55 IST,||Bulli Bai app: student detained in Bengaluru||The Cyber Cell of Mumbai police detained an enginee- ring student from Bengaluru on Monday in connection with the controversial Bulli Bai app. He is reported to be one of the four followers of the app. The student is being brought to Mumbai and expected to be arrested soon, said a Cyber Cell officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bulli-bai-app-student-detained-in-bengaluru/article38104225.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:54 IST,||Vaccination drive for teenagers launched||Irrigation Minister and in-charge of COVID-19 management in Belagavi district Govind Karjol launched a vaccination drive at S.G. Balekundri Institute of Technology in Belagavi on Monday. He said that Belagavi district has achieved significant success in vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-drive-for-teenagers-launched/article38104171.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:07 IST,||Chargesheet filed in Lakhimpur Kheri case||Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister Ajay Mishra, was present at the site of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, according to the statements of witnesses, a government counsel said on Monday as the SIT submitted a 5,000-page chargesheet in a local court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chargesheet-filed-in-lakhimpur-kheri-case/article38104084.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:53 IST,||Students urged to take up entrepreneurship||Pointing to the backwardness of Kalyana Karnataka region despite having abundant availability of natural resources, Large and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani has urged students to become entrepreneurs to ensure the development of the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-urged-to-take-up-entrepreneurship/article38104166.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:53 IST,||‘People’s behaviour will decide lockdown’||Chairman of Karnataka Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti has said that how responsibly people behave during these testing times, will decide whether another lockdown is imposed or not.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/peoples-behaviour-will-decide-lockdown/article38104167.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:17 IST,||Araga warns of ‘tough decisions’||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has said imposing lockdown would be inevitable if the public did not cooperate with the State Government by following COVID appropriate behaviour. “It was the duty of the government to protect people’s life.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/araga-warns-of-tough-decisions/article38104259.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:55 IST,||Sidhu promises dole for women homemakers||Days after the Aam Aadmi Party promised to pay a monthly sum of Rs. 1,000 to adult women in Punjab if voted to power, the ruling Congress on Monday played its card to garner the support of women voters by promising Rs. 2,000 a month to homemakers if the party wins the State Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sidhu-promises-dole-for-women-homemakers/article38104085.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:17 IST,||Ashwath Narayan, MP nearly come to blows||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday witnessed chaos at a public function as Bengaluru Rural MP D.K. Suresh and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan almost came to blows after a heated verbal duel on the stage even as Congress and BJP workers in the audience sparred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ashwath-narayan-mp-nearly-come-to-blows/article38103958.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||03brief3||The third of the Arihant-class SSBN (Sub Surface Ballistic Nuclear) submarine code named S4, was quietly launched, some time in the last week of November in Visakhapatnam, sources said. The soft launch of S4 was first reported by UK-based Janes Defence Weekly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/03brief3/article38103902.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,||33,000 new cases in India; all States record rise||Union Health Ministry data at 8 a.m. on Monday showed India confirmed over 33,000 new COVID-19 cases in the previous 24 hours. The number of deaths increased by 123, bringing the total to nearly 4,82,000. Authorities say that even as cases have started to rise rapidly, hospitalisations have not gone up. Maharashtra leads the surge, with the State recording 12,160 new infections taking its active case tally to 52,422. This is a five-fold jump in less than a month — the active case pool had been just over 10,400 cases on December 7. The State also reported 68 Omicron cases, taking its tally of the new variant to 578 . Of these, 259 have been discharged so far. However, a majority of the cases were either asymptomatic or mild in nature. Mumbai recorded the most new cases in the State — 8,082, of which, 90% (7,273 cases) were asymptomatic, Health Department authorities. The total bed occupancy is just 12.2% now. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said offline classes would be suspended for students from Classes 1 to 9 and for Class 11 from January 4 to 31. Delhi reported 4,099 new cases, the highest in seven months, a Delhi government bulletin said. This is a 28.3% increase from 3,194 fresh cases on Sunday. The test positivity rate in the national capital increased to 6.46 %, from 4.59% a day earlier and the number of active cases has gone up to 10,986, up by 30.8% in a day. But about 95.3% of the total 9,029 hospital beds are vacant as of Monday and Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the situation was under control. With its biggest single-day jump of 388 new infections since May in poll-bound Goa during the year-end festivities, the State government on Monday finally imposed a night curfew from 11 p.m. to 6 a.m. in the coastal State. Four new cases of Omicron were also reported in the State.  A total 66 passengers have tested positive out of the 2,000 samples tested from the cruise ship Cordelia . The ship had come from Mumbai and is presently docked at Mormugao. The decision on allowing the passengers to disembark was awaited.  Uttar Pradesh recorded 572 new cases when 1.47 lakh samples were tested. The active case pool has 2,261 cases. Rajasthan has so far recorded 121 cases of Omicron of whom 60 have been discharged. Gujarat recorded 1,259 new cases and three deaths. The active case tally reached 5,858 out of which 16 patients are on ventilator support. The State also logged 16 new cases of Omicron, taking the total tally to 152. Of this, 85 have been discharged. For the second consecutive day Odisha reported 424 new COVID cases, taking the tally of active cases to 2,209. Kerala logged 2,560 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department confirmed 29 new Omicron cases, taking the total tally of the variant in the State to 181. Of these, 42 patients have been discharged so far. The State’s active case pool has shown a slight increase in the past three days to 19,359. However, hospitalisations are shrinking and just 2,225 persons being treated for moderate or severe COVID. In Andhra Pradesh, the active case pool has been rising steadily for the past five days with 122 new infections taking the active cases to 1,278. Karnataka added 1,290 new cases to its tally, taking its active caseload to 11,345. Five COVID-related deaths were also reported . So far, 77 Omicron cases have been reported in the State. (With inputs from  State bureaus and AP)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-reports-68-new-omicron-cases/article38103830.ece
04 January 2022||NEW DELHI,||Centre seeks urgent listing of EWS reservation case today||The Union government on Monday pressed the Supreme Court to list on Tuesday the hearing of a case raising questions about the Rs. 8-lakh income criterion for identifying economically weaker sections (EWS) to provide them reservation in admissions and jobs. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre, made an oral mentioning to urgently list the case on Tuesday. The case is originally scheduled for January 6. The Centre has filed a committee report in the Supreme Court which supports the Rs. 8-lakh income threshold as a “reasonable” basis to determine EWS. All-India quota The report is the result of the Supreme Court’s repeated grilling of the government, since October, to explain how it zeroed in on the figure of Rs. 8 lakh as the annual income criterion to identify EWS among forward classes of society for grant of 10% reservation in NEET medical admissions under the all-India quota (AIQ) category. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by NEET aspirants challenging a July 29 notification of the Centre announcing a 27% quota to OBCs and 10% reservation to EWS in AIQ. The Supreme Court’s query was significant as the One Hundred and Third Constitutional Amendment of 2019, which introduced the 10% EWS quota, is itself under challenge before a larger Bench. The amendment is under question for making economic criterion as the sole ground for grant of reservation benefits. Committee report On November 25, the Centre had informed the court that it had taken a considered decision to revisit the criterion for determining EWS. The Union government then formed an expert committee comprising former Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey; ICSSR Member Secretary V.K. Malhotra; and Principal Economic Adviser to the Government of India Sanjeev Sanyal. The committee submitted its report to the government on December 31. “The current gross annual family income limit for EWS of Rs. 8 lakh or less may be retained. In other words, only those families whose annual income is up to Rs. 8 lakh would be eligible to get the benefit of EWS reservation,” the report said. The committee said the Rs. 8 lakh criterion strikes a “fine balance” between over-inclusion and inclusion errors. “The figure ensures that most low-income people who are not required to pay income tax are not excluded and are covered in EWS and at the same time it should not be so high that it becomes over-inclusive by including many incomes tax-paying middle and high income families into EWS. Therefore, considering that the currently effective Income Tax exemption limit is around Rs. 8 lakh for individuals, the committee is of the view that the gross annual income limit of Rs. 8 lakh for the entire family would be reasonable for inclusion into EWS,” the report reasoned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-seeks-urgent-listing-of-ews-reservation-case-today/article38103797.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:15 IST,||Sidhu promises dole for women||Days after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) promised to pay a monthly sum of Rs. 1,000 to adult women in Punjab if voted to power, the ruling Congress on Monday played its card to garner the support of women voters by promising to pay Rs. 2,000 a month to homemakers, if the party assumed power in the State. The announcement was made by Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu at a rally in Barnala district. The AAP was quick to take a dig at the Congress State president, and said Mr. Sidhu was “a person with no stand”. At the rally, Mr. Sidhu said Rs. 2,000 a month would be provided to homemakers. “It is important that their [women] hard work be recognised. They will also be provided home- and kitchen-based business opportunities and interest-free loans up to Rs. 2 lakh to run them. Further, they will be provided with eight gas cylinders a year to keep their kitchen running under all circumstances,” he said. He said women’s empowerment was at the centre of the country’s narrative and it was important to help women of Punjab to achieve their full potential by giving them visibility, representation and power. “Giving women freebies as the AAP does will not empower them in this community,” he said. “Unlike the AAP, the Punjab Model under the aegis of the Punjab Congress Committee intends to work towards cohesive growth and not isolated self-serving short-term agendas.” Offering a slew of freebies in an attempt to garner women’s support and form the next government in the State, Mr. Sidhu announced that to battle the high dropout rates of girls from school, it is proposed that girls would be rewarded Rs. 5,000 on completion of Class 5 and Rs. 10,000 on completion of Class 8. Freebies on offer “On completion of Class 10, Rs. 15,000, along with a digital tablet, will be provided to girl students for digital education and finally on completion of Class 12, Rs. 20,000 shall be given. However, to keep them motivated and continuing their education, electric scooter subsidies will be launched so that the women can travel safely and independently on long distances to colleges and universities across districts and villages with ease under the Punjab model,” he said. ‘Bid to lure voters’ As Mr. Sidhu advanced ‘freebies’ to lure voters ahead of the Assembly election, Raghav Chadha, AAP leader and co-in-charge of the party’s Punjab affairs, called Mr. Sidhu a person without a stand. Sharing a video of Mr. Sidhu on Twitter, Mr. Chadha said, “There is a saying in Punjab that ‘even a bicycle has a stand, but Sidhu has no stand’.” In the first part of the video, Mr. Sidhu is seen critical of Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement of giving Rs. 1000 to all women above 18 years of age in Punjab. And, in the second part, Mr. Sidhu himself is making an announcement to give Rs. 2,000 monthly and eight LPG gas cylinders free of cost to women of Punjab. He accused Mr. Sidhu and the Congress of copying the announcements of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhu-promises-dole-for-women/article38103815.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||LeT ‘commander’ killed, say police||Two militants were killed by the police in Srinagar and one intruder was shot dead by the BSF near the International Border (IB) at Arnia in Jammu on Monday. Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) “commander” Muhammad Saleem Parray was trapped inside the famous Mughal garden Shalimar in Srinagar in the afternoon. Policemen wearing civilian clothes carried out the operation “following a specific tip-off”. “The police cornered Parray in Shalimar, but he opened fire [at the security forces]. In the retaliatory firing, he was killed. His killing is a big success for the police. He was involved in around a dozen killings in 2016,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said. Hours later, security forces encircled a militant from the nearby Gusu area of Harwan. “The militant was killed. Incriminating materials, including arms and ammunition, were recovered from the encounter site,” the police said. The police identified him as Hafiz, alias Hamza, from Pakistan. “He was involved in the killing of two policemen in Bandipora and after this terror incident, he shifted to the Harwan area of Srinagar,” Mr. Kumar said. Earlier, the police suspected that they had encircled two militants inside the garden but found only one body. The second militant, later killed in Gusu, may have fled from the garden. Border killing A BSF spokesman said, “Alert and brave BSF troops on the IB in Arnia area saw the movement of a suspected Pakistani person and he was challenged. He did not pay any heed and was subsequently shot dead by the troops.” The Army on Monday evening said that a group of Pakistani terrorists were trying to attempt to infiltrate from the Line of Control in Poonch district. “Alert troops foiled the infiltration bid, and subsequent search of the area lead to recovery of ammunition and Pakistani currency left behind by the fleeing terrorists,” a Jammu-based Army spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-commander-killed-say-police/article38103801.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:15 IST,||With U.P. polls in sight, BJP stays mum on Malik’s remarks||The BJP on Monday maintained a studied silence on the latest remarks by Meghalaya Governor Satyapal Malik wherein he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi behaved arrogantly whenever he (Mr. Malik) had raised the issue of the three controversial farm laws and repealing them. At a function in Haryana on Sunday, Mr. Malik had said that Prime Minister Modi reacted arrogantly to the former’s suggestions that the farm laws be taken back and sensitivity shown with regard to farmers who had lost their lives during the protest movement. This is not the first time Mr. Malik has made statements that have hurt the image of the party, but likely the first time he has named Mr. Modi directly. However, BJP leaders have refused to respond to the comments and the message down the line seemed to be not to react in any way to the Meghalaya Governor’s remarks. Party leaders, not wishing to quoted, did, however, say that Mr. Malik, who hails from western Uttar Pradesh was probably looking at a political role in the upcoming Assembly polls in the State, not necessarily on behalf of the BJP. Constitutional post “He is, however, a constitutional office holder and cannot intervene directly in the politics of the region. Therefore, as such we are not saying anything. The high command also wants to wait this out,” said a senior office bearer of the party. The idea behind the wait and watch attitude seems to be to sit out the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls and not take any action, verbal or official on Mr. Malik. During the last Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, Mr. Malik was one of the party leaders on whom the BJP had relied to communicate with the Jat community in the western region of the State when there appeared to be resentment brewing on the question of reservations for the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-stays-mum-on-maliks-remarks-for-sake-of-up-polls/article38103810.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:15 IST,||Channi’s role at top does not mean much for Punjab SCs||Punjab has the highest percentage of the Scheduled Castes population in India at nearly 32%, yet the community has not seen the emergence of strong leaders across key political parties. Sharp caste divisions within the SCs, landlessness and indifference of political parties are among the key deterrents to their rise. Ahead of the 2022 Assembly election, the Congress’s electoral strike in appointing Charanjit Singh Channi as Chief Minister has brought the community back into focus in the political arena. The Scheduled Castes, like their counterparts in other parts of the country, are not a homogeneous community. They are scattered among 39 castes and five major religions — Hindus, Sikhs, Christians, Muslims and Buddhists — besides being followers of a large number of sects and faiths such as Ravidassias, Ramdassias, Kavirpanthis and Radhasoamis. Underlining the sharp caste-religious divide, Ronki Ram, Shaheed Bhaghat Singh Chair Professor of Political Science at Panjab University, said: “Among the 39 castes, two caste groups constitute about 80% of the SC population (31.91%, 2011 census). The two groups comprise four castes — Valmikis and Mazhabis, Chamars and Ad-Dharmis. Each of these two main caste groups consists of 40% population of the SC population. “Politically too, they are equally divided along the ideological lines of the main political parties. Their political divide is vividly exhibited in the bifurcation of SC reservation of 25% into 12.5% for Valmiki and Mazhabi castes and the remaining 12.5% for the rest of the 37 castes. The caste and religious divisions over the years preclude them from developing their own distinct and effective State-level leadership. Finding it difficult to cultivate exclusively SC-based leadership at the State level, different caste-based SC factions align with different political parties to get elected in 34 reserved seats [in the 117-member House].” Jat Sikhs’ dominance Moreover, the SCs stand nowhere near the Jat Sikhs in the latter’s dominance of farmland ownership. The majority of the SCs are agricultural workers employed by the economically stronger community that has dominated politics, whether in the Congress or the Shiromani Akali Dal. Ashutosh Kumar, Professor of Political Science at the Panjab University, says: “Punjab is an agrarian economy and the SCs hardly own land. This is the key reason why we haven’t seen the emergence of a strong Dalit leader. The Jat Sikhs are dominant as far as the ownership of agricultural land is concerned. The SCs, on the other hand, have lesser land holdings. In fact, a large number of them are engaged as workers on the farmlands of the Jat Sikhs. The religious and caste divides among them is another reason.” It was the Bahujan Samaj Party that featured Dalits as a political plank for the first time in 1992 when it secured over 16% votes and won nine seats, but it has since seen its support declining to around 1.5% votes in the 2017 Assembly polls. Observers feel the indifferent attitude of the political parties is another key reason. Des Raj Kali, a well-known novelist and political analyst — whose work focuses on the Ghadar movement, SC issues and the State’s literature and culture — points out that the Congress, the SAD or others have not done anything significant for the SCs other than play appeasement politics. “The leadership in the mainstream political parties, the Congress and the Akali Dal, has been dominated by the Jat Sikhs. They never nurtured any Dalit leader to ensure that their dominance continues. Even now, the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi is a move borne out of compulsion. Firstly, Ambika Soni declined the offer of the Chief Minister’s post, then the party couldn’t arrive at a consensus between Sunil Jakhar and Sukhjinder Randhawa. Mr. Channi’s name was not even in the contention. His name came up for discussion only after the party ran out of its primary options,” Mr. Kali points out. Professor Ram notes that the mainstream political parties have targeted the SC population region-wise, which prompted further factionalism. “Babu Kanshi Ram of the Bahujan Samaj Party worked hard to bring political unity but after finding not much scope, he shifted his focus to Uttar Pradesh,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/channis-role-at-top-does-not-mean-much-for-punjab-scs/article38103817.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,||Let women MPs testify before panel on marriage age: Dev||Trinamool Congress MP Sushmita Dev, the only woman member of the 31-member parliamentary panel reviewing the Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021, that seeks to increase the legal age for marriage for women from 18 to 21, in a letter to the committee’s Chairman Vinay Sahasrabudhe, requested him to allow all women MPs to testify before the panel. The Rajya Sabha has 29 women MPs and the Lok Sabha 81. The Bill has been referred to the Standing Committee on Education, Women, Children, Youth and Sports, headed by Mr. Sahasrabudhe, a BJP member. Many other women MPs have strongly reacted to the gender disparity in a panel that will deliberate on a key gender issue. Priyanka Chaturvedi, Shiv Sena member in the Rajya Sabha, shot off a letter to House Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu criticising the move to send the Bill to a panel consisting predominantly of men. Stating that participation of women is essential in a discussion on the Bill that concerns issues faced by women, Ms. Chaturvedi said: “This is disheartening to note that a Bill so pertinent to women and the Indian society will be deliberated upon in a committee where the representation is highly skewed.” Other MPs took to social media to express their outrage. “There are a total of 110 women MPs but the government chooses to assign a Bill that affects every young woman in the country to a panel that has 30 men and only one woman. Men will continue to decide the rights of women. And women will be made mute spectators,” Kanimozhi, Lok Sabha member of the DMK, said. Ms. Dev, in her letter to Mr. Sahasrabuddhe, invoking Rules 84(3) and 275 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Council of States (Rajya Sabha), proposed that “any woman member of both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha be empowered to testify in writing or in person before the committee on this issue.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-women-mps-testify-before-panel-on-marriage-age-dev/article38103831.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:15 IST,||Cong. Uttarakhand theme song mocks ‘twin engine’ model||The Congress released its theme song for the Uttarakhand Assembly polls, targeting the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for changing three Chief Ministers in five years and claimed it as proof that the party has failed to provide a “double engine” governance model. The BJP, in power both in Uttarakhand and at the Centre, claims that “double engine” governments have been beneficial for the State's development. Seeking to present a united face, the Congress organised the theme song launch event at the party headquarters in the presence of former Chief Minister Harish Rawat, Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Pritam Singh, and Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Ganesh Godiyal, along with AICC in-charge for Uttarakhand, Devender Yadav.  Mr. Rawat, who heads the Congress’s campaign committee in Uttarakhand, told presspersons at the launch that people of the State had made up their minds for parivartan (change) and it was reflected in the theme song.  Using a Hindi idiom, ‘Teen Tigada, Kaam Bigada,’ the theme song draws attention to the BJP changing its Chief Minister thrice in five years. But when asked who would be the Congress’s Chief Minister face, Mr. Rawat said, “People will be the face and people are clearly asking for a change.” “The Centre has acknowledged the failure of the double engine government by changing chief ministers thrice,” Mr. Rawat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-pitch-for-uttarakhand-polls/article38103812.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:15 IST,||Congress steps up heat on Modi over Meghalaya Governor’s comments||Targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi over Meghalaya Governor Satyapal Malik’s claim that Mr. Modi was arrogant over the farm laws and the death of farmers during the anti-farm law protests, the Congress on Monday said the Prime Minister should apologise to the farmers and immediately constitute the committee to legally guarantee minimum support price (MSP). At a press conference, party chief spokesperson and general secretary Randeep Surjewala said the Governor’s reported conversation with Mr. Modi reveals the “anti-farmer and insensitive face of the Prime Minister, the BJP and the Modi government”. ‘Remove or resign’ “If Governor Satya Pal Malik is lying, please sack Governor Malik today and register an FIR against him. And if he is not lying, then Prime Minister Modi must come forward, [Home Minister] Amit Shahji must come forward and apologise to India’s toiling farmers and farm labourers. Otherwise, they will never pardon you,” Mr. Surjewala said. Mr. Surjewala demanded that the Narendra Modi government should announce compensation for the next of the family members of the 700 farmers who died and a government job, withdraw every single criminal case registered in States like Uttar Pradesh and Haryana and constitute the committee to decide the compulsory MSP architecture within 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-steps-up-heat-on-modi-over-meghalaya-governors-comments/article38103813.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,||Police inaction has emboldened goons, say women who faced online ‘auction’||Commercial pilot Hana Khan is now hesitant to share where she is posted. A day after another online app targeted Muslim women by posting their publicly available pictures in an abusive context, Ms. Khan told The Hindu that she was worried that such online abuse would not end, and eventually, those behind auctioning of Muslim women online would threaten physically too.  Ms. Khan was among the first women to bring the website ‘Sulli Deals’ to light in July last year after the first instance of the online abuse and among the first victims to file an FIR at a Noida police station. But some six months later, after innumerable calls and visits to officials and the police station, she has only heard that there has been no progress in the case, she said. Ms. Khan recalled that every time she has approached police officials, they have been kind and cordial to her but “having said that, they haven’t done anything. They themselves would always say that what has happened to us is wrong and horrible but still would do nothing”. After registration of the FIR, she would call for updates every day and eventually, it became once a week, then once a month, she said. “I was hospitalised for typhoid in October and after that, my family wanted me to let it go and move on. It became toxic for me,” she said. Ms. Khan said, “Looking at the environment in the country, it isn’t far-fetched to say that there can’t be bodily harm or they can’t reach us in the real world. Now, for instance, I am posted in another city and not many people know. I am not comfortable sharing any more.” The “Bulli Bai” mobile app on GitHub hosted pictures of several prominent Muslim women including actor Shabana Azmi and RJ Sayema and “auctioned” them as domestic help. Radio jockey Sayema, who works for Radio Mirchi, says social media attacks against her are very common, but perpetrators are getting bolder in the absence of any police action. “Every single person will have to realise that they are next. I have been facing this for the last four to five years since the time I have been active on social media. I have been called names, and my pictures photoshopped. This is not new, but nothing happens to these goons and they are getting more muscle every time. There is so much impunity.What happens on social media today, spills onto the streets soon after,” the RJ said. She also said that despite the Information Technology Minister’s tweet on the matter no police officer had contacted those targeted for an investigation. “Why do they need an FIR when it is all happening in front of their eyes?” Sayema asked. Congress party convener Hasiba Amin, who has also been targeted multiple times, says this is the fifth time since May 2021. “It started with an auction in YouTube where men used lewd language to describe various Pakistani and Indian Muslim women and held an auction. Since then there were auctions held on Twitter, Sulli Deals app, Clubhouse and now Bulli Bai app,” Ms. Amin said. The Bharatiya Muslim Mahila Andolan (BMMA) called the online auction a result of hatemongering against Muslims. ‘Implement cyber laws’ “This filthy mindset is a result of years of hatemongering against the community ably assisted or ignored by various governments, so much so that today they have no fear of law... The full force of the cyber laws must be brought to use to identify the app makers and users. We also demand action from the PMO’s office as well as the Home Ministry. The various State Women’s Commissions must also take cognisance and deal with this menace on a war footing,” the BMMA said in a statement. Five women’s organisations, including the National Federation of Indian Women and the All India Democratic Women’s Association also sent a joint memorandum to the President demanding that he “intervene and ensure that those responsible for this vile and criminal behaviour are punished with the severity that they deserve”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-inaction-has-emboldened-goons-say-women-who-were-auctioned-online/article38103828.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,||SC tells govt. to decide on repatriation of woman, child||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Union government to consider and decide “expeditiously” petitions filed by a Kerala-based man for the repatriation of his daughter, who left India to join the Islamic State, and minor granddaughter from detention in Afghanistan. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao asked the government to decide the representations made by 65-year-old V.J. Sebastian Francis within eight weeks. The court did not otherwise make any comments on the merits of the case. Sonia Sebastian, alias Ayisha, left India to join the terrorist organisation Islamic State in 2016. She has been chargesheeted by the National Investigation Agency for various offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. She would face trial in India. Mr. Francis, represented by advocate Renjith Marar, moved the Supreme Court in July 2021. He conveyed his apprehension that Sonia, at the time lodged in Kabul’s Pul-e-Charkhi prison, may be executed amid the fight between the Taliban and government forces. He feared an imminent threat to the lives of his kin. The Taliban have since returned to power in Afghanistan. “Even if the government has changed, the relationship [with Afghanistan] seems to be good from what we read in the newspapers,” Justice Rao said about the drastic change in circumstances from nearly six months ago when the petition was filed. The court said the petitioner needed to first “convince” the Indian government to process the extradition. Mr. Marar submitted that from what the father had heard, the jail in which Sonia was lodged had been demolished and the detainees moved to the borders of Pakistan and Afghanistan. He said that Sonia was still under detention. In his petition, Mr. Francis stated that it was a violation of the fundamental rights that the Indian government had not initiated any steps for the repatriation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-tells-govt-to-decide-on-repatriation-of-woman-child/article38103890.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:15 IST,||EdTech regulation policy on the cards: Education Minister||The booming education technology sector, which has benefited from the disruptions in traditional education modes during the pandemic, is likely to come under regulation soon, with Union Ministries discussing framing of a common policy, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Monday. At a virtual event to distribute coupons valued at Rs. 253 crore for over 12 lakh socially and economically disadvantaged students to get free access to EdTech courses, Mr. Pradhan said, “There is no place for exploitation or monopoly”, in the sector. False promises “We have heard reports that some education technology companies are exploiting students with loans for fee-based courses. If someone wants to subscribe for these out of their own free will, there is no problem. But students should not be lured to take loans by false promises from them,” Mr. Pradhan said noting that advisories had been issued late last month by schools and the higher education and skill development departments. “We are also having discussions with MeitY [Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology] and the Law Department on how to come up with a common policy,” he said. According to a September 2021 report from the Centre for Budget and Governance Accountability, there are more than 4,530 EdTech companies of which 435 have come about in the past two years. Industry leaders such as Byju’s and Unacademy have raised capital worth $2.32 billion and $354 million, respectively, in the first year of the pandemic alone. The burgeoning field of EdTech start-ups has faced little regulation by the government, similar to the bricks-and-mortar tuition and coaching services which they are slowly taking over. “The Government of India does not want to place restrictions but we are firm on certain things,” Mr. Pradhan said. Large market “We offer a large market and all are welcome to reach out to Indian students but there cannot be a monopoly. We have a welfare model. [The companies] can come and do business and create wealth. But simultaneously, you cannot exploit my students,” he warned. Repeated Internet disruptions and outage marred Monday’s event held at the offices of the Education Ministry, illustrating some of the other challenges for educational technology firms seeking to reach students from poor homes, or in remote areas, with limited Internet connectivity. “In this modern 21st century world, electricity and Internet have become essentials just like air, water, food, clothing and housing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/edtech-regulation-policy-on-the-cards-education-minister/article38103803.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||Chargesheet filed in Lakhimpur Kheri case||Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra, was present at the site of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which eight persons were killed, according to the statements of witnesses, a government counsel said on Monday as the Special Investigation Team probing the case submitted a 5,000-page chargesheet in a local court. “As per the statement of witnesses, Ashish Mishra was present at the spot,” S.P. Yadav, senior prosecution officer, told journalists, adding that this was a part of the case diary (CD). Mr. Ashish Mishra and his father had claimed that he was not present at the site in Tikonia when three vehicles from his convoy ran over protesting farmers killing four of them on October 3. Mr. Ashish Mishra, alias Monu, had claimed he was present at his ancestral village Banveerpur overseeing the annual wrestling event conducted by his family in memory of his grandfather. A local scribe Raman Kashyap died after being mowed down. Three BJP workers, including a driver, were allegedly lynched by the angry crowd in retaliation. Apart from Ashish Mishra, the chargesheet was filed in the Chief Judicial Magistrate court against 13 other accused persons. They face charges under murder, attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy and relevant sections of the Arms Act, among other charges. The SIT had arrested 13 accused persons in the FIR lodged over the killing of the farmers. The name of the 14th accused Virendra Shukla was added to the chargesheet under Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), said Mr. Yadav. The investigators recorded the statements of 208 witnesses. The lawyers for the farmers said they were not satisfied with the investigation as the chargesheet did not include the name of the Union Minister himself though the vehicle involved in the incident was registered in his name.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chargesheet-filed-in-lakhimpur-kheri-case/article38103799.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,||EC tells States to step up vaccination drive||Days after assessing the COVID-19 situation in the five poll-bound States, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has asked them to step up the inoculation drive against the viral disease and ensure that the personnel to be deployed on election duty are “double vaccinated”. In a recent letter to the Chief Secretaries of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Punjab, the EC reminded them that polling personnel came under the category of frontline workers and were eligible for the “precaution dose”, sources said. The EC said the polling personnel should be fully vaccinated and those eligible for the second dose should get it on a priority basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-tells-states-to-step-up-vaccine-drive/article38103832.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||SC judge asks new CBI SIs to inculcate integrity||Supreme Court judge Dinesh Maheshwari on Monday called upon the newly inducted sub-inspectors of the CBI to inculcate institutional integrity, strive to seek the truth and assist the court of law in coming to a decision which upheld the cause of justice. Justice Maheshwari, who was the chief guest at the investiture ceremony of the 24th batch of the SI trainees, congratulated them and asked them to discharge their responsibilities impartially and in consonance with the oath of allegiance to the country. “As an individual, the officers have learnt as to what integrity is about, how a person is supposed to be, as we say, of unquestionable integrity,” he said, going beyond personal integrity, the officers must understand and inculcate institutional integrity. “Your individual integrity, we will have no doubt about, but then, institutional integrity, again, calls upon you to understand what your surroundings are, what your institution requires, what is required of the best of your ‘I’ to our ‘we’. The aim of these academies like your academy while training you is ultimately to integrate you into the institutional integrity,” he said, according to a CBI statement. Referring to the new-age challenges the CBI investigators were faced with, Justice Maheshwari said the officers should continuously upgrade their knowledge through persistent and inquisitive zeal. “Do not forget that whenever constitutional courts want that matters must be presented to them with impeccable true facts, it is the CBI which is called upon for the purpose.” The batch consists of 37 SI probationers who joined the CBI Academy on September 14, 2020, and underwent 66 weeks of training on a wide range of subjects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-judge-asks-new-cbi-sis-to-inculcate-integrity/article38103794.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:15 IST,||Allegations on expiry of vaccines are false: govt.||The Health Ministry, on Monday, clarified that all allegations about expired vaccines being administered in India under its national COVID-19 vaccination programme are false and misleading and based on incomplete information. A release issued by the Ministry said that the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on October 25, 2021, had — in response to Bharat Biotech International Limited’s letter — approved the extension of shelf life of Covaxin (whole virion, inactivated coronavirus vaccine) from nine months to 12 months. It added that the shelf life of Covishield was extended by the national regulator from six months to nine months on February 22, 2021. “The shelf life of vaccines is extended by the national regulator based on comprehensive analysis and examination of stability study data furnished by the vaccine manufacturers,” said the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/allegations-on-expiry-of-vaccines-are-false-govt/article38103826.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||Engineering student detained in app case||Officials had said they were trying to identify accounts that were involved in uploading the pictures and were deactivated after the complaint was filed. The incident came six months after “Sulli Deals” was uploaded on the same hosting platform. Two separate FIRs were lodged at that time, one in Delhi and the other in Noida. No one has been identified in that investigation and the investigation has not progressed after no response was given by GitHub, officials said. The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) has also taken cognisance of the case and issued summons to the Delhi Police to provide case files of both Sulli Deals and Bulli Bai before January 6.  In Mumbai, Deputy of Commissioner of Police Rashmi Karandikar told The Hindu , “We have registered FIR against founder of GitHub and Twitter handles that used photos of women.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/engineering-student-detained-in-app-case/article38103874.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:15 IST,||40 lakh adolescents get first shot of vaccine||At several centres, teenagers were offered flowers, pens and masks after vaccination. Each centre has been provided 250 doses of Covaxin. Half of these vaccine doses will be given to the children registering online, and the rest will be for on-the-spot arrivals, the official said. In Tamil Nadu, where Chief Minister M.K. Stalin launched the COVID-19 vaccination for children, a total of 3,03,499 children were vaccinated till 6 p.m. on Monday. A total of 33,46,000 children in the 15-17 age group are eligible to get vaccinated in Tamil Nadu. Districts such as Madurai, Salem, Cuddalore, Kanyakumari, Villupuram, Kallakurichi and Tiruvannamalai accounted for a coverage of over 10,000 children each on the first day. As many as 38,417 children in Kerala received the vaccine, on Monday, from a target population of 15.34 lakhs. Thiruvananthapuram had the maximum number of children – 9,338 – receiving the vaccine. As many as 551 vaccination centres had been set up across Kerala. To avoid confusion, the vaccination centres for children sported pink sign boards to distinguish them from the vaccination centres for adults. At the end of the day, none of the centres had reported any adverse events following immunisation, State Health Minister Veena George, said. In Telangana, Health Minister T. Harish Rao, who participated in the launch event at the Primary Health Centre (PHC), Banjara Hills, said the online registration system is being followed as the density of the beneficiaries is high in municipal corporations and online registrations will ensure less crowding at the vaccination centres. It is estimated that 18.70 lakh children in the age group 15-18 years will receive the vaccine. The Karnataka government, which had planned to vaccinate 6.38 lakh children, was able to meet 65% of its target. Camps were organised in schools and pre-university colleges across the State. In Bengaluru, 29,423 children were vaccinated. There were many cases of students who could not get the first shot as they had forgotten to bring parental consent forms or other documents such as identity cards. Lakshadweep Islands Administrator Praful Patel launched the COVID-19 vaccination drive for children at a function held at the Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Kavaratti. Vaccination for the 15 to 17 years age group began in all the 10 inhabited islands. A total of 3,469 children has been identified as the target group. (With inputs from bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/40-lakh-adoloscents-get-first-shot-of-vaccine/article38103804.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||Over $30 million of AAI assets seized by Devas||The enforcement strategy requires IATA to “garnish” air navigation charges, aerodrome charges, among others, held by it on behalf of the AAI, either at its head office in Montreal or at any of its branches worldwide. “The Commercial Division of the Quebec Superior Court accepted to designate a judge on an urgent basis to hear the applications to quash and stay the seizures/garnishing. The hearing will take place on January 4,” a senior official at the Union Finance Ministry said. Devas Multimedia signed a contract with Antrix (ISRO’s commercial arm) in 2005 under which the latter would build and launch two ISRO satellites and lease the corresponding S-band satellite spectrum to Devas, which in turn would use it to provide its Internet services. However, following a leaked draftCAG audit reportpointing to a number of potential irregularities in the deal the UPA government cancelled it in February 2011. However, no evidence of bribery was found and two international arbitration hearings ruled against the Indian government for wrongful cancellation of the deal. The International Chamber of Commerce’s (ICC) arbitration court in September 2015 ordered Antrix to pay $672 million to Devas and the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA), under the Indo-Mauritius bilateral investment treaty awarded on October 13, 2020, over $111 million plus interest. The action in Canada aims to enforce only the PCA award. The Superior Court of Quebec found that the AAI is India, in so far as it is an organ of the state of India, inseparable from India or is the alter ego of India. As a result, the Treaty Awards enforceable in Quebec can be executed on the AAI’s assets. “The action by Devas in Canada is just a start. Additional actions are forthcoming that will underscore that India is an unsafe place to invest. No foreign investor should invest in a country where the government can ignore its contractual obligations and deploy its law enforcement agencies to harass and intimidate investors,” said Jay Newman, senior adviser to Devas’ shareholders. In response to a query, IATA’s spokesperson Albert Tjoeng said, “As part of a commercial dispute between various parties in India, IATA has been served a third-party garnishment order on funds IATA may be holding for and on behalf of specific Indian entities. IATA is not in a position to comment further given that the matter is presently before the courts in Canada.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-30-million-of-aai-assets-seized-by-devas/article38103792.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:15 IST,||China constructing bridge on Pangong lake||The Indian Army got tactical advantage over the PLA on the south bank in August-end by occupying several peaks lying vacant since 1962, gaining a dominating view of the Moldo area. On the north bank too, the Indian troops set up posts facing PLA positions on the ridge-lines of Finger 4. In February 2020, as part of the first phase of disengagement, both sides agreed for complete disengagement on the north and south banks. The Indian Army has a permanent position near Finger 3, the Dhan Singh Thapa post, while the PLA has a base east of Finger 8. The south bank leads to the Kailash range and to the Chushul sector. Since the August action, China has taken up construction of alternate roads away from our line of sight, a defence official stated. As reported by The Hindu last June, China had intensified construction work behind the main confrontation points in Aksai Chin.  A satellite image of the area put out by an open source intelligence analyst with Twitter handle @detresfa_ shows a bridge like structure between the closest points of the two banks. In a separate incident of a video by Chinese media showing PLA soldiers with a map in Galwan on January 01, an Army source said it was not in the location of the clash last year or the buffer zone set up after the first phase of disengagement. “It appears to be propaganda. The place [clash site] doesn’t have any markings as shown in the video,” the source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-constructing-bridge-on-pangong-lake/article38103807.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:56 IST,||Decide on extradition of woman, child: SC to govt.||Mr. Marar submitted that from what the father had heard, the jail in which Sonia was lodged had been demolished and the detainees moved to the borders of Pakistan and Afghanistan. He clarified that Sonia was still under detention. Disposing of the petition, the court underscored that it had made no comment on the merits of the case. In his petition, Mr. Francis stated that it was a violation of the fundamental rights that the Indian government had not initiated any steps for the repatriation/extradition of the mother and daughter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/decide-on-extradition-of-woman-child-sc-to-govt/article38103806.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:55 IST,||ED attaches Rs. 26 cr. assets in fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs. 26.25 crore of Diamond Power Infrastructure Limited (DPIL) and its erstwhile directors, promoters and their family members in connection with a bank fraud case involving Rs. 2,654.40 crore. The value of total attachment so far has now gone up to Rs. 1,148.97 crore. The ED probe is based on a first information report registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation against DPIL and others for allegedly cheating a consortium of 19 lenders led by the Bank of India. It is alleged that the company availed itself of higher credit facilities by showing paper transactions with shell companies and related entities. The funds so raised were diverted. The ED has filed a charge sheet against DPIL, its directors and 11 others in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-rs-26-cr-assets-in-fraud-case/article38103795.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||Bulandshahr lynching serious: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday noted that the Bulandshahr mob violence of 2018 in Uttar Pradesh was a serious case in which a police officer was lynched under the pretext of cow slaughter. The court’s observation is part of its order staying the bail granted to an accused, Yogeshraj, in the case. The court ordered Yogeshraj to surrender in the next seven days.  “The matter is quite serious where under the pretext of the cow slaughter, a police officer has been lynched. Prima facie , it is a case of people taking law into their own hand,” a Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul observed in the order.  The apex court took a stern view of the fact that charges have not yet been framed by the trial court in the case. It has sought a report from the Bulandshahr trial judge specifying the time needed to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bulandshahr-lynching-serious-sc/article38103873.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:15 IST,||Former MP Pandey quits BSP, joins SP||Former BSP MP Rakesh Pandey joined the Samajwadi Party on Monday, as the party continued to attract leaders of the influential Brahmin community into its fold ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election. The development came a day after SP president Akhilesh Yadav, in a symbolic gesture towards the community, offered traditional Hindu prayers at the temple of Lord Parshuram built by one of his party’s Brahmin leaders in Gosaiganj area of the State capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-mp-pandey-quits-bsp-joins-sp/article38103886.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:15 IST,||Adityanath takes potshots at Rahul||The spirit of Hindu does not discriminate on the basis of individuals, caste, creed or religion, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Monday as he took potshots at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his Hindu vs Hindutva debate. Addressing an event in Amethi, Mr. Gandhi’s former constituency, Mr. Adityanath said he had no anxiety about saying that he was a proud Hindu. Mr. Adityanath said Mr. Gandhi did not know about Hindu or Hindutva and was spreading false propaganda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adityanath-takes-potshots-at-rahul/article38103885.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:15 IST,||Adityanath should contest from Braj: MP||After Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath revealed on Saturday that he is amenable to contesting for an MLA seat in Assembly polls due early this year in the State, BJP Rajya Sabha member Harnath Singh Yadav has requested that the former fight from Braj in the western part of the State. Mr. Yadav, who hails from the area, has written to BJP national president J.P. Nadda in this regard.  Speaking to The Hindu , the MP said he was a “ madhyastha ” interceding between “ Bhagwan Krishna ” and Mr. Nadda.   “Both Bhagwan Krishna and Yogi ji appeared together in my dreams and the next day itself I despatched the letter,” he stated.  Demand for temple Braj and the adjoining areas of Mathura and Vrindavan are considered important pilgrimage spots for those worshipping Lord Krishna. Significantly, Mathura is also where the Sangh Parivar is making demands for a temple again at a spot where a mosque exists. When asked whether the farmers’ movement and the resentment against the BJP among farmer groups may make Mathura or anywhere in western Uttar Pradesh a risky proposition for the Chief Minister to contest, Harnath Singh Yadav denied the possibility.  “Yogi ji ’s government has done a lot of work, including in terms of law and order; he will win from this area for sure,” he asserted.   “ Kisan ab shaant mann se aankalan karengey [farmers will now assess the situation with a calmer mind],” he observed.  Mr. Adityanath said he was willing to fight from any seat, “whether Gorakhpur, Kashi or Mathura” as directed by the party’s top leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adityanath-should-contest-from-braj-mp/article38103818.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:56 IST,||Stories on the walls||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stories-on-the-walls/article38103821.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:15 IST,||Four additional HC judges made permanent||Four additional judges — one from the Calcutta High Court and three from the Bombay High Court — were elevated as permanent judges on Monday. The Department of Justice in the Law Ministry said another additional judge of the Bombay High Court was given a one-year term to continue as an additional judge. Before being made permanent judges, additional judges usually serve a term of two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-additional-hc-judges-made-permanent/article38103882.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||SC notice to Centre on ILP system||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Union and the Manipur governments to respond to a plea challenging the Inner Line Permit (ILP) system in the State. Manipur is the fourth State after Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Mizoram where the ILP regime is applicable. Outsiders, including people from other States, need permission to visit them. The plea contended that the ILP provides unrestrained power to the state to restrict entry and exit of non-indigenous people or those who are not permanent residents of Manipur. “The draconian ILP system is fundamentally opposed to the policies of social integration, development and technological advancement in the area beyond the Inner Line, apart from hampering tourism within the State, which is a major source of revenue generation for these areas,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-ilp-system/article38103798.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:15 IST,||Rane moves HC for bail in murder case||Nitesh Rane, BJP MLA, on Monday approached the Bombay High Court seeking anticipatory bail in an attempt to murder case. Mr. Nitesh, son of Union Minister Narayan Rane, moved the court after a local court in Sindhudurg district quashed his anticipatory bail on December 31. A week earlier, a Kankavli resident named Santosh Parab, 44, had filed a police complaint claiming he was assaulted by certain persons linked with the Kankavli MLA. The senior Rane was also asked to be present himself at the Kankavli police station (in Sindhudurg district) to record his statement in connection with the case but the Union Minister did not do so. The police have subsequently pasted the notice at Mr. Rane’s residence. Mr. Nitesh Rane has been incommunicado and police teams have been formed to trace and arrest him. He has been charged with Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC. The case is likely to be heard on January 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rane-moves-hc-for-bail-in-murder-case/article38103805.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:08 IST,||Ganjam district is now child marriage free||Odisha’s Ganjam has declared itself as a child marriage free district — the first one in the State. The district administration has been able to stop as many as 450 child marriages and video-record 48,383 marriages in 2020 and 2021. “We decided in 2019 to prevent child marriages on mission mode and at the same time generate general awareness against it,” the District Magistrate said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ganjam-district-is-now-child-marriage-free/article38104088.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:15 IST,||Amit Shah reviews threat scenario, security challenges||Union Home Minister Amit Shah convened a meeting on Monday to review the emerging security challenges, the Ministry of Home Affairs said. He stressed the need for better coordination and synergy among the Central and the State security agencies, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amit-shah-reviews-threat-scenario-security-challenges/article38103884.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:14 IST,||MP local polls: SC to hear Centre’s plea on January 17||The Supreme Court on Monday said it will hear on January 17 an application filed by the Centre to recall a December 17 order staying the local body election process to OBC reserved seats in Madhya Pradesh.The Centre said an inadequate representation of OBCs in the local bodies defeats the "very object, intent and purpose of the idea" of de-centralisation of power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-local-polls-sc-to-hear-centres-plea-on-january-17/article38103876.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man triggers LPG blast, kills himself, wife, daughter||In a shocking incident, a 38-year-old man allegedly triggered an LPG cylinder blast at his house killing himself, his wife and one of his twin daughters, besides causing grievous burns to his second daughter in old Paloncha town in the early hours of Monday. He left behind a suicide note holding Vanama Raghavendra Rao, son of Kothagudem MLA Vanama Venkateswara Rao of the TRS, responsible for his “extreme step”. Police identified the deceased as Ramakrishna, 38, former operator of a MeeSeva centre, of Toorpu Bazar; his wife Sri Lakshmi, 33, and daughter Sahitya, 12. Ramakrishna’s other daughter Sahithi, 12, suffered third-degree burns in the incident. Sources said that Ramakrishna had a property dispute with his elder sister and the matter was “settled” by Raghavendra Rao in favour of the latter, leaving him distressed, aggravating his financial woes. Ramakrishna, police suspect, poured petrol on himself, his wife and twin daughters before causing the LPG cylinder explosion at his house in the wee hours of the day. On hearing the loud explosion, his mother, who was fast asleep in a separate portion, rushed to the rear portion of the house with flames emanating from inside. By the time the neighbours rushed to the site on noticing thick smoke billowing out of the old house, Ramakrishna, Sri Lakshmi and Sahitya were charred to death beyond recognition. Alerted by them, an ambulance reached the spot and shifted a seriously injured Sahithi to the government hospital in Paloncha. Her condition was stated to be critical. Police recovered a suicide note from Ramakrishna’s car. The suicide note reportedly contained the names of Ramakrishna’s mother and elder sister besides Vanama Raghavendra Rao. All the three persons including Vanama Raghavendra Rao, whose names figured in the suicide note, have been booked under Section 306 IPC (abetment to suicide), said Paloncha ASP Rohith Raj. A detailed investigation into the incident is underway, he added. Meanwhile, Mr. Vanama Raghavendra Rao, whose name figured in the suicide note left behind by Ramakrishna of old Paloncha town before resorting to the extreme step in the wee hours of Monday, denied charges of abetment to suicide made against him.  In a video clip posted on social media from some undisclosed location on Monday evening, he alleged that some vested elements were trying to implicate him in Ramakrishna’s “suicide” case. ( Roshini - Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-triggers-lpg-blast-kills-himself-wife-daughter/article38103846.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccination drive for those aged 15-17 launched||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who launched vaccination for those aged 15-17 in the State here on Monday, appealed to people to follow COVID-19 preventive protocols and get vaccinated. The drive was launched at the Government Girls Higher Secondary School on Jones Road in Saidapet. Mr. Stalin said, “During the second wave of COVID-19, our government took extensive measures and reduced its impact on people. To some extent we could protect people’s livelihood. The State’s economy is on the path to recovery and has started gaining momentum. However, now Omicron, a new variant of the novel coronavirus, is threatening us.”  Mr. Stalin referred to The Hindu’s article that was published on Sunday and said, “An article titled Recovery with headwinds , a full-page article, has appeared. The article informs that despite facing two COVID-19 waves, industries in Tamil Nadu have recovered from the drastic fall and moved forward. But Omicron could be an obstacle in the path to recovery, it had said.” He pointed out that another newspaper had said infections were rising incrementally in the country, an indication that the new variant could impact the State as well. “I am mentioning these articles so that you should remain alert and safe, pay attention and be on the defence,” he said.  “I have three messages for you,” he told the audience. “Omicron variant is less virulent than the previous strains but spreads faster. We should therefore be more cautious. The infection is bound to affect more people in the coming days. But the only protection is the face mask. People should wear the mask and maintain physical distance in public places.” The viral strain may have altered but vaccination continues to offer good protection against severe disease and death. Doctors said the impact of the infection is lower in people who are vaccinated. “I particularly appeal to those over the age of 60, who have yet to get their second dose, to definitely take it,” Mr. Stalin said. He further said, “I want you all to be determined that you will take the vaccine to save yourself and the State from being impacted during the [possible] next wave.” School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi and Health Minister Ma. Subramanian also spoke. Vaccination at Apollo At the launch of the vaccination programme in Apollo Hospitals, group chairman Prathap C. Reddy said, “Today is indeed an important milestone in our battle against COVID-19. With the launch of vaccination for teenagers between 15 and 17 years, we have made a beginning in protecting our future and the future of the country.” Beneficiaries will be administered Covaxin, with the second and final dose being given at a gap of 28 days. Beneficiaries can register online using their school ID card or Aadhaar card through the Co-WIN app at https://www.cowin.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vaccination-drive-for-those-aged-15-17-launched/article38103997.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gang takes away cash from MRTS station||Thieves took away Rs. 1.32 lakh from the ticket counter at the Thiruvanmiyur MRTS station after tying up a railway employee on Monday morning. The robbery created a tense situation in the station which attracts a large number of commuters. The Government Railway Police (GRP) have taken up investigation of the case. Sources in Southern Railway said the commercial staff member of the suburban ticket counter adjacent to the railway reservation counter slept on the premises after his night duty on Sunday. When he got up on Monday and went to open the gate of the ticket and reservation counters around 4.30 a.m., three persons brandished a gun and tied him to a chair. The robbers then took away Rs. 1.32 lakh, ticket collection of four days, from the safe and escaped. A commuter who had come to buy the ticket alerted the railway police about the plight of the employee. The sprawling railway station, which has ticket counters on the ground floor and the platform on the second floor, is visited by thousands of people every day as it services the IT hub of TIDEL Park nearby. However, the station does not have a surveillance camera. A senior official of the Southern Railway said CCTV cameras were proposed to be installed in the station under Nirbhaya Fund by Railtel. Tenders had been finalised and the work would begin shortly, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-takes-away-cash-from-mrts-station/article38104021.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||GCC to take up drain project along railway lines||The Greater Chennai Corporation has sought a no-objection certificate (NoC) from the Southern Railway to construct culverts and stormwater drains along the Chennai-Gummidipoondi and Chennai-Tiruvallur railway lines to prevent flooding of areas in north Chennai. The work is part of the Integrated Stormwater Drain in Kosasthalaiyar Basin Project. Once the Southern Railway gives NoC, work on the project is expected to begin in residential areas along the railway lines in north Chennai. Once the project along the Chennai-Tiruvallur railway line is completed, flooding is expected to be reduced in Basin Bridge, Vysarpadi, Perambur, Villivakkam, Korattur, Pattravakkam and Ambattur. Similarly, flooding is expected to be reduced in areas such as Korukkupet, Tondiarpet, VOC Nagar, Tiruvottiyur, Wimco Nagar, Kathivakkam and Ennore along the Chennai-Gummidipoondi railway line. According to the Corporation officials, at least 30 lakh people would benefit from the integrated stormwater drain project that would cover Tiruvotriyur, Manali, Madhavaram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Ambattur and Anna Nagar zones. Work had been taken up in 46 packages at a cost of Rs. 3,220 crore. At least 12% of the work had been completed. But most important components of the project, including the work along railway lines, had been delayed because of the technical issues faced during the construction along the lines. Such works could be taken up only for a few hours every day as the train services could not be suspended. The work was expected to be completed in February 2024. Previous civic infrastructure projects along the railway lines had been delayed by many years because of technical issues. MLAs’ plea MLAs representing the flood-hit areas in the city had been urging the Corporation to coordinate with various line agencies to complete important components of the project before the next monsoon. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi had asked the officials to adopt innovative practices to complete the projects on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gcc-to-take-up-drain-project-along-railway-lines/article38104023.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||Wholesale traders in Koyambedu market want encroachments to go||Koyambedu wholesale market traders’ association want Market Management Committee (MMC) to take stringent action against encroachments and focus on enforcing traffic regulations. Members of the Koyambedu Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers Merchants’ Association passed resolutions pertaining to the market and made a representation to the Koyambedu MMC on the issues raised during the annual meeting held recently. Wholesale traders said although the MMC took steps to prevent encroachments, the space around the market was occupied by unlicensed merchants, particularly those selling curry and coriander leaves. They blocked gates causing hindrance to movement of vehicles. The members demanded a permanent solution to the issue of encroachments mushrooming on the market premises. Association treasurer P. Sukumar said the market had now started receiving more truckloads of produce compared to last month. On Monday, nearly 320-330 vegetable-laden trucks arrived at the market and this was bound to increase to 400 lorries daily after Pongal. There was a need to regulate the traffic and facilitate a smooth flow of traffic to avoid delay in loading and unloading produce, he said. The association demanded that a hospital must be constructed on the premises for the benefit of workers and also shift Tasmac outlets in the neighbourhood. Moreover, the State government must consider providing a monthly pension of Rs. 5,000 to labourers aged above 60. Traders complained that although the licensed shops had water connection for several years now, there was no water supply. They wanted the MMC authorities to take steps to increase green cover and harness rainwater in the market. Wholesalers said the price of several vegetables had started to stabilise in the market. However, some vegetables such as carrot (Rs. 100-Rs. 110 a kg), drumsticks (Rs. 150-Rs. 220 a kg) and beetroot (Rs. 75 a kg) continued to be costly. Supply of these vegetables had dropped by half that led to spiralling cost. The price of tomatoes and onions were decreasing and vegetables were expected to become more affordable after Pongal festival, the traders added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wholesale-traders-in-koyambedu-market-want-encroachments-to-go/article38104009.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Minister’s house besieged by Tasmac bar owners, workers||Bar owners and workers of Tasmac outlets on Monday laid siege to the house of V. Senthil Balaji, Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise. Nearly 1,000 persons — bar owners and workers — gathered before the official residence of the Minister on DGS Dinakaran Salai in the morning, and staged a protest alleging irregularities in the awarding of tenders to run bars attached to Tasmac (Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation) outlets across the State. They also held placards ridiculing the Minister. N.Anbarasan, president of the Tasmac Bar Owners and Workers’ Welfare Association, said there were several irregularities in awarding of tenders, and favouritism was shown to a few in awarding contracts to run bars attached to Tasmac outlets. “We are running this business for two decades, and our livelihood has been affected since the contract has now been given to a few, at the insistence of the Minister and his brother,” he said. The tender process was stopped in Chennai district last month. “We demand that the tender process be made transparent. There should be no political interference and the officials should be fair and transparent while conducting the tender process. All those who are in the business all these years should be allowed to participate,” said M. Balamurugan, secretary of the Association. Representatives of the Association were allowed to meet the Minister who held talks with them. However, they continued to agitate in front of his house expressing dissatisfaction over the talks. Around 500 protesters were arrested and detained in wedding halls by the police. ‘No omission’ Meanwhile, the Minister denied all allegations and said there was no omission and commission in the tender process and the process had been very transparent. A senior police officer said guards and police personnel stood guard at the bungalow. Normally, the public came to meet the Minister at his official residence, which has been provided with adequate security, to get their grievances redressed. “In the morning, the protesters came as normal visitors in buses and by the time, we could get men to the area, some of them managed to enter the premises. We have arrested all those who protested and 46 of them would be remanded,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-bar-owners-workers-lay-siege-to-ministers-house/article38104033.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 08:48 IST,TAMIL NADU||Institute of Mathematical Sciences is 60||The famed Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSc) in Chennai announced two initiatives for public outreach as it turned 60 on Monday. Speaking at the celebratory, part-online event organised by the faculty, IMSc Director V. Ravindran said one of the public outreach efforts would be to set up a centre for science communication and mathematics education, for which the Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) has granted support for three years and which is to be located permanently at the IMSc; second, a series of heritage talks, which will focus on the heritage of science in modern-day India, with a slant on Tamil Nadu and Chennai in particular. He said that since its inception, the institute has awarded 295 PhDs to students. From a small institute of about a dozen faculty, it has grown to 52 faculty members, 125 PhD students and 35 post-doctoral Fellows. On January 3, 1962, Matscience was founded in Chennai by Alladi Ramakrishnan. Nobel Laureate Subrahmanyam Chandrasekhar gave the inaugural lecture that sparked off its journey. The initial years saw the visits of many stellar personalities such as physicists Hans Bethe and Murray Gellman, however, the faculty strength remained small. In the words of the institute’s former joint Director, G. Rajasekaran, the institution had a rebirth in 1984, when the DAE took charge and the years 1984-1988 saw a quick growth when the faculty and student strength increased rapidly. In 1986, computer scientist P.S. Thiagarajan and several other computer scientists joined to start the institute’s Theoretical Computer Science division. There was a short period of turmoil in 1989 during which C.S. Seshadri left the institute with a group of mathematicians and computer scientists to start what has now become Chennai Mathematical Institute; physicists Saurabh Rindani and Anjan Joshipura also left to found the High Energy Physics division at Physical Research Laboratory. The initial hiccup did not last and the year 1990, with the appointment of R. Ramachandran as director, saw the institute gain strength again, with new students and faculty joining. Since then, there have been three directors — mathematician R. Balasubramanian, computer scientist V. Arvind and now, physicist, Prof. Ravindran. R. Ramanujam, who was with the Theoretical Computer Science group, said, “At the IMSc, we have organised workshops for high school, higher secondary students and undergraduate, postgraduate, and also polytechnic teachers... It’s so inspiring for the teachers to interact with scientists.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/institute-of-mathematical-sciences-is-60/article38103834.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||State records 1,728 new cases of COVID-19, six deaths||Chennai accounted for half of the 1,728 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Tamil Nadu on Monday. While the city logged 876 cases, Coimbatore registered a small rise in fresh cases as 105 persons tested positive. With cases continuing to surge in the State, the active caseload crossed 10,000. At present, 10,364 persons were under treatment for COVID-19. Chennai’s active caseload rose to 4,259. The city’s daily tally rose from 776 on Sunday to 876. Along with the city, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur also registered a small rise in cases as 158 and 80 persons tested positive respectively. As against 80 cases the previous day, Coimbatore’s daily tally crossed 100 after several days. Among other districts, Tiruppur recorded 52 cases, while Kanniyakumari logged 47 cases. There were 40 cases in Erode, 38 in Kancheepuram, 36 in Thoothukudi and 31 in Salem. While Pudukottai had nil COVID-19 cases, the number of districts registering fewer than 10 cases fell to 18. An international traveller from the UAE also tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. The State’s total COVID-19 tally stood at 27,52,856. Six more persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 36,796. There were no COVID-19 deaths in 34 districts. While Chennai and Krishnagiri recorded two deaths each, Coimbatore and Kancheepuram had a single fatality each. A total of 662 persons were discharged after treatment. This took the total recoveries to 27,05,696. As many as 1,03,119 samples were tested in the State. Of the 121 confirmed cases of Omicron variant in the State, 100 have been discharged. While three cases were cross notified to Kerala, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh, 18 were currently admitted to hospitals. This includes 14 in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-1728-new-cases-of-covid-19-six-deaths/article38103995.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM meets expert panel on flood prevention in Chennai||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin chaired a meeting of the Chennai Flood Disaster Mitigation and Management Committee in the Secretariat on Monday. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and committee head V. Thiruppugazh were present at the meeting. In October last year, the State government constituted the committee, which noted that Chennai was prone to natural disasters and cyclones. Chennai’s terrain was flat with most of the area at an average elevation of two metres above the Mean Sea Level and some of them were even below the sea level, according to a Government Order. Surplus water The districts of Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur had over 2,500 tanks and the surplus water was discharged through the Adyar, the Cooum, the Kovalam and the Kosasthalaiyar. The combined hydrological effect of all these factors makes it difficult to manage inundation and de-watering during monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-meets-expert-panel-on-flood-prevention-in-chennai/article38104026.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Humayun Mahal restoration to be completed by August’||The project to restore the historic Humayun Mahal in Chepauk Palace complex is expected to be completed by August. Nearly 85% of the work to restore the fire-hit heritage structure has been completed. Public Works Minister E.V. Velu inspected the Rs. 41.12-crore work being taken up at Humayun Mahal on Wallajah Road on Monday. He said nearly 85 heritage structures were under the supervision of the PWD across the State. Of these, restoration work was on in 35 heritage buildings at a cost of Rs. 150 crore. The 250-year-old Humayun Mahal was built in Indo-Saracenic style of architecture between 1868 and 1871. It functioned as Revenue department’s headquarters during the British era and then had various State government offices, including Horticulture and Revenue, functioning in the building.  The premises was vacated following roof collapse and fire accidents since 2005. Spread over 76,567 sq.ft., Humayun Mahal has nine halls on the ground floor and four on the first floor. Restoration work includes Madras terrace roofing and Mughal wall plastering or Theervai plastering. There are nearly 108 teak doors, said a press release.  The restoration work of Humayun Mahal has incorporated the techniques of 82-year-old heritage conservation specialist S. Paramasivam, who died in Virudhunagar district last year. He was involved in conservation of several heritage buildings, including Madras High Court and Senate House in University of Madras. PWD Additional Chief Secretary Dayanand Kataria and PWD Engineer-in-Chief M. Viswanath were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/humayun-mahal-restoration-to-be-completed-by-august/article38104029.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Only virtual hearing of cases in all courts in T.N., Puducherry||All courts in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry stopped physical as well as hybrid modes of hearing cases and commenced only virtual hearing from Monday owing to the spurt in Omicron variant of COVID-19 cases. They also began receiving case papers only through e-mail or drop boxes placed on the court complexes. The Madras High Court had last week decided to revert to physical hearing of cases from Monday. However, a notification issued by the Registry on Sunday night stated Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari had decided against commencement of physical hearing by taking the present COVID-19 scenario into consideration. The notification said not only the principal seat of the High Court in Chennai but also its Madurai Bench and all courts in the State as well as the Union Territory should conduct their proceedings through the virtual mode alone. “Physical hearing and hybrid option before all honourable courts shall remain suspended,” it read. Filing of case papers, returning the case papers to rectify defects, re-presenting them, making applications for order copies and receiving those copies could be done through e-mail alone and in exceptional cases, these processes could be made through the respective counters or drop boxes provided for the purpose, the Registry said. Making it clear that strict adherence to COVID-19 safety protocol must be followed while undertaking such exercise at the court complexes, the Registry stated that the latest arrangement would be in operation until further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-virtual-hearing-of-cases-in-all-courts-in-tn/article38104037.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cyber Crime Wing unearths e-SIM fraud||The Cyber Crime Branch Police have unearthed a novel fraud using SIM cards and arrested four men from West Bengal who allegedly swindled Rs. 24 lakh from the bank account of a leading hospital a month ago. A case was registered following a complaint lodged by the administrator of an eye hospital in the city alleging that the mobile number linked to the hospital bank account had gone inactive suddenly. He said Rs. 24 lakh transferred from the account without his knowledge. A special team took up investigation and analysed the bank accounts and mobile phone records. It was found that the accused had hacked the email ID of the hospital and obtained details. Then the suspects obtained a SIM card through online method using credentials from the e-mail. With the help of the new SIM, the accused got one time password and other alerts required to transfer funds. “After activation of the SIM card in Uttar Pradesh, they transferred Rs. 24 lakh to 16 bank accounts in West Bengal,” said a senior police officer. The special team went to West Bengal and arrested Sayanthan Mukherjee, 25; Rahul Roy, 24; Rokan Alishana, 27; and Rakesh Kumar Singh, 33. Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal said Sathish Yadav, the main accused in the scam, had obtained e-SIM card and made the fraudulent transactions. He was reported to be hiding in Uttar Pradesh. The police have launched a search for him. The arrested had been found guilty of taking the stolen money sent by Sathish through ATMs and opening several bank accounts with fake addresses. Fourteen mobile phones, 105 SIM cards, 154 debit cards, 22 fake PAN cards and 128 Aadhar cards were seized from the accused. After the investigation, the accused were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cyber-crime-wing-unearths-e-sim-fraud/article38104013.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Videograph four stages of urban local bodies polls’||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission (TNSEC) to ensure strict compliance with its own guidelines on the conduct of free and fair urban local bodies polls in 15 municipal corporations, 121 municipalities and 528 town panchayats. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu also ordered that all four stages (filing of nominations, polling, storage of ballot boxes in strong rooms and counting of votes) of the election should be recorded on video in order to ensure transparency in the process. The orders were passed while disposing of a writ petition filed by the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), represented by its organisational secretary D. Jayakumar, apprehending large scale electoral malpractices in the urban local bodies polls expected to be notified anytime. Arguing on behalf of the petitioner, senior counsel Vijay Narayan claimed that the rural local bodies polls held in October were marred by numerous violations committed at every given point of time in order to accord an advantage to the ruling dispensation over other political parties in the fray. He claimed that the nominations of the AIADMK candidates were summarily rejected in several rural local bodies on frivolous and motivated grounds, . The senior counsel insisted that the Returning Officers must be directed to issue an acknowledgement to the candidates mentioning the number of pages of the nomination forms and affidavits submitted by them. This would help in curbing the practice of pulling out a few pages just to reject the nomination, he said. When the judges pointed out that all complaints could be addressed if the entire polling process was ordered to be video recorded, the TNSEC counsel said he had instructions from the Commission to state that the entire process would certainly be recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/videograph-all-stages-of-urban-local-bodies-polls/article38104003.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:36 IST,TAMIL NADU||Survey planned to ascertain how many Sri Lankan Tamils want Indian citizenship||A panel constituted by the Tamil Nadu Government, tasked to find durable solutions for short and long-term issues facing the Sri Lankan Tamils living in and out of camps across the State, has decided to undertake a survey to ascertain how many among them want Indian citizenship. The Advisory Committee, which was constituted by the State Government following the announcement made by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in the Assembly last year, met for its first meeting last week, and deliberated on the issues facing the Sri Lankan Tamils in the State.  “We will write to the Union Home Ministry and the State Government seeking details on the total number of people who have arrived from Sri Lanka since independence and also data on how many of them have been granted Indian citizenship so far,” Chennai North MP Kalanidhi Veeraswamy, one of the participants at the meeting, told The Hindu .  After a survey, the State Government would then request the Union Home Ministry to consider the case of Sri Lankan Tamils and make necessary provisions in the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, to facilitate Indian citizenship for them, he said. Era Elamparithi, senior researcher in the Department of Criminology, University of Madras, another member of the panel pointed to the presence of the missed-out population of Indian-origin Tamils in the camps. Camp population About 50% of the camp population wanted Indian citizenship on the grounds of their Indian origin and citizenship by birth for their children. He insisted on removing the ‘illegal migrants’ tag from Sri Lankan Tamils, which he contended was the main obstacle to their legal demand for Indian citizenship. Senior journalist Govi Lenin, another member in the panel, said Tamils from Sri Lanka the State could be categorized under multiple categories — those who arrived after the signing of the Sirimavo-Shastri Pact and Sirimavo-Gandhi Pact, those who came after the holocaust, those who arrived during the war between the Sri Lankan Government and rebel forces, and children of these persons, who were born in Tamil Nadu, among others. “There is a need for collect details of them all and to see what documents they have,” he said. As of July 1 2021, a total of 58,668 persons from 18,937 families living inside camps and 34,123 persons from 13,553 families of Sri Lankan origin were living outside the camps across Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-planned-to-ascertain-how-many-sri-lankan-tamils-want-indian-citizenship/article38104000.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:36 IST,TAMIL NADU||State Election Commission observing ECI’s move on conducting polls in five States amid rising COVID-19 cases||The State Election Commission (SEC), which has been making preparations for elections to urban local bodies (ULBs), is watching the move of the Election Commission of India (ECI) on the polls in five State Assemblies, even though it is not oblivious to the trend of rising number of fresh COVID-19 cases. As of now, the SEC is proceeding on the premise that it has to hold elections to the ULBs, for which the Supreme Court, in September, had set a deadline of four months. Also, if the ECI decides to announce the schedule for the elections to the Assemblies, the SEC will be left with no option other than conducting the ULBs’ polls. If the latter seeks any postponement of the elections, citing the pandemic as the reason, it may receive adverse feedback from different quarters that this cannot be the basis as even a large State like Uttar Pradesh is going to have Assembly polls. However, the whole situation may undergo a change if the Supreme Court revises its position and extends the deadline, considering the pace of spread of the virus. On Sunday, State Health Minister Ma. Subramanian declared that the third wave of the pandemic had begun. In the meantime, the SEC is undertaking a work of ward-wise correlation of voters, based on the integrated draft electoral rolls of Special Summary Revision, which commenced in November. Once the final rolls are out shortly, the changes will be incorporated by the SEC in its rolls of voters for the wards of ULBs. Concurrently, the State Government is also expected to make public, sooner than later, the details regarding the reservation of wards for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and women, according to an official source. There are 21 municipal corporations, 138 municipalities and 490 town panchayats in the State, which will be going to the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-election-commission-observing-ecis-move-on-conducting-polls-in-five-states-amid-rising-covid-19-cases/article38104007.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vishal urges HC to drop his name from suit||The Madras High Court on Monday decided to take a call on January 19 on an application by actor Vishal Krishna to delete his name from a civil suit preferred by actor T.R. Silambarasan, seeking Rs. 1 crore in damages from film producer C. Michael Royappan for having allegedly levelled baseless allegations against him. When the matter was listed before Justice Abdul Quddhose, Mr. Vishal’s counsel Krishna Ravindran told the court that the suit, filed in 2019, was an abuse of process of law as far as his client was concerned. No relief sought He said that his client had been named as one of the defendants in the suit although no relief as such had been sought against him. The counsel said that actor Vishal had only been accused of interfering in a dispute between the plaintiff and the producer in his capacity as the office-bearer of South Indian Artistes Association, popularly known as Nadigar Sangam. Since his tenure had ended and he was no more an office-bearer now, his name must be deleted from the suit, Mr. Ravindran said. However, when the plaintiff’s counsel could not be heard properly during the virtual hearing, the judge decided to adjourn the matter to January 19 for passing appropriate orders.  Relationship between Mr. Silambarasan and Mr. Royappan had soured after their movie AnbanavanAsaradhavanAdangadhavan bombed at the box office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vishal-urges-hc-to-drop-his-name-from-suit/article38104024.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||GCC opens 15 COVID-19 screening centres||In view of the surge in COVID-19 cases, the Greater Chennai Corporation has established 15 screening centres to provide initial screening for patients with COVID-19. The centres will start functioning today. The screening centres would function at each of the 15 zones - Tiruvottiyur zone: near Tiruvottiyur Urban Community Health Centre, Manali: Urban Community Health Centre, Manjampakkam, Madhavaram: Madhavaram Government Hospital, Tondiarpet: Tondiarpet Communicable Diseases Hospital, Royapuram: Bharathi Women’s College, Thiru vi ka Nagar: ESI Hospital, Ayanavaram Periyar Nagar Government Hospital, Ambattur: Community Hall, ward 91, Third Main Road, Mogappair West, Anna Nagar: Chennai Primary School, Ayanavaram, Teynampet: Community Hall, ward 122, K.B. Dasan Salai, Kodambakkam: Community Hall, ward 139, Jaffarkhanpet, Valasaravakkam: Government Primary School, ward 153, Ramasamy Nagar Main Road, Alandur: Jain College B.V. Nagar, Adyar: A.D.I. Hospital, ward 170, Guindy Industrial Estate, Perungudi: Community Hall, ward 183, A.G.S. Colony, Kottivakkam and Sholinganallur: Injambakkam Urban Primary Health Centre. While these screening centres would do initial examination of patients, screening centres with the required medical equipment would be fully functional in all the zones from January 5, a press release issued here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gcc-opens-15-covid-19-screening-centres/article38104046.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC asks State if it can share inquiry committee report with former V-C||The Madras High Court on Monday wanted to know whether the State government could serve a copy of Justice P. Kalaiyarasan Inquiry Committee report to Anna University former Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa and also grant him time to submit his explanation before forwarding the report to the Governor for further action. Justice V. Parthiban asked Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram to obtain instructions from the Higher Education department by January 10 and adjourned the hearing on a writ petition filed by Mr. Surappa in February 2021 challenging the constitution of the committee by way of a Government Order issued on November 11, 2020. When the case was heard in November 2021, the A-G had informed the court that the committee was constituted to probe charges of corruption, malpractice, financial irregularities and irregularities in appointments during Mr. Surappa’s tenure in the university and that certain irregularities and procedural lapses had been found in the inquiry. Seeks time to submit reply Subsequently, when the matter was taken up on Monday, Mr. Surappa’s counsel told the court that he would withdraw the writ petition and pursue his remedy elsewhere if the government could serve a copy of the inquiry report on him at the earliest and grant him 15 days time to submit a detail reply to the report. Doubting whether the State government would be able to part with the report even before submitting it to the Governor who was also the Chancellor of the university, the A-G said the petitioner could, instead, obtain a copy from the Governor’s office and submit his explanation directly to the Chancellor. Not in agreement with the suggestion, the petitioner’s counsel said the government’s recommendation to the Governor should not overshadow the explanation and therefore it was essential that a copy of the report was furnished to the petitioner before it could be forwarded to the Governor along with the explanation. After hearing them, the judge remarked that the inquiry committee appeared to have been constituted under the provisions of the Anna University Chennai Act of 1978 and not under the Commissions of Inquiry Act. “It is not a commission, it is only a committee. There shouldn’t be any problem in sharing its report with the petitioner,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-asks-state-if-it-can-share-inquiry-report-with-former-v-c/article38104036.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Government urged to put off public hearing on Ennore plant||Members of various organisations, including youth groups and residents of north Chennai, have urged the government to postpone the public hearing on Ennore Thermal Power Station (ETPS) Expansion, slated for Thursday, until the third wave of COVID-19 pandemic subsides. A group of representatives from Chennai Climate Action Group and Save Ennore Creek campaign on Monday submitted a petition to the officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, said a release. Residents said they did not want another power plant in the area. But under the present conditions, with COVID-19 cases on the rise, many residents would not be able to attend the public hearing due to restrictions and hence the request, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-urged-to-put-off-public-hearing-on-ennore-plant/article38104019.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Assembly session to begin tomorrow||The first session of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly for the year is set to commence with the customary Governor’s address to the House in Kalaivanar Arangam on Wallajah Salai in Chennai on Wednesday. Arrangements have been made to telecast his address live. On Monday, Assembly Speaker M. Appavu called on Governor R.N. Ravi at the Raj Bhavan here and extended the traditional invitation to him to deliver the address. Since Mr. Ravi assumed office in September last year, this would be his first address to the House. The Business Advisory Committee would decide on how long the House would meet for the first sitting of the session. Besides rising COVID -19 cases, especially with the Omicron variant, the law and order situation, alleged harassment of public officials, including police personnel, flooding of various areas following heavy rains in different parts of the State, demand for compensation for affected residents and higher compensation for farmers are among the issues likely to be raised by the Opposition parties. Though the venue for the session was initially planned in the Assembly chamber within the Fort St. George campus, the decision was revised and eventually Kalaivanar Arangam was chosen, in view of the rising COVID-19 cases in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-assembly-session-to-begin-tomorrow/article38103999.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:36 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ensure solatium for firecracker blast victims, says Panneerselvam||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Monday called upon the State Government to ensure that families of four persons who died and others who were injured in a blast at a fireworks unit in Kalathur of Virudhunagar on Saturday are paid solatium by the management. Calling for action against those responsible for the incident, Mr. Panneerselvam wanted the authorities to see to it that there was no recurrence of such incidents. Support to farmers In a series of tweets, T.T.V. Dinakaran, general secretary of the AMMK, asked whether the Government would execute any measure to support farmers of the Cauvery delta whose standing crop had suffered damage in the recent spell of heavy rain and why Ministers and officials were yet to visit the delta. Seeking information on the status of work carried out by a group of Ministers to study the crop damage in November, he asked the Government whether enough pressure would be exerted on the Centre to get compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-solatium-for-firecracker-blast-victims-says-panneerselvam/article38104006.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man rewarded for clearing traffic for ambulances||A social worker was rewarded for his service in clearing traffic to make way for three ambulances stuck on Anna Salai during heavy rain on December 30. The city received incessant rain, which caused waterlogging on several roads. Due to the rain, the traffic was badly affected, with vehicles piling up for several kilometres on Anna Salai. The ambulances, which were carrying patients to the Rajiv Gandhi Government Hospital were unable to move due to the traffic jam. Noticing this near Anna Statue, Mohammed Ali Jinnah, 41, of Royapettah, who was passing by, immediately parked his bike on the roadside and started to run ahead of the ambulances. Directing other vehicles and their drivers to make way, Mr. Jinnah walked for almost 4 km and helped the ambulances to reach their destination. The video of his act went viral on social media. “An ambulance driver told me that the condition of patient in his vehicle was serious. Immediately, I rushed to help and brought the ambulances to the same line of the road. Later, another youth also joined me to regulate traffic. I did this as a service to save lives,” he said. City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal called Mr. Jinnah to his office on Monday and rewarded him for his good work. Mr. Jinnah is a manager in a private bank and has been doing voluntary service, from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., in the casualty ward of Government Royapettah Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-rewarded-for-clearing-traffic-for-ambulances/article38104030.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||IIT-Madras launches PG course on electric vehicles||The Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) has proposed to launch an interdisciplinary master’s programme on electric vehicles (EVs). The dual degree will be offered for B. Tech and dual degree students to enhance their research capabilities and enable them to engage with e-mobility. Students must enrol from January 2022 during the third year of B. Tech and dual degree programme. Initially, 25 students will be admitted. According to T. Asokan, head, engineering design department, eight departments were collaborating to induct skills necessary for a student to engineer electric vehicles. “While the Department of Engineering Design will anchor the programme, it will be delivered as a joint effort from various departments,” he said. The institute hoped to have more programmes with different structures in the e-mobility space. C. S. Shankar Ram, faculty in the Department of Engineering Design, said the students who undergo the core courses would build a foundation for EV engineering. They would pursue electives in the specific area of specialisation of their choice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-madras-launches-pg-course-on-evs/article38104319.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||Properties worth over Rs. 154 crore seized by crime branch last year||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Greater Chennai Police seized Rs. 154-crore worth properties from several accused last year. Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal on Monday rewarded the police officers who detected crime proceeds and arrested the criminal suspects in the cases handled by the CCB. Last year, 478 cases were registered by the CCB. Of these, 142 were registered by the Cyber Crime Wing. After investigation, final reports have been filed in 732 cases, including 121 cases at Cyber Crime wing and 178 cases of land grabbing. Mr. Jiwal said told presspersons that properties worth Rs. 154.4 crore were seized from the accused and also caused to have been returned to the victims. “Of this, Rs. 127.63 crore worth lands were restored to the victims. Also Rs. 18.33 crore were caused to be returned to the victims by Forgery and Entrusted Document Fraud (EDF) Wings. The CCB units did a commendable job in the last year,” he said. The Cyber Crime Wing seized mobile phones, SIM cards, bank passbooks, forged PAN cards, Aadhaar cards, laptops, debit cards, and a drone. The Commissioner said: “We will write to the State governments concerned where these forged documents were obtained,” he said. Last year, 7,929 petitions were received from the public and after enquiry, 7,216 petitions were disposed of. Totally, 571 offenders were arrested and remanded by the CCB. Out of them, 186 had involved in land grabbing cases and 95 in bank frauds, 78 in job rackets and 76 in forgery and entrusted document frauds. As many as 58 accused were detained under Goondas Act and 16 of them were arrested on land grabbing charges, 14 on cyber frauds and 10 on job racket charges, the CCB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/properties-worth-over-rs-154-crore-seized-by-crime-branch-last-year/article38104011.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seeman condemns detention of party member||Naam Tamilar Katchi chief co-ordinator Seeman on Monday condemned the State Government for detaining party member and YouTuber ‘Sattai’ Durai Murugan under the Goondas Act. “The DMK wants to eliminate opposition voices by jailing those who have an opposing view and politically criticise them. ” Mr. Seeman said. Party souces said besides defending the YouTuber through the NTK’s advocates’ wing, protests would be organised seeking justice for those ‘unfairly’ detained under the Goondas Act for criticising the DMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seeman-condemns-detention-of-party-member/article38104034.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Girl attacked by pet dog, owner held||A nine-year-old girl was injured after being bitten by a German Shepherd in Nolambur. The police said on December 28, V. Saraswathi, a Class IV student living in an apartment on Sriram Nagar Main Road, was walking inside the apartment when the dog attacked her. The police have arrested Vijayalakshmi, 43, owner of the pet dog.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-attacked-by-pet-dog-owner-held/article38104027.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:36 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Board exams will be held this year’||Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said board exams will be conducted this year. He was speaking on the sidelines of the launch of the second phase of the ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ scheme in Chennai on Monday. “Vaccination for students for Classes X to XII, who will be taking the exams, was rolled out today,” he said. “Last year, we could not conduct the board exams given the pandemic situation, and an evaluation methodology had to be chosen from 13 different methodologies that were prepared. This year, there is less chance of this happening,” the Minister added. Classes to continue “Since vaccination of senior students is happening, classes on campus are also expected to continue for them, and they will go on to write the exams,” the Minister added. The teaching community has inferred that in-person exams will be conducted at the allocated centres this year. An initiative which aims at bridging the learning gaps owing to the pandemic among children, Illam Thedi Kalvi was initially launched in 12 districts in October last year. As a part of the second phase, the initiative is being taken to more districts including Chennai. The School Education Minister and MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin inaugurated the ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ initiative at a center in Nadukuppam on Monday. In Chennai, over 500 centres are expected to function as a part of the initiative. “We began the initiative in nearly 46,000 centres across 12 districts and as a part of the second phase, 34,000 centres will open for students to come and engage with volunteers,” Mr Anbil Mahesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/board-exams-will-be-held-this-year-minister/article38104005.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination begins for 15-17 age group||As 1.61 lakh beneficiaries in 671 schools in the 15-17 age group were identified for COVID-19 vaccination in Coimbatore district, arrangements to vaccinate 16,000 students in 83 schools were made on Monday, said District Collector G.S. Sameeran. He inaugurated the vaccination drive at Mani Higher Secondary School, a government-aided school in Pappanaickenpalayam, in the presence of Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara, Chief Educational Officer N. Geetha and Deputy Director of Health Services P. Aruna. Speaking to mediapersons, he said that the Health Department and the Corporation have “provided adequate awareness” to the students regarding the importance of vaccination and that the vaccines will be administered only after the consent of the students. The chances of adverse side-effects among school students after administration of Covaxin are low, but the schools have been instructed to allow students to take leave “on a case-by-case basis”, if any side-effects following vaccination were reported by students, Mr. Sameeran said. The 69-year-old man, who was found to have contracted the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, has recovered and is currently under home quarantine, he said. “We have traced all his contacts, but there have been no positive cases, so far,” the Collector added. Swab samples of 19 international travellers, who have tested positive for COVID-19 have been sent from Coimbatore to the State Public Health Laboratory in Chennai for whole genomic sequencing and no new Omicron cases have been confirmed in Coimbatore district after the first case, he noted. Around 33 dengue cases have been confirmed in Coimbatore district, so far, and no increase was detected from the previous year's count, he said. Dengue hotspots have been identified in the district such as a few locations in Chettipalayam and Pollachi, where dengue prevention works have been intensified. Around 2,000 domestic breeding checkers have been roped in for the district, according to Mr. Sameeran. Tiruppur Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan and Minister for Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj on Monday inaugurated the vaccination drive at the Government Higher Secondary School in Veerapandi within Corporation limits. A release said that 1,15,300 students will be administered Covaxin doses under this drive in the district. District Collector S. Vineeth, Chief Educational Officer R. Ramesh and other officials participated in the event. Care centre at Codissia President of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (CODISSIA) M.V. Ramesh Babu announced on Monday that two halls at CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex in Coimbatore will be converted into COVID-19 care centres with a capacity of around 700 beds. He said that Hall D and Hall E will be converted and officials inspected the preliminary works. The Collector also inspected the Government Arts College building, the other CCC to be set up and advised officials to re-create the triage facility at the Corporation Community Hall at Ramanathapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-begins-for-15-17-age-group/article38104061.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Youth seek nod to participate in jallikattu||Members of the Tamil Nadu Jallikattu Ilaignar Peravai on Monday sought the district administration’s permission to participate in the jallikattu event scheduled to be held in the district on January 9. In a petition submitted at the weekly grievances redress meeting on Monday, the players said when the association approached the organisers of the Coimbatore event, they were told to contact Jallikattu Peravai, to which it had outsourced the event. When the association approached the Jallikattu Peravai office-bearers at Melamadai village in Madurai, they were told that there was permission only for the Jallikattu Peravai members and ruling party supporters. VCK demand The Coimbatore north unit of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) has urged the district administration to remove encroachment on Panchami land in Chikkarampalayam village in Mettupalayam taluk and distribute the land to landless Dalit families. In a petition, the party’s district secretary P. Siddharthan said despite repeated petition the local Revenue Department officials had not removed the encroachment. The party said that in its estimate about 1,500 acre Panchami land in Mettupalayam taluk was under encroachment. ‘Remove encroachment’ Residents of Jawahar Nagar, off Thandal Raman Street, in Ward 44 on Monday urged the district administration to remove encroachment on a road in the locality. In their petition, the residents said an individual had forged a title deed to occupy the road. Ten years after the encroacher had obtained a stay on eviction, the Madras High Court had ordered the eviction to be removed. The court also cancelled the title deed that was given for the encroachment, they said. Gymnasium Swami Vivekanandar Udarpayirchi Salai Matrum Noolagam members have urged the Coimbatore Corporation to let them continue using the land next to the Coimbatore Corporation Middle School on Othachekkara Street to run gymnasium. In a petition, the gym trainer G.R. Jalendran said the gym that was functional for nearly 50 years was moved to the land next to the school in 1985 after the then Corporation officials felt it was unsafe to store equipment in classroom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-seek-nod-to-participate-in-jallikattu/article38104057.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Judge orders virtual hearings in courts in dist.||Principal District Judge R. Sakthivel ordered that all hearings in Coimbatore District Court and all other courts in the district will only be in virtual mode from Monday owing to the rise in COVID-19 cases and spread of the Omicron variant of the virus. The order was issued following the direction of Madras High Court to all the subordinate courts in the District Judiciary in the State. Filing of case papers and copy applications will be only through e-mail, it said. “Entry of advocates, advocate clerks, litigant public and other officials except judicial officers and staff members of the Coimbatore District Judiciary into the Coimbatore Combined Court Building and other taluk courts in the district shall be prohibited from January 3, until further orders,” the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/judge-orders-virtual-hearings-in-courts-in-dist/article38104065.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Thadagam police register cases against 11||Following the clash at Thadagam valley on Sunday between activists opposing illegal red earth mining and residents of villages in the valley, the Thadagam police registered cases against 11 persons based on complaints from both sides. Police sources said that based on a complaint from S. Suresh, an employee of a brick chamber in Somayanur, a case was registered against activists 'Thadagam’ S. Ganesh (44), G. Mohanraj alias Mac Mohan (47), R. Ramesh and his 17-year-old daughter under sections 447 (Punishment for criminal trespass), 294(b) (Uttering obscenities), 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 506(2) (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused allegedly trespassed into the locked brick chamber and operated a drone camera without prior permission. One of the accused allegedly attacked Ravichandran, a resident of Kalaiyanur who accompanied the complainant, with a helmet and he suffered bleeding injuries above his left eyebrow, the sources said. Mr. Ganesh also lodged a complaint, based on which the Thadagam police booked seven persons associated with the brick chamber namely the brick chamber's owner V.K.V. Sundararaj, Parasuraman, Ganesan, Prabhakaran, Maruthaiyan, Jeevanathan and Sudhapriyan. A senior police officer said that no arrests were made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thadagam-police-register-cases-against-11/article38104062.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Vaccination to be completed in eight days’||Coimbatore Corporation that started vaccinating students and youth in the 15-17 age group on Monday would complete the vaccination in the next eight days, sources said. The Corporation had identified 65,977 students in the city who would stand to benefit from the COVID-19 vaccination drive. The students were from 263 schools in the city that included 56 government and 36 government-aided schools. Of the 65,977 students, 30,370 were boys and the rest girls. The Corporation began vaccination with a programme at a private school in the city. Over the next eight days the Corporation planned to complete the vaccination for the targeted population. The civic body’s strategy was to first vaccinate Corporation and government school students and then cover private school students. It would post a doctor in each of the schools it would vaccinate. Under the doctor’s supervision, staff and urban health nurses would vaccinate students. They would vaccinate students in morning or afternoon depending on the strength available, the sources said and added that the doctor and nurses would remain in the school vaccinated for a couple of hours to ensure that the children were immediately attended to, if they were to develop complication. After vaccinating students in schools, the Corporation would look at youth in the 15-17 category in polytechnic colleges and other institutions and then the youth working in various establishments. The Corporation would talk to representatives of various trade associations to reach the 15-17 workers their members had engaged. If there was a considerable number of youth to be vaccinated, then the Corporation would hold special vaccination camps for them, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-to-be-completed-in-eight-days/article38104058.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reserve 10% beds, private hospitals told||Collector G.S. Sameeran has asked private hospitals to reserve 10% beds to treat Omicron-positive persons, said a release on Monday. The 10% beds reserved to treat such persons under the Chief Minister Insurance Scheme would be in addition to the beds hospitals keeping ready to treat Omicron-positive persons, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reserve-10-beds-private-hospitals-told/article38104059.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||Illam Thedi Kalvi scheme inaugurated||District Collector S. Divyadarshini inaugurated the Illam Thedi Kalvi scheme here at Illakiyampatti panchayat. According to officials, 1,806 centres for primary and upper primary classes have been set up in the district through which classes would be conducted by volunteers to bridge the learning gap of students. According to officials, classes would be conducted for at least one-and-a-half hours a day for six months. As many as 19,460 students in primary classes and 18,655 students in upper primary classes would benefit through the scheme. In Salem, Collector S.Karmegham inaugurated the scheme at Kanankuruchi anganwadi centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/illam-thedi-kalvi-scheme-inaugurated/article38104155.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man shot dead near Dindigul; four detained||A young man was shot dead by unidentified persons in Marianathapuram, near Dindigul, on Monday. Inspector General of Police (South Zone) T.S. Anbu, DIG of Police (Dindigul Range), B. Vijayakumari, Superintendent of Police, V.R. Srinivasan, and their teams visited the scene of the crime. An initial probe revealed that a rivalry over fishing rights in a tank near Malapatti may have led to the murder. The police have detained Prakash, 36, Mariaprabhu, 37, Ganesamurthi, 23, and John Surya, 27, for allegedly opening fire on Rakeshkumar alias Rocky, 26, using a country-made gun. They said the investigations were inconclusive, and there may be a few more arrests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-shot-dead-near-dindigul-four-detained/article38103998.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over one lakh people in 15-18 age group to be administered vaccine in Erode district||A total of 1,04,106 lakh teenagers, including 92,652 school students, in the age group of 15-18 are to be administered Covaxin in the district in the next five days. Amid the surge in cases of the Omicron variant of SARS-COV-2, the vaccine administration began at the Kalaimagal Girls Higher Secondary School here on Monday. Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy and Collector H. Krishnanunni inaugurated the camp during which 1,220 school students were vaccinated. Mr. Muthusamy said the district’s population was 23,77,315 and 18,09,100 people were above 18 years of age. A total of 27,20,159 doses were administered so far in the district (first dose to 15,88,357 (87.80%) persons and second dose to 11,31,802 (67.06%) persons). Of the total 523 schools in the district, 286 were government schools, 10 partly government-aided schools, 25 government- aided schools, 221 private schools, 28 Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Schools and 15 were Corporation schools. A total of 452 staff and 60 vehicles were pressed into service to cover the schools, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-one-lakh-people-in-15-18-age-group-to-be-administered-vaccine-in-erode-district/article38104148.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers want DPCs opened in LBP canal ayacut areas||With paddy harvesting in Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal ayacut areas commencing, Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam has urged the district administration to open Direct Purchase Centres (DPCs) in the region. In a letter to the Collector, association’s district secretary Subbu said water was released into the canal to irrigate 1.03 lakh acre in the districts of Erode, Tiruppur and Karur from August 15, 2021. Most of the farmers had cultivated paddy and harvesting had commenced in the region. “Traders purchase paddy from Rs. 14 to Rs. 15 a kg causing huge loss to the farmers,” the letter said and added that the government had fixed procurement price of up to Rs. 20.60 in DPCs. The letter said that in 2021, the centres were opened in December and hence farmers sold their produce for a reasonable price. “But this year, though harvesting has commenced, the centres are yet to be opened,” the letter said. Also, if the centres were not opened by January 7, the farmers would bring their produce to the Collectorate and hand it over to the government, the letter added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-want-dpcs-opened-in-lbp-canal-ayacut-areas/article38104144.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP seeks CB-CID probe into cadre’s murder||Claiming that N. Vadivel (55) of Arachalur, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) cadre, was beaten to death on December 30, 2021, members of the district BJP urged the police to transfer the case to CB-CID. In a petition to the Superintendent of Police here on Monday, BJP’s district general secretary Gunasekaran alleged that Thambi alias Eswaramoorthy (48) of DMK attacked Vadivel that caused his death. Though the victim’s family had lodged a complaint with the police, the police had registered a case of suspicious death, instead of murder. The petition raised suspicion over the conduct of postmortem as it was not carried by a team of doctors, but only by an individual doctor. The petition said the police were yet to examine the footage of CCTVs installed near the crime spot. Also, an unidentified car arrived near the victim’s house on the day of the murder. The district police had, in press releases issued on December 31, 2021 and on January 1, 2022, clarified that an altercation broke out between Vadivel and Thambi over turning on lights on the temple premises at Thalavumalai that led to both attacking each other. The next day, Vadivel was found dead at home, and the police altered the case sections to 294 (b), 427 and 304 (2) of IPC. The release clarified that there was no political motive behind the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-seeks-cb-cid-probe-into-cadres-murder/article38104143.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 norms go for a toss in a bus||The State government’s fresh COVID-19 curbs amid sharp increase in cases, including Omicron variant, failed to bring in any change among the people as buses and tea shops continue to be overcrowded while most of them fail to wear mask and ensure physical distancing while in public places. The new restrictions include, no standees to be allowed in buses, only 50% customers allowed in textile shops, hotels, tea shops and bakeries at a given point of time. But, on Monday, many buses plying in routes where colleges were located were overcrowded as the students were seen on footboard travel. Over 70 passengers, mostly college students were travelling in a TNSTC bus from Erode to Chennimalai and the rear side shock absorber got broken near the district police office in the morning. Students said that only two buses were available for them to reach their college at Rangampalayam and hence they were forced to travel on footboard. They wanted additional bus services to be operated in the morning and evening hours for the safety of all passengers. Except in a few hotels, all the chairs and tables were allowed to be occupied by customers to dine in. Many of the tea shops and bakeries, both in the city and in rural areas, were crowded with customers. The crowd at textile shops and in market areas was low and many were seen without masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-norms-go-for-a-toss-in-a-bus/article38104146.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 40 new cases||Erode district on Monday reported 40 new cases taking the total to 1,07,865. While 46 persons were discharged, 419 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 31 positive cases. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. In Namakkal, 18 indigenous cases were reported. Seven indigenous cases were reported in Dharmapuri and nine in Krishnagiri. As per bulletin, two deaths were reported in Krishnagiri district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-40-new-cases/article38104151.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collectors inaugurate COVID-19 vaccination drive for teenagers of 15-17 age group in Kallakurichi, Villupuram||Kallakurichi Collector P.N. Sridhar on Monday inaugurated the COVID-19 vaccination drive for teenagers aged between 15 and 17 at the Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Thottiyam in the district. Mr. Sridhar inspected the facility and interacted with the students. According to a release, the drive in the district aims at covering nearly 65,150 teenagers in the 15 to 17 age group. This includes 45,177 government school students, 5,629 teenagers of government-aided schools and 14,344 teenagers from private schools. The drive is underway across 56 schools on Monday and aims at covering 20,569 teenagers on the first day. The Health Department has prepared centres for the special vaccination campaign. Vaccination will be carried out in the respective schools and authorities will also ensure that students of residential schools are covered too. In Villupuram district, Collector D. Mohan inaugurated the drive at the Government Model Girls Higher Secondary School in Villupuram. The drive aims at covering nearly 54,814 beneficiaries across the district. In Cuddalore district, the administration has identified 1,20,600 beneficiaries. Covaxin is being administered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-inaugurate-covid-19-vaccination-drive-for-children-of-15-18-age-group-in-kallakurichi-villupuram/article38104318.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kerala policeman suspended for kicking passenger on train||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) in Kerala has been placed under suspension after a video clip of him assaulting a train passenger, allegedly travelling without a ticket in a sleeper coach, surfaced. The incident took place in a reserved sleeper coach of the Maveli Express on Sunday. In a video recorded by another passenger, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Pramod, on deputation to the Railway Police, and a constable are seen asking an unidentified passenger to produce the ticket. When he could not, the passenger was asked to leave the compartment, but he refused. The ASI is then seen kicking the passenger. He was forced to get down at the Vadakara station. The passenger was reportedly in an inebriated condition and, according to co-passengers, had been behaving inappropriately in the compartment. The police said no case had been charged and he was let off on humanitarian grounds. A report by the Palakkad sub-divisional Deputy Superintendent of Police said the Travelling Ticket Examiner (TTE) had suggested that the police officer take the passenger out of the coach since he did not have a proper ticket.  The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has taken a suo motu case. Judicial member of the commission K. Baiju Nath said the Kannur City police commissioner should submit a report within a week.  Youth Congress activists took out a protest march demanding action against the police officer. The police stopped the march midway and detained a few activists. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran termed the police action on the passenger cruel. “If a passenger does not have ticket, legal action must be taken. The police should not behave like goons,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policeman-suspended-for-kicking-train-passenger/article38103840.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||Students demand flyover||Students of Immadinaikenpalli Government Higher Secondary School near Shoolagiri staged a protest here on Monday demanding a flyover on National Highway stretch at Sambalpallam to avert fatalities. The students said that recently a student from the school died while crossing the road and several such accidents have occurred earlier. AIADMK MLA K.P.Munnusamy held talks with students and authorities concerned. Based on assurance from officials that a flyover would be constructed in the area, the students withdrew the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-demand-flyover/article38104152.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:47 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination for teenagers begins in Madurai district||The COVID-19 vaccination for students in the age group of 15 and 18 years commenced here on Monday. After going around a couple of educational institutions, District Collector S. Aneesh Shekhar, Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan and other officials inquired with the officials about the status of the vaccine stocks. Speaking to reporters at Corporation Illango Higher Secondary School, Dr Aneesh Shekhar said that the district had 80.2 percent coverage of first dose vaccination and 47.5 % second dose coverage so far. With Omicron cases picking up in many districts, it would be safe for eligible people to get themselves inoculated without any further delay. From the part of the district administration, they have made elaborate arrangements in the hospitals for treatment. There need not be any panic among the people. He however, urged them to wear mask regularly whenever they stepped out of their dwellings. Similarly, he advised the people to maintain physical distancing in public places. Health department officials said that Omicron was capable of spreading four times faster than the Delta variant of the COVID-19. Later in the day, the Collector presided over a meeting in which senior officers from multiple departments and faculty from the Government Rajaji Hospital participated. It was decided to educate the masses through various mediums in the coming days. Chief Educational Officer Swaminathan, DD (Health) Senthil Kumar, City Health Officer Raja and among others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-for-teenagers-begins-in-madurai-district/article38104384.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:47 IST,TAMIL NADU||State gearing up for PM’s likely visit to Madurai and Virudhunagar||The State government is making all preliminary arrangements for the likely visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister M. K. Stalin to Madurai and Virudhunagar districts on January 12. However, Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Annamalai, on Monday told reporters here that he would confirm about the Prime Minister’s proposed Pongal visit to Madurai on January 12 in the coming days. Pongal function The Pongal function has to follow the COVID-19 guidelines issued by the State Government, he said. The Prime Minister along with the Chief Minister is likely to visit Virudhunagar Government Medical College for formally inaugurating 11 Government medical colleges that have been constructed across the State on January 12. Ministers inspect site State Ministers K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran (Revenue) and Thangam Thennarasu (Industries), inspected two sites on Virudhunagar Collectorate premises for laying helipad for the Prime Minister’s helicopter to land. They also inspected the State of preparedness at the newly-constructed auditorium at the Virudhunagar Government Medical College premises where the inaugural function has been proposed to be held. Meanwhile, senior police officials, including Madurai Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha, and Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran, inspected a ground along Ring Road near Madurai airport where the PM is likely to participate in the Pongal function proposed by the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-gearing-up-for-pms-likely-visit-to-madurai-virudhunagar/article38104139.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:47 IST,TAMIL NADU||High Court quashes case against CPI (M) leader Vasuki||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday quashed the trial court proceedings pending against CPI (M) Central Committee member U. Vasuki and 25 other party members. In 2016, during the campaign for the State legislative Assembly elections they had staged a road blockade in Jaihindpuram in Madurai alleging police inaction over distribution of cash for votes. The case of the prosecution was that on May 13, 2016, around 250 CPI (M) party members had staged a protest in Jaihindpuram in Madurai. They had raised slogans against the police at around 8 p.m. in violation of election code and prohibitory order. The petitioners said that they had only raised the slogans and there was no violence. They said that the continuance of the case against them was harassment and sought the quash of the proceedings. Justice G. R. Swaminathan took note of the fact that the petitioners had blocked the Jaihindpuram road, they raised slogans against the police during the 2016 election campaign and there was no damage to property. The court said that the assembly of the petitioners was a legitimate exercise of their democratic right and it cannot be said to be an unlawful assembly. They had staged a protest against the distribution of cash by the political rivals. Rampant use of cash for votes was an electoral reality, the court said. The court observed that the life of the 2016 election itself was over and the 2021 election was also held. The court held that the continuance of the proceedings against the petitioners was not warranted and quashed the trial court proceedings pending against them before the Judicial Magistrate IV, Madurai. In 2016, CPI (M) Senior leader Vasuki who was contesting from the Madurai West constituency staged a protest along with 250 party members. The party members said that they had caught a few people of the AIADMK party who had indulged in distribution of cash for votes. The police had arrived at the spot. But, later the police let off the people who had indulged in the distribution of cash for votes, the petitioners said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-quashes-case-against-cpim-leader-vasuki/article38104365.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:47 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police trespassed into my apartment, says Rajenthra Bhalaji’s advocate||An advocate, who represented former Minister K. T. Rajenthra Bhalaji’s sister K. Lakshmi, in the plea that sought a direction to the Virudhunagar police not to harass the former Minister’s family members in the name of inquiry, moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday alleging that the police had trespassed into his apartment and conducted a search. Advocate E. Marees Kumar said that on December 29, 2021 at around 2.10 p.m. a team of six police officials led by Inspector Sivabalan of the Madurai Rural Police came to his apartment near Mattuthavani bus stand and searched his apartment. Marees Kumar said that he was not at home when the police arrived. His wife had informed him over the phone that police in plain clothes were conducting a search in their apartment. When he rushed back home at around 2.30 p.m, the police team was coming out of the apartment’s elevator. The police officials questioned him about the whereabouts of the former Minister to which he told the police officials that he was only discharging his duty as an advocate. He said that the police also enquired about his Senior Advocate M. Ajmal Khan. Except for Inspector Sivabalan the other officials did not disclose their identity, he said. During the course of the hearing, Inspector Sivabalan was contacted over phone. He told Justice G. R. Swaminathan that he had led a team of police officials that went to the advocate’s apartment. He said that he had done so on the instructions of Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran. It was also confirmed that the police did not have a search warrant. Taking note of the submission, Justice Swaminathan directed Inspector Sivabalan to file a counter affidavit in the case. The court also directed Superintendent of Police Baskaran to file an affidavit as to whether he had authorised the Inspector and his team to inquire the advocate. Taking note of the fact that the advocate’s apartment was located within the limits of Madurai city, the court wanted to know how the Madurai rural police was authorised to go to the advocate’s apartment. The hearing was adjourned till January 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advocate-of-rajenthra-bhalajis-kin-alleges-trespass-by-police/article38104043.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:47 IST,TAMIL NADU||Watchman found dead||A 50-year-old man, A. Kannan of Karseri was found dead with head injuries at Kalmedu under Silaiman police station limits on Monday late evening. The deceased was working as a watchman at A. K. Nagar layout in Kalmedu. He was found dead with bleeding injuries at around 7 p.m. The body has been taken to GRH. The police said that Kannan used to chase away some youths who used to assemble at A. K. Nagar for consuming liquor. The police suspect that someone may have got enraged over the watchman's action and could have attacked him. This is the second murder reported under Silaiman police station limits since Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/watchman-found-dead/article38104388.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:47 IST,TAMIL NADU||Five held for murder of youth near Silaiman||Madurai district police have arrested five persons in connection with the murder of one K. Premkumar (24) at Sakkimangalam on Sunday. The police said that Premkumar was found beheaded with multiple cut injuries on his body. The police said that the deceased had snatched the mobile phone of a local youth G. Karthik Kannan on New Year’s day. Karthik along with his friends had gone to Premkumar’s house and had got the phone back after complaining to his father. However, Karthik could not stomach the ill-treatment he had been subjected to by Premkumar. Along with his friends, they picked up Premkumar and later murdered him. Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran formed special teams to nab the accused. The police have arrested Karthik and his friends, M. Arunkumar, M. Ramesh, N. Samayamuthu and M. Tamilarasan all from Silaiman . The SP has warned people that stringent action would be taken if they were found to consume liquor in public places. He also warned that action would be taken against those riding bikes in rash and negligent manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-held-for-murder-of-youth-near-silaiman/article38104387.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:47 IST,TAMIL NADU||Railways invite ideas to increase non-fare revenue||Madurai Railway Division has invited innovative ideas and suggestions from public, institutions, student community through a competition for increasing non-fare revenue. A statement said that prizes would be given to 10 best executable ideas. Any number of ideas can be sent. However, each application should have only one idea. No entry fee would be collected. Applications can be had from the Commercial Branch of Madurai Divisional Railway Office or it can be downloaded from https://sr.indianrailways. gov.in/Tender_cpp.jsp? lang=0&id=0,3 Applications can be submitted to Commercial branch of Madurai Divisional Railway Office or to e-mail id innovativeideasforrly@gmail.com before January 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railways-invite-ideas-to-increase-non-fare-revenue/article38104386.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||YouTuber Maridhas moves HC||YouTuber Maridhas moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday seeking the quash of the private complaint on the file of the Judicial Magistrate III, Thoothukudi. The complaint was filed by a DMK functionary S. R. S. Umari Shankar of Thoothukudi district. The complainant, Umari Shankar in his private complaint stated that Maridhas had tarnished the reputation of the DMK party and his family members in a video uploaded by Maridhas pertaining to the anti-CAA kolam protest. The petitioner Maridhas denied the allegations levelled against him. Justice G.R. Swaminathan ordered notice to Umari Shankar and adjourned the hearing in the case till January 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youtuber-maridhas-moves-hc/article38104115.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:47 IST,TAMIL NADU||briefly||Learning the nuances in digital marketing has become the need of the hour and it would shape the entrepreneurial eco-system across the State, said Nativelead Foundation CEO R Sivarajah here on Monday. Inaugurating a private academy in the city, he said that the digital marketing education would not only shape the learners about the merits, but it would be the primary medium for communication and solve challenges that may arise in businesses. In her welcome address, Shiney Meshach, who heads the Brand Monk Academy said that post-COVID-19, a majority of the population had learnt to live in a digital-ready society. From the academic point of view, there was a huge demand for digital marketing as a career, she noted. Faculty members in the Academy said that they offered 10-in-1 digital marketing, full stack digital marketing and among others. They also provided placement assistance and internship along with stipend for eligible students. For more details, aspirants may contact: 91503-49459.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article38104354.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:47 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Mullaperiyar dam stood at 140.45 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 601 cusecs and a discharge of 1,200 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 69.03 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 1,182 cusecs and a discharge of 669 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,385 mcft. Thekkadi recorded a rainfall of 2.8 mm and Idayapatti 1 mm during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38104138.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM launches COVID-19 vaccination drive for children of 15-18 age group in Puducherry||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy launched the COVID-19 vaccination drive for teenagers in the 15-17 age group in the Union Territory. The Health Department administered the vaccine [covaxin] at Thillaiyadi Valliammai Government School, Kadirgamam, in the presence of the Chief Minister. According to officials in the department, the target included 83,000 teenagers, who would be vaccinated with the support of Education Department in the Union Territory. Students would have to produce their Aadhar card or school identification cards for getting vaccinated, said the official. The Primary Health Centres have been asked to depute healthcare workers to all schools in the locality to provide the jab. Besides the camps at schools, teenagers could also visit any of the vaccination centres in government hospitals to get the jab. “Around 85,000 doses of Covaxin have already reached the Union Territory. We are planning to vaccinate as many teenagers as possible at the earliest,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-covid-19-vaccination-drive-for-children-of-15-18-age-group-in-puducherry/article38104312.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||360 constable posts to be filled by January 20: Namassivayam||The recruitment process to fill 360 constable posts will be over by January 20, Home Minister A. Namassivayam said here on Monday. Interacting with reporters after handing over promotion orders to 163 police personnel, including sub-inspectors and assistant sub-inspectors, the Home Minister said the entire process to recruit the constabulary would be over by January 20. In the next phase, recruitment for 300 more constables and 400 home guards would be taken up. The government plans to fill these vacancies by the end of this year, he said. The government had the Union Ministry of Home Affairs’ approval for the direct recruitment of sub-inspectors. Around 47 posts of sub-inspectors have to be filled through direct recruitment, he said. “The government is keen on improving the working conditions of police force by addressing their service requirements. We have already given the uniform allowance for this year. For the pending years, we will take a decision.” he said. Complimenting the police for their work during New Year celebrations, the Home Minister said the entire force had worked tirelessly to make the celebrations incident-free. He also said the special drive against ganja had resulted in the arrest of 163 personnel and seizure of 88 kg of weed. The force was keeping a regular check on the activities of anti-social elements, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/360-constable-posts-to-be-filled-by-january-20-namassivayam/article38104310.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 26 fresh COVID-19 infections||No death due to COVID-19 was reported in the Union Territory even as 26 fresh cases were detected from 865 tests on Monday. Meanwhile, the total number of vaccines administered in the Union Territory crossed the 14 lakh mark. Puducherry accounted for 23 of the fresh infections and Karaikal logged three. No cases were reported from Mahe or Yanam. With 21 patients recovering from the virus in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 155, of which 40 were in hospitals and 115 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 3.01%, the case fatality rate 1.45% and the recovery rate 98.43%. The cumulative toll in the Union Territory remained at 1,881, with Puducherry logging 1,469, Karaikal 251, Yanam 109 and Mahe 52. The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,29,553 cases and 1,27,517 recoveries. Of an estimated 20.52 lakh tests conducted so far, over 17.41 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 1,279 persons took the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has administered a total number of 14,06,822 vaccine doses so far. Other districts Cuddalore recorded nil COVID-19-related deaths on Monday. Five persons tested positive, taking the tally of active cases to 64,618. The district saw 63,651 recoveries and the active cases stood at 91. Villupuram reported nine cases, taking the total number of cases to 46,163. Kallakurichi recorded nine cases, taking the overall tally to 31,638.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-26-fresh-covid-19-infections/article38104315.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Courts to hold hearings in virtual mode||All courts in Puducherry will hear cases in virtual mode on directions of the Madras High Court in the wake of a spike in COVID-19 cases and the spread of the Omicron variant. In a note to the Puducherry Bar Association, Principal District Munsif G. Christian informed that all district Munsif courts would switch to virtual mode until further notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/courts-to-hold-hearings-in-virtual-mode/article38104316.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Temporary healthcare centre will be set up if COVID-19 cases due to Omicron increase in U.T., says CM||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Monday said the government is planning to set up a temporary healthcare centre at the Old Port Complex. “In case, there is a huge rise in number of COVID-19 cases due to the Omicron variant of the virus, we will set up the healthcare centre. We are fully prepared to deal with the situation. The department has stocked adequate medicines to deal with any medical emergency,” he said, while interacting with reporters after inspecting the complex. He also visited the modern market on ECR and Sports Complex at Lawspet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-healthcare-centre-will-be-set-up-if-covid-19-cases-due-to-omicron-increase-in-ut-says-cm/article38104313.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP to organise Pongal celebrations in all 30 constituencies in U.T.||The local unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to celebrate the Pongal festival in all the 30 Assembly constituencies. A decision regarding organising the celebrations was taken during a meeting held at the party office on Sunday. The meeting was chaired by party president V. Saminathan, Home Minister A. Namassivayam, Minister for Civil Supplies A. K. Sai J Saravana Kumar and party in-charge for the Union Territory, Nirmal Kumar Surana. Mr Saminathan said the party would organise various events on the festival day in all the Assembly segments. Prior to the festival, the party cadre would also hold Kabaddi competitions in the constituencies for three days, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-to-organise-pongal-celebrations-in-all-30-constituencies-in-ut/article38104314.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Prevent mechanised boat operators from violating norms’||Stating that a majority of mechanised boat operators violate the norms while fishing in Palk Bay, the Country Boat Fishermen Association led by the CITU (Kadal Thozhilalargal Sangam) has asked the Fisheries Department to put an end to the violation immediately. Submitting a detailed petition to Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat at the Collectorate during the weekly grievances meeting held on Monday, the CITU-led delegation said that mechanised boat fishermen in Mandapam violated the norms and indulged in fishing within five nautical miles. Apart from this, the delegation said that many mechanised boat operators damaged the natural reserves in the sea from Mandapam to Yerwadi. The forest department should conduct surveillance and punish the boat operators, they added. The memorandum also claimed that many Thoothukudi based boat operators fitted high horse-power motors, which were permitted only for deep-sea fishing boats, and engaged in fishing in Valinokkam, Mundal, Mariyur, Naripayur and Mookaiyur region. Likewise, many of the mechanised boat operators obtained permission for fishing three days in a week but clandestinely fished for the remaining days also without getting tokens. The members also said that many mechanised boat operators from Rameswaram, Pamban and Mandapam had set off to the sea from Monday and were carrying banned fishnets. Later, speaking to reporters, CITU district secretary M. Karunamoorthy said that the district administration should conduct fishermen grievance meeting every month, which was being conducted by Collectors in Kanniyakumari and Thoothukudi. About three years ago, citing some vague reasons, the then Collector had suspended the meeting, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prevent-mechanised-boat-operators-from-violating-norms/article38104135.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rameswaram fishermen call off strike, venture into sea||The mechanised boat fishermen from Rameswaram ventured into the sea on Monday. They were on a fortnight long strike after 68 fishermen from Rameswaram, Mandapam and Pudukottai district were held by Sri Lankan Navy personnel on December 18/19 on the charge of trespassing into Sri Lankan waters. The Sri Lankan navy authorities seized their vessels. The fishermen associations stayed away from fishing since then. They demanded the Union and State governments to ensure safe release of the fishermen and their vessels. Following a meeting held with Ramanathapuram Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat a few days ago, the fishermen leaders said that they were given an assurance for an appointment with Union External Affairs Minister and that the State government was closely following the developments. In a bid to give respect to the assurance and considering the survival means, the fishermen leaders decided to give up their strike. They had planned to resort to rail blockade on January 1. According to fisheries department officials, around 500 tokens were issued on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rameswaram-fishermen-call-off-strike-venture-into-sea/article38104136.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. will push for release of Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convicts’||Minister for Law and Prisons S. Raghupathy said the State Government will push for the release of seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. After inspecting the Salem Central Prison on Monday, he told reporters that in a plea filed in the Supreme Court by S. Nalini, one of the convicts, the court had observed that not just the President but the Governor himself could take a decision on the recommendation regarding their release. “However, there is no specific timeline for this. We are hoping that the Court will offer a good decision when the case is heard next,” Mr. Raghupathy said, adding that the State Government had already met the Governor in this regard and would continue pushing for the convicts’ release. At the convocation ceremony of the Central Law College, Mr. Raghupathy said they had received suggestions from various quarters that a subject on law should be included in Class XII. The idea would be discussed with the School Education Minister, and it could create interest in law studies among students, he said. The Minister said about 30,000 law graduates were registering in the Bar Council each year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-will-push-for-release-of-rajiv-gandhi-assassination-case-convicts/article38104150.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||Drive begins in other districts||The COVID-19 vaccination drive for persons aged between 15 and 18 began at schools in districts here. In Krishnagiri, District Collector V. Jayachandra Banu Reddy assessed the progress of vaccination at the Government Boys Higher Secondary School. In a release, the Collector said the drive had been launched to vaccinate 62,343 students at 444 schools. In Dharmapuri, Collector S. Divyadarshini launched the vaccination at the Sholaikottai Government Higher Secondary School. In a release, she said arrangements had been made to vaccinate 69,500 students in the age group in their respective schools. In Namakkal, Tourism Minister M. Mathiventhan launched the drive at the Venandhur Government Higher Secondary School. Collector Shreya P. Singh inaugurated the camp at the Ernapuram Government Higher Secondary School. According to officials, 65,856 students in 367 schools are eligible for the vaccination. In Salem Corporation limits, Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj launched the vaccination drive at the Kottai Government Girls Higher Secondary School. As many as 30,584 students studying in 96 schools are eligible for the vaccination. According to Education officials, 1.16 lakh students studying in 269 schools in the district are eligible to get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-begins-in-other-districts/article38104153.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Understand sacrifices of freedom fighters’||Hailing the sacrifices of late freedom fighter ‘Veeramangai’ Velu Nachiar, Rural Development Minister K. R. Periakaruppan appealed to the younger generation to learn about their struggle in making India an independent nation from the colonial British regime. After garlanding the statue of Velu Nachiar at Chettikulam in Sivaganga district on Monday marking the 292nd birth anniversary, the Minister said that she was the first woman to fight the Britishers from this part of the region, which motivated more and more people to follow her in the struggle. In a bid to ensure that the historic moments were preserved, the then DMK leader and late Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had built memorials for many of the freedom fighters in Tamil Nadu. As a result of which, the message about the stalwarts were visible even today. The Minister urged the younger generation to imbibe the qualities of sacrifice and to learn to come up the hard way from such leaders. He also wished they cultivated good habits and brought laurels to the society. Sivaganga Collector P. Madhusudan Reddy, Superintendent of Police T. Senthil Kumar, MLAs A. Tamilarasi Ravikumar, S. Mangudi and functionaries from many other political outfits and service organisations also garlanded the statue at the memorial. BJP hails Velunachiyar Hailing the sacrifices of freedom fighter “Veeramangai” Velunachiyar, BJP leaders appealed to the people of Tamil Nadu to preserve Hindu culture and tradition. Party State president Annamalai said that she was a symbol of determination, grit and valour. As a mark of respect and also to disseminate about stalwarts such as Velunachiyar, the BJP had proposed to educate the masses across the country in this 75th year of Indian independence. Hence, 75 freedom fighters/tyagis have been chosen and the BJP leader appealed to the youth to learn in depth about their sacrifices. Senior BJP leader H Raja traced the historic importance of the freedom fighters from Tamil Nadu and the significant role played by the party from time immemorial. National secretary (minority morcha) M. Syed Ibrahim, MLAs Nainar Nagendran, Vanathi Srinivasan, State and district functionaries of the party also showered encomiums on Velunachiyar. The leaders pointed out the Facebook page of Prime Minister Narendra Modi had heaped praised on Velunachiyar. In the page, the Prime Minister had also appealed to the youth in the country to follow the ideology of such famed fighters. The younger generation had a greater responsibility in the nation building exercise and the BJP would support them in all the development aspects, he had stated. Earlier in the day, the BJP leaders garlanded the statue of Velunachiyar at the memorial in Soorakulam in Sivaganga district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/understand-sacrifices-of-freedom-fighters/article38104132.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea to renovate two dilapidated temples||The Akila Bharatha Hindu Mahasabha has exhorted the State government to renovate and preserve two Chola era temples in Kumbakonam region. In the memorandum submitted through the district administration on Monday, the ABHM’s Temple Protection Wing State president, Rama. Niranjan, said Sri Naganathaswamy Temple at Manampadi and Sri Aabathsagayewarar Temple at Thukkachi were in a dilapidated condition despite being under the purview of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. These temples housing splendid sculptures were renovated and consecrated several years back; the Manampadi temple also faces demolition threat in view of the Thanjavur-Vikkiravandi Road expansion proposal. Exhorting the government to initiate necessary steps for the renovation of these temples that were more than 1,000 years old, and to consecrate them, the Sabha demanded that consecration of the Dharasuram temple should also be performed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-renovate-two-dilapidated-temples/article38104118.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||CPI stages demonstration over registration issue||Communist Party of India cadre staged a demonstration at Karukkapatti in Orathanadu taluk on Monday over the issue of registration of names with the DPC. Leading the demonstration, the CPI Thanjavur South district secretary, Muthu.Uthirapathi, alleged that the direct purchase centre staff at Karukkapatti refused to purchase paddy from farmers, citing non-registration of their names with the DPC to measure their produce. The paddy stocked near the DPC by the farmers have remained exposed to the vagaries of nature for more than two weeks. Stating that the farmers were unable to register their names online to measure their paddy at the Karukkapatti DPC due to ‘poor’ and ‘feeble’ internet connectivity, Mr. Uthirapathi urged the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation to procure paddy from those who have not unregistered thier names, taking into consideration the problems faced by the farmers. The demonstration was withdrawn after the Corporation officials and police pacified the demonstrators stating that the farmers’ grievance would be conveyed to the government and a solution would be arrived at soon.  The DPC staff at Karukkapatti refuse to purchase paddy from farmers who have not registered their names Farmers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-stages-demonstration-over-registration-issue/article38104116.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Suriyanarkovil Aadheenam passes away||Srilasri Sankaralinga Desika Paramacharya, the ‘peetathipathi’ of Suriyanarkovil Aadheenam, attained ‘mukhti’ on Monday. He served as the ‘peetathipathi’ of Suriyanarkovil Aadheenam for more than three decades after he was ordained as Aadheenakarthar by the Thiruvavaduthurai 23rd pontiff, Sivaprakasa Desika Paramacharya. The mortal remains of Sri Sankaralinga Desika Paramacharya was interned on the Aadheenam premises on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suriyanarkovil-aadheenam-passes-away/article38104117.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:36 IST,TAMIL NADU||Boy hit in head by stray bullet dies||An 11-year-old boy who was injured in the head by a stray bullet from a firing range used by the CISF in Pasumalaipatti last week, died in Thanjavur on Monday. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin condoled the death and announced a solatium of Rs. 10 lakh for the boy’s kin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-hit-in-head-by-stray-bullet-dies/article38104001.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Need for good food habits for pregnant women stressed||An awareness camp to sensitise pregnant women to the need for nurturing good food habits was held here on Monday. Expectant mothers who took part in the programme at Meenakshi Hospital here were told that regulation of both physical and mental health was necessary along with adoption of good food habits for having a healthy baby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-for-good-food-habits-for-pregnant-women-stressed/article38104119.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||Demand to reopen Sterlite Copper plant||Demand for the reopening of Sterlite Copper is growing further as people from 12 villages including five fishermen colonies submitted a petition to the Collector during the weekly grievance meet held here on Monday. Residents from Lions Town, Anna Teresa Meenavar Colony, Fatima Nagar, Lourdhammalpuram, Sahayapuram, Ganesapuram, Cruzpuram, Ramarvilai, Gopalsamy Nagar, Pandaarampatti, Saaminaththam and Naduvaikurichi submitted separate petitions in support of the reopening of the copper manufacturing unit that remains closed for more than three-and-a-half years after the violent anti-Sterlite protest witnessed the killing of 13 persons in police firing. The petitioners said the closure of Sterlite Copper had left a few thousand skilled and unskilled labourers unemployed and their families were starving. Moreover, welfare schemes being implemented by the copper major had been abandoned leaving the rural women, children and fishermen in the lurch. The training being imparted by the Sterlite Copper under its corporate social responsibility programme had been hit hard by the closure. The unit should be reopened at the earliest to ensure employment to the youth who had been rendered jobless due to its closure, they said. Demanding the construction of a bridge at Mela Karanthai Vilakku on Thoothukudi – Madurai National Highway to enable the farmers to reach their ranches with ease, president of Karisal Bhoomi Vivasaayigal Sangam A. Vardharajan submitted a petition. A group of Hindu Desiya Katchi cadre broke earthen pot in front of the Collectorate demanding Rs. 5,000 as Pongal gift to every ration cardholder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demand-to-reopen-sterlite-copper-plant/article38104356.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||An eco-friendly gift to the public||People who came to the district collectorate on Monday to submit their grievances in the form of petitions received an unusual and unexpected new year gift - yellow cloth bags.  As the Tamil Nadu government, to encourage the public to use the cloth bags instead of using the harmful and non-degradable plastic bags, has launched ‘ Meendum manjappa i’ (Yellow Cloth Bag Again) campaign in Tamil Nadu, S. Muruganandam, 42, of Tiruchendur readied 600 yellow cloth bags to be distributed to the public who come to the Collectorate in large numbers to submit petitions.  Apart from being part of a Tiruchendur-based decoration team, decorating marriage halls and houses for auspicious functions, he used to wash cars for augmenting his revenue. With the small savings he had, he has purchased the cloth bags to be distributed to the public. Complimenting his effort, who is also the Tiruchendur union secretary of Physically Challenged Persons’ Welfare Association, Collector K. Senthil Raj inaugurated the distribution of the free cloth bags. After the formal inauguration, he continued to distribute the cloth bags to the public. “I used my limited resources to purchase the cloth bags to be distributed free to the public,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-eco-friendly-gift-to-the-public/article38104364.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive for teenagers begins||A total of 14,556 students between the age of 15 and 17 took the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine in Tiruchi on Monday. The students, who were administered the Covaxin vaccine, were asked to bring letters from their parents consenting to the vaccination. On Monday, the first day of the vaccination drive for the children, 32 schools in the rural and semi-urban parts and around 10 in the city were identified for the drive. Around three teams have been identified per block of the 14 blocks in the district to go from school to school to administer the vaccine. In the city, health workers attached to the 18 Primary Healthcare Centres will travel to schools within their jurisdictions. On Monday alone, 14,556 students took the jab in Tiruchi. The total target group is 1,26,400, including dropouts, students studying at vocational training institutes and polytechnic colleges. All were given Covaxin, as directed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The dosage is the same as that of adults - 0.5 ml, the students too, will require to take the second dose after 28 days. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru inaugurated the drive along with Collector S. Sivarasu at Bishop Heber Higher Secondary School in Puthur. He said that the drive would ensure the safety of children. “So far there is conclusive proof that the Omicron variant is mild. Patients test negative on the third day after contracting it. There is nothing to worry about,” he said. In Mayiladuthurai, Collector R. Lalitha inaugurated the drive for the students. A target of 42,200 students has been identified here. Meanwhile, in neighbouring Nagapattinam district, 32,300 students have been identified for innoculation. There are 144 schools, of which 50 schools took part in the drive on Monday. Similarly, the total eligible population in Pudukottai was identified as 42,200; in Perambalur as 26,100; Tiruvarur 58,400; Thanjavur 1,11,400; Ariyalur 34,800 and Karur 49,300. “We have been instructed to vaccinate the population by January 8. All efforts are being made to meet the target,” a senior health official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-for-teenagers-begins/article38104124.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||10 NIT-Tiruchi students test positive||Ten students of National Institute of Technology- Tiruchi have reported COVID-19 positive, and have been kept in isolation on the campus.  Their samples will be sent to Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics laboratories for genome sequencing to confirm the variant. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior official of the Health Department said that a batch of around 500 students of third year had returned to the institute over the weekend when RT-PCR tests were taken.  The results, which returned on Monday, indicated that 10 among them were COVID-19 positive. A team from the Directorate of Public Health rushed to the college on Monday evening to take stock of the situation. These students, all hailing from other States, are being monitored at a quarantine facility on the premises and will be shifted to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, if the need arises. G. Kannabiran, Director (in charge) of NIT-T said that the students were asymptomatic. “Students were returning to college in a phased manner. However, we will now suspend it and hold classes in a hybrid manner for the time being,” he said. The health officials will test students and staff of NIT on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-nit-tiruchi-students-test-positive/article38104120.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||71 new cases in delta region||The central region reported 71 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday, indicating a major spike in comparison with previous days. However, no patients succumbed to the illness. The number of cases in Tiruchi and Thanjavur continues to register a marked increase. A total of 27 patients reported positive for the viral infection in Tiruchi, and 17 in Thanjavur. Ten patients reported positive in Karur while eight cases were recorded in Tiruvarur. The five remaining districts continue to report a low number of cases. In Perambalur, four patients reported positive while in Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam, two fresh cases were reported. Ariyalur reported one fresh case, and Pudukottai reported none.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/71-new-cases-in-delta-region/article38104122.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||International Week facilitates insight into global business||The fifth edition of International Week hosted by Indian Institute of Management - Tiruchi brought together leading academicians from universities of repute worldwide, facilitating global business insights.. Recognising the need for education to transcend geographical boundaries, the International Week was formulated as a platform for students to gain a holistic understanding of the complexities of business from a global perspective. The International Week conducted online for the second year witnessed 16 faculty members from Australia, Denmark, Finland, New Zealand, the Philippines, U.K., and U.S.A. engaging 260 students from both the PGPM (full-time two-year MBA students) and PGPBM (part-time MBA for working professionals, Chennai campus) courses with a diverse mix of electives from domains such as Marketing, Finance, and Strategy. A range of topics Professors from Asian Institute of Management, Ara Institute of Canterbury, Bond University, and Bowling Green State University handled courses covering a range of topics, including ‘Strategic digitalization of services,’ ‘International logistics and supply chain management,’ ‘Financial Innovation,’ ‘Financing real estate investment and development,’ ‘Contemporary issues in marketing ethics,’ ‘Innovation and marketing,’ ‘Introduction to e-governance and Smart City,’ ‘Security and personal privacy online,’ ‘Cross-cultural management’ and ‘Forensic accounting and bankruptcy prediction.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/international-week-facilitates-insight-into-global-business/article38104128.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||IndiGo airline to link Tiruchi with Tirupathi from January 18||IndiGo airline will link Tiruchi with Tirupati from January 18. The airline will operate an ATR aircraft with 72 seats on this sector four days a week - Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. Airport Director of Tiruchi S. Dharmaraj told The Hindu on Monday that the slot had been cleared for the airline to launch the service. The flight will leave Tirupati at 5 p.m. and arrive Tiruchi at 6.20 p.m. It will depart from Tiruchi at 6.40 p.m. and reach Tirupati at 8 p.m.  Tirupati will be the fifth domestic destination to get connected with Tiruchi. IndiGo plans to start New Delhi - Tiruchi - New Delhi service from January 10. Now, Tiruchi has direct flights to Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. The new service will benefit devotee traffic from Tiruchi and other delta districts bound for Tirupati, besides bringing visitors to Srirangam temple from there, said S.A. Mubashir, vice-president, Trichy Tourism Federation. The new services to New Delhi and Tirupati will increase movement of domestic passengers from Tiruchi airport which handled over 85,000 passengers during April-November 2021, as per Airports Authority of India statistics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indigo-to-link-tiruchi-with-tirupathi-from-january-18/article38104126.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||No need for advocate’s signature in complaints||General public in the central zone encompassing nine districts approaching the Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, or other top officers and personnel manning the police station can submit thier complaints describing their problems without the signature of an advocate or a notary public. It applies for complaints sent by post also. The public can either write the complaint themselves or type them affixing their signature and submit the same, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-need-for-advocates-signature-in-complaints/article38104416.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||There will be a power shutdown from 9.45 a.m. to 2 p.m. on January 5 (Wednesday) in areas served by Vengaimandalam substation in view of maintenance works: Moovanur, Vengaimandalam, Thanneerpandal, Melakannukulam, Keezhakannukulam, Parvathipuram, Kuruvampatti, Kallur, Vellanthurai, Sholanganallur, Senthamaraikkan, Surugambur, No.2 Kariamanickam, Sennakarai, Ramakiripatti, Sengudi, Vazhamalpalayam, Settimangalam, Neyveli, Kiliyanallur, Vathalai, V. Maniampatti, Silayathi, Thudaiyur, Pandiapuram, Sunaipukanallur, and Eechampatti, according to a press release issued here on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article38104418.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam on Monday stood at 116.12 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 2,932 cusecs and the discharge 1,001 cusecs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article38104127.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||SI suspended for assaulting lorry driver||A Sub-Inspector attached to Samayapuram Traffic Police station was placed under suspension on Monday following a complaint that he spoke in an indecent manner and assaulted a lorry driver near here. The incident occurred on Monday morning near Samayapuram Pallividai bridge where the Sub- Inspector, Selvaraj, was conducting vehicle check, a police press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/si-suspended-for-assaulting-lorry-driver/article38104125.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||Teenagers get first dose||Of the 76,400 targeted teenagers between the age of 15 and 17, 4,281 persons received their first dose against COVID-19 as the programme was launched in the district on Monday. Of the 76,400 persons between the age of 15 and 17, 58,338 are school children, who will get vaccinated by 51 medical teams. Each medical team will have a doctor, a nurse and a data operator. In the presence of Collector V. Vishnu, Minister for Transport R.S. Rajakannappan, who is also in-charge of Tirunelveli district, launched the vaccination drive at Government Higher Secondary School at Reddiyarpatti on Palayamkottai outskirts. Mr. Rajakannappan told reporters that the district administration had kept all arrangements including 2,500 oxygen-supported beds ready to face the third wave of COVID-19 even as 16 persons were undergoing treatment for the viral infection in the district. He denied the rumours that the district had two omicron patients, saying that none from the district had tested positive for the COVID-19 variant so far. Over 17,000 buses would be operated during ‘Pongal’ season to clear extra rush, he added. In Tenkasi, 5,123 out of 65,900 boys and girls were vaccinated while 4,115 persons received the first jab in Thoothukudi district on the first day of the drive. In Kanniyakumari district, 11,579 persons were administered with the first dose even as 87,400 are to be vaccinated in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teenagers-get-first-dose/article38104358.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea for traffic island near industrial centre||The CITU submitted a petition during the weekly grievances meet seeking a traffic island near Gangaikondan SIPCOT Industrial Promotion Centre. Its district secretary R. Mohan said a few thousand workers employed in 25-odd factories in SIPCOT Industrial Promotion Complex at Gangaikondan had to cross the busy Tirunelveli – Madurai four-lane round the clock. Since there was no traffic island at a vantage point to ensure safe crossing of workers, they had to take a three-km-long circuitous route to cross the four-lane national highway. “Those who dare to cross the four-lane in the wrong direction or via the broken median often get killed. So, the district administration should take steps to construct a traffic island at the right place,” he said. A group of people belonging to Arunthathiyar community from Sampooththu near Maanur submitted a petition accusing a group of Scheduled Caste (SC) Christians of preventing them from offering prayers in a temple. Led by A. Subramanian of Sampooththu, they said a SC Christian of the village had claimed ownership of the land on which they had constructed Mariamman Temple. “Though we were offering prayers in this temple for the past four decades, he is claiming that it was his ‘patta’ land. They are not allowing us to create a new temple on the adjacent government poramboke land. Revenue officials should provide us land for constructing a temple,” he said. Revenue officials said the temple, which was created on a private patta land a few years ago, had been fenced by the rightful owner. “It’s not a four-decade-old temple, which has been built a few years ago. In a bid to attract the official machinery’s attention and an action in their favour, the petitioners are creating a rift. We’re contemplating the possibilities of filing a complaint with the police for a probe to ascertain the people behind this mischief and taking action based on finding of the probe,” an official said. A group of Hindu Desiya Katchi cadre broke a pot in front of the Collectorate demanding Rs. 5,000 as Pongal gift to each ration cardholder. They said the DMK president M.K. Stalin, when he was the Leader of the Opposition, demanded Rs. 5,000 as Pongal gift to every ration cardholder even as then Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had announced Rs. 2,500 as the gift. “Now, the Chief Minister M.K. Stalin refuses to give Rs. 5,000 and cheats the people who voted him to power. So, we’re breaking the Pongal pot,” said R. Shankar, district president of Hindu Desiya Katchi. When S. Subbiah of Veeravanallur tried to immolate himself on the Collectorate premises, the police thwarted the attempt. As he was quizzed by the police, he told that the raised shutter of the Kooththaadikulam had destroyed farming in his ranch. “If the shutter height is reduced to the earlier level, it will revive agriculture in our lands,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-traffic-island-near-industrial-centre/article38104360.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam Dam on Monday stood at 134.45 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 1,496.53 cusecs and 904.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar Dam stood at 117.15 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 830 cusecs and 260 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38104362.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two held for attacking bus conductor||The Palladam police on Sunday arrested two youth on charges of attacking a conductor of a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) mofussil bus. Police said R. Selvakumar (22), S. Rathish (21) and Raghuneswaran (21) boarded the bus to Malumichampatti at the Palladam bus terminus. They handed over Rs. 50 to the bus conductor C. Angamuthu (46) for the tickets. As the conductor asked for Rs. . 1, they allegedly refused to give. They allegedly attacked Mr. Angamuthu. Raghuneswaran was injured in attack by passengers. Based on Angamuthu’s complaint, the Palladam police e arrested Selvakumar and Rathish and remanded them in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-attacking-bus-conductor/article38104063.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district logs 22 fresh infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,606 with 22 new cases reported on Monday. While 49,260 persons have been discharged, the total number of active cases in the district stands at 202. The district's death toll is 1,144. In Ranipet district, eight cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,748. In Tirupattur district, 2 cases were reported on Monday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,488. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases stood at 6, taking the overall tally to 55,391. Out of these, 54,668 persons have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 50.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-logs-22-fresh-infections/article38104367.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination of teenagers begins||A total of 13,093 teenagers were administered Covaxin, COVID-19 vaccine, on Monday when vaccination for those aged between 15 to 17 years began. Revenue Minister K. K. S. S. R. Ramachandran, formally inaugurated the vaccination camp at Government Boys’ Higher Secondary School at Pandalgudi in the presence of Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy. Out of the 90,200 eligible population in the age group of 15 to 17 years, 14.5% or 13,093 students were administered the vaccine at their schools, the Collector said. A total of 45 medical teams were involved in the vaccination. The teams are visiting two to four schools depending upon the number of students in each school in a day. The Collector said that the administration has planned to cover all the students in around one week. An official in the Health Department said that children between 15 years to 17 years who were out of school can get vaccinated at the mega vaccination camps in their neighbourhood. Sivakasi Sub-Collector Birithiviraj, Aruppukottai Divisional Revenue Officer Kalyanakumar, District Chief Educational Officer A. Gnanagowri, Deputy Director (Health- Virudhunagar), Dr. Shanmugasundaram, Aruppukottai Tahsildar Arivazhagan, were among those who were present. Sivaganga Visiting a couple of campuses, Collector P Madhusudan Reddy said that a total of 62,522 teenagers had enrolled for the vaccination for COVID-19 virus. The School Education department officials have made elaborate arrangements in as many as 273 schools in Sivaganga, Devakottai and Tirupathur respectively. The vaccination would go on for about a week following the guidelines issued by the State government. He appealed to the teenagers to get inoculated without fail and urged them to wear facemasks without fail whenever they stepped out of their dwellings. Theni Collector K. V. Muralidharan commenced the vaccination process at a school in Allinagaram in the presence of SP Praveen Umesh Dongre, MLA K. S. Saravanakumar and DD Health Jegaveerapandian. According to officials, 51,138 teenagers had enrolled for vaccination across 223 schools covering Theni, Periakulam and Uthamapalayam educational districts. The Collector told reporters that till January 2, the district had inoculated 13,21,052 people. Dindigul Dindigul Collector S Visakan said on Monday that the district had made elaborate arrangements for inoculating teenagers in the age group of 15 and 17 years. The district, he said, had already achieved 100 per cent vaccination in many panchayats and municipalities including Kodaikanal and Palani respectively. HR&CE Minister Sekar Babu and Food Minister R Sakkarapani inaugurated the vaccination programme at a school campus in Palani in which senior officials from multiple departments participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-of-teenagers-begins/article38104141.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:36 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu updates COVID-19 triage, treatment protocol||If home isolation was not possible, patients could be referred to CCCs. All COVID-19 positive pregnant and lactating mothers, patients aged above 60 years should be referred to COVID-19 hospitals. Persons with family history of severe COVID-19 or death should be referred to higher centres. Irrespective of symptoms, unvaccinated individuals who have co-morbidities would be admitted in CCC and kept under observation for a minimum of five days, while those with no co-morbidities and no symptoms would be observed in home isolation. Who will be admitted? As per the protocol, persons testing positive for COVID-19 will be admitted to designated COVID-19 hospitals if their respiratory rate is more than 30/minute and oxygen saturation (SpO2) level is less than 90. If a person has a respiratory rate of 24 to 30 and SpO2 of 90 to 93 and has no co-morbidities, they would be admitted to a CHC or CCC. For those with co-morbidities, their vaccination status would be taken into consideration. Those who had taken two doses of COVID-19 vaccines would be admitted to CHC or CCC. Age comes in as an added factor for those with co-morbidities and have received one dose of vaccine or are unvaccinated. Persons aged less than 60 and had taken a single dose or nil vaccination would be admitted to CHC/CCC, while those aged above 60 would be admitted to a COVID-19 hospital. Those testing positive and having a respiratory rate of less than 24 and SpO2 of more than 94 would be sent for home isolation/CCCs. Persons who have symptoms but test negative for the infection would be checked for their contact history and vaccination status. If clinical, laboratory and radiological parameters are in favour of COVID-19 suspect, then they would be considered for admission based on various criteria. In any case, patients with SpO2 of more than 94 should not be admitted to a COVID-19 hospital unless specific clinical condition warrants admission in a higher centre. The Health Secretary said that the COVID-19 triaging and admission protocol should be followed strictly. It should be followed uniformly in the field and while triaging in the facilities in the government, local body as well as in private hospitals. Screening centres For this, the officials were urged to ensure that adequate screening centres were opened and made operational to facilitate implementation of the updated protocol. Adequate CCCs should be made operational. Human resources should be deployed in the screening centres with standard blood test and other equipment, while CCCs should be staffed at all levels. Stressing on the importance of clinical management of cases, he said officials should ensure that the 1.15-lakh currently available beds for COVID-19 treatment and additional 50,000 beds, especially CCCs including interim CCCs adjacent to habitations and streets or wards, are made fully operational.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-updates-covid-19-triage-treatment-protocol/article38104002.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Change on the ground||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/change-on-the-ground/article38103848.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||A prick in time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-prick-in-time/article38104370.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases cross 100-mark in Coimbatore||After a gap of over two weeks, the daily COVID-19 caseload in Coimbatore district crossed the 100-mark on Monday with 105 fresh cases being reported. The caseload continued to inch up for the fourth consecutive day and the previous instance when the district reported over 100 cases was on December 18, 2021. The Health Department reported one new death taking the overall toll to 2,518. A total of 86 persons were reported to have recovered and 899 patients were active cases. The daily caseload of Tiruppur district saw a slight decrease on Monday as 52 new cases were reported, which was lower than Sunday’s caseload of 68 cases. No new deaths were reported. Number of active cases in the district was 465 and 45 persons recovered from COVID-19. In the Nilgiris, 11 persons tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-cross-100-mark-in-coimbatore/article38104064.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Indian Institute of Management - Tiruchi: Eleventh Foundation Day celebration, address by Sadish Babu, Executive Director - Human Resources, NLC India, 10.30 a.m.  St. Joseph's College: World Braille Day, 2 p.m.  Shrimati Indira Gandhi College: NSS camp, awareness programme on importance of first aid and methods of disposing napkins, Ammapatti, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article38104417.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal Temple: Thirukarthigai and Markazhi Mahotsavam, Kovaipudur temple, 5.20 a.m. onwards.    Adithya School of Business Management: Retail Week 21 valedictory function, 3 p.m.  KPR College of Arts, Science and Research: School of Commerce: Virtual Campus connect 2022, 10 a.m.: School of Management: Guest lecture, 11.30 a.m.    Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja College: Pongal Vizha, Pollachi - Palani Road, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article38104066.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||04-01-22-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA ANUSHAM ARTS ACADEMY- 9884190454 Today R.R.Sabha Hall-2, Mylapore. B/N Disciples of Guru Archana Mahesh 4.30 pm Shreya Anil, 5.45 pm N.Thailasanthoshi, 7.15 Aparna Kannan Guru Mangala Karthikeyan. All are Welcome. Live https:// livewebcast.in/anusham. Namasankeerthana Vizha - 2021 - 22 Integrated Academy for Performing Arts, Sri Krishna Gana Sabha & Bhagavatha Seva Trust presents Namasankeerthana Vizha 2021 - 22 from 31.12.2021 to 09.01.2022. Today - 04.00 PM: Namasankeerthanam by Ayakkudi Sri. Kumar Bhagavathar 06.00 PM: Villupuram Sri. Jayatheertha Bhagavathar. Venue: Sri Krishna Gana Sabha, T Nagar Chennai. The programme will be telecast on https://namasanke erthanavizha.com & Facebook Page "namasankeerthanavizha". As per Latest Government norms, only 50% of Hall capacity is permitted. Seating available only on first come first serve basis. - ALL ARE WELCOME - ENTRY FREE - Programmes sponsored by Integrated Enterprises (India) Pvt. Ltd., Shriram Group of Companies and City Union Bank. NARADA GANA SABHA TRUST, 24993201 At Swami Haridhos Giri Hall from today upto 13.1.22, daily at 7.30 am THIRUPPAVAI - Dr. M A Venkatakrishnan. All are welcome. Covid SOPs apply. Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha (Regd) Vani Mahal. Ph 28152166 Vanimahal@gmail.com 42nd ISAI, IYAL, NATAKA VIZHA 2021-2022 32NDBHARATHAM FESTIVAL 2022 42nd ISAI, IYAL, NATAKA VIZHA 2021-2022 at Sri Chandrasekarendra Saraswathi Mahaswami Auditorium (Dedicated to the memory of Sri P.Obul Reddy &Smt. P.Gnanamba). Today: 07.00 a.m. Thiruppavai Upanyasam by Dr. Sudha Seshayyan. 02.00p.m Ms. Shruthi S. Bhat (Vocal), Ms. Shree Lakshmi Bhat (Violin) Thirucherai Sri. Kaushik Rajagopal (Mrudangam), Sri K.R.Sivaramakrishna (Kanjira). 04.00 p.m. Smt. J.B. Sruthi Sagar (Flute) Sri. R.Raghul (Violin) Sri. Praveen Sparsh (Mrudangam) ALL ARE WELCOME. 06.30p.m. Sri. Rajhesh Vaidhya (Veena) & Sir. U. Rajesh (Mandolin) Tanjore Sri. Govindarajan (Spl. Thavil) Sri. Praveen Narayan (Tabla) Sri. Swaminathan Selvaganesh (Kanjira). Tomorrow: 06.30p.m. Smt. S. Mahathi (Vocal). TODAY'S SPONSOR: Punjab National Bank. Festival MAIN SPONSORS: Rajalakshmi Institutions, Nippo Indo National Limited, Sri. P. Obul Reddy & Smt. P. Gnanambal Trust, MGM Health Care, SBI, Indian Bank, Bank of Baroda, Ministry of Culture New Delhi, Arun Excello -Ziva, Bhaggyam Constructions, Shriram Capital Ltd, Textan, Sastra, Union Bank of India, Bank of Maharastra, Thejus, Indusind Bank, JB Cultural Foundation, GRT Jewellers, DBL Medias, Canara Bank, The Federal Bank, Karur Vysya Bank Ltd., Bank of India, Sundaram Finance Ltd, Catholic Syrian Bank. 32ND BHARATHAM FESTIVAL 2022 at Sri P. Obul Reddy Hall Tomorrow: 04.00p.m: Bharathanatyam by Sahithya Venkatasubramaniam Guru: Smt. Prabin Villareesh 06.30p.m: Bharathanatyam by Vasundhara A.V. Guru: Smt. Priya Karthikeyan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/04-01-22-city-cinema/article38104017.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Vaccination drive for teenagers launched in Belagavi district||Irrigation Minister and in-charge of COVID-19 management in Belagavi district Govind Karjol launched a vaccination drive at S.G. Balekundri Institute of Technology in Belagavi on Monday. He said that Belagavi district has achieved significant success in vaccination. While the State average for vaccination is 97% in total number of doses given, Belagavi district has achieved 99%. Similarly, Belagavi has given 83% second doses as against the State average of 79%, he said. Under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India has produced 240 crore vaccine doses. His vision led to the establishment of laboratories and oxygen plants, strengthening of hospitals, addition of hospital beds, intensive care units and ventilator beds, the Minister said. Regional Commissioner Amlan Aditya Biswas asked the youth to volunteer in large numbers for vaccination. “Now that you are vaccinated, you should realise that you are COVID-19 warriors. You need to spread the good word about vaccination around your family, friends and other groups,’’ he said. Health Department officials had planned to set up 298 vaccination points across the 14 taluks in the district. But they rose to 323, after rearrangement, he said. “The first day’s target was 41,000. Of this, we are close to achieving around 35,000,” District Vigilance Officer Ishwar Gadad said. “This is around 20% of the total of 2.47 lakh target for the district. We hope to complete the whole process in eight-10 days,’’ Dr. Gadad added. Member of Parliament Mangala Angadi, Member of Legislative Council Sabanna Talwar, Member of Legislative Assembly Anil Benake, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath, Police Commissioner M.B. Boralingaiah, Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbargi, City Corporation Commissioner Rudresh Ghali, District Health Officer S.V. Munyal, Deputy Director of Public Instruction Basavaraj Nalatwad and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-drive-for-teenagers-launched-in-belagavi-district/article38104172.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Special drive begins at Kore hospital||Member of Parliament Mangala Angadi inaugurated the special vaccination drive for teenagers at KLE Society’s Prabhakar Kore Hospital in Belagavi on Monday. She appealed to all young people to take the vaccine, while continuing to observe COVID-19 safety protocol. As many as 80 students who had registered were given the vaccine on the first day. Society chairman Prabhakar Kore said that children are being given free vaccine. He said that Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is being given to those aged between 15 and 18. He announced that a precautionary third dose will be given to health care workers, frontline workers and citizens aged above 60 with severe health conditions from January 10. There is no need for prior registration and those who wanted the vaccine could walk in and get it, he said. Medical Director of the hospital M.V. Jali, Principal N.S. Mahanthashetti, Principal of Nursing Sciences Sudha Raddi, Chief Public Relation Officer Shankar Parsannavar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-drive-begins-at-kore-hospital/article38104173.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Karnataka meets 65% of target, vaccinates 4.14 lakh children||As many as 4.14 lakh children between 15-18 years received their first dose of the COVID-19 on Monday. The State Government, which had planned to cover 6.38 lakh beneficiaries across Karnataka, was able to meet 65% of its target.  In Bengaluru, 29,423 eligible children were vaccinated in 287 vaccination centres. Ten out of 31 districts exceeded their vaccination target, while 11 did not meet 50% of their vaccination targets. Vaccination certificate Vaccination drives were held in most schools and PU colleges. Many schools and PU colleges in Karnataka announced that it was mandatory for students to get the shot to attend physical classes and write the board examination, causing panic among parents and students. Stating that vaccination certificate is mandatory for writing the board examination, the management of one private school in Bengaluru instructed students to submit their first dose certificate by the end of the week. Mahesh S., a parent of a Class X student said, “We wanted to wait for a month or so and see if there are any adverse effects reported due to the vaccination. But by asking us to submit certificates by the end of the week, schools are putting pressure which we are against,” he said. Some schools couched it as guidelines instead of making it mandatory. There were cases of students not receiving their shots as they had forgotten to get their consent letters or their Aadhaar cards. Mansoor Ali Khan, member, Board of Management, Delhi Public School, said they received a good response to the vaccination drive that was held in three of their schools. They have partnered with a private hospital for the drive. He said around 400 students will be vaccinated every day till the end of the month. Lokesh Talikatte, president of Registered Unaided Private Schools Management Association said many of their school associations made vaccination mandatory for students if they wanted to attend physical classes. “We received a great response in rural schools in Karnataka as we have made this mandatory due to the spike in COVID-19 cases in the State,” he said. Many parents chose not to send their children to the camps organised in schools amidst fears that expired but relabelled Covaxin shots would be used. Instead they have opted for sessions at private hospitals. B.C. Nagesh, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, appealed to parents and students to ensure that those eligible get their shots. “We want to ensure that the continuity in students’ education does not get affected because of the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-meets-65-of-target-vaccinates-414-lakh-children/article38103971.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Do not impose another lockdown, says KASSIA||The Government should not resort to a knee-jerk reaction by imposing another lockdown in the State, the Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA) said on Monday. Cautioning the Government, the trade body that represents MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) in Karnataka said small-scale industries were yet to recover fully from the devastating effects of the earlier lockdowns and therefore any further lockdown would adversely impact the business recovery of small units and in turn decrease revenue to the state exchequer. Unemployment problem “Another lockdown may force many micro and small enterprises to down shutters and add to the unemployment problem. With another lockdown all expectations of the economy being on a rebound will evaporate in no time,” said KASSIA in a statement. Rather than resorting to steps like partially or fully shutting down the industries, raw material outlets and reducing the supply of industrial oxygen to industries, the Government should strictly focus on enforcing wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, and practising COVID-19 protocols, it recommended. ‘Clamp down on events’ The Government should also start clamping down on public events and mass gatherings, it insisted. The trade body said all its members (MSMEs) were advised to scrupulously follow all COVID-19 protocols and SOPs announced by the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/do-not-impose-another-lockdown-says-kassia/article38103982.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||None came to Ashwath Narayan’s support||The turf war over holding reins in Ramanagaram as district in charge was visible as Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Nayaran was involved in a bitter spat with Bengaluru Rural MP D.K. Suresh on Monday. Two Vokkaliga leaders also eyeing the charge — MLC C.P. Yogeshwar and Health Minister K. Sudhakar — who were also on the stage did not make any attempt to defuse the situation. Another Minister, Byrathi Basavaraj, also kept quiet, leaving Dr. Narayan isolated on the stage. Meanwhile, the manner in which Dr. Narayan handled Janata Dal (Secular) legislator Anitha Kumaraswamy, who took objection to his speech, has also not gone down well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/none-came-to-ashwath-narayans-support/article38103985.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:51 IST,KARNATAKA||Citizens can now get help for khata-related issues||The Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) and its allied organisations will provide free assistance to citizens, and provide solution for the difficulties faced in getting khata from the BBMP. They can reach out to KSLSA via phone number 080-22111729 or email kslsapgbng@gmail.com for redressal of their grievances related to change of khata. They can also contact the Karnataka High Court Legal Services Committee (HCLSC) at the High Court building via phone number 080-25521111 or email hclscpgbng@gmail.com. Assistance can also be sought by contacting the Bengaluru City District Legal Services Committee in the city civil court complex through phone number 080-22215143, and the Bengaluru rural district legal services authority, also housed in the city civil court complex, via 080-22222919. S.N. Hegde, Secretary of the HCLC, said citizens can approach any of these organisations if they are facing any problem with the BBMP related to change of khata and the officers of these organisations would take up the matter with the BBMP after verifying the documents of the respective properties. Mr. Hegde said property owners are not required pay any charges to these organisations for providing assistance in change of khata.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/citizens-can-now-get-help-for-khata-related-issues/article38103961.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:51 IST,KARNATAKA||Make 2022 a COVID-free year, says Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday rolled out a vaccination drive for children in the 15-18 age group in the city and said, “Let us resolve to make 2022 a healthy and COVID-free year. Let us wage an united war to eradicate the virus”. Mr. Bommai, who launched the campaign at Bhairaveshwara High School and PU College in Bengaluru, said the State successfully tackled the earlier waves of COVID-19 under the leadership of former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. His effective measures in providing medicines, beds, and oxygen supplies enabled Karnataka to be a safe State, the Chief Minister said. “Our Government has taken various measures for protection against COVID-19. As a result, the situation in the State is better compared to others. We need scientific thought, the involvement of people, and to improve health infrastructure. Our Government is working meticulously,” he said. The Health and Family Welfare Department has been fully equipped to face the challenge. Medical infrastructure has been ramped up. Measures such as strict vigil at border areas, compulsory RT-PCR test report, double dose vaccination for those entering the State, contact tracing of patients have been implemented. “Care is being taken to ensure that the control measures do not affect the economy,” Mr. Bommai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/make-2022-a-covid-free-year-says-bommai/article38103962.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Elephant spotted in residential layout||Around 2.30 a.m. on Monday, the security guard posted at Good Earth Malhar in Kambipura sat frozen in his seat as an elephant walked past him in the residential layout. Footage retrieved from CCTVs showed the elephant lumber past him, take a turn and disappear into the night. The video of the incident started getting circulated widely. But residents of the project said it was not unusual to spot elephants in the area. “This area is known to be an elephant corridor and they do use this route from Bannerghatta towards Tumakuru. In the process, they cross Mysuru Road, Kanakapura, and Savandurga. It’s an annual migration for them. Occasionally, we also have a herd passing through,” said Chayant Gonsalves, a resident of Good Earth Malhar. He also said in the morning, one of the residents found a wall broken in the area. It is suspected that the elephant may have broken it. “There have been instances of elephants crossing Mysuru Road earlier too,” he added. In January 2019, a herd crossing NICE Road made headlines. Nikhil Tiwari, another resident, said the elephant appeared to be wet, indicating that it could have crossed the Vrushabhavathy river. “We see this in January. It appears to be an ancient corridor where development has happened,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elephant-spotted-in-residential-layout/article38103966.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Cabinet to discuss long-term measures on Thursday||The State Cabinet meeting to be held on Thursday will discuss the overall COVID-19 situation in the state and come out with a set of appropriate decisions on long-term measures for handling of the pandemic, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said. Speaking to presspersons, he said COVID-19 and Omicron are spreading fast in the country. It would be discussed with the experts’ committee on Tuesday evening. “We have the experience of handling the previous two waves. The experts have been asked to suggest appropriate measures to control the pandemic without affecting the life of the people,” he said. The suggestions by experts will be discussed in detail with Ministers, he said. About the vaccine drive for children in the 15-18 age group, he said, “they need to be brought under the COVID-19 secure bubble. An extensive vaccination campaign is being launched for this purpose. We need coordinated effort from the parents, teachers, and health workers to make it a success,” Mr. Bommai said. Replying to a question about the padayatra of Congress leaders, which would be embarked on January 9, amidst pandemic, the Chief Minister said, “We are watching the moves of Congress leaders. We will discuss about public conduct and take a decision”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cabinet-to-discuss-long-term-measures-on-thursday/article38103974.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Home Minister seeks report||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, while condemning the Ramanagaram incident, has asked for a report from the police. “I condemn the misconduct of Congress leaders attempting to manhandle Higher Education Minister Ashwath Narayan at a public meeting. It is obnoxious and nothing but an attempt to exhibit muscle power. I have sought a report on the incident from Ramanagaram district,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/home-minister-seeks-report/article38103981.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||Hotel employee injured in blast||Seven people, including a couple and their two minor children, had a narrow escape and sustained minor injuries when they ran out of their house seconds before an explosion. Police said the explosion was caused by an LPG cylinder leakage. The incident occurred at a ground plus one house at 2nd Cross, Attiguppe in Chandra Layout. The couple and their children were renting the ground floor, while the owners lived on the first floor of the house. Around 8. 45 p.m., Harsha, who lived on the ground floor with her family, realised that there was a gas leakage. She alerted her husband. The couple, along with their children aged 13 and seven, ran out the house. On hearing the commotion, their landlord Ramakka, 65, who lives on the first floor, came out with her relatives Anitha, 31 and Rachana, 21. While they were discussing the leakage, they reached the puja room where there was a lit lamp. Police suspect that the explosion was triggered by the gas leak and the lamp. The house caught fire. The seven residents ran out in time, but the house was gutted. They sustained minor injuries and were hospitalised. Hotel employee injured In another incident a 28-year-old hotel employee was injured in an explosion – suspected to have been caused by an LPG cylinder leakage – in Chandra Layout early Monday morning. Residents in and around Ganapathi Circle, where the hotel is located, reported hearing an explosion. When they checked, they saw that a fire had broken out in the kitchen. The injured employee was seen running out of the hotel engulfed in fire and crying for help. Fire tenders arrived at the spot within 15 minutes to put out the fire, but by then residents had managed to contain it. The police are questioning staff and have sought the help of the FSL team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eight-persons-injured-in-two-explosions-in-city/article38103975.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:51 IST,KARNATAKA||1,290 new cases in State||Karnataka on Monday reported 1,290 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 30,10,847. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,041 cases and three deaths. With a total of five deaths, the State's toll rose to 38,351. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 232 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries to 29,61,122.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1290-new-cases-in-state/article38103963.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Power disruption||There will be power supply interruption till January 5 between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. and 10 am and 5 pm in areas coming under stations such as HSR, Naganathpura, BTM and Gollahalli. According to a release, line clearance will be taken by KPTCL and BESCOM staff to carry out the conversion of 11KV OH line to UG cable, LT OH line by LT UG/AB cable and cable new connection works, DAS works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-disruption/article38103968.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Ambedkar memorial in place of hostel opposed||The State Government’s decision to set up a memorial for B.R. Ambedkar at A.K. Boarding Hall in Hassan city by shifting the boys’ home of the Department of Women and Child Development has not gone well with the office-bearers of the Child Welfare Committee of the district. Members of the committee have opposed the idea of shifting the boys’ home, located at the centre of the city, and they want the memorial amid children from different backgrounds, without disturbing their abode. Ambedkar’s visit Following a request from Sridhar Kaliveera, one of the founders of Dalit Sangharsha Samiti, and others, the State Government has announced setting up of a memorial in the city. The former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in his Budget last year earmarked Rs. 1 crore for the purpose. Ambedkar, during his visit to the Mysore State, had visited A.K. Boarding Hall in 1953–54. It was the first hostel for students of the Scheduled Castes, started by then Mysore ruler Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar. Over the years, the building has been converted for different purposes. Now it includes the boys’ home and office of the CWC. After funds were allocated for the memorial, the Commissioner of the Social Welfare Department held meetings on its implementation. The department in August last year directed the Hassan Deputy Commissioner to initiate the procedure to shift the boys’ home. It also said that the Department of Women and Child Development had been told to shift the boys’ home and hand over the land to the Social Welfare Department. CWC plea Hassan district CWC committee president Komala H.T. and members have written to Halappa Achar, Minister for Women and Child Development, against the move. “The structure, where the CWC functions, is located in a central place, close to hospital, colleges, and schools. It is an apt place for counselling of children and parents who approach the CWC. The office and the boys’ home should remain in its present place,” the president said in her plea to the Minister. No member of the committee is opposed to the Ambedkar memorial. But they want the memorial on the vacant land adjacent to the boys’ home so that the children are not disturbed. Of the total one acre and 11 guntas of land, the extent of land required for the memorial could be utilised, but the boys should not be shifted, a member of the committee said. At present 42 children, all below the age of 18, have been provided with shelter at the home. They include orphans, those deserted by parents, and those forced into begging. They have been studying in different government schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ambedkar-memorial-in-place-of-hostel-opposed/article38103979.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Aim is to avoid spread of infection’||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar has appealed to those between the age of 15 and 18 to get vaccinated for COVID-19 without fail. “There is no need to worry about the vaccination”, he told youngsters at the launch of the vaccination drive at Government Pre-University College in Shivamogga on Monday. “Children interact with people of all age groups. Hence, their vaccination is necessary to avoid the spread of the infection,” he said. The officer said all those eligible would be covered within 10 days. “The vaccination is safe and there is nothing to worry about. If we follow the protocol effectively, we can avoid the infection”, he said. District Health Officer Rajesh Suragihalli said the administration would administer vaccination for 83,831 children. On the first day, vaccination was done at 74 places, he said. Shivamogga Mayor Sunita Annappa, Zilla Panchayat CEO M.L.Vaishali and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aim-is-to-avoid-spread-of-infection/article38104270.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||Arguments at Congress meet||Confusion prevailed for some time at a meeting of the Congress party in Chikkamagaluru on Monday as a few workers blamed a section of leaders for the defeat of the party’s candidate in the recent Legislative Council elections. The party’s district committee had convened a meeting to introspect the outcome of the election. Party’s candidate Gayathri Shante Gowda suffered defeat by a thin margin. A few workers raised voices alleging that senior leader B.L.Shankar did not work for the party during the election. This led to heated arguments among workers and confusion. Party’s former district president M.L.Murthy and others pacified the angry workers. Former Minister Motamma and others were present at the meeting. H.H.Devaraj, party’s spokesperson, told presspersons that all leaders including Mr. Shankar had worked for the party’s candidate. However, the party lost the election. There was no point in blaming anyone for the defeat, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arguments-at-congress-meet/article38104262.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||79,000 to be vaccinated in Hassan||The vaccination of those between the age of 15 and 18 years was launched in Hassan on Monday. The district administration has planned to cover 79,000 in a week. Minister for Excise K.Gopalaiah, who is in charge of the district, launched the vaccination drive at the Government Junior College in the city. The students of the college were administered Covaxin by the staff members of the Health and Family Welfare Department. The Minister, speaking on the occasion, said the students had to take the second dose of vaccination after 28 days. “The district administration has vaccinated 99% of people above the age of 18 with the first dose of vaccination. Around 86% of people have taken two doses All eligible people should take vaccination to avoid the third wave of infection.” The Minister said the administration had made preparations to handle the third wave. In each taluk, a Covid care centre had been set up. Sufficient medicine had been made available and ventilators kept ready. Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda, Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, Superintendent of Police R. Srinivas Gowda, Zilla Panchayat CEO Kantharaj, District Health Officer K.M.Sathish Kumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/79000-to-be-vaccinated-in-hassan/article38104265.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||Minister visits Yettinahole project site||Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment A. Narayanaswamy, on Monday, visited the Yettinahole project site in Sakleshpur and inspected the progress of the work. The project is meant to provide 24 tmc ft. of water for residents of districts including Kolar, Chikkaballapura and Tumakuru by diverting the west-flowing streams in the Western Ghats. Speaking to presspersons, the Minister said parts of his Chitradurga Lok Sabha constituency would also benefit from the project. Sira and Pavagada taluks, which fall under his constituency, had been allocated 0.8 tmc ft. each. “The State Government has taken enough care to execute the project. The officers should ensure it is completed as soon as possible and the people were provided with water”, he said. Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation Limited chairman S.R. Gowda, former MLA H.M.Vishwanath and officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-visits-yettinahole-project-site/article38104266.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||Araga warns of ‘tough decisions’||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has said imposing lockdown would be inevitable if the public did not cooperate with the State Government by following COVID appropriate behaviour. Speaking to presspersons in Chikkamagaluru on Monday, the Minister said if the cases of COVID-19 increased the government would have to take tough decisions to avoid the spread of infection. It was the duty of the government to protect people’s life. Referring to the Congress party’s march on Mekedatu issue, he the party should postpone its event, considering the prevailing situation. “The Opposition party has the freedom to organise its events. However, they did nothing on the project when they were in power”, he commented. He termed the reports suggesting a reshuffle of the Cabinet and changing the Chief Minister as rumours. Mr. Jnanendra was in town to launch vaccination for those between the age of 15 and 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/araga-warns-of-tough-decisions/article38104263.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Horatti says people’s behaviour will decide lockdown or not||Chairman of Karnataka Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti has said that how responsibly people behave during these testing times, will decide whether another lockdown is imposed or not. Speaking at a vaccination drive organised for students aged 15-18 at the Government Secondary School at Hebasur in Hubballi taluk on Monday, Mr. Horatti said that people should behave responsibly and take all the requisite precautionary measures to avoid on another lockdown-like situation in the State. Emphasising the need for parents to get their children vaccinated, Mr. Horatti recalled his own experience of combating COVID-19 and said that the health staff of the State and the country have done a commendable job in the fight against the pandemic. Inaugurating the vaccination drive, Minister for Handloom, Textiles and Sugarcane Development Shankar Patil Munenakoppa said that the first and second wave of the pandemic had troubled the people severely and people should keep it in mind at a time when apprehensions of third wave are getting real. The Minister said that a total of 95,774 students will be administered vaccine doses in Dharwad district and along with them, those who had not taken the vaccine should take it without any hesitation. “In Dharwad district, 14,44,400 persons had received the first dose of the vaccine and 11,43,913 persons the second dose. Even if one tests positive, there is nothing to fear as it has already been proven that through regular medication, it can be cured,” he said. Based on the advice of the technical committee, the State Government will take a decision on whether to impose lockdown or not. The Chief Minister had called for a Cabinet meeting on the issue on January 7 and a decision will be taken after a detailed discussion, he said. District Health Officer Yashwanth Madinkar, Deputy Director of Public Instruction Keladimath and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/horatti-says-peoples-behaviour-will-decide-lockdown-or-not/article38104178.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Contractors association says PMO yet to respond to letter on corruption||Referring to a letter written by his association to Prime Minister Narendra Modi complaining that Ministers and government officials in the State are demanding bribe up to 40% of the total cost of projects, president, Karnataka State Contractors Association, Kempanna said that the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) is yet to send a response. “We would like to firmly reiterate that contractors in the State are asked to pay bribe up to 40% of the project cost. Earlier, the commission was around 10%. After 2019, it has jumped to 40%. Ministers, legislators and government officers are involved in it. If contractors pay 40% of the project cost as bribe, how can they maintain quality of work? It is a serious problem and we sought to meet B.S. Yediyurappa when he was the Chief Minister and discuss the matter with him. Even after our repeated efforts, the Chief Minister did not give us an appointment. We, therefore, had to write a letter to Prime Minister presenting our grievances. Unfortunately, we have not received any response from the Prime Minister’s Office so far,” Mr. Kempanna said at a media conference in Kalaburagi on Monday. When asked about the dismissal of corruption charges by several Ministers in the State Government, Mr. Kempanna said that he had enough evidence to prove his allegations. “Contractors in the State are in a pathetic condition. Government officers have thrown the law of the land to the wind. Contracts are given to only those who are recommended by local Ministers or MLAs. Since we are resisting the demand for bribe, the government authorities are giving contracts to contractors from outside the State. We are not doing any politics nor are we affiliated to any political party. Yet, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said that we are working for the Congress. Instead of addressing the concerns we have raised, Mr. Ashok made such baseless allegations to divert attention,” Mr. Kempanna said. When asked about their future course of action, Mr. Kempanna said that he was still hoping that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will take up the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/contractors-association-says-pmo-yet-to-respond-to-letter-on-corruption/article38104175.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Minister urges students to take up entrepreneurship||Pointing to the backwardness of Kalyana Karnataka region despite having abundant availability of natural resources, Large and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani has urged students to become entrepreneurs to ensure the development of the region. “Natural resources are abundant here. Instead of working as employees in industries established by outsiders, you can become entrepreneurs and generate employment for the local youth. Our government, which is committed to ensuring the development of the region, is ready to offer all possible assistance. Students and budding entrepreneurs of the region should make use of the opportunity,” Mr. Nirani said, after inaugurating “Udyami Aagu, Udyoga Needu” at Dr. B.R Ambedkar Auditorium on Gulbarga University campus here on Monday. Admitting that there are difficulties in one becoming a successful entrepreneur, Mr. Nirani told the students to accept the challenges and move ahead as the government will firmly stand in their support. “One has to pass through several hurdles and only those who dare to accept challenges tend to be successful,” Mr. Nirani said. Kalaburagi Rural MLA Basavaraj Mattimadu presided over the event that was attended by thousands of students who arrived from different parts of the region. Lok Sabha member from Kalaburagi Umesh Jadhav, Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board chairperson Dattatreya Patil Revoor, District Central Cooperative Bank president Rajkumar Patil Telkur, Members of Legislative Council B.G. Patil and Shashil G. Namoshi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-urges-students-to-take-up-entrepreneurship/article38104176.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||MESCOM to get Rs. 1,100 cr. for upgrading power facilities||Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar said on Monday that Mangaluru Electricity Supply Company Ltd. (MESCOM) will get Rs. 1,100 crore for upgrading power infrastructure under the Union Government’s Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme (RDSS). Of the grants, Rs. 290 crore will be spent in Dakshina Kannada, he said. The Minister was addressing a gathering at Kukke Subrahmanya after inaugurating power infrastructure projects worth Rs. 15 crore set up up in Sullia and Kadaba taluks. The RDSS aims at improving quality, reliability and affordability of power supply through financially strong and operationally efficient distribution systems, besides reducing energy loss. The Minister said that the scheme allows for replacing old power supply lines, setting up more sub-stations and to take up other infrastructure projects needed to have efficient distribution systems. Mr. Kumar said that 2,500 rural families have been identified for giving power connection under the Belaku scheme of the government in Dakshina Kannada. Of these families, 1,700 have been given power connection. The families need not produce no objection certificate from gram panchayats under this scheme. It is enough if they have Aadhaar card and ration card. The scheme is helping many rural families to have access to power supply. The Minister said that the government changed 20,000 electricity transformers within 24 hours of receiving complaints . These transformers needed repairs or were not functioning. Mr. Kumar said that MESCOM should prepare a blueprint for laying underground power supply cables in Kukke Subrahmanya town. The government will release grants required for the purpose. There is a demand from elected representatives for laying underground cables in the town. It will be fullfilled, he said. Among the projects inaugurated included laying a 33 kV underground power supply cable from Guthigar to Kukke Subrahmanya at an estimated cost of Rs. 7.80 crore. It will enable supplying quality power to 20,000 consumers in the area and also help save 6.69 lakh units of power in a year, a MESCOM release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mescom-to-get-rs-1100-cr-for-upgrading-power-facilities/article38104400.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Services of some trains extended||The Railways has extended the services of some trains in co-ordination with Southern Railway, Central Railway, Western Railway and Northern Railway. Train No 12620 Mangaluru Central-Lokmanya Tilak (T) Matsyagandha Express, which runs daily and notified to run up to January 31, is extended until further advice. Train No 02619 Lokmanya Tilak (T)-Mangaluru Central Matsyagandha Daily Express notified to run up to February 1 is extended until further advice. Train No 22630 Tirunelveli-Dadar Express, which runs every Wednesday and notified to run up to January 26, is extended until further advice. Train No 22629 Dadar-Tirunelveli Express, which runs every Thursday and notified to run up to January 27, is extended until further advice. Train No 16338 Ernakulam-Okha Express, which runs every Friday and Wednesday and notified to run up to January 28, is extended until further advice. Train No 16337 Okha-Ernakulam Express, which runs every Monday and Saturday and notified to run up to January 23, is extended until further advice. Coaches augmented Train Nos 12432/12431 Nizamuddin-Thiruvananthapuram Central-Nizamuddin Rajdhani (Tri-Weekly) Express will be permanently augmented with two AC 3-tier coaches with immediate effect. With this addition, the number of AC three-tier coaches in the Rajdhani Express has been increased from nine to 11. The total number of coaches has been increased to 20 from 18. The revised coach composition is five AC two-tier coaches, 11 AC three-tier coaches, one First Class AC coach, one Pantry Car and two generator cars coaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/services-of-some-trains-extended/article38104403.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Secondary school, PU students to be vaccinated in a week||The Dakshina Kannada and Udupi district administrations have planned to vaccinate more than 1.5 lakh students aged between 15 and 18 in seven days. The two districts have also planned to give booster dose for those aged 60 and above and health and frontline workers from January 10. Speaking at a district-level programme to launch a drive to vaccinate those aged between 15 and 18, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said on Monday that the district administration has estimated that 1.05 lakh students are eligible for vaccination. As students from other parts of the State and elsewhere study in the district, this number might go up to 1.25 lakh, he added. “We have decided to reach out to all these children in the next seven days,” he said. District Health and Family Welfare Officer M. Kishore Kumar said that gram panchayats have been tasked with vaccinating students who have dropped out of schools and colleges. Facilities are in place to counsel students and parents to overcome vaccine hesitancy, Dr. Kumar added. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat and Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao said that the district administration has planned to vaccinate 17,000 students every day and cover over 54,000 in four days. “We will look at those who have missed out and reach out to all the beneficiaries in a week,” Mr. Rao told reporters. Mr. Rao said that Udupi has made good progress in vaccination of those aged 18 and above. So far, 96.3% of eligible people in this category have taken their first dose, while 84% have taken their second. Mr. Bhat said: “As we have received good support from people during the earlier drives, we are hopeful of the same cooperation in reaching out to young beneficiaries now.” On Monday, a total of 21,026 students were vaccinated across Dakshina Kannada. This included 250 Class IX, Class X and Pre University students on the premises of Government Pre University College, Car Street, Mangaluru, where the drive was formally launched by Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel. II PU student Sushmita, who was the first to receive the vaccine in the college, said that her younger brother, Beerappa, who is in Class IX, received the vaccine in his school on Monday. Her classmate Punyashree, who was the next to receive the vaccine, said that teachers held a meeting on Friday and clarified all their doubts about vaccination. More than 1,000 students were vaccinated at Expert Pre University College in the city. As many as 717 students were vaccinated at the Subrahmaneshwara PU College in Kukke Subrahmanya, where the drive was launched by Ministers S. Angara and V. Sunil Kumar. In Udupi, a total of 14,500 students were given the vaccine. The vaccination drive was formally launched at the Government Secondary School in Nittur in Udupi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/secondary-school-pu-students-to-be-vaccinated-in-a-week/article38104405.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||291 take part in KIOCL chess tournament||In all, 291 persons took part in the two-day All India Open FIDE rating rapid chess tournament-2022 titled “4th Kudremukh Trophy” organised by KIOCL Limited, a Union Government undertaking, which concluded in the city on Sunday. The tournament was conducted under the guidance of international arbiter Salim Beigh and deputy arbiter Sakashath. The participants came from Goa, Haryana, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka with the youngest player being five years old and eldest being 82, a KIOCL release said here on Monday. The tournament consisted of 165 trophies with cash prizes worth Rs. 2 lakh. The first prize winner in the open category was International Master Pranav V. from Tamil Nadu. Manigandan S.S. from Tamil Nadu was the first runner-up and Balakishan A. from Karnataka was the second runner-up. Prizes were distributed in the open level for under 7, 9, 11, 13, 15 in both male and female categories. Prizes were distributed for Dakshina Kannada player categories and special prizes were distributed for the youngest players and veteran players. Managing Director, MRPL, M. Venkatesh and KIOCL Chairman-cum-Managing Director T. Saminathan took part in the valedictory, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/291-take-part-in-kiocl-chess-tournament/article38104397.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Catholics take out Eucharistic procession||After a gap of two years, Catholic Christians in Mangaluru participated in a solemn Eucharistic procession held on Sunday from Milagres Church to Rosario Cathedral. Bishop of Mangaluru Peter Paul Saldanha offered prayers at Milagres Church prior to the procession. The procession led by the Bishop culminated at Rosario Cathedral with adoration. The Eucharistic procession was held on the solemnity of the Epiphany also called Feast of the Epiphany, Theophany, or Three Kings’ Day, commemorating the first manifestation of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, represented by the Magi, and the manifestation of his divinity. The procession went in two lines limiting the number of people in a group to 250. The annual procession had not been held for two years due to the pandemic. Director of Diocesan Biblical Commission and Assistant Director of Mangala Jyothi Vincent Sequeira preached a homily at the Rosario Cathedral Grounds. Christian family draws its strength and source from the Bible and it is deeply rooted in it, he added. Director of Mangala Jyothi Vijay Machado animated the ceremony, a release from the diocese said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/catholics-take-out-eucharistic-procession/article38104402.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Random RT-PCR tests planned at public places||Following orders from the State Government to increase COVID-19 sample tests, the Dakshina Kannada district administration has decided to conduct random testing at educational institutions, malls, bus stand and other public places in Mangaluru and other parts of the district. Speaking at a district-level programme to launch the drive to vaccinate those aged between 15 and 18 at the Government Pre University College here on Monday, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that following an increase in COVID-19 positive cases, the State Government has asked the district administration to increase daily tests to 15,000. “We are prepared to do this,” he said. The random tests will be done by mobile vaccination units that are visiting different areas in the district every day. “We will visit malls, market areas and also educational institutions. In addition to administration of vaccine, we will do random tests. Please cooperate with us and do not desist from undergoing tests,” Dr. Rajendra said. Stating that all the nine people from Dakshina Kannada, who were found to have been infected by Omicron, have mild symptoms and are recovering without any hospitalisation, Dr. Rajendra said that increase in COVID-19 cases in the last couple of days indicated faster spread of Omicron. He, however, said that the government and private hospitals in the district are well equipped with personnel and infrastructure to handle any exigencies resulting from infection. Mangaluru City Corporation COVID Nodal Officer Annaiah Kulal said that a testing personnal each has been deputed to 11 mobile vaccination units operating in Mangaluru. Testing and vaccination will continue at 10 urban primary health centres in the city, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/random-rt-pcr-tests-planned-at-public-places/article38104406.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Power supply to be hit in city tomorrow||Some areas in the city will have no power supply from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Wednesday, according to a press release. The affected areas are Naguri, Kembar, Maroli, Garodi, Padil, Pumpwell, Ujjodi, Gorigudda, Yekkur, Kadekar, Jeppinamogaru, Vasukinagar, Alape Mutt, Kanakarabettu, Kodakkal, Kannur, Adyar, Valachil, Arkula, Meremajalu, Adyar Padavu, Merlapadavu, Bajjodi, Yeyyadi, Bikarnakatte, Tarethota, Dattanagar and Jayashree Gate, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-supply-to-be-hit-in-city-tomorrow/article38104407.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||RTA meeting on January 13||The Regional Transport Authority, Dakshina Kannada, will hold a meeting on January 13 in the office of Deputy Commissioner at 10.30 a.m. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra will preside over it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rta-meeting-on-january-13/article38104393.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||Vaccination rolled out for 15-18 age group in Mysuru||The vaccination for children aged between 15 and 18 years got off to a start in Mysuru on Monday with the Department of Health and Family Welfare identifying about 1.47 lakh beneficiaries. Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar inaugurated the drive at the Maharani’s College on N.S. Road in the presence of S.A. Ramdas, L. Nagendra, MLAs; Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham, District Health Officer K.H. Prasad, and others. As many as 100 teams will carry out vaccination with about 30 teams available in Mysuru city and 10 teams each for the taluks, on Tuesday. On Wednesday, 200 teams will take up vaccination with 60 teams available for the city and 20 teams each for the taluks. The teams have the task of vaccinating 52,943 children in Mysuru city. The authorities are hoping to complete the task within a fortnight. Dr. K.H. Prasad said efforts are being made to ensure 100 per cent vaccination of 1,48,184 children aged between 15 and 18 years in a span of 15 days. He, however, said there is no compulsion for the children to bring mobile phones to the schools or colleges for the registration for receiving the jabs. They need to bring their Aadhaar card and the mobile number (parents’ numbers) to get the jabs, he added. The children who have dropped out of school or not going to school or college for various reasons will also get the jab as the authorities concerned have prepared the list of such beneficiaries and they can visit the nearest vaccination site. The DHO urged the parents not to give any heed to rumors and encourage their wards to get the vaccines for safeguarding them against the disease. Mysuru also got fresh stocks of Covaxin, the vaccine that has been approved for administering to the age group. The vaccination camps in schools and colleges are being conducted with the support of Mysuru City Corporation and the Departments of Public Instruction and Pre-University Education besides the managements of private schools and managements. The drive in taluks will be coordinated by the administrations in the respective taluks. There was not much anxiety among the children about the shots as they enthusiastically took the jab. The children are eligible for the second dose after a gap of 28 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-rolled-out-for-15-18-age-group-in-mysuru/article38104269.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Mekedatu: State Govt. conspiring to scuttle padayatra, says Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar has accused the BJP Government of conspiring to stop the Congress’ padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru. Talking to reporters here on Monday, he said it was “impossible” to stop the 10-day padayatra, starting on January 9. Precautionary measures Mr. Shivakumar said the party had taken adequate precautionary measures against COVID-19: one lakh face masks and sufficient quantity of sanitisers for use by the participants, had been ordered. Also, hygiene would be maintained at schools, choultries, religious mutts, and houses, where the participants would spend the nights during the padayatra. A team of over 100 doctors, who are part of the medical unit of the Congress, would accompany the participants. Mr. Shivakumar also accused the BJP Government of trying to influence journalists to come out with negative stories in the media about the threat of COVID-19 outbreak from the padayatra. He claimed that he had learnt about the BJP Government’s conspiracy against the padayatra through his “friends in the media”, whose identity he refused to divulge. The KPCC chief said the Government was trying to “create” a lockdown and declared that the Congress’ struggle for the rights of the State, through the padayatra, would not be given up even if a lockdown was declared. “It is impossible to stop the padayatra. It is a big conspiracy. We will not yield to them,” he said. Mr. Shivakumar also claimed that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and several Ministers, who had participated in weddings, had violated COVID-19 protocol, but no action had been initiated against them. Speaking to reporters after offering prayers at Chamundeshwari temple atop Chamundi Hills, Mr. Shivakumar referred to the congregations and meetings organised even by the BJP recently. “Was there no threat of COVID-19 then?” he asked. Meanwhile, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah sought to refer to the public rallies being addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, besides several BJP Ministers at the Centre in Uttar Pradesh, where Assembly elections were round the corner, and wondered if there was no threat of COVID-19 from these gatherings. However, Mr Siddaramaiah too promised that all precautions would be taken at the padayatra against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mekedatu-state-govt-conspiring-to-scuttle-padayatra-says-shivakumar/article38103986.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||KMF’s vigilance squad seizes over 8,700 litres of ghee||The vigilance squad of Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) has seized over 8,700 litres of Nandini ghee from three different stores and sent the samples for laboratory tests. The squad, which had been reactivated in the wake of the unearthing of an adulteration racket here on December 16, 2021, has been inspecting samples of Nandini ghee in different parts of the State, including Bengaluru. Some 1,728 litres of ghee stocked in an agency at Hoskote, 6,990 litres stocked in an agency at Nelamangala, and four litres from a store at Jayanagar in Bengaluru had been seized on suspicion of adulteration by the vigilance squad, said Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar here on Monday. The seizure was made by the vigilance squad of KMF, police, and officials of Food Safety and Standards Authority of India, he said. Police complaints The KMF has already lodged police complaints against a few shopkeepers in Bengaluru and Tumakuru for suspected adulteration. The vigilance squad had already inspected more than 1,000 samples of ghee in different parts of the State. Mr. Somashekar, who is also the Minister in charge of Mysuru district, said the authorities were awaiting a report from different laboratories, including Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI) here, to confirm adulteration of the seized samples. He said the investigation into the racket unearthed in Mysuru would also seek to uncover the areas to which the adulterated ghee from Mysuru was sent. Already, four persons had been arrested in connection with the adulteration racket in Mysuru, he said. He has also appealed to the general public to inform the authorities when they came across sale of Nandini ghee and other products for a lower price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kmfs-vigilance-squad-seizes-over-8700-litres-of-ghee/article38103987.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||An industrial-friendly policy or a ploy to mop up funds?||Is the move to issue sale deed of the allotted land to industrialists on successfully running an enterprise for two years, a gimmick to garner additional funds ahead of the elections slated for next year ? The State Cabinet recently cleared the proposal to amend the KIADB provisions and was announced by the Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani in Bengaluru on Saturday. But stakeholders in the industrial sector have aired their scepticism over the proposal. Though it appears to be an industrial-friendly move on the surface, they describe it as an effort to mop up funds. Speaking on condition of anonymity, entrepreneurs believe there will be a veritable rush by the allotees to get the sale deed and a lot of money will change hands which is expected to come in handy for the party in power during the elections. “The issue of sale deed entails lot of ‘expenditure’ and will surely enrich the coffers of the ruling party though there will also be a nominal increase to the government’s kitty also’’, said an entrepreneur on conditions of anonymity. He said there are thousands of players who are running an enterprise only on paper and are sitting on a gold mine in the form of vast swathe of land awaiting to get the sale deed in their names. Once the sale deed is issued they will be free to sell the land to the real estate developers and reap a huge profit. Another player in the manufacturing sector in the city said this is not for the first time that such a move has been announced only to be rolled back by the new government which invariably comes out with a new policy after the elections. Though Mr. Nirani has said that the balance sheet of two years will be verified, it is an open secret as to how such checks and balances are ‘overcome’, said the entrepreneur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/an-industrial-friendly-policy-or-a-ploy-to-mop-up-funds/article38104261.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||12,000 get the jab on day one of rollout||The target was to vaccinate 10,000 in Mysuru district but the authorities exceeded the numbers on day one of the rollout as nearly 12,000 in the 15-18 age group got the jab on Monday. “For the first two days, we have set a target of vaccinating 10,000 children and 20,000 from the third day of the drive. We have resolved to step up the drive based on the feedback from those vaccinated. On day one, there was no cases of any side-effects of the vaccine on the children. Everything went off smoothly,” said DHO K.H. Prasad.  He told The Hindu that the registration was smooth and vaccination went off as planned. “If we get to vaccinate 20,000 children daily from day three onwards, we hope to cover the total numbers much earlier. It all depends on the cooperation from the parents. As of now, the support is good and we wish to see same kind of support from everyone for realising the goal,” he said.  Three taluks in Mandya exceeded the vaccination target with Pandavapura registering 132.3 per cent (1,588 got the jab against the target of 1,200). The target set on day one was 15,000 but 13,386 was achieved, recording 89.2 pe rcent vaccination. Mandya and Maddur achieved 108.2 and 113.2 per cent target respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/12000-get-the-jab-on-day-one-of-rollout/article38104267.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Congress will not destabilise BJP Govt.’||The former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Monday said the Congress would not destabilise the BJP Government in the State, but was ready for early polls if the Government falls on its own. Fielding reporters’ queries at a press conference in Mysuru, Mr. Siddaramaiah said he was expecting the next Assembly elections in the State to be held only in April 2023. But, the Congress is ready for early polls if the Government falls on its own, he said while referring to the possibility of early polls in view of the speculation over a possible change of the Chief Minister by the BJP again. He, however, sought to make it clear that the Congress would not do anything to destabilise the BJP Government in the State. Mr. Siddaramaiah also made it clear that there were no differences between him and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar. He said the BJP and the JD(S) keep claiming that there were differences between them, but there was no truth in it. “ We are going together. Our intention is to dislodge this corrupt BJP Government and bring the Congress back to power in the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-will-not-destabilise-bjp-govt/article38103983.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:53 IST,KARNATAKA||‘BJP has done nothing for Ramanagaram’||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Monday questioned the BJP’s contribution to Ramanagaram. Responding to reporters’ queries on the confrontation between his brother and Congress MP, D.K. Suresh, and Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan during a function at Ramanagaram, Mr. Shivakumar said neither the BJP nor Dr. Ashwath Narayan had made any contribution to the development of Ramanagaram. He acknowledged that Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy had contributed to the development of the region, but the BJP had made no contribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-has-done-nothing-for-ramanagaram/article38103984.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:52 IST,KARNATAKA||City’s daily TPR rises to 2.36%||“Restrictions based on the TAC’s recommendations should have been imposed from January 1 itself when the weekly TPR crossed 1% in Bengaluru. Currently, the WTPR here is 1.43% and as per our classification, Bengaluru now falls under orange zone,” TAC sources asserted. While recommending weekend and night curfews if the WTPR is between 1% and less than 2%, the TAC has said educational institutions will have to switch to remote learning and offices to work from home if the WTPR is between 2% and 3%. Lockdown should be considered if the WTPR goes above 3%. The committee had earlier fixed the threshold for lockdown as 5%. According to the TAC’s recommendations, if the WTPR is between 1% and less than 2%, cinemas and auditoria, schools and colleges, pubs and bars, restaurants, offices and factories, recreational clubs, public transport including Metro trains and salons/ barber shops function with 50% capacity. Malls and shopping complexes should function only between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. and gathering of people in marriages and social events should be restricted to 200 and 300 respectively. “The Chief Minister will take a call on these recommendations after examining the daily and weekly TPRs at the meeting with experts on Tuesday,” said K.V. Trilok Chandra, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health). Pointing out that the civic body had increased the number of tests conducted daily from 25,000 to nearly 45,000, the Special Commissioner said Bengaluru has the highest caseload because more than half of the daily tests are done here. “We are focussing on targeted testing now and are taking up aggressive contact tracing. All positive and secondary contacts of positive patients are being isolated without any delay. Besides, all ILI and SARI cases are also tested,” the official said. TAC chairman M.K. Sudarshan, who asserted the need to extend the ongoing night curfew in Bengaluru, said early mitigation measures are essential to avoid a second wave like situation. “We have also recommended that daily tests be increased to 1.5 lakh from the 80,000 done till mid-December. This is the beginning of the third wave and people should not be complacent. In fact, they should not wait for the Government to impose restrictions and instead behave responsibly themselves,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/citys-daily-tpr-rises-to-236/article38103973.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:30 IST,KERALA||Bird flu reported at more places in Alappuzha||Bird flu outbreak has been confirmed in more places in Alappuzha district. Officials of the Animal Husbandry Department said here on Monday more than 19,000 ducks within a one-km radius of the hotspots in Pallipad and Ambalappuzha North grama panchayats would be culled in the next two days. The outbreak has been confirmed to seven grama panchayats in Alappuzha. Avian flu was first confirmed at Kunnumma South in Thakazhy panchayat on December 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bird-flu-reported-at-more-places-in-alappuzha/article38104240.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:29 IST,KERALA||Sreenivas murder: 3 more SDPI men held||The police on Monday arrested three more Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) activists, including two assailants, involved in the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party’s OBC Morcha State secretary Ranjith Sreenivas. Officials said the identity of the two arrested who were directly involved in the killing of Sreenivas would be revealed later. Disclosing their names and other details would negatively impact the ongoing investigation, they said. The duo, hailing from Mannancherry in Alappuzha, were arrested by a team led by Alappuzha DySP N.R. Jayaraj. They will be produced before a local court on Tuesday. The third person booked in connection with the case has been identified as Suhail (24) of Mullath ward in Alappuzha municipality. The police said he was arrested for helping one of the prime accused escape and for destroying evidence. Sreenivas was hacked to death at his house at Vellakinar in Alappuzha municipality on December 19 allegedly in retaliation for the murder of SDPI State secretary K.S. Shan at Mannancherry the night before. RSS activist held Meanwhile, the police arrested an RSS activist in connection with the murder of Shan. Suresh Babu (48) of Thanneermukkom was booked for aiding an accused in the case to go into hiding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sreenivas-murder-three-more-sdpi-men-arrested/article38104237.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:43 IST,KERALA||Viswam’s comment his personal opinion: CPI(M)||The statement by CPI leader Binoy Viswam that the Left front is no alternative if the Congress collapses at the Centre is only his personal opinion, CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has said, adding that the CPI(M) is working to dislodge the Narendra Modi government in the next election. Mr. Balakrishnan was speaking to mediapersons at Kumily in Idukki district prior to the district meeting of the CPI(M) on Monday. “Those opposing the K-Rail project are politically motivated. The government will not shelve it. The Congress and the BJP are attempting to destroy the Sabarimala airport project too,” said Mr. Balakrishnan. Party to discuss The district meeting was conspicuous by the absence of former Devikulam MLA S. Rajendran. Mr. Balakrishnan said the party would discuss the issue in the meeting. “To attend or not to is Mr. Rajendran’s wish,” he said. At the delegates’ meeting, party district secretary K.K. Jayachandran criticised Mr. Rajendran for keeping off electioneering at Devikulam in the last Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/viswams-comment-his-personal-opinion-cpim/article38104243.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:30 IST,KERALA||Minister inaugurates OP department at MCH||Ending a long wait, the outpatient department was inaugurated at the Kasaragod Government Medical College at Ukkinadka, on Monday. Health Minister Veena George inaugurated the outpatient department online. The Minister said that specialty services would be provided at Kasaragod Medical College in a phased manner. He said the aim was to make the Government Medical College one of the best in the health sector in the Kasaragod district. Outpatient blocks in general medicine, paediatrics, and neurology were now operational. In the next phase, the OP departments would be set up for ophthalmology, ENT, dental and surgery, the Minister said. “The aim of the government is to provide the most efficient treatment to the people. To this end, development activities will be implemented in the medical college in stages,” she said. The 108 Ambulance service would be made available at the Medical College. Earlier, there was a demand for a police station near the medical college. Steps would be taken to ensure police presence, Ms George said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-inaugurates-op-department-at-mch/article38104217.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:42 IST,KERALA||Air quality index at Vyttila ‘unhealthy’||The Air Quality Index (AQI) at Plamoodu in Thiruvananthapuram and Vyttila in Ernakulam was ‘very unhealthy’ and ‘unhealthy’ respectively from May to November last year, according to a study by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB). Reduction A considerable reduction had been detected in the AQI at the nine real-time air quality monitoring stations set up by the board in six districts following the lockdown in May last year. The air quality had gone up from ‘moderate’ (100) to ‘good’ (50) in seven stations, except for Plamoodu and Vyttila, it said. However, the AQI at Plamoodu showed an upward trend from August 26 to September 6. The peak concentration was 320 (very unhealthy/hazardous) on September 1, it said. The air quality study was held from January to December last year, covering nine real-time monitoring stations that include Plamoodu, Karyavattom (Thiruvananthapuram); Polayathodu (Kollam); MG Road, Vyttila and Eloor (Ernakulam); Corporation stadium (Thrissur); Palayam (Kozhikode); and Thavakkara (Kannur). The AQI at Vyttila showed an increasing trend in May and June, while the peak concentration was 198 (unhealthy) on June 5. The air quality in the area showed a reading above 100 (unhealthy for sensitive group) from mid-January to the end of June. It was around 100 at MG Road till March. Eloor, a major industrial hub, had an AQI around 50 (good) almost all the days, except on a few occasions when the average concentration was 62, according to the study. ‘Satisfactory’ level The AQI was above 150 (unhealthy) in all stations from mid-January to mid-February. Though the concentration averaged 100-150 up to April in Kollam, it showed a uniform AQI range of 100 for the rest of the days, except for the period from May to June in which the air quality was ‘good’. The air quality pattern of the State was found within the level of ‘satisfactory.’ It went beyond ‘very unhealthy’ on very rare occasions. The AQI within the State was also showing a slight increase from the middle of December, which might be due to seasonal changes as the rainy season has a significant effect in the reduction of AQI levels, it said.  The air quality study was held from January to December last year, covering nine real-time monitoring stations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/air-quality-unhealthy-at-vyttila-in-kochi-pcb/article38104299.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:42 IST,KERALA||3,173 teenagers inoculated||A total of 3,173 teenagers aged between 15 and 18 years received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine in the district on Monday. District Collector Jafar Malik visited Maharaja’s Taluk Hospital in Karuvelipadi to assess the vaccination programme. As many as 119 teenagers received the first dose at the hospital. District Medical Officer Jayasree V. and vaccination nodal officer K. Sivadas were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3173-teenagers-inoculated/article38104380.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:42 IST,KERALA||Accountants should spread financial literacy: Naidu||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu called on chartered accountants to marry technology to financial accounting to improve ease of doing business and to make people’s lives hassle-free. He was speaking after laying the foundation for the proposed Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) Bhawan here on Monday. Mr. Naidu, who began his address briefly in Malayalam, said the community of accountants should stay abreast of the times and be technology-savvy. Accountants should spread financial literacy in the country, he added. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said accountants from India had a global reputation, and should be part of the country’s economic growth. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan and Kerala Industries Minister P. Rajeeve were among those who spoke. MPs Thomas Chazhikadan and Hibi Eden, Kochi Mayor M. Anilkumar, ICAI president Nihar N. Jambusaria, and ICAI vice president Debashis Mitra were present. Mr. Naidu left for Hyderabad from the Naval Airport in Kochi later in the day, in a special aircraft of the Indian Navy, ending his four-day visit of Kerala and Lakshadweep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accountants-should-spread-financial-literacy-naidu/article38104382.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:42 IST,KERALA||Govt. told to file proper report on pollution||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the government to file a proper report on the study carried out in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram to identify the sources of air pollution and recommend remedial measures. The Bench comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Satyagopal Korlapati termed the periodical report submitted by the Environment department as “sketchy”. The government was directed to file a proper report on the basis of the directions issued by the tribunal, covering all the aspects. The tribunal had set up a committee in July 2021 to study the air quality situation in Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi. The authorities were told to submit periodical reports once in three months related to the progress of work. The Environment department was told to cover the directions issued by the Principal Bench of the tribunal in New Delhi, in the cases related to the 102 most air polluted cities in the country. Guidelines After completing the study in Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi, the government was told to evolve model guidelines to resolve the issue and adopt it in other cities as well, aimed at having a permanent solution to the pollution issue. The departments of Public Works and Transport were asked to carry out the plan of action for phasing out old diesel vehicles and replacing them with new model or new generation vehicles using green and clean fuel. The tribunal has asked the Chief Secretary and Secretaries of Environment, Transport and Public Works departments to comply with its latest order and submit the updated report at the next hearing scheduled on February 1, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-told-to-file-proper-report-on-pollution/article38104378.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:42 IST,KERALA||Vice President releases book on education||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu released the book “Outcome-Based Education - Experiments of a Higher Education Institution” brought out by the autonomous Marian College in Kuttikanam on Monday. The release was held at the Government Guest House, Ernakulam. C. T. Aravindakumar, Pro Vice-Chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi University, handed over the book to the Vice President. C.V. Ananda Bose, member of the college governing council, handed over the Aranmula ‘kannadi’ (mirror) to Mr. Naidu, according to a release issued here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vice-president-releases-book-on-education/article38104377.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:29 IST,KERALA||Blast case accused sent back to Bengaluru jail||The prime accused in the 2006 Kozhikode twin blasts case, Thadiyantevida Nazeer, was brought from Bengaluru jail and produced before before the Kerala High Court on Monday to enable him to make arguments on his appeal filed against the NIA Special Court verdict convicting him in the case. But when the appeal against the life imprisonment sentence awarded by the NIA special court was taken up for hearing, advocate Suresh Babu Thomas submitted that he was appearing for Nazeer. The court then ordered that he be taken back to the Bengaluru jail. The court directed the jail authorities to arrange videoconferencing facilities if the accused wanted to watch the proceedings. The NIA’s charge was that Nazeer and the other accused had conspired and executed the bomb blasts in Kozhikode KSRTC and mofussil bus stands on March 3, 2006. The court adjourned the hearing on the appeal to January 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/blast-case-accused-sent-back-to-bengaluru-jail/article38104213.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:43 IST,KERALA||Monitor ambulances: HC||The Kerala High Court on Monday stressed the need for some regulations on ambulances zipping through the heavy traffic in the State Justice P. Gopinath wondered whether these ambulances were transporting genuine patients. The court made the oral observation while hearing a bail petition. The court, adding that this was just a casual observation, said there should be some sort of regulation on the movement of ambulances by the State Police Chief or the State government as otherwise this could be used as a cover for illegal activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/monitor-ambulances-hc/article38104245.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:42 IST,KERALA||No plan to appeal against CBI probe order: BCK||Joseph John, chairman, Bar Council of Kerala (BCK), has said the council does not propose to file an appeal before the Supreme Court against the Kerala High Court verdict ordering a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the misappropriation of money from the Advocate Welfare Fund. In a statement here on Monday, he said that, in fact, it was the BCK that had taken the initiative to get the misappropriation that took place during 2007-2015 investigated by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB). The council would fully cooperate with the CBI probe as it wanted to bring the whole truth out. He said nobody in the council had demanded that an appeal be filed. Some members were trying to create a smoke screen by raking up a controversy on the issue. He pointed out that it would have been inappropriate for the bar council meeting attended by the Advocate General to give a recommendation in this regard to the government. The BCK would soon inform the government that the council endorsed the verdict of the High Court. The council would not allow those who had swindled lawyers’ money to go scot-free, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-plan-to-appeal-against-cbi-probe-order-bck/article38104375.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:42 IST,KERALA||Man held for murder bid||A man was arrested on Monday on the charge of attempting to murder his wife and daughter in Perumbavoor on Saturday. Manikandan, 46, allegedly tried to stab them when his wife refused to give him money to buy alcohol. Found dead A Forest watcher, reported missing from Thattekad on January 1, was found dead in the Periyar on Monday. A probe is on to find out how Eldhose, 53, drowned in the river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-murder-bid/article38104376.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:42 IST,KERALA||Charging kiosk at M.G. Road metro station||A charging kiosk at Kochi Metro's M.G. Road Station will be inaugurated on Tuesday by former captain of the Indian football team, I.M. Vijayan. Named ‘RideOwn’, this pedal operated charging kiosk is designed and developed by Smado Labs Private Limited, in association with Kochi Metro Rail Limited. It is compatible for charging smartphones and laptops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/charging-kiosk-at-mg-road-metro-station/article38104374.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:42 IST,KERALA||24 injured in bus accident at Edappally||Twenty-four people suffered minor injuries after a KSRTC bus rammed a pick-up van, which in turn hit a van carrying Sabarimala pilgrims and a two-wheeler, at Edappally Junction on Monday morning. Most of the injured were passengers of the bus. Based on the statement of the bus driver, the City Traffic Police (East) said the bus did not stop even after its brake was applied. The movement of vehicles was disrupted for some time at the busy junction. The police registered a case under Sections 279, 337 and 338 of the Indian Penal Code. MVD officials would inspect the bus to verify its condition, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/24-injured-in-bus-accident-at-edappally/article38104373.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||Odakkuzhal Award for Sarah Joseph||Writer Sarah Joseph has been selected for the Odakkuzhal Award 2021 for her novel Budhini .  This is the 51st Odakkuzhal Award, said a communication here on Monday. The award was instituted by poet G. Sankara Kurup and has been given away since 1968. The award comprises Rs. 30,000 and a citation. It will be given away by critic M. Leelavathi on the 44th death anniversary of G. Sankara Kurup, which falls on February 2. The Guruvayurappan Trust gives away the award, the communication added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/odakkuzhal-award-for-sarah-joseph/article38104256.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:29 IST,KERALA||BJP seeks to allay Church’s concerns||Amidst reports of a souring relationship between the Catholic Church and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the recent attacks on members of the Christian community in Karnataka, Union Minister of State for External Affairs and BJP leader V. Muraleedharan on Monday said the Narendra Modi government was not anti-Christian. Speaking at a function in connection with the 150th death anniversary of St. Chavara Kuriakose Elias in Mannanam on Monday, Mr. Muraleedharan pointed out that the invitation extended by Mr. Modi to Pope Francis to visit India was part of the Central government’s commitment to the Church. Similarly, the Union government has postponed the release of the final notification of the K. Kasturirangan report in view of the concerns raised by Church leaders. “It is so unfortunate that attempts are being made to portray the Modi government as anti-Christian by citing certain isolated incidents and exaggerating fake news,” he noted. Regarding the Missionaries of Charity, the Union Minister said that a clarification by the agency that its bank account was not frozen by the Central government but by the agency itself was never taken seriously. “There are attempts to exaggerate even local issues and make the Narendra Modi responsible for everything,” he added. On the occasion, the Minister announced that the Department of Culture under the Union government had already begun works on elevating the St. Chavara Kuriakos Elias Pilgrimage Centre at Mannanam in Kottayam to the status of a nationally recognised cultural centre. Based on a request from the Church leadership, the Union Minister of Culture has been briefed about the matter, he said. Mr. Muraleedharan later held a meeting with Catholicos of the East and Malankara Metropolitan Baselios Mar Thoma Mathews III, head of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, at the Mar Kuriakose Syrian Orthodox Dayara, Pampady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amid-souring-ties-bjp-seeks-to-allay-churchs-concerns/article38104234.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:29 IST,KERALA||Minister’s vehicle meets with accident||Minister for Cooperation and Registration V.N. Vasavan’s car was involved in an accident at his home town Pampady in Kottayam district on Monday. The Minister escaped unhurt while his gunman suffered major injuries. As per reports, the car collided with a pick-up van around 12 p.m. on the National Highway 183. Gunman Ramdas (46), who was on the front seat, sustained injuries on his shoulders and was later shifted to the Government Medical College, Kottayam. Minor contusions Mr. Vasavan, who sustained minor contusions on his hand, was also subjected to a preliminary medical examination. Besides the Minister, his personal assistant and driver escaped unhurt. The accident took place near Onpatham Mile while the Minister was on his way to Kottayam after attending a funeral. The accident also led to a minor traffic disruption on the highway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ministers-vehicle-meets-with-accident/article38104236.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:40 IST,KERALA||Vice President launches multimedia journal||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Monday officially launched the multimedia journal Outcome Based Education — Experiments of a Higher Education Institution brought out by Marian College, Kuttikkanam, Idukki.  At a function held in Kochi, C.T. Aravindakumar, Pro-Vice Chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, handed over a copy of the journal to Mr. Naidu. Sharing experience “It is commendable that Marian College has been implementing outcome-based education in its curriculum over the past few years. Therefore, their decision to share the experience gained in this field through this book is praiseworthy,” Mr. Naidu said in his message about the initiative. College Principal Roy Abraham welcomed the gathering. Chackochan Njavallil, editor of the journal, spoke about the book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vice-president-launches-multimedia-journal/article38104233.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:30 IST,KERALA||Over 1,700 teenagers get COVID jab in Kozhikode||The Health Department is planning to inoculate 200 people in major hospitals and 100 in primary health centres (PHC) and family health centres (FHC) every day as the COVID-19 vaccination for the 15-18 age group kicked off in Kozhikode district on Monday. According to department sources, 2,300 people had registered on the first day. As many as 1,777 people, including those who opted for spot registration, got the jab. District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy launched the drive at the Government General Hospital, Kozhikode. There around 1.9 lakh people in the 15-18 age group in the district. Covaxin is being given. All PHCs and FHCs would make arrangements for vaccination on Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays. Community health centres (CHCs) and other major hospitals would have this on all days except Sundays and Wednesdays. Both online and spot registration are available. For those aged above 18, vaccination can be done through spot registration at CHCs and major hospitals from Monday to Saturday. PHCs and FHCs would have the facility on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Saturdays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-1700-teenagers-get-covid-jab-in-kozhikode/article38104216.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:30 IST,KERALA||DPR to build dedicated wharf for Lakshadweep at Beypore soon||With the Lakshadweep administration yet to show any interest in taking up the construction of a dedicated wharf for them at Beypore Port as agreed earlier, the Ports Department here is planning to prepare a Detailed Project Report (DPR) independently for its execution by sourcing the financial support of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). A meeting attended by Ports Minister Ahammad Devarkovil and Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas last week had discussed the possibilities of the project, which was also welcomed by stakeholders in the shipping industry. “A number of special projects are on the cards for the development of the port, including the extension of the existing wharf and the construction of new ones. A Detailed Project Report is ready for one of the proposed wharfs other than the one now under consideration for Lakshadweep,” said Beypore Port Officer Ashwini Prathap. He said the project details for the dedicated wharf for Lakshadweep would be clear within a couple of weeks. The Port authorities decided to go ahead with the project independently as the Lakshadweep Development Corporation (LDC) had been cold-shouldering the project for over 10 years even after the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding in 2010. According to LDC officials, the waterfront identified for the construction of the independent wharf was not an ideal spot due to the technical difficulties in getting clearance from the Ministry of Environment and Forests. However, the Port authorities here had dismissed the claims. The proposal for an independent wharf was approved several years ago as it was an important requirement for the easy handling of mercantile and passenger vessels at the port. The MoU was signed between the LDC and Kerala after a series of discussions and approvals. Infrastructures Kerala Limited, a public-private partnership company promoted by the Government of Kerala was then in the forefront of executing it. In the latest proposal, the plan of the State government is to lease out the wharf on completion of the project to LDC. According to sources, the LDC is also in favour of the proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dpr-to-build-dedicated-wharf-for-lakshadweep-at-beypore-soon/article38104219.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:29 IST,KERALA||One India Kite team set to steal show in Gujarat fest||After the successful conduct of the National Kite Festival in Beypore recently, the One India Kite team is all set to steal the show at the 32nd Gujarat International Kite Festival that begins on Friday. Leader of the Kite team Abdulla Maliyekkal told reporters here on Monday that 44 members of the team are representing Kerala in Gujarat. ‘Kite yoga’ Meanwhile, the One India Kite Team, in association with District Tourism Promotion Council, is organising a demonstration of Kite Yoga at 4 p.m. on Wednesday near the Kozhikode beach open stage. The demonstration will be carried out by a three-member team from France.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-india-kite-team-set-to-steal-show-in-gujarat-fest/article38104211.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:30 IST,KERALA||Fire breaks out in footwear unit||A huge stock of footwear and costly machines were gutted after a fire broke out at a leading footwear manufacturing unit at Nallalam on Monday. The building and nearby structures were saved with the timely intervention of firetenders from Meenchanda station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-breaks-out-in-footwear-unit/article38104218.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:29 IST,KERALA||Gold seized at Calicut airport||A Customs Preventive unit seized 1.37 kg of gold from two passengers, Kasaragod native Shakib Ahamed and Abdul Adil, who arrived at the Kozhikode airport by two separate flights on Sunday and Monday. In the first incident, Kasaragod native Shakib Ahamed was arrested with 357 grams of gold, which was found hidden inside a door locker with him. He reached the airport at 3.45 p.m. on Sunday by an Air India Express flight from Sharjah. Abdul Adil, the carrier in the second incident, was arrested on Monday with 1,022 grams of gold compound. He landed at the airport at 8 p.m. by a Gulf Air flight from Bahrain, a pressnote said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-seized-at-calicut-airport/article38104212.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:29 IST,KERALA||NRI summit on January 9||The Indo-Arab Confederation Council, on the occasion of Pravasi Bharatiya Divas, is organising an NRI Summit in Mumbai on January 9. General secretary of the counci Attakkoya Pallikkandy told reporters here on Monday that the event would be inaugurated by Union Minister for Social Justice Ramdas Athawale at 5 p.m. at Hotel Metropolis, Andheri West. State Minister for Ports and Museums Ahammad Devarkovil will be the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nri-summit-on-january-9/article38104214.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:43 IST,KERALA||Wild cheers are back on football grounds in Malabar||A new season of football ecstasy and celebration has begun in Malabar even as fears of a fresh COVID-19 outbreak are gaining strength day by day. The sevens football tournament season kicked off on Sunday night with the beginning of the Khader-Ali Tournament at Perinthalmanna, one of the biggest events of the season. Sevens football is a passion and an inseparable means of joy for the people of Malabar, especially Malappuram. After having been deprived of a year’s complete spirit and joy by the pandemic, the football zest is back with a vengeance this time. The turnout at the opening match of the inaugural tournament held at Perinthalmanna stood testimony to the people’s passion. “The turnout was exceptional. We had doubts about the people’s reception of the tournament this time, especially as there are no foreign players,” said Super Ashraf, State general secretary of the Sevens Football Association (SFA). This year, the SFA proscribed the participation of foreign players in sevens football because of COVID-19 scare. Although it will be a big miss for the spectators, it will be a solace for the organisers. “We used to have many foreign players, especially Nigerians. We decided against allowing foreign players this time because it will be a big risk. The formalities over their arrival and the risk involved in it will not be worth, especially during a small season ending by April,” said Mr. Ashraf. The SFA has sanctioned 28 tournaments this year. In the coming days, floodlights will start beaming from paddy fields across Malabar, and hoorays of thousands can be heard from galleries made up of bamboo and areca-nut trees. The size of the galleries will vary. At Perinthalmanna, the gallery has 9,000-spectator capacity. Although there will not be any teams from other States, players from other States can add steam. Teams are vying to bring in maximum players from other States. “The presence of known players can add to the charm not only to the team, but to the tournaments also,” said Mr. Ashraf. Rs. 1 lakh a day Each tournament with an average of 20 to 26 teams participating can take up to one month to finish. However, the expenses have greatly increased. A large tournament can cost nearly Rs. 1 lakh a day. But with aficionados turning out in good spirits and numbers, the organisers are not worried. Their only worry remains a sudden outbreak of COVID-19 and ensuing restrictions.  A tournament with an average of 20 to 26 teams can take up to one month to finish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wild-cheers-are-back-on-football-grounds-in-malabar/article38104247.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:43 IST,KERALA||Jifri Thangal disowns Samastha resolution||Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama (SKJU) president Syed Mohammed Jifri Muthukoya Thangal has distanced himself from the Samastha resolution against the Communist movement and its ideologies.  In a statement on the Samastha-backed newspaper Suprabhatham website on Monday, Mr. Thangal expressed his displeasure at publicising his picture with the resolution and said it was moved without his knowledge.  A golden jubilee meeting of the SKJU’s Malappuram wing here on Sunday had passed a resolution calling upon the Muslim community to exercise utmost vigil against Communist movements in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jifri-thangal-disowns-samastha-resolution/article38104248.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||Cong. takes out huge rally in Mysuru ahead of padayatra||The Congress party took out a mammoth rally in Mysuru on Monday as a prelude to the padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru to build pressure on the BJP Government in the State to start work on the project. The rally, which was attended by a large number of party leaders and workers, began after former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D.K. Shivakumar garlanded the statue of Basaveshwara near Gun House Circle. Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Shivakumar were joined by a hundreds of party workers in their padayatra from Basaveshwara statue to the party office near the railway station through Chamaraja Double Road, Ramaswamy Circle and Jhansi Lakshmi Bai Road. Traffic on the route and adjoining roads was hit as the padayatra, comprising party workers holding the party flag, accompanied by folk troupes with drums and other musical instruments, wounds its way to the Congress office. A huge garland of apples was specially prepared for the occasion while flower petals were showered on the leaders during the rally. Addressing the gathering at the convention, which had been organised to mobilise participants for the Mekedatu padayatra and also to mark the launch of the Congress membership drive, Mr. Shivakumar said BJP had failed to start work on the project even though a Detailed Project Report (DPR) had been submitted to the Centre when he was the Minister for Water Resources in the previous coalition government. Referring to the jibes over the padayatra by BJP and JD(S), Mr. Shivakumar wondered why the BJP leader L.K. Advani had taken out the Rath Yatra. Similiarly, he said JD(S) leader H.D. Deve Gowda too had taken out padayatras for political reasons. Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah denied that the padayatra for Mekedatu project had been planned to serve the Congress party’s political purposes. The padayatra had been planned to ensure drinking water to the people of Bengaluru and protect the rights of people of Cauvery basin over their waters. “More than 2.5 crore people will be benefited from the project”, he claimed. On the contrary, he said the rival BJP and JD(S) feared that the Congress will gain political mileage out of the exercise. The outcome of the recent elections to the Legislative Council and urban local bodies had heightened their political fears. “There is no need for the Congress party to stage a political gimmick by taking out a padayatra”, he clarified. A large number of party leaders including KPCC working president R. Dhruvanarayan, former Ministers H.C. Mahadevappa and Tanveer Sait; Anil Chikkamadu and Yathindra Siddaramaiah, MLAs; and D. Thimmaiah, MLC, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-takes-out-huge-rally-in-mysuru-ahead-of-padayatra/article38104242.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:29 IST,KERALA||Preparations for Makaravilakku begin||In the wake of a steady rise in pilgrim footfall during the second leg of the ongoing pilgrimage season in Sabarimala, a high-level meeting convened here on Monday issued directions to erect barricades at the locations designated for viewing the Makaravilakku. As per estimates, around 1.30 lakh people visited the temple in the first three days of the ongoing Makaravilakku season and the number is expected to go up further in the days closer to the festival on January 14. Security arrangements Officials said the security arrangements at the various camp sites and viewpoints were being made based on directions from the State police. Besides the points in the adjoining forests of the hill shrine, the devotees may be permitted to view the Makaravilakku from the various vantage points in Idukki district. Meanwhile, the authorities have decided to permit devotees to lay ‘viri’ at the hilltop even during the daytime. With more devotees opting for the forest route vial Karimala, the time for entry into the path from Erumely has been extended by an hour. Meanwhile, the customary procession carrying the Thiruvabharanam (sacred jewellery of the presiding deity at Sabarimala) will set off to Sabarimala from the Valiya Koyikkal temple at Pandalam at 1 p.m. on January 12. Addressing a meeting convened by the Pathanamthitta District Collector Divya.S.Iyer on Monday to review the arrangements in place for the procession, K.Ananthagopan, president of the Travancore Devaswom Board, said the procession will be taken out in adherence to the customs and traditions. Special passes According to Mr.Ananthagopan, special passes will be issued to those taking part in the procession and the provision for drinking water, snacks and accommodation too will be taken care of. The Forest department, meanwhile, has been requested to restore the forest route through Pullumedu. The Collector has directed the local bodies through which the procession passes to make necessary arrangements. Representative of the Pandalam palace trust and the various local bodies and government departments also attended the meeting. The presiding deity at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple will be adorned with the sacred jewellery prior to the deeparadhana ritual on Makaravilakku day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/preparations-for-makaravilakku-begin/article38104232.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:43 IST,KERALA||Pinarayi to garner support for K-Rail||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will hold meetings with legislators, local body representatives, business forums, journalists, environmental groups, economists and other stakeholders to blunt the opposition to the K-Rail (SilverLine) project. As a precursor of the upcoming public campaign, Mr. Vijayan will interact with citizens who stand to lose property or buildings because of the semi-high-speed railway line. The commencement of demarcation of land for the railway line that passes through population centres in 11 districts has arguably instilled a sense of insecurity in residents who stand to lose their houses and property. Moreover, the government has arguably added to their fears by expediting land acquisition for the project by appointing a special tahsildar. CPI support The Communist Party of India (CPI) backs the project with a rider to the scheme. The government is required to convince the public about the long-term economic and environmental viability of K-Rail. Moreover, the administration must ensure speedy and adequate compensation to residents who have to give up their land and property for the railway line. The government's attempt to woo public opinion has not impressed the United Democratic Front (UDF). Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the United Democratic Front would oppose the move to acquire land for K-Rail without publishing the environmental impact study and detailed project report (DPR). The government should discuss the project in the State Assembly. Speaking to reporters in Alappuzha on Monday, Mr. Satheesan said: “We will not accept Mr. Vijayan’s presentation before the elite class while sidelining people's representatives and political party leaders. All those invited to the event are backers of the project. The government's move raises suspicion," Mr. Satheesan said. Six questions He said if the government decides to go ahead with land acquisition without releasing the DPR, the Opposition would oppose it. "The Opposition has raised six questions about the project and the Chief Minister should answer it. We will not allow the government to implement it in secrecy," the Leader of the Opposition said. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is also mustering popular opinion against SilverLine. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said the party would oppose the ‘quixotic’ project. It would push Kerala into a debt trap and cause immense environmental damage. BJP president K. Surendran said K-Rail lacks Central support and would remain on paper. The CPI(M) has planned house-to-house visits to counter the BJP and Congress campaign.  UDF will oppose the move to acquire land without publishing the environmental impact study and detailed project report. V.D. Satheesan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-to-garner-support-for-k-rail/article38104249.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||Major fire breaks out at scrapyard in Killipalam||A massive fire that broke out at a scrapyard in Killipalam in the city on Monday and spread to nearby buildings was brought under control after a three-hour-long firefighting operation involving nearly 15 fire tenders. The scrapyard was located at a densely populated area on the Bund road that led to Attukal. The fire outbreak sparked panic as it occurred only 50 m from a leading private hospital. The fire caused major damage, but no casualties were reported. While the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, godown owner Sulfikar of Poonthura claimed that sparks that fell from an adjacent electric post had caused the blaze around 11.30 a.m. While the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services sent a unit to the spot, it turned out to be inadequate as it ran dry as the fire raged on and spread to other parts in quick time. Inflammable items The scrap godown that reportedly accumulated household and workshop discards contained a wide array of inflammable items, including tar barrels, paint and engine oil containers that were not emptied, electronic goods and plastics. Frequent explosions could be heard from the premises. While another two units were pressed into service within half-an-hour, the fire had spread to a number of coconut trees and a nearby house by then. In all, two houses and two shops in the vicinity suffered minor damage. With the outbreak becoming uncontrollable, the police rushed to evacuate residents of nearly 40 houses in the region as dense, black smoke billowed from the affected area. Power supply to the area was disconnected. More fire tenders were rushed to the spot from various fire stations as well as the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport. The fire fighters climbed to the terraces of nearby buildings and sprayed water from different sides to extinguish the fire, which was finally brought under control by 3 p.m. Vehicular flow on the Bund road remained affected throughout the period. General Education Minister V. Sivankutty, District Collector Navjot Khosa and City Police Commissioner G. Sparjan Kumar coordinated the efforts. Preliminary assessment estimated the loss to be around Rs. 8 lakh. Corpn. orders probe Mayor Arya Rajendran, who took stock of the situation, ordered an inquiry to check if the scrap shops and godowns across the city possessed the requisite licence as well as fire safety systems. Action would be taken against those who operated such outlets in violation of the norms, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-breaks-out-at-scrapyard/article38104239.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||38,417 children receive vaccine||The first day of COVID-19 vaccination for children in the 15-18 age group saw as many as 38,417 children in Kerala receiving the vaccine. The target population is 15.34 lakh Thiruvananthapuram district saw the maximum number of children – 9,338 – receiving the vaccine, followed by Kollam (6,868) and Thrissur (5,018). As many as 551 vaccination centres had been set up across Kerala for administering Covaxin vaccine for children aged between 15 and 18 on Monday. To avoid confusion, the vaccination centres for children sported pink-coloured signboards. No centre reported any adverse events following immunisation, Health Minister Veena George said. As part of the vaccination drive which will be held till January 10, special vaccination sites will be operational on all days of the week, except Wednesday, at District/General/Taluk hospitals and community health centres. In primary and family health centres, vaccination sites will be set up for children on Tuesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday Ms. George appealed to parents to vaccinate children in the light of the uncertain pandemic situation involving Omicron variant. Kerala has a stock of 65,000 doses of Covaxin. This apart, 5,02,700 doses of Covaxin despatched by the Centre reached the State on Sunday night. Another consignment of 57,300 doses also reached the State on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/38417-children-receive-vaccine/article38104258.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||On first day, 13,968 children vaccinated||A total of 13,968 children in the 15-18 age group were administered COVID-19 vaccine in the district on Monday, the first day of vaccination for children. The vaccination drive was launched at the General Hospital here in the presence of Health Minister Veena George. The vaccination was arranged through 126 centres on Monday. As many centres would be available on Tuesday also, District Medical Officer Jose G. D’Cruz said. For easy identification, the vaccination centres for children sport pink-coloured boards. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty also visited the General Hospital on Monday. District Collector Navjot Khosa, Health Services Director Raju V.R., District Programme Manager Asha Vijayan and other officials were present. Vaccination for adults would be available at district, general and taluk hospitals and community health centres, the DMO said. 583 new cases The district reported 583 COVID-19 cases and 556 recoveries on Monday. The test positivity rate stood at 9.8%. The active number of cases stood at 3,059, the district administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-first-day-13968-children-vaccinated/article38104414.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||Study moots cleaner way forward for KSRTC||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) can make significant savings in terms of money and energy by adopting clean energy options for its fleet, according to a study conducted by the Energy Management Centre (EMC), Department of Power, Government of Kerala, and the Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA). Prudent energy conservation measures worth Rs. 124.35 crore can bring about 19,125 MTOE (million tonnes of oil equivalent) annual energy savings and annual monetary savings to the tune of Rs. 378.85 crore, according to the study, which listed a series of measures. The projected annual carbon footprint offset is to the tune of 47,438 tCO2, it said. In five depots Carried out in the pre-COVID-19 scenario during October 2018-June 2019, the study ‘Hydrocarbon Conservation of Public Transport System’ covered five depots of the State transport utility in Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Kannur, Palakkad and Wayanad districts. The study mainly focused on fuel efficiency improvement techniques for existing buses, improvement in driving practices, e-mobility and CNG adaptation. The report was submitted in the latter half of 2021, EMC officials said. Measures suggested Recommended energy conservation measures include replacement of buses that are 13 years or older with electric/CNG buses, making docked buses roadworthy and enhancing fleet utilisation to 95% and above, providing training in fuel-efficient driving practices to KSRTC drivers and retrofitting old BS3 buses with CNG engines. Establishing electric vehicle charging stations, computerising depots to save manpower and ensure higher productivity, and equipping depots with adequate spare parts to guarantee prompt repairs are some of the other measures suggested. According to the EMC, the time is ripe for tapping opportunities in the transport sector for ensuring energy security. “The service of the KSRTC and other transport utilities shall be focused on utilising clean, quality and reliable fuel. As a result, there is a need to decarbonise the State transport sector by adopting clean and lean technologies such as electricity from renewable energy fuel cell, CNG and so on,” the EMC noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/study-moots-cleaner-way-forward-for-ksrtc/article38104415.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||Office-bearers elected||Pramod P.S. and Sangeetha G. Kurup have taken charge as president and secretary respectively of the Indian Dental Association (IDA) district chapter. Former Chief Secretary K. Jayakumar was the chief guest at the installation ceremony. Anita Balan, joint director, Medical Education, and IDA members took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/office-bearers-elected/article38104413.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:43 IST,KERALA||Satheesan tears into BJP for portraying him as pro-CM||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan on Monday took exception to the BJP interpretation that his criticism of Governor Arif Mohammed Khan was tantamount to supporting the State government. Mr. Satheesan said he had criticised Mr. Khan for endorsing the government’s ‘unlawful’ decision to extend the term of the Kannur University Vice Chancellor beyond the retirement age. The Governor approved the extension and then backtracked. “Mr. Khan supported an incorrect decision and then complained it was wrong. As Chancellor, he should annul the erroneous decision and seek the Vice Chancellor’s resignation. Or else, he should remove the Vice Chancellor from his post,” he said. The Governor has not done both. Instead, he has discontinued his duties as Chancellor. “I have said this position is wrong and illegal. Mr. Khan is constitutionally and legally bound to discharge his duties as Chancellor. He has no choice in the matter,” said Mr. Satheesan. Union Minister of State V. Muraleedharan and BJP State president K. Surendran had accused him of echoing the position of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on the varsity appointment row.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/satheesan-tears-into-bjp-for-portraying-him-as-pro-cm/article38104250.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||2,560 new cases in State||The State logged 2,560 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday when 43,210 samples were tested in 24 hours. Seventy-one deaths were added to the official toll. There were 19,359 active cases on the day. A total of 2,606 persons recovered from the disease. Most in capital Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 583, followed by Ernakulam 410, Kozhikode 271, Kottayam 199, Thrissur 188, Kannur 184, Kollam 141, Malappuram 123, Pathanamthitta 117, Alappuzha 94, Palakkad 80, Idukki 65, Wayanad 62, and Kasaragod 43 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2560-new-cases-in-state/article38104253.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||Couple held on charge of defrauding investors||The Fort police have arrested a couple for allegedly defrauding investors after creating a cooperative society. Those arrested were identified as Rekha P. Nair, 40, and her husband Krishnakumar, 45, of Kaithamukku. Rekha was the secretary of the Thiruvananthapuram district electricals and electronics technicians cooperative society that they registered in 2013. Deposit collected Promising high returns for investments, they allegedly collected nearly Rs. 3 crore as fixed deposit and Rs. 1 crore as savings bank account deposits. Later, they purportedly siphoned off nearly Rs. 1 crore through loans and chits issued in their names and nearly Rs. 1.5 crore as loans issued in the names of their friends and relatives. Complaint The duo have been apprehended on the basis of a complaint filed by Thamalam native Sanoj who had invested Rs. 35 lakh in the society. He sensed something was amiss after the society failed to return his investment upon maturity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/couple-held-on-charge-of-defrauding-investors/article38104410.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||14th Five-Year Plan: steps begin||The formulation of the 14th Five-Year Plan, which is set to begin from April 1, has begun. Minister for Local Self Governments M.V. Govindan has said the decentralised development activities in the State have to be strengthened with more public participation in the silver jubilee year of the People’s Plan Campaign. In a press release here on Monday, he said the future needs of the local bodies in various developmental areas need to be assessed as part of the Plan preparation. The development trajectories taken by each of the local bodies ever since the launch of the People’s Plan Campaign have to be closely analysed. The future Plans should be prepared by addressing the lacunae in these trajectories. The democratic setup at the local level for Plan preparation, including working groups and planning committees, had been reconstituted as part of streamlining their activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/14th-five-year-plan-steps-begin/article38104411.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||Award for K. Jayakumar||The Thiruvananthapuram Music Club (TMC) has honoured poet, lyricist and former Chief Secretary K. Jayakumar with its maiden lifetime achievement award. The award is in recognition of his outstanding contributions to culture, the TMC said in a statement. Former Director General of Police A. Hemachandran presented the award to Mr. Jayakumar at a Christmas-New Year celebration organised by the TMC at Vattappara. The TMC is a forum of amateur singers and music buffs. Mr. Jayakumar, Mr. Hemachandran, TMC president M. Ayyappan, music director Ronnie Raphael and Cherian Philip spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-k-jayakumar/article38104412.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||Enhanced security||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/enhanced-security/article38104252.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:29 IST,KERALA||Immunising children||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/immunising-children/article38104303.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:01 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNTUA signs MoU with KVRSS to offer Microsoft services||Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Anantapur, entered into a Memorandum of Understanding(MoU) with K.V.R. Scientific Services on Monday to offer Microsoft 365 services to the staff and students of the university on Anantapur, Pulivendula and Kalikiri campuses. While 4,637 students will benefit from a single software platform for online classes, the services will be used by 382 faculty members at the three campuses. The MoU was signed by university Registrar C. Sashidhar and KVR Scientific Services founder and chairman Khambam Venkateswarlu for a period of 5 years, that is till January 2027. Microsoft Office 365 offers online teaching using Microsoft teams, Complete MS Office - Word, Excel, Power Point Presentation, and etc., said Mr. Venkateswarlu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jntua-signs-mou-with-kvrss-to-offer-microsoft-services/article38104281.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘No adverse reactions of vaccine reported’||The first day of the COVID-19 vaccination programme for children aged between 15 and 18 went off smoothly in Anantapur and Kurnool districts on Monday. District Medical and Health Officers of Anantapur and Kurnool Y. Kameswara Prasad and B. Rama Giddaiah respectively said that there were no adverse reactions of the vaccine on any student in both the districts and the children came back to their classrooms after the vaccination. By 8 p.m. while entries of 35,000 students were updated in Anantapur district, another 5,000 entries were yet to be uploaded as the software gave some problems initially. “It was heartening to see parents coming forward to get their children vaccinated,” Dr. Kameswara Prasad added. In Kurnool district too, 37,000 entries were made till 8 p.m. and 3,000 more were yet to be made. The district health officials were expecting to vaccinate 40,000 students each day. Both the district were given 1.4 lakh does each to begin with against their total requirement of 2.39 lakh in Kurnool and 2.10 lakh in Anantapur district. Anantapur District Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan supervised the process at Kurugunta Balayogi Residential High School vaccination centre and said that children will be given the jab at their educational institution only. ‘Vaccines are safe’ She said Covaxin was safe and students should get the jab as soon as possible in view of the rising Omicron threat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-adverse-reactions-of-vaccine-reported/article38104283.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister, Cong. MP nearly come to blows on stage||In a high-voltage drama in politically sensitive Ramanagaram district, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday witnessed chaos at a public function as Bengaluru Rural MP D.K. Suresh and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan almost came to blows after a heated verbal duel on the stage even as Congress and BJP workers in the audience sparred. The Chief Minister was in Ramanagaram to unveil the statues of B.R. Ambedkar and Nadaprabhu Kempe Gowda, inaugurate public works, and lay the foundation stone for a few projects. The move had been seen to counter the Congress’ proposed padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru seeking early implementation of the Mekedatu drinking water project. The statue unveiling function was stalled for some time as the unfolding drama led to Mr. Suresh and his cousin S. Ravi, Congress MLC, sitting on a dharna on the stage while Mr. Bommai appealed for calm. It all started when Congress workers started shouting slogans at the event protesting against Mr. Bommai unveiling the statues, leaving the local MP behind. The Chief Minister, who arrived late at the venue, took the lift along with Dr. Narayan, Ramanagaram district in-charge Minister, only to realise that local legislator Anitha Kumaraswamy was also around. While Mr. Suresh was not taken in the lift to unveil the statue of Ambedkar, he was accommodated when Kempe Gowda statue was unveiled. This riled Mr. Suresh and also Congress workers. Mr. Suresh and Mr. Ravi, turned their ire at district officials, including the Deputy Commissioner and the Superintendent of Police, for not waiting for them. Sources said that the proposal to install the statues had been moved by Kanakapura MLA and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, and that his name was also in the invitation. He, however, was not present at the venue since he is travelling in Mysuru. The situation became tense when Dr. Narayan referred to a few Congress workers trying to disrupt the function. “What has gone wrong that you bring a few people to raise slogans? Why are you behaving like this when the Chief Minister is present? I have not tried to encroach anyone’s land,” he said, adding “show your manhood by doing development work”. Soon, an angry Mr. Suresh rushed towards the Minister and asked, “Should I show my manhood?” As the two leaders faced each other and the situation threatened to go out of hand, some police personnel and others rushed to separate them. Dharna Meanwhile, Mr. Ravi rushed towards the podium where the Minister was standing and snatched the mike. Mr. Suresh and Mr. Ravi then sat on a dharna on the stage. It took Mr. Bommai some persuading skills to calm down the tempers both on and off the stage. He urged both the leaders not to stretch the misunderstanding and move on by forgetting the unsavoury incident. A little later, at a different event at Chikkakalya village, the leaders seemed to have buried their differences at least in public. When some Congress workers interrupted Dr. Narayan during his speech, Mr. Suresh offered to leave the venue if such interruption continued. Later, Mr. Suresh said, “Though I have not been taken into confidence for anything in Magadi area I have come here to support development keeping aside politics.” BJP takes a dig Meanwhile, BJP Karnataka unit in a series of sharp tweets called the DK brothers as “Kanakapura Rowdy brothers”, and said the display by Mr. Suresh and Mr. Ravi on Monday violated all protocols and showed the flexing of muscles. Accusing the brothers of stealing sandalwood in the past and threatening the government machinery, the BJP said that criminal cases filed by the Forest Department shows their history.  Unable to digest development work taken up by the Government in Ramanagaram, some Congress leaders and their followers forgot the protocol and behaved like hooligans. Is it right to misbehave while the State anthem was being played and at the venue of Nadaprabhu Kempe Gowda statue? C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Minister for Higher Education and Ramanagaram district in charge ------------- Slogan raising is common in politics. The district in-charge Minister should know how to manage a function by taking people into confidence. This shows arrogance. He should know what to speak when the Chief Minister is present on the stage. This was not a party platform. We will not keep quiet by listening to whatever is said. We also have self-respect. D.K. Shivakumar, Kanakapura MLA and KPCC president ----------- This function was planned a week ago and several meetings had been held. Media is witness as to who started it [chaos]. It was unfortunate that it happened before the Chief Minister and Ministers. People who are responsible should introspect. Basavaraj Bommai, Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-cong-mp-nearly-come-to-blows-on-stage/article38103893.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. updates COVID-19 triage, treatment protocol||Tamil Nadu has updated its COVID-19 triage and treatment protocol in the light of the rapid surge in fresh coronavirus infections and Omicron variant. According to a Government Order issued on Monday, an expert committee meeting was convened on December 30, 2021, to revise the existing clinical management protocols to guide the State’s response and handling of the new variant, Omicron. Patients eligible for home isolation and treatment in primary care facilities were reaching higher facilities due to panic and lack of awareness. This resulted in the utilisation of time and resources of treating hospitals that need to be prioritised for severe COVID-19 cases. The committee recommended updated guidelines for initial triaging and managing COVID-19 patients at all healthcare facilities other than medical college hospitals/government hospitals/dedicated COVID-19 hospitals. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, in a communication to all district Collectors, Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), district-level health teams, deans and city health officers, said considering the need to give clear triaging protocols to GCC and districts, the updated protocol focusing on home isolation for fully-vaccinated, asymptomatic persons and other categories has been issued now. The protocol was updated in consultation with the directors of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Medical Education and Medical and Rural Health Services, senior health officials and clinical experts. This was to provide clear instructions on home isolation and admission to COVID-19 care centres (CCC), COVID-19 health centres (CHC) and hospitals. If facility for home isolation was not possible, patients could can be referred to CCCs. All COVID-19 positive pregnant and lactating mothers, patients aged above 60 years should be referred to COVID-19 hospitals. Persons with family history of severe COVID-19 or death should be referred to higher centres. Irrespective of symptoms, unvaccinated individuals who have co-morbidities would be admitted in CCC and kept under observation observed for a minimum of five days, while those with no co-morbidities and no symptoms would be observed in home isolation.  An expert committee meeting was held on December 30, 2021, to revise the existing clinical management protocol||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tamil-nadu-updates-covid-19-triage-treatment-protocol/article38103977.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor tops country in administering vaccines||Chittoor district administered the COVID-19 vaccine to over 85,000 persons in the target age group of 15-18 on Monday, topping all districts across the country and setting a national record in the process. District Medical and Health Officer U. Sree Hari told reporters that the vaccination programme was continuing even after 6.30 p.m. “According to the latest count, we have crossed the 85,000-mark, which is a national record. Our total target is 2.10 lakh. The remaining people would be vaccinated by Wednesday,” the official said. The DM&HO said that for the third category of the 15-18 age group, Chittoor had achieved phenomenal results thanks to the concerted efforts of the medical and paramedical staff who took up unrelenting campaigns covering both in urban and rural areas. “Teachers of government and private schools and parents have extended their overwhelming cooperation to the programme, leading to a record turnout of the students for the vaccination drive,” Dr. Sree Hari said. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, who launched the vaccination drive at Srirangaraja Puram mandal headquarters, sought the help of teachers and parents to help complete the target of 2.10 lakh doses by Wednesday. He said that given the threat of Omicron, the present inoculation drive was timely and would play a crucial role in keeping the spread of the virus at bay. The Deputy Chief Minister lauded district medical and health administration for effectively controlling the daily COVID-19 cases during the last few weeks as the cases dipped below 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-tops-country-in-administering-vaccines/article38103920.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police sports meet begins||Deputy Inspector General of Police, Eluru Range, K.V. Mohan Rao inaugurated the range police sports and games meet at police parade grounds here on Monday. Police personnel and the Ministerial staff of Rajahmundry Urban, Krishna, East and West Godavari districts will participate in the three-day meet, the DIG said. Mr. Mohan Rao said that sports and games will provide much-needed relief to the police. Many events would be conducted during the meet, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-sports-meet-launched/article38104284.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:11 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pingali Venkaiah statue unveiled in Guntur||Minister for Housing and district in charge Minister Ch. Ranganatha Raju unveiled a bronze statue of Pingali Venkaiah set up at the Collector office here on Monday. Mr. Raju said that statue of Mr. Venkaiah was set up to mark 75 years of independence with the ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’ programme in March 2021. While heeding to the call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to celebrate the momentous journey of the country by honouring its freedom fighters, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had visited the house of Pingali Seetha Mahalakshmi, daughter of the late Venkaiah, the architect of India’s national flag, on March 12, 2021 and presented her a cheque for Rs. 75 lakh. Later, the Chief Minister had urged Mr. Modi to confer Bharat Ratna posthumously on Venkaiah. Born on August 2, 1876 at Bhatlapenumarru village near Machilipatnam, Venkaiah was deeply influenced by Gandhian thoughts and ideology and decided to dedicate his life to the service of the nation and take part in freedom movement, Mr. Raju said. Collector Vivek Yadav said that Venkaiah was filled with a passion to design a national flag, one that would fill the hearts of millions of Indians with the spirit of freedom, independence and duty to carry on with the struggle until the motherland was unshackled from the chains of slavery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pingali-venkaiah-statue-unveiled-in-guntur/article38104430.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM deposits money in farmers’ accounts||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has released the third tranche of the YSR Rythu Bharosa- PM Kisan benefit for the third consecutive year. He credited Rs. 1,036 crore into the accounts of 50.58 lakh farmers from the camp office near here on Monday. As part of the scheme the State government has been crediting Rs. 13,500 per annum in three instalments – Rs. 7,500 in May (khariff), Rs. 4,000 in October (rabi) and Rs. 2,000 in January during Sankranti – to suit farmers’ needs. Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu, AP Agri Mission Vice-Chairman M.V.S. Nagi Reddy, Agriculture Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah, Agriculture Commissioner H. Arun Kumar and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-releases-third-tranche-of-rythu-bharosa/article38103837.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘GMC had rejected resolution to rename Jinnah statue in 1966’||Guntur Mayor Kavati Manohar Naidu on Monday said that the Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) had in 1966 rejected a resolution to rename Jinnah Tower — a famous landmark in the city. The Mayor’s remarks come in the wake of threats by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that the tower either be renamed or dismantled by January 24. Mr. Manohar Naidu, along with Guntur West MLA Maddali Giridhar Rao and East MLA Md. Mustafa, told reporters here on Monday that the GMC had rejected a similar demand in 1966 to rename the tower as Hamid Minar. Members cutting across party lines had agreed that there was no need to rename the tower, Mr. Manohar Naidu said, showing records containing the demand and the decision taken by the corporation in 1966. “The BJP seems to have no other issue except to cling on to communal issues. The communal forces have never had a footing in the State,” Mr. Manohar Naidu said. Mr. Giridhar Rao said that Guntur is the only place in the country which has a tower built in the memory of Pakistan founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah on a road named after Mahatma Gandhi. ‘Major landmark’ Jinnah Tower is still a major landmark in Old Guntur surrounded by commercial shops. It is seen as a symbol of peace and harmony, he said. “Guntur is known for its pluralism and all communities coexist in the commercial and trading hub of the State. Locals feel that Jinnah Tower should be included among the list of protected monuments of the Archaeological Survey of India,” said Mr. Mustafa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gmc-had-rejected-resolution-to-rename-jinnah-statue-in-1966/article38104426.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grama sabhas from tomorrow in Amaravati||Following the State government’s proposal to merge 19 villages in the Capital Amaravati region with the Amaravati Capital City Municipal Corporation, the district administration is gearing up to hold grama sabhas from January 5. Collector Vivek Yadav has asked the Revenue and Police departments to make the necessary arrangements to hold the grama sabhas. The public meetings would be held at Abbarajupalem, Ananthavaram, Borupalem, Dondapadu, Inavolu, Lingayapalem, Markapuram, Mandadam, Nekallu, Nelapadu, Rayapudi, Sakhamuru, Thullur, Uddandarayunivaripalem, Venkatapalem, and Velagapudi in Thullur mandal, and Kuragallu, Krishnayapalem and Neerukonda in Mangalagiri mandal. Earlier, the Panchayat Raj and the Rural Development Department issued a memo in 2020 to hold the meetings and send the copies of resolutions passed by the village sarpanches. In view of the tense situation in the region due to agitation, the public meetings could not be held. In view of the prevailing situation, the district administration has issued orders to resume the process of holding the public meetings and submit the copies of resolutions to the Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/grama-sabhas-from-tomorrow-in-amaravati/article38104427.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘desecrating’ NTR statue||The Guntur district police have arrested a person identified as Koteswara Rao in connection with the vandalising of an NTR statue at Durgi village in Guntur district. A video of the man hitting the statue with a hammer went viral prompting an outcry from the TDP. Within hours, police took the accused into custody and registered a case under sections 294 and 427 IPC. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Rural, Vishal Gunni said that the man was inebriated at the time of the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-desecrating-ntr-statue/article38103922.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan seeks Jyotiraditya’s support for airport||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy met Union Minister for Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia on Monday and requested him to support the development of the Bhogapuram Greenfield International Airport. The Chief Minister elaborated that the construction of the airport would help in the development of Visakhapatnam and its surrounding areas. He reminded that the Centre had promised to provide aid for the development of Andhra Pradesh in all sectors, including aviation, for a period of 10 years during the State bifurcation in 2014 with both financial assistance and securing permissions. He stated that the airport was being built at Bhogapuram, as there was no possibility for expanding the current airport in Visakhapatnam, which is adjacent to the Eastern Naval Base. He urged Mr. Scindia to extend support for completing the airport in the next three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-seeks-jyotiradityas-support-for-airport/article38104428.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||P.T. Thomas’s ashes interred at cemetery||The ashes of the late Congress leader P.T. Thomas were interred in his mother’s vault at the St.Joseph Church cemetery at Upputhode here on Monday evening. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) vice president V.P. Sajeendran received the ashes from the family at Thomas’ house in Palarivattom in Kochi, from where a Smrithi Yatra was taken out in the morning. The ashes were received on the Idukki border by District Congress Committee president C.P. Mathew. A venue was arranged near the cemetery for those attending the function. Hundreds paid homage to the deceased MLA at the venue. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, Idukki MP Dean Kuriakose, and family members of Thomas attended the function. Guidelines Earlier, the Idukki diocese (Syro-Malabar Church) vicar general issued guidelines for the function. He said the sanctity of the place of worship and the cemetery should be maintained. Though it was not a religious ceremony, there should be silence and those performing the ceremony should not hurt believers’ sentiments. The ashes were interred as per the last wish of Thomas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pt-thomass-ashes-interred-at-cemetery/article38103839.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:13 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Disha police attend 11,000 calls||East Godavari SP M. Raveendranath Babu on Monday claimed that the Disha police personnel had attended more than 11,000 calls received from women across the district since early 2021. The calls received by the Disha police control room included those from women in need of security and on anti-social activities. Nearly 10 lakh women and girls downloaded the Disha mobile applications in the district and all of them were being protected by the police from any threats round the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/disha-police-attend-11000-calls/article38104323.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana BJP chief sent to 14-day judicial custody||BJP State president and Member of Parliament from Karimnagar Bandi Sanjay was remanded in 14-day judicial custody by a local court here on Monday. Mr. Sanjay and four others were arrested by the Karimnagar police on Sunday night on charges of causing grievous hurt to public servants to deter them from discharging their duties and attempting to hold “Jagarana Deeksha” in defiance of the prohibitory orders promulgated to prevent spread of COVID-19, sources said. Tense moments preceded the arrest of Mr. Sanjay during the latter’s “Jagarana Deeksha” at his camp office as the BJP cadres tried to prevent the police from entering into the venue resulting in jostling. Police who were present in large numbers stormed into the office building after breaking open the shutter locks allegedly with gas cutters and foiled the stir by arresting Mr. Sanjay and several others for allegedly holding what they termed as “unauthorised deeksha” in contravention of the ban on large gatherings to stem the spread of COVID-19. The State BJP chief’s arrest triggered widespread condemnation from the senior leaders of the party, who termed it as “curbing” democratic protest (deeksha) aimed at amplifying the concerns of thousands of government employees and teachers in the State over certain provisions of the GO 317 and the “arbitrary zonal transfer policy.” Cases under various sections, including 188, 332, 333, 149 and 147, of the IPC as well as Section 51-B of the Disaster Management Act, (DM Act), 2005, have been registered against Mr. Sanjay and 16 others, police said. Mr. Sanjay and four other arrested accused were produced before the local court by the police on Monday afternoon. The court remanded them in judicial custody till January 17. Police also booked several other BJP cadres under the relevant sections of the IPC and the DM Act. Earlier in the day, a group of BJP cadres staged a protest near the District Police Training College here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-bjp-chief-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody/article38103845.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sexually assaulted actor writes to Kerala CM||The woman actor who was allegedly kidnapped and sexually abused in February 2017 has reportedly sent a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan expressing her concerns over the latest turn of events in the case involving actor Dileep. The actor has sought a further probe in the case following the ‘‘revelations’’ by filmmaker Balachandrakumar that he had seen ‘Pulsar’ Suni, one of the accused in the case, at the residence of Mr. Dileep in Alvua. He had stated that Anoop, Mr. Dileep’s brother, had introduced him to Suni in December 2016. Mr. Balachandrakumar had alleged that Mr. Dileep had got a copy of the video on the sexual assault before it was produced in court. The woman actor has also expressed her anguish at the resignation of V.N. Anilkumar, special public prosecutor, when the trial in the case was under way at the Additional Special Sessions Court here. Mr. Anilkumar had cited the uncongenial atmosphere in the court. Earlier, A. Sureshan had resigned from the post after the Kerala High Court dismissed a plea by the survivor for changing the Judge Honey Verghese. The woman actor’s request comes close on the heels of the decision by the prosecution to seek a further probe in the wake of the revelations made by Mr. Balachandrakumar, who was a close friend of Mr. Dileep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sexually-assaulted-actor-writes-to-kerala-cm/article38103843.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t indulge in hate speech: Venkaiah||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Monday expressed his strong disapproval of attempts to ridicule other religions and create dissensions in society, saying every person has the right to practise and preach his or her faith in the country. “Practice your religion but don’t abuse and indulge in hate speech and writings,” the Vice-President said at an event organised to mark the 150th death anniversary of Saint Kuriakose Elias Chavara, a spiritual leader and social reformer from the Kerala Catholic community, at Mannanam, near here. Observing that hate speeches and writings were against India’s culture, heritage, traditions, constitutional rights and ethos, Mr. Naidu said secularism is in the blood of every Indian and the country is respected world over for its culture and heritage. In this context, he called for strengthening the Indian value system, an official statement said. The Vice-President said community service must be made compulsory for students studying in government and private schools to help them develop an attitude of sharing and caring in their interaction with others. Community service “Once this pandemic is behind us, I would suggest that government schools as well as those in the private sector must make community service of at least two to three weeks compulsory for students,” he said. Highlighting the contributions of visionary leaders like social reformer Sree Narayana Guru and St. Chavara, the Vice-President urged other States to take a cue from Kerala in the fields of education, social justice and women’s empowerment. Stating that Saint Chavara contributed immensely to achieving communal harmony and tolerance in society, Mr. Naidu said that he always showed a deep concern for the wellbeing of all and taught us that peaceful human relationships are sacred and more important than anything else. “Today, we need a Chavara in every community,” he said. Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, Kerala Minister for Cooperation and Registration V.N. Vasavan, former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, Lok Sabha MP Thomas Chazhikadan and senior priests and nuns of Carmelites of Mary Immaculate were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-indulge-in-hate-speech-venkaiah/article38103836.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalits enter temple for the first time, in Anugonda||Dalits in Anugonda village of Kodumuru mandal in Kurnool district, who were not allowed to even get hair cuts at barbershops or pray at temples, came together on Monday to hold a procession through the village, protesting centuries of oppression and discrimination. The march began from the village high school on Nagalapuram Road and ended at the Sri Pochamma Avva temple. Beating drums and raising slogans against untouchabilty, which is still prevalent in the village, the protesters marched through the village streets, supported by activists of the Kula Vivakshata Porata Samithi (KVPS) walking behind them. The protest march comes in the wake of an attack on a Dalit youth, who was assaulted and thrown out of a barbershop where he had gone to get a haircut. Reaching the temple, the Dalit men and women set foot in the temple for the first time and offered prayers to the deity. The prayers were conducted by Dalit Soshan Manch national secretary Srinivasa Rao, who played a key role in the march. “Even after 75 years of Independence, the age-old practice of keeping Dalits out of the barbershops and temples is rampant. Little has been done to change these age-old practices,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao said, adding that there was still a long way to go in order to achieve equality. Dalits were barred from sitting in the bus station and the ‘Rachcha Katta’ (central common area of the village) — a practice which ended on Monday. The KVPS leaders addressed the villagers from the Rachcha Katta and asked them not to bow before anyone and stop following the wrong practices. KVPS district secretary Satyam and activists from other outfits spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dalits-enter-temple-for-the-first-time-in-anugonda/article38103908.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||NIA arrests woman from Mangaluru in terror case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday arrested a woman from Mangaluru in connection with the ongoing investigation into terrorist activities of Mohammed Ameen, alias Abu Yahya, of Kerala and his associates. Police sources said Deepthi Marla, alias Mariyam, was arrested by the NIA team comprising Deputy Superintendent of Police and Assistant Investigating Officer Krishna Kumar and police inspector Ajay Singh. The sources said Mariyam was suspected to be in touch with Islamic State (IS) cadre.  The NIA had registered a suo motu case against seven known and other unknown accused in connection with alleged terrorist activities of Ameen and his associates, who have been running various IS propaganda channels on social media platforms for propagating violent jihadi ideology of the IS and radicalising and recruiting new members for the IS module. Ameen and his associates reportedly succeeded in expanding the IS network in Kashmir and parts of Kerala and Karnataka.  The NIA conducted simultaneous raids in Kashmir, Bengaluru and Mangaluru on August 4, 2021 on persons suspected to be in touch with Ameen and his associates and those who were allegedly financing IS activities. They had arrested Obaid Hamid of Srinagar, Muzammil Hassan Bhat of Kashmir, Ammar Abdul Rahiman of Ullal in Mangaluru and Shankar Venkatesh Perumal, alias Ali Muaviya from Bengaluru. As part of the probe, the NIA questioned Mariyam, wife of Abdul Rahiman, a resident of Masthikatte, Ullal. Rahiman is the son of writer and former Ullal MLA, the late B.M. Idinabba.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nia-arrests-woman-from-mangaluru-in-terror-case/article38103842.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ISRO spy case | Supreme Court again adjourns CBI plea against advance bail for officials||The CBI on Monday got its appeal in the Supreme Court against anticipatory bail granted to former intelligence and police officials accused in the ISRO frame-up case adjourned to January 28. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, Additional Solicitor-General S.V. Raju, for the CBI, sought two weeks to file a rejoinder in the case. The next hearing is on January 28. The case was previously adjourned after a senior lawyer became unwell.Mr. Raju had, at the time, not objected to the rescheduling of the hearing. The top court had issued notice to the bailed out accused on November 22. The CBI had earlier argued that there may be a “larger conspiracy involving foreign powers” in the case. The agency has challenged the bail granted at the “threshold” of the investigation. The High Court had granted anticipatory bail to P.S. Jayaprakash, Thampi S. Durga Dutt, Vijayan and R.B Sreekumar. The Court had noted that there was no “indication or material, apart from the rhetoric that a foreign power has a hand in persuading the petitioners,” to implicate the ISRO scientists in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/isro-spy-case-supreme-court-again-adjourns-cbi-plea-against-advance-bail-for-officials/article38103849.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:13 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘North Andhra growth ignored by governments’||CPI (ML) New Democracy district unit secretary Tandra Prakash and Andhra Pradesh Arunodaya Samskritika Samakhya State leader Sannasetti Rajasekhar on Monday alleged that the Union and State government policies were helping only a few sections and regions, leading to imbalances in growth and per capita income of the people. On the occasion of Savitribai Phule's birth anniversary, Mr. Prakash released a book, Uttarandhra Samagra Samachara Darshini, at Vadditandra village of Santabommali mandal. “The leaders with administrative powers are doing injustice intentionally to some regions. That is why, North Andhra has been neglected in the last 75 years in spite of having all resources and geographical advantages,” said Mr.Prakash. Mr. Rajasekhar said that it was time backward classes and downtrodden sections raised their voice against the the injustice. Leaders of various organisations were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/north-andhra-growth-ignored-by-governments/article38104327.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:13 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Central govt. schemes helping rural people’||Bharatiya Janata Party’s State executive committee member and in-charge of Etcherla Assembly constituency Nadukuditi Eswara Rao on Monday asked the party leaders and activists to highlight the Union government’s flagship programmes in rural areas and strengthen the party in all villages. He attended party mandal-level meetings held in Ranasthalam, Etcherla, G.Sigadam and Laveru mandals. Speaking at Ranasthalam, he said that the schemes such as Gram Ujala, Ayushman Bharat Health Care scheme, Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana, Swachh Vidyalaya Abhiyan, Poshan Abhiyan and others were helping people in rural areas in many ways. ‘Diverting funds’ “The State government is diverting many funds sanctioned under Central government schemes. We should expose it and make the A.P. government to utilise funds as suggested by the Union government,” he said. He hoped that the party would win the hearts of people by 2024 general elections. BJP SC Morcha leader Tompala Appalaraju, local leaders Ippili Srinivasa Rao, Gorle Srihari, Manne Krishnanandam were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/central-govt-schemes-helping-people-in-rural-areas-bjp-leader/article38104287.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘GST hike on footwear will burden common man’||The hike in GST effected on footwear came in for sharp criticism from the Communist Party of India (CPI), which staged a demonstration here on Monday. CPI Secretary K. Narayana staged a mock protest by polishing the boots of passersby at the demonstration, symbolically indicating the falling affordability of new footwear for the common man. “The Centre has not left even the footwear. The 13% hike in GST for footwear priced below Rs. 1,000 will badly hurt the poor and middle classes. The government’s move not to hike the same for products priced above Rs. 1,000 smacks of servility to the corporate giants,” he charged. On the BJP leaders taking potshots at him for ‘footwear drama’, Mr. Narayana said the BJP would never understand the common man’s problems. On Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s visit to New Delhi, he wished the trip to be fruitful in terms of getting a concrete assurance on Special Category Status and other pending projects. He also appealed to the government to focus on the problems of film distributors and exhibitors and solve the same in the interest of the entertainment industry. Mr. Narayana also condemned the attempts to whip up passions in the name of political ideology, castes and religions and pointed to the latest instance of defacing of NT Rama Rao statue in Guntur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gst-hike-on-footwear-will-burden-common-man-says-cpi-leader/article38104290.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||SPMVV invites applications||Sri Padmavati Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) invites applications from elibile women candidates for admission into Master of Arts (Music) and Diploma in Music (Sankeertana, Varnam, Annamayya Antarangam) courses offered by its Directorate of Distance Education for the calendar session 2022. The application form, eligibility criteria, fee structure and course details are available on the university’s web site www.spmvv.ac.in. For details, contact 0877 – 228 4524.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spmvv-invites-applications/article38104291.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials identify school dropouts for the drive||The COVID-19 vaccination drive that began on Monday for children aged between 15 and 18 will not only cover students in various schools, but also take cognisance of the dropouts. The drive was formally set in motion in Chittoor district when Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy launched the camp at a secretariat in the city’s 18th division. Mr. Reddy said the first dose would be administered to children in 1,312 village/ward secretariats and 141 primary health centres across the district. “In view of the looming Omicron threat, I appeal to the students to take the vaccine on priority basis,” he said. City Mayor R. Sireesha, herself a medical professional, administered the first dose of vaccine to a student at a camp inaugurated by legislator B. Karunakar Reddy and commissioner P.S. Gireesha at Mahatma Gandhi Municipal Corporation High School campus. Mr. Reddy appealed to the parents to make use of the camp conducted on a ‘drive mode’ for the next four days. District Medical and Health Officer (DM&HO) U. Sreehari said the children would be administered Covaxin dose, for which 2.10 lakh doses had been readied across Chittoor district. Even students who are not studying or those who have dropped out of schools will be identified through the respective ward secretariats and vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-identify-school-dropouts-for-the-drive/article38104292.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||GRP sees rise in suicides, suspicious deaths in 2021||The Government Railway Police (GRP), Vijayawada district, has registered 1,520 cases in 2021, of which 826 were suspicious deaths and 234 were suicides, said Superintendent of Railway Police (SRP), Rahul Dev Singh. Suicide deaths in 2020 were 137. Releasing the annual crime data in Railway Police District, Vijayawada, which comprises seven districts including Krishna, Guntur, East Godavari, Visakhapatnam, West Godavari, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts, on Monday, the SP said that 116 persons died by falling off running trains, which was 109 last year, and 351 deaths occurred due to tresspass on to the tracks, which was 230 in 2020. Sixty-six natural deaths were reported while travelling by train, three died due to electric shock and 56 passengers died of other reasons, Mr. Rahul Dev said. Of the 826 suspicious deaths, 618 victims (deceased) were identified and the bodies handed over to the bereaved family members. Efforts are on to identify the remaining victims, he said. Railway police registered 493 thefts compared to 378 in the previous year, and the value of property lost was Rs. 32 lakh. Of the 493 thefts, 178 cases were detected and the GRP received 240 calls from the passengers on various reasons. Escort was arranged in 60 moving trains to prevent thefts, the SP said. As regards ganja smuggling cases, the Vijayawada railway police booked 54 cases, seized 1,024 cases and arrested 114 smugglers and peddlers. Police conducted raids on trains and seized 1,478 liquor bottles and apprehended 47 persons. Under ‘Operation Muskaan’, police rescued 90 children, and reunited them with their parents. Police booked cases against 4,931 passengers for violating COVID-19 norms and moving in trains and railway premises without wearing masks. They collected Rs. 5.77 lakh penalties from them, Mr. Rahul Dev Singh said. Strict vigil The railway police opened 320 new history sheets against the criminals. In all, 1,178 history sheeters are there in Vijayawada Railway Police district, and strict vigil is being maintained on the suspect and criminals involved in various offences on trains and in the stations, the SP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/grp-sees-rise-in-suicides-suspicious-deaths-in-2021/article38104420.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||4.62 lakh teenagers get vaccinated on Day One||Over 4.62 lakh teenagers aged between 15 and 18 received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine across the State on Monday, the first day of the vaccination drive for teenagers across the country. A majority of the vaccine doses were given at schools and junior colleges where the Health Department staff set up camps and administered the vaccine to the students after spot registrations. Also, beneficiaries who walked into ward and village secretariats, primary health centres and government hospitals were given the first dose of the vaccine. According to the CoWin portal, 4,62,560 persons aged between 15-17 received the first dose as of 8 p.m. and on the whole 5.94 lakh doses were administered by 8 p.m. on Monday. Krishna Collector J. Nivas said that 57,837 teenagers were administered the first dose of Covaxin on the first day against the target of 2.02 lakh teenagers in the district. Meanwhile, the State has crossed the milestone of administering more than seven crore doses of vaccine in less than a year. While 4.02 crore people received the first dose, 3 crore people received both doses. The State aims to vaccinate 25 lakh teenagers in the coming week before the booster dose administration for healthcare and frontline workers and senior citizens begins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/462-lakh-teenagers-get-vaccinated-on-day-one/article38103914.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC to operate 7,000 buses for Sankranti||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) will operate about 7,000 buses during Sankranti as a large number of people from various areas in the State and outside are expected to visit their native places for the festival. The buses will be operated to different places in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka from January 7, the corporation officials said. Advanced reservation facility was available for the services, they said. The corporation will arrange nodal officers in the neighbouring States to coordinate with the passengers at different depots.  APSRTC Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao told The Hindu on Monday that the special buses would be in addition to the regular services. “We will operate more services to Hyderabad, followed by Chennai, Bengaluru, Visakhapatnam and other cities,” he said.  APSRTC Executive Director (Operations) K.S. Brahmananda Reddy said about 4,500 special buses would be operated. “RTC is planning to run 2,500 special and regular services to Hyderabad, 120 to Chennai, 300 buses to Bengaluru, 600 to Vijayawada from various depots, 800 services to Visakhapatnam and 2,600 buses to other places before and after Sankranthi,” he said. TSRTC services Meanwhile, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) is planning to operate about 1,000 buses to various destinations in A.P. during the festival. The buses would be operated from Hyderabad, Karimnagar, Warangal, Khammam, Jagtiyal and other depots to East Godavari, Krishna, West Godavari and other districts, APSRTC officials said. More than 1,000 private buses are expected to run from various places in the State to Hyderabad and Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-to-operate-7000-buses-for-sankranti/article38104421.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea against closure of Nizam Gate road||Locals of Wynchpet raised the issue of closure of Nizam Gate road by railway authorities at the Spandana programme organised by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation. Local people said that the corporation road connecting Wynchpet and Kamsalipet areas was closed by the railway authorities about nine months ago citing various issues which is now causing inconvenience to thousands of daily commuters. Responding to the grievance submitted, Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh asked the officials concerned to take up the issue with R&B department as well as the Railways. The Spandana programme also received 12 other grievances related to LRS scheme, encroachment of roads, removal of bus shelter in Gunadala, encroachment of footpath in Kedreswaripeta and others. Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi said that all the issues raised will be taken up and resolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-against-closure-of-nizam-gate-road/article38104423.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||JAC protests over PRC to begin after January 9||Teachers and Workers’ JAC leaders Bopparaju Venkateswarlu and Bandi Srinivasa Rao said they were prepared to go on a showdown with the government after January 9 if their demands continued to be cold-shouldered. The duo addressed a press conference here on Monday where they alleged that certain ‘vested interests’ were scuttling their attempts to meet Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in order to give him a first-hand account of their problems. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy would certainly consider our demands positively but the issues raised by us are being dragged beyond a limit as the officials concerned are painting a wrong picture,” Mr. Venkateswarlu said, adding that the JAC does not trust the officials and would like to personally meet the Chief Minister in order to place the facts before him. The JAC leaders said the deliberations were stuck with the bureaucracy and with Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, even as the legitimate rights of employees were being deprived. They added that the Chief Minister was being misled on the issue, and stated that this was why they were particular that they wanted direct meetings with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jac-protests-over-prc-to-begin-after-january-9/article38104425.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State clocks 122 infections in a day; Vizag sees spike||The State reported one more death due to COVID-19 and 122 infections in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. Though only 15,568 samples were tested in the past day, their test positivity rate at 0.78% was the highest in the past 37 days. The lone death was reported from Visakhapatnam district which also reported 41 infections, the highest single-day tally among the districts. Kadapa, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts reported no cases. Krishna district reported 19 infections while Chittoor reported 13 and Guntur and Nellore reported 10 cases each. They were followed by Kurnool (9), East Godavari (8), Srikakulam (6), Anantapur (4) and Prakasam (2). Visakhapatnam has been witnessing a spike in cases and of the 1,062 infections reported in the State during the past week, 201 were reported from the city. Chittoor reported 160 infections in the past week while Krishna and Guntur reported 136 and 108 infections during the same period. Active cases rise  The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,498 and 20,77,608 respectively while the number of active cases increased to 1,278. The total recoveries and recovery rate stand at 20,61,832 and 99.24% respectively. The active case tally was on the rise continuously for the past five days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-clocks-122-infections-in-a-day-vizag-sees-spike/article38103910.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will spend Rs. 12,000 crore on Amaravati if elected’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Somu Veerraju said Amaravati would be developed as the capital city at a cost of Rs. 12,000 crore if his party is voted to power in the 2024 Assembly elections, and said that the party would mobilise from the Centre funds equivalent to what the Special Category Status was estimated to yield. “Former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had failed in constructing his dream capital while Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is in a hurry to shift to Visakhapatnam,” Mr. Veerraju said in a brief interaction with the media at Penuganchiprolu in Krishna district on Monday morning. The State government was making grand statements but most of them were rhetorical. It lacked sincerity in fulfilling its obligations, Mr. Veerraju said, and reiterated that the Jinnah Tower in Guntur should either be dismantled or renamed after former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. Meanwhile, in a tweet, Mr. Veerraju said that the government has failed in delivering its promise of imposing total prohibition on liquor. Rather, the State government was fleecing the poor by charging exorbitant rates on liquor and it was not bothered to set up de-addiction centres. Mr. Veerraju said that the Central government has every right to seek an explanation about the expenditure incurred by the State on the Polavaram irrigation project as it is funded by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-spend-rs-12000-crore-on-amaravati-if-elected/article38103915.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. police, drugs dept. raid medical shops||The Tamil Nadu police and the Drug Control Administration (DCA) officials conducted raids on some medical shops and their warehouses in the city on Monday. “The Tamil Nadu police, during investigation, found that some people were using medicines sold without prescription, and that the stocks were smuggled from Andhra Pradesh. Further probe revealed that the drugs were being smuggled from Vijayawada,” said a DCA official. The raids were continuing in One Town, Kothapeta, Machavaram and other areas till late in the night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tn-police-drugs-dept-raid-medical-shops/article38104422.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC adjourns case on movie ticket rates||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court comprising Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra and Justice M. Satyanarayana Murthy posted the case related to rates of admission to cinemas, for further hearing in the first week of February. The adjournment came in the wake of the judges taking note of a submission made by Advocate General S. Sriram, that a G.O. had been issued for reconstituting the committee which was looking into the matter and the same was under examination. Meanwhile, hearing of the petitions that challenged the shifting of the State Human Rights Commission and the Institution of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta to Kurnool, has been adjourned by three weeks. Appearing for the petitioners, advocate D.S.N.V. Prasad Babu said the question was whether it was open for the government to shift the said offices when they were supposed to be a part of the Justice City in Amaravati, for which a declaration had been made previously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-adjourns-case-on-movie-ticket-rates/article38103917.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu writes to DGP over ‘rising trend’ of vandalism||TDP national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Monday urged Director General of Police Gautam D. Sawang to order a detailed probe into the vandalisation of a statue of N.T. Rama Rao, allegedly by Settipalli Koteswara Rao, the son of a YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) ZPTC member from Yalamanda, at Durgi in Guntur district. In a letter to the DGP on Monday, Mr. Naidu called for stringent action against those responsible for the incident ‘in order to prevent the recurrence of such acts of vandalism’. He alleged that the incident was part of a larger conspiracy to incite hatred among sections of people, and said that if such attacks were allowed to continue, people would be forced to revolt against the government. Mr. Naidu said that there was a series of demolition of statues beginning in June 2019, shortly after Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy took over as Chief Minister. He alleged that YSRCP leaders were encouraging hooligans to destroy the statues of stalwarts like NTR, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar and Potti Sriramulu. The TDP chief demanded that the police conduct a comprehensive inquiry and ensure that the culprits are punished.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-writes-to-dgp-over-rising-trend-of-vandalism/article38103916.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Siddhartha Arts College to host annual tech summit||Students Association of Computer Science of Parvathaneni Brahmayya Siddhartha College of Arts and Science (PBSCAS) will organise ‘Blitzkrieg – 2022’, an annual technical event at Siddhartha Auditorium on January 7, said college principal M. Ramesh. The institution has been organising the event since 2006, and students from all over the State participate in the programme, the principal said at a press conference held at the college on Monday. Programmes Deputy head of the department of Computer Science, and Blitzkrieg convenor K. Sridhar said that technical quiz, poster presentation, coding and decoding, spot, photography, e-craft, paper presentation, Mr. and Ms. Britzkrieg will be organised as part of the event. About 500 students registered Dean Rajesh C. Jampala said that more than 500 students of about 40 colleges registered for the event. Mr. Ramesh and other staff released brochures of the programme on the occasion. Director V. Babu Rao and other staff participated. Department of Information Technology, Electronics and Communications Special Secretary Sunder Balakrishnan will be the chief guest for the event. HCL Technoligies HR Director Samson Prem Kumar and others will attend, said Mr. Babu Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/siddhartha-arts-college-to-host-annual-tech-summit/article38104285.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Genome sequencing lab in Vijayawada||A government-run whole genome sequencing lab was established at Siddhartha Medical College by the Health Department. It is the second such facility in the entire country and the first in the State. Health and Family Welfare Department Commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar, in a release, said the lab which has been set up with technical support by the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research began functioning on January 1, helping detect mutants and variants of the novel coronavirus faster. The other such laboratory is in Kerala, Mr. Bhaskar informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/genome-sequencing-lab-in-vijayawada/article38103911.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stone laid for Kendriya Vidyalaya at Nuzvid||Nuzvid MLA Meka Venkata Pratap Apparao laid the foundation stone for the construction of the temporary building for Kendriya Vidyalaya in the Employees Colony of the town on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Apparao said that the government has sanctioned Kendriya Vidyalaya for the district in Nuzvid and a temporary building at a cost of Rs. 70 lakh will be built initially. Mr. Apparao said the institution will initially facilitate classwork for classes I to V.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stone-laid-for-kendriya-vidyalaya-at-nuzvid/article38104424.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Presiding officers for land acquisition appointed||The State government appointed retired district judges T. Venugopala Rao and M. Vengaiah as presiding officers of the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Authorities for Vijayawada and Tirupati regions respectively in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 52 of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation & Resettlement Act of 2013. The Vijayawada region comprises West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore districts while Tirupati region has Kurnool, Anantapur, Chittoor and Kadapa districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/presiding-officers-for-land-acquisition-appointed/article38103918.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ESIC Board member decries delay in construction of hospital in city||Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) all India vice-president and ESI Corporation Board member Prasanta Nandi Chowdhury has expressed dissatisfaction at the undue delay in commencement of the construction of the 500-bed super-specialty ESI hospital at Sheelanagar in the city. The CITU national leader, along with CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao and representatives of the CITU Greater Visakhapatnam City Committee, visited the site at Sheelanagar, where the foundation was laid five years ago for construction of the hospital on Monday. Later, he also inspected the reconstruction of the ESI hospital at Malkapuram and sought provision of all amenities there. He also visited the ESI hospital at Health City at Arilova and interacted with the doctors there. He said that the ESI hospital in the city, which has 5.7 lakh card holders, has limited super-specialty facilities and was unable to cater to the needs of ESI subscribers and their family members due to shortage of doctors and staff. He demanded increasing the strength of specialist doctors and filling up of the vacancies of staff. Mr. Narasinga Rao said that getting the benefits under ESI was the right of workers. The ESI Corporation has funds to the tune of over Rs. 1 lakh crore and added that it should be used for the health of workers. He said that though new dispensaries were opened in the city, there was shortage of doctors and staff. Further, private referral hospitals were refusing to admit the ESI patients, as the dues of the private hospitals were not being cleared. CITU city president R.K.S.V. Kumar, secretary M. Jaggu Naidu, steel union leader R.T. Raju, municipal union leaders G. Subba Rao, P. Venkata Reddy, M. Prasad, T. Nookaraju, Ratnam and Adinarayana were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/esic-board-member-decries-delay-in-construction-of-hospital-in-city/article38104431.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Immunisation for children in 15 to 18 age group begins||The COVID-19 vaccination drive for children in the age group of 15 to 18 years, began here on Monday. Though the turnout was not as desired but by 4 p.m. about 20,000 children received their first jab, said District Medical and Health Officer Tirupati Rao. “Since the schools are also running, we expect it to pick up in the next two days,” he said. The district has identified close to 2.9 lakh children in this category and the administration and the Health Department targets to complete the inoculation in a week’s time. At present, the vaccinations are being given at 88 PHCs in the GVMC limits, 72 in the district and at 1,300 sachivalayams. “We have the required stock and will complete it in the given time,” the DMHO said. Meanwhile, 15 children of railway employees received the jab at the vaccination camp organised here on Monday. Awareness drives were continued by the Health Department to motivate parents. The vaccination drive will be continued at the Old Pass Section, DRM office complex, Dondaparthy, and registration for vaccination can be done through the CoWIN portal or walk-in registration by using the Aadhaar card, school ID, or the class 10 registration number. Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy appealed to the railway employees to make use of this facility to get vaccination for their children. Meanwhile, the district recorded 41 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, ending Monday morning, taking the cumulative total to 1,59,541. One person died after being infected with the virus, in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 1,109. During the same period, nine persons undergoing treatment were discharged taking the total discharges to 1,58,196. The active cases have increased to 236.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/immunisation-for-children-in-15-to-18-age-group-begins/article38104438.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cycling from Kanyakumari to Kolkata to promote sustainable means of travel||The ‘Pedalbums’ have arrived in Visakhapatnam, covering a distance of in 3,717 km. Wondering who they are? They are Milind Tambe and Shriram Kondhwekar, who have pedalled all the way from Goa as part of their Indian Coastal Cycling Expedition. Setting out on their expedition from Mumbai in November last year, they reached Goa, completing their first leg of the tour. They successfully completed second leg from Goa to Kanyakumari and they plan to complete the third leg from Kanyakumari – Kolkata in 42 days. They reached Visakhapatnam on Sunday on their way Kolkata. Milind, 56, is a naval veteran and a practising Marine Consultant and Shriram, 49, is a professional photographer. Early last year, when they were travelling by train, it suddenly struck them that they should undertake a cycle expedition. Two others, who were part of the team, could not participate in this tour as they could not get leave from their office. “We made trial run from Mumbai to Goa in February, 2021, and from March, we began planning for the coastal India cycle expedition. It needs rigorous training to undertake the 6,849 km expedition. FITTR sponsored our training from June for the endurance ride and they have even promised remote medical assistance, in case of need. We are fortunate that we did not need any medical assistance, so far,” says Mr. Milind. Fitness mantra “We cry about rising fuel prices and lack of cycle lanes. We tend to forget that cycling provides sustainable travel apart from helping us burn unnecessary fat but we do not use it. One can’t expect cycling tracks for 20/30 cycles in a city,” they say. Apart from promotion of the fitness mantra among the younger generation, they are propagating sustainable means of travel, which they say means burn fat, not fuel and educate the younger generation on the hazards of plastic pollution. “We had put up at hotels from Mumbai to Goa but decided to camp in tents as our expenses shot up. We were hosted by strangers at many places and we haven’t faced any problems, so far. When they understand the purpose of our tour, they went out of their way to help us,” they recall with gratitude.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cycling-miles-to-promote-sustainable-means-of-travel/article38104295.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Third Arihant class submarine quietly launched in November||The third of the Arihant-class SSBN (Sub Surface Ballistic Nuclear) submarine code-named S4, was quietly launched some time in the last week of November in Visakhapatnam. Though this was not officially confirmed by the Ministry of Defence or the Indian Navy so far, sources in the navy and Ship Building Centre (SBC) in Visakhapatnam, where India’s nuclear submarines are being built, have confirmed it. The soft launch of S4 was first reported by UK-based Janes Defence Weekly, citing satellite imagery sources. The construction, commissioning, testing and status of the SSBNs are directly under the Strategic Forces Command (SFC) or the Strategic Nuclear Command (SNC), which is under the control of the PMO (Prime Minister’s Office). Confirming the launch, a senior naval officer said that the launch of a submarine is nothing more than getting the outer hull floated in water. It was in the dry dock area till now and it is now in the water. It is still a long way for sea trials, weapon trials and commissioning, he said. The first of the SSBN pack, INS Arihant (code name S2 was launched amidst much fanfare, when it was launched on July 26, 2009, with Gursharan Kaur, wife of then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, breaking a coconut on the hull, to mark its launch in Visakhapatnam. S3 undergoing sea trials But it took almost five years, since its launch to undergo its first sea trails some time in December 2014. INS Arihant was finally commissioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in August 2016. As per sources, the second in the pack, S3 or INS Arighat is ready and is undergoing advanced sea trials. To complete the nuclear triad (nuclear weapon operability from air, land and sea) India aims to have at least four SSBNs. It is learnt that S4 is bigger in size, tonnage and capability compared to S2 and S3. Sources say unlike S2 and S3, which can carry four K-4 or 12 K-15 SLBMs (submarine launched ballistic missiles), S4 is being built to accommodate eight K-4 or 24 K-15 SLBMs. The missiles can be launched through vertical tubes, when the submarines are in submerged state. The K-4, developed by DRDO, is tested and cleared for production, is variant of land-based ballistic missile Agni – III, and has a range of about 3,500 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/third-arihant-class-submarine-quietly-launched-in-november/article38103923.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Adhere to protocols to keep Omicron at bay’||The Omicron variant of COVID -19 pandemic is already here and it is fast spreading. Hence it is time that we go back to our COVID protocols, said founder-president of Sneha Jyothi Swachandra Seva Samithi Zahir Ahmed. Addressing a press conference with Dr. Maqsood Ahmed, vice-chairman of the trust, he said that the transmissibility rate of Omicron is much faster than the earlier variant including the deadly Delta variant and so people need to be extra cautious. This variant has already come with over 30 mutations, including a few in the spike protein. And most importantly, the medical fraternity is still lacking clarity on this variant, he said. According to Dr. Zahir, most of the people have thrown the COVID protocols to be wind thinking that once vaccinated, they will not be affected. This is a misnomer, he said. Vaccination does protect or reduces the severity, but so far there is no confirmed study that vaccination gives 100% protection. There are a number of cases, where people vaccinated with two jabs have been infected, he said. According to him, SMS (sanitation, mask and social distancing) and vaccination are the only silver lines to keep the pandemic at bay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adhere-to-protocols-to-keep-omicron-at-bay/article38104436.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bodies of two youth traced at RK Beach||The bodies of two youth Mohammed Aziz (21) and Kota Shiva (21), who had gone missing at RK Beach on Sunday evening, were traced after they washed ashore at the beach on Monday afternoon. It may be remembered that the two deceased along with six others from Begumpet area of Hyderabad had gone to RK Beach on Sunday afternoon. Three of them ventured into the water and all three were dragged deeper by the strong currents. While the community guards present at the beach could pull out Ch. Siva Kumar (24), who later died undergoing treatment at King George Hospital, Azeez and Kota Shiva, had gone missing and were presumed drowned. Bodies found floating on water Though the Marine Police and Coast Guard searched till late in the night, the two were not traced. The search operation continued on Monday and the bodies were found floating close to the same place from where they had gone missing. RK beach closed The police personnel closed the RK Beach for the visitors for search operations from Sunday evening. The family members of the victims, who arrived in the morning, waited at the beach till the bodies were fished out. The bodies were sent for post-mortem to King George Hospital here. On Sunday four persons, including a woman Sumithra Tripathi (21) from Bhadrak in Odisha, had gone missing at RK Beach, in two incidents. Though Sumithra and Siva Kumar were rescued by the nearby community guards, they had died later undergoing treatment at KGH. Death toll rises to 4 With the surfacing of the two bodies on Monday, the death toll in the incidents due to drowning at RK Beach on Sunday went up to four.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bodies-of-two-youth-traced-at-rk-beach/article38104296.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Released||Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari released an ‘Environmental Days Calendar’, brought out by Green Climate at a function, here, on Monday. She called upon the gathering to make Visakhapatnam a green city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/released/article38104435.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vistadome coach to be attached to Araku special||A Vistadome coach will now be attached to the Visakhapatnam-Araku-Visakhapatnam special train also to cater to the huge rush of tourists visiting Araku, with effect from January 5. One Vistadome coach will be attached to the train no. 08525/26 Visakhapatnam-Araku-Visakhapatnam special train from January 5 to 16, according to A.K. Tripathi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Waltair Division of East Coast Railway(E Co R).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vistadome-coach-to-be-attached-to-araku-special/article38104434.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||NSTL celebrates DRDO Day||Naval Science and Technological Laboratory (NSTL)celebrated the DRDO Day-2022 at NSTL premises, here on Monday. DRDO Chairman G. Satheesh Reddy, in his virtual address, congratulated all the DRDO fraternity, who had worked hard during the COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nstl-celebrates-drdo-day/article38104433.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constable booked for alleged rape||The PM Palem police registered a case against Nimmakayala Naresh, working as a police constable, for allegedly cheating and raping a 29-year-old woman. The police said that the constable sexually exploited her and then refused to marry her citing that she had illegal affair with others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/constable-booked-for-alleged-rape/article38104440.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:13 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hotels owners donate blood||Vizianagaram Hotels Association’s blood donation camp here on Monday evoked good response. The association president G. Srinivasa Rao, popularly known as Maruti Prasad, said that 55 persons, including many proprietors of hotels, had donated blood in view of its shortage in the district. Rotary Club governor Madipilli Rama Rao and Rotary Blood Bank president R.K. Jain said all sections of the society should come forward to donate blood as many patients needing surgeries were unable to get enough supply. SVN group chairman Gudisha Shiva Kumar and Blue-earth Hotels chairman G. Srinivasa Rao were among the donors. Deputy Mayor Kolagatla Sravani, YSRCP leader G. Kaushik and Rotary Club former president Praveen Kumar Anchalia were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hotels-owners-donate-blood/article38104325.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:13 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two-wheeler drivers take pledge to wear helmets||Town traffic police appealed to two-wheeler drivers to wear helmets which would protect them from sound and air pollution apart from saving them during fatal accidents. Traffic DSP Ch.G.V. Prasad and sub-inspector N. Lakshmana conducted awareness programmes on Monday for two-wheeler drivers in the fort city and made them take a pledge to wear helmets. Follow traffic rules “Our aim is to make everyone understand the importance of wearing helmets while driving bikes. They must buy good quality head gear so that they do not break at the time of accidents. They also have to follow traffic rules in letter and spirit,” said Mr. Prasad. Mr. Lakshmana said that the innovative-oath taking programmes evoked good response from youngsters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-wheeler-drivers-take-pledge-to-wear-helmets/article38104288.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan raises key issues of State with Modi||Stating that the total revenue deficit for 2014-15 financial year was Rs. 22,948.76 crore and the amount released to the State was only Rs. 4,117.89 crore, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy sought the release of the remaining Rs. 18830.87 crore. He requested the Prime Minister to direct the Telangana State Distribution Utilities and Telangana DISCOMs to pay Rs. 6,284 crore due to APGENCO at the earliest. Stating that a large number of needy persons were left uncovered under the NFSA (National Food Security Act), he requested Mr. Modi to direct the officials to verify the State’s data and correct it. He also urged that a comprehensive view be taken on the poverty levels in the State, wider coverage of the population of Andhra Pradesh under TPDS be ensured and the anomaly be corrected. PDS coverage “Out of 2.68 crore beneficiaries of PDS system in the State, 61% belong to rural areaa and 41 to urban areas. The national figures show that 75% from rural areas and 50% from urban areas avail PDS. A.P. has 10% more beneficiaries that other States. Further, we are extending PDS to 56 lakh more than the actual number of beneficiaries,” he said. Borrowings ceiling The Chief Minister said the NBC (net borrowing ceiling) for the financial year 2021-22 was originally fixed at Rs. 42,472 crore as per the FRBM norms of the Central government and made applicable to every State. It was subsequently informed that Rs. 17,923.24 crore was to be adjusted against the NBC fixed for this year on account of the so-called over-borrowing of the State during earlier years of the previous government. He emphasised that the so-called over-drawal was only a borrowing and not a grant and the borrowing was also being serviced without any default. He requested the Prime Minister that the State’s NBC be restored to the original level. Kadapa steel plant He sought renewal of the approvals for site clearances for the greenfield international airport at Bhogapuram. With regard to the setting up of an integrated steel plant in YSR Kadapa district, he said MECON, a Government of India undertaking, had not yet concluded its feasibility report and urged the Prime Minister to direct the officials concerned to expedite it. He said the State government had incorporated ‘YSR Steel Corporation Ltd’ for establishing the steel plant. For securing iron ore for it, requests had been made to the Ministry of Mines to reserve iron ore mineral areas in favour of a Government of Andhra Pradesh undertaking, AP Mineral Development Corporation Ltd. However, the Ministry of Mines had suggested the auction route for securing supply of minerals. But that would minimise the availability of low cost minerals, threatening the feasibility of the project, he said and urged Mr. Modi to direct the Mines Ministry to reserve mineral areas as it was of vital importance for the project’s future. Later, he called on Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman and discussed issues related to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-raises-key-issues-of-state-with-modi/article38103909.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:38 IST,TELANGANA||Multiple missions in 2022 for ISRO||After a rather muted 2021 in terms of satellite launches, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) is gearing up for a number of missions in 2022 including the launch of the first unmanned mission of Gaganyaan, its Chairman, K. Sivan said. In his New Year’s message for 2022, Mr. Sivan said ISRO had a number of missions to execute this year. These include the launch of the Earth Observation Satellites, EOS-4 and EOS-6 on board the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV), and the EOS-02 on board the maiden flight of the Small Satellite Launch Vehicle (SSLV). “[ISRO has] many test flights for Crew Escape System of Gaganyaan and launch of the first unmanned mission of Gaganyaan. In addition, we also have Chandrayaan-03, Aditya Ll, XpoSat, IRNSS and technology demonstration missions with indigenously developed advanced technologies,” he said. Design changes on Chandrayaan-3 and testing has seen huge progress, he said. Mr. Sivan said the hardware in loop test of Aditya L1 spacecraft and accommodation studies for XpoSat in the SSLV have been completed and ISRO has delivered the S-band SAR payload to NASA for NISAR [NASA-ISRO SAR] mission. The NISAR mission, scheduled for launch in 2023, is optimised for studying hazards and global environmental change and can help manage natural resources better and provide information to scientists to better understand the effects and pace of climate change. Three new space science missions are also in the pipeline, Mr. Sivan said. These include a Venus mission, DISHA –a twin aeronomy satellite mission and TRISHNA, an ISRO-CNES [Centre national d'études spatiales] mission in 2024, which will observe Earth’s surface in the thermal infrared domain.  ISRO has many test flights for Crew Escape System of Gaganyaan and launch of the first unmanned mission of Gaganyaan K. Sivan ISRO Chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/isro-gearing-up-for-multiple-space-missions-in-2022/article38104048.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:24 IST,TELANGANA||Over 24K teens in 15-18 age group get jabbed on day 1||On the first day of COVID-19 vaccination for children aged between 15 and 18 years, 24,240 teens in Telangana took the jab on Monday. The target population in this age group is 18.41 lakh. Interestingly, the maximum number of beneficiaries were not from urban districts. The highest of 2,408 teens took the vaccine in Nizamabad, followed by 2,294 in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri. Next on the list were the three urban districts of Medchal-Malkajgiri (1,902), Hyderabad (1,895) and Rangareddy (1,825). Currently, only Covaxin is being administered to the 15 to 18-year-olds. Health Minister T Harish Rao, who participated at the launch of the drive at Primary Health Centre, Banjara Hills, said that Covaxin was the vaccine of choice as the gap between two doses is four weeks. For Covishield, the gap is three months. Beneficiaries have to register on CoWIN portal for the jab in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, and 12 municipal corporations. In other parts of the State, one can simply walk in and get vaccinated. Online registration Mr Harish Rao said the online registration system is being followed as density of the beneficiaries is high in municipal corporations and online registrations will ensure less crowding at the vaccination centres. He added that the condition of online registration would be relaxed if there is not much rush at the vaccination centres coming under municipal corporations. A decision in this regard would be taken after assessing the situation by the weekend. Parents and college administrations were urged to ensure the teenagers take the jab and wear masks. Until Sunday, the number of beneficiaries in the 15-18 age group was estimated to be around 22.78 lakh. According to fresh estimates, it is around 18.41 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-24k-teens-in-15-18-age-group-get-jabbed-on-day-1/article38104199.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:39 IST,TELANGANA||BJP to approach NHRC, LS Speaker on Bandi’s arrest||Telangana BJP has said that it would approach the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Home Minister Amit Shah and Speaker of Lok Sabha Om Birla, among others, to complain against the TS government for the ‘illegal’ and ‘forcible’ arrest of party chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar at Karimnagar on Sunday night. Senior leader and national OBC president K. Laxman, MLA T. Raja Singh and others strongly condemned the arrest and vowed to continue their agitation in support of the employees and the teachers protesting against the GO 317 for zonal transfers on Monday. “This is no way to treat an MP. If this government thinks that by arresting our president we will be scared, it is mistaken, the agitation in support of the unemployed for filling up vacant posts and the employees against the zonal transfer system put in place, will be led by others in a peaceful manner,” he told a press conference at the party office. National president J.P. Nadda has been apprised of the developments here and he too had strongly condemned the arrest and observed that it was a sign of the ruling TRS having accepted that the BJP has been garnering lot of support from the people. “The police had indiscriminately barged into our party office using gas cutters and thrashed our people leading to broken limbs and injuries. It is barbaric and such draconian measures were done by the United Andhra Pradesh rulers during the separate State agitation,” he said. Mr. Laxman maintained that neither Mr. Sanjay Kumar nor anyone from the party had violated COVID protocols and it was the reason behind the plan to take up the fast inside the party office and not a public place. “Are these protocols not applicable to the TRS Ministers and leaders as they are hosting public programmes everywhere,” he questioned. The BJP leaders blamed the government for the current crises and said it did not act on the Presidential Orders on the transfers for three years before trying to implement them in a hurry introducing the contentious seniority clause. “Telangana came into being on the issue of jobs to local candidates and this constitutional right is being snatched away. This is nothing but a conspiracy,” he claimed. Senior leader Gudur Narayana Reddy criticised the arrest of Mr. Sanjay Kumar and said the BJP was neither afraid of the police nor the TRS and said that it would continue to fight on behalf of the people and would see it to that the TRS is chased away from the State. Legal route Meanwhile, Union Minister for Culture, Tourism & North East States development G. Kishan Reddy deplored the arrest of Mr. Sanjay Kumar and said the party would seek legal recourse without seeking any withdrawal of the many cases filed against the latter by the TRS government. Addressing a press conference along with former MLC N. Ramchander Rao at New Delhi, the Minister said if the Karimnagar MP was arrested for violating COVID protocols, the TRS Ministers, MLAs and MPs too should be put behind bars as none of them has been wearing face masks even during the recent flyover inauguration function in the twin cities. “Does the TRS government think it has a stranglehold on the employees? Is the right to protest restricted to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his family at Dharna Chowk? They can do ‘rasta rokos’ but others can’t, what kind of law is this? The manner in which the police is functioning is a blot on the department,” he charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-to-approach-nhrc-ls-speaker-on-bandis-arrest/article38104350.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:24 IST,TELANGANA||Mix-and-match vaccines safe, boost immune response, shows study||Mixing of COVID-19 vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) provides higher antibody response and is safe as well, stated the city-based AIG Hospitals, which conducted a pilot study along with researchers from the Asian Healthcare Foundation in November last year. Hospital chairman D. Nageshwar Reddy stated that a total of 330 healthy volunteers who were not vaccinated and had no history of COVID-19 infection were selected and screened for SARS-CoV-2 antibodies for the study. Of them, only 44 participants did not have COVID-related antibodies. Other institutes in India which tried to recruit more participants could not find a high number of participants without the antibodies. Four categories The 44 participants were divided into four groups. People in group 1 were given two doses of Covishield while those in the second group were given two doses of Covaxin. For the participants in the third group, the first dose was Covishield, and second dose Covaxin. For the fourth group, Covaxin was administered as the first dose and Covishield as the second dose. All the 44 participants were tracked for 60 days to monitor any adverse effects in them. “The most important finding of the study was that the spike-protein neutralising antibodies found in the mixed vaccine groups were significantly higher than the same-vaccine groups,” the hospital informed in a press release. Dr Nageshwar Reddy, who was one of the researchers, said that the spike-protein neutralising antibodies are the ones that kill the virus and reduce the overall infectivity. “We found that when first and second doses were of different vaccines, the spike-protein antibody response was four times higher compared to two doses of the same vaccine,” he said. Data from the study conducted with the Indian Council for Medical Research is to be considered as a reference study while deciding on the ‘Prevention’ (precautionary) doses starting January 10.T he researchers said that they now intend to expand the sample size.  We found that when first and second doses were of different vaccines, the spike-protein antibody response was four times higher. D. Nageshwar Reddy, Chairman, AIG Hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mixed-vaccines-ace-efficacy-test-shows-study/article38104202.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:24 IST,TELANGANA||Biggest single-day spike in COVID cases since last Aug.||A sharp spike in COVID-19 cases was recorded in Telangana on Monday with 482 people being detected with the infection. The last time more than 400 cases were logged in the State was almost five months ago, in August 2021. The cases have been on the rise in the past week. The State had recorded 311 positive cases with nearly 37,000 tests performed last Friday, followed by 317 cases the next day as close to 29,000 samples were examined. The daily infections dropped to 274 on Sunday with just about 21,000 tests being conducted. On Monday, however, the fresh cases surged to 482 with the highest of 294 being logged in Greater Hyderabad limits. A total of 38,362 samples were tested and the results of 3,228 were awaited. The two other urban districts of Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri recorded 55 and 48 cases, respectively. One more COVID patient died, taking the death toll to 4,031. The State’s virus tally stands at 6,82,971. No new Omicron case Meanwhile, no fresh Omicron case was detected on Monday. Five people with the new variant have recovered. Genome sequencing results of 53 persons were awaited. On Monday, Health Minister T. Harish Rao said positivity rate in the State as well as the country has increased four-fold in the past one week. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao reiterated there will be no lockdown or night curfews in the State under any circumstance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/biggest-single-day-spike-in-infections-since-last-august/article38104201.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:39 IST,TELANGANA||State BJP chief seeks action against Karimnagar police||Telangana BJP president and Member of Parliament Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Monday has requested Speaker of the Lok Sabha Om Birla to take action against the Karimnagar police officers, including Commissioner of Police V. Satyanarayana, ACP Srinivasa Rao, ACP Prakash and Inspector Lakshmi Babu, holding them responsible for forcibly removing him from the party office and illegal confinement which was a breach of rights and privileges as Member of Parliament. In a letter to the Speaker, the BJP leader described in detail about how the police had picked him up using force and claimed he was not even informed about the grounds of his arrest. Two false non-bailable cases were foisted and his rights and privileges as a Member of Parliament have been infringed upon, hence necessary action should be taken against the officials concerned, he said. In identical but separate letters to Union ministers Amit Shah and G. Kishan Reddy and party national president J.P. Nadda, Mr. Sanjay Kumar complained that the Telangana government has been adopting oppressive measures against political opponents and using police to suppress the political activities apart from filing false cases with the Chief Minister openly instructing his party cadre to attack the BJP leaders. There is a need for intervening in Telangana to restore the democratic process as the entire government machinery is being misused by the TRS government and an inimical atmosphere has been created with the help of police and the bureaucracy, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-bjp-chief-seeks-action-against-karimnagar-police/article38104351.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:25 IST,TELANGANA||TRS flays attempts to paint farmers’ deaths as suicides||The TRS has strongly criticised the attempts of some organisations working in the name of farmers to spread misinformation about farmers deaths in the State by painting them as suicides. Chairman of the Telangana Rashtra Rythu Bandhu Samithi (RBS) and MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy said here on Monday that “Rythu Swarajya Vedika, a commercial organisation being run in the name of farmers by some Andhra leaders along with a few media houses owned by Andhra managements” are trying to depict the deaths of farmers, recorded in the Rythu Bima group life insurance scheme as suicides, for the last few weeks. Such organisations and their leaders along with Andhra media houses are unable to digest the farmers’ welfare schemes being implemented by the Telangana government and trying to show deaths recorded under Rythu Bima as suicides disregarding even the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) statistics, Mr. Reddy said. The RBS Chairman explained that Rythu Bima scheme covers all deaths of insured farmers, including with the causes of ill-health, electrocution, accident, snake-bite, fire mishap and others and 73,825 farmers’ deaths had been covered under it so far with an insurance claim totalling to Rs. 3,524.1 crore since August 2018. Citing the NCRB statistics on farmers’ suicides in Telangana, Mr. Rajeshwar Reddy said the number was 1,348 in 2014 and by 2018 it had come down to 903, to 499 in 2019 and to 471 in 2020. Against the view of such self-styled organisations, the farming community in the State is happy with the schemes being implemented by the State government and that is the reason why the government has decided to celebrate disbursement of Rs. 50,000 crore grant as investment support to landholding (pattadar) farmers during the last eight agricultural seasons from January 3 to 10 by following COVID-19 norms, the RBS chairman said. On Rythu Bandhu, he said several international bodies, including the UN-FAO, several State governments had hailed the scheme and several States within the country, including Andhra Pradesh, Assam, West Bengal and others are implementing schemes similar to it on a smaller scale. Even the Union government had taken cue from Rythu Bandhu to launch PM-KISAN scheme, he said. Mr. Reddy criticised BJP leaders in the State for trying to create confusion about farmers’ deaths. In spite of Opposition outcry, the State government had so far procured 65 lakh tonnes of paddy of this kharif season against 48 lakh tonnes procured during the last kharif.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-flays-attempts-to-paint-farmers-deaths-as-suicides/article38104340.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:29 IST,TELANGANA||CM reviews COVID situation, asks Health dept. to strengthen infra||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed officials of the Health department to strengthen basic infrastructure in government-run hospitals across the State in view of the rising COVID-19 cases. The department should take steps to ensure that hospitals are equipped with beds, including those equipped with oxygen, medicines, testing kits and other necessary resources. The CM reviewed the preparedness of the departments concerned with regard to quality medicare for patients, the poor and vulnerable sections in particular, on Monday. He wanted the officials to set up Basti Dawakhanas in all urban local bodies for taking medicine to the doorstep of the common man. Health officials briefed Mr Rao about the pandemic situation in the State and stressed the need for COVID-appropriate behaviour like wearing masks and avoiding public gatherings. They were of the view that imposition of lockdown at present is not required. ‘No need for alarm’ The Chief Minister said though there was no need for alarm over Omicron variant as of now, people should not be complacent. The government was geared up to meet any eventuality, he added. Almost 99% beds available in the government hospitals had been equipped with oxygen supply and steps would be taken to ensure that the remaining beds were also concerted as oxygen beds. Production of oxygen had been increased from 140 metric tonnes (MT) to 324 MT and steps would be taken to see achieve target of 500 MT. Treatment, testing kits He directed the officials concerned to ensure availability of home isolation treatment kits was increased from the existing 20 lakh to one crore and the number of testing kits should be increased to two crore. Steps should be taken to ensure that doctors were available in all government-run institutions and the department should ensure that vacancies were filled at the earliest. With the collectorates and associated offices shifting to integrated complexes, steps should be taken to utilise the available space to strengthen the medical infrastructure. Efforts should be made to extend dialysis facilities to different parts of the State so that the number of patients availing the facility should be significantly higher than the existing 10,000. Basti Dawakhanas The Chief Minister wanted the Health officials to extend the concept of Basti Dawakhanas to all urban local bodies as these health centres had proved successful in the GHMC limits. He directed the officials to set up one dawakhana each in the six wards in cantonment area. Steps should be taken to set up two Basti Dawakhanas in Rasoolpura and one each in L.B. Nagar, Serilingmapally, Qutbullahpur, Kukatpally, Uppal, Malkajgiri, Jalpally, Mirpet, Peerjadiguda, Boduppal, Jawaharnagar and Nizampet. Likewise, Basti Dawakhanas should also be set up in Warangal Municipal Corporation (4), Nizamabad (3), Mahbubnagar, Nalgonda, Ramagundam, Khammam and Karimnagar (2 each) in addition to other municipal bodies like Suryapet and Siddipet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-reviews-covid-situation-asks-health-dept-to-strengthen-infra/article38104204.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:24 IST,TELANGANA||‘Time to translate knowledge into wealth’||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi launched an endowment fund in 2019 with a target of clocking $1 billion by 2030 and has already raise funds to the tune of Rs. 265 crore. In the past year alone, it was able to generate Rs. 65 crore. Disclosing this at the Osmania University Vice-Chancellor’s awards programme held on Monday, IIT-Delhi director V. Ramgopal Rao, who participated as chief guest, said there was a need to create research ecosystem and encourage faculty members to pursue research activity. He opined that India is not filing enough patents. “I am from Kollapur in Mahabubnagar district, and studied there till class 12. Where you come from does not matter; what matters is the zeal to achieve. India is doing better in terms of research and stands third in the world with the first two places occupied by China and USA,” he said, adding that patent filing time was brought down to one month. He added that India has been spending only 0.6-0.7% of the GDP on higher education whereas countries like South Korea, China and the US have been spending between 2-4%. “The entire amount spent by the HRD Ministry on 130 universities in a year in India is equivalent to what China spends on just two universities. This is the time for India to translate knowledge into wealth,” said Mr. Ramgopal Rao. About 95% of IIT-Delhi graduates have stayed back in India in the last five years and 22 unicorns were started by the alumni. He said the institute is also encouraging its faculty to not only file patents but also develop them into products under Faculty Innovation and Research Entrepreneurship. A grant of Rs. 50 lakh is being extended to the faculty members for the purpose. In addition to sabbatical leave, they can also use up about two years of unpaid leave to promote their startups. In some departments, every fifth faculty member has a product of their own. The programme was presided over by OU Vice-Chancellor D. Ravinder. Telangana State Council of Higher Education chairman R. Limbadri and Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics director K. Thangaraj addressed the gathering. Awards were presented to those who excelled in their respective departments.  The entire amount spent by the HRD Ministry on 130 universities in a year in India is equivalent to what China spends on just two universities. V. Ramgopal Rao, IIT-Delhi director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/time-to-translate-knowledge-into-wealth/article38104334.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:39 IST,TELANGANA||Why restrictions only for Oppn: Congress||Opposition Congress party questioned the rationale behind the organising of the Rythu Bandhu sambaralu by the TRS while denying permissions for any programmes by the Opposition parties. TPCC senior vice- president S. Niranjan found fault with the statement made by TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao to hold celebrations for disbursing Rythu Bandhu while GO issued by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar restricted any gatherings till January 10 in view of the fast spreading coronavirus. He has also questioned how the bars remained opened till late in the night and how flyovers were opened despite spike in the cases. He has wondered why the restrictions were only for programmes organised by the Opposition parties. “Farmers are dying in large numbers due to various problems, including crop loss and lack of support price. It is a shame for the TRS and unfortunate on the part of TRS to call farmers for celebrations. We appeal to the farming community to grill the leaders of ruling party on issues like minimum support price (MSP), loan waiver, input subsidy and other issues,” said State Kisan Congress president Anvesh Reddy. Demanding that all the produce by farmers must be purchased by the government, he has alleged that millers were reducing 10 kilograms per bag from farmers and government was silent on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/why-restrictions-only-for-oppn-congress/article38104343.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:39 IST,TELANGANA||‘Speed up MMTS Phase II, metro rail works’||Union Minister for Culture, Tourism and North East States Development G. Kishan Reddy requested Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao intervene and ensure the pending MMTS Phase II and metro rail link to old city works are completed at the earliest. In separate letters to the Chief Minister last week, the Minister urged Mr. Rao to release the government's share of Rs. 544.36 crore to the railways in full to implement the long pending Multi-Modal Transport System (MMTS) Phase II. Mr. Reddy, also Secunderabad MP, wanted the elevated metro rail into the pending 11 km corridor between Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station (MGBS), Imlibun, and Falaknuma, which was part of the original Corridor II or the Green Line. MMTS is the preferred mode of transport for the common man and delay in implementing the project is causing enormous difficulty to commuters and adversely affecting those travelling to the twin cities from the suburbs. MMTS Phase-II is a joint venture between South Central Railway (SCR) and the government and extended delays in completion of the project resulted in steep cost escalation which was “wholly avoidable,” he said. The government, according to him, had contributed Rs. 129 crore till date and the payment of Rs. 414 crore is due to the railways. "I urge you to release the government's share of funds as speedy implementation of phase II will provide affordable transport for employees, the poor and other commuters staying in Medchal, Ghatkesar, Shamshabad and other areas on the outskirts of Hyderabad," said Mr. Reddy. With regard to the metro rail link, the Minister said while people on the east side of the old city have access to the metro through the Malakpet station, those staying in the west side are compelled to spend more money and time to access the metro or even MMTS. "People on the west side of old city need urgent access to the metro owing to high population density and low road coverage. It is the poor who stand to gain if this metro fourth phase is implemented,” he said. The area has poor bus connectivity and commuting to the other parts has become tough, hence expediting the work will "prove a boon to old city," he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/speed-up-mmts-phase-ii-metro-rail-works/article38104348.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:39 IST,TELANGANA||Bifurcation: State to present strong case at meet convened by Centre||The State government is gearing up for presenting a strong case in support of its stand on the provisions of the AP State Reorganisation Act 2014 ahead of the meeting convened by the Union Home Secretary on January 12. The meeting has ostensibly been called for resolution of differences between the two Telugu States that remained unresolved since bifurcation in 2014. A major thrust of the meeting is expected to be on irrigation projects where Andhra Pradesh complained about the excess use of Krishna water by Telangana and the latter lodging a strong protest about the projects on Krishna water proposed by AP that are detrimental to the interests of Telangana. It was in this background, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has convened a preparatory meeting of senior officials on Monday to finalise the agenda that should be presented in the Jan 12 meeting. Top agenda River water sharing is expected to be the major agenda of the meeting but the AP government is likely to raise other issues relating to bifurcation as could be seen from the memorandum submitted by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. The Chief Minister directed the officials concerned led by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to explain to the Centre that Telangana was committed to implementation of the provisions of the Reorganisation Act. ‘Reciprocation matters’ The government would abide by its commitment to implement the provisions of the Act as long as there was reciprocation from the neighbouring State and it would not compromise on the interests of Telangana under any circumstances. The Chief Minister said AP government was creating “unnecessary controversies” in the implementation of the Reorganisation Act as could be seen from the demands for seeking share in Singareni Collieries Company Limited that was located in Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bifurcation-state-to-present-strong-case-at-meet-convened-by-centre/article38104372.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:24 IST,TELANGANA||Electric 2-wheeler plant proposed near Hyderabad||Ellysium Automotives, which is promoting British electric vehicle brand One Moto in India, plans to set up a manufacturing facility for the electric two-wheelers near Hyderabad with an investment of Rs. 250 crore. A memorandum of understanding has been signed and the State government has shown the company a few sites, for the proposed facility, on the outskirts of Hyderabad. The company is fine tuning details of the project, which is expected to go on stream in the October-December quarter of this year, CEO Shubhankar Chaudhry said. He was speaking after Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan on Monday launched One Moto’s e-scooters — Byka, Electa, and Commuta. The company in a release said the e-scooters are high-speed premium products. Partner and Promoter of One Moto India Md.Muzammil Riyaz and co-founder and partner Sameer Moidin participated. Mr.Chaudhry said the vehicles launched were from the Chinese facility of One Moto, which the British firm is proposing to shift to India as part of a strategy being pursued since COVID-19 outbreak. “We not only aim to serve our customers in India but also export vehicles to other global markets which One Moto is developing. There is tremendous opportunity to create jobs in Telangana not just at the manufacturing facility, but also in rural areas,” he said. The plant, expected to require 15 acres, will create almost 500 direct and 2,000 indirect jobs. The aim is to manufacture at least 40,000 units in the first phase of the plant launch, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/electric-2-wheeler-plant-proposed-near-hyderabad/article38104333.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:39 IST,TELANGANA||Over 4.89 lakh ryots get Rs. 1,047 crore Rythu Bandhu benefit on Monday||A total of 4,89,189 pattadar farmers with landholding of over 4 acres and up to 5 acres each in the State received an amount of Rs. 1,047 crore as the investment support for the rabi season under Rythu Bandhu scheme at Rs. 5,000 per acre on the fifth day of the benefit transfer on Monday. In five days, the State government has credited an amount of Rs. 5,294.09 crore into the bank accounts of 57,60,280 landholding farmers. In a teleconference conducted on Monday along with Secretary (Agriculture) M. Raghunandan Rao, Special Commissioner Hanmanthu, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy said Telangana is the only State in the country that is spending over Rs. 60,000 crore for agriculture sector. The attributed the success of agriculture sector after formation of Telangana State to the welfare and development schemes being implemented by the government for the sector such as construction of irrigation projects, revival of minor irrigation tanks, provision of timely inputs, support given under Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bima schemes. Terming the disbursement of over Rs. 50,000 crore under Rythu Bandhu for the last eight agricultural seasons a historic moment, the Minister said it was an event for celebration from village level. He released a pamphlet prepared on the Rythu Bandhu celebrations at the teleconference attended by District Agriculture Officers and other higher authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/489-lakh-get-rs-1047-cr-rythu-bandhu/article38104341.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:39 IST,TELANGANA||Jeevan writes to Governor||MLC and former minister T. Jeevan Reddy has appealed Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to see to it that G.O. 317, issued by the State government, is cancelled immediately. In a letter addressed to the Governor, Mr. Jeevan said that transfers must be taken up based on ‘nativity’ of teachers and employees. Tense atmosphere “With the G.O., only seniority of employees is being considered, instead of their being local. This is creating tension among teachers and employees. As transfers are based on the G.O., some employees are being forced to go for more than 100 kilometres, which is unfair. The case of differently abled is worse. The disability percentage was put at 70% for consideration whereas it was 40% in the past. New disability certificates are not being issued as it takes more than three months time for the board to meet. Some employees from Mancherial were shifted to Adilabad, about 150 kilometres distance,” said Mr. Jeevan Reddy in the letter. He has urged the Governor to see that the transfers are done based on local consideration. Mr. Reddy also forwarded the copies to Education Minister Sabita Indra Reddy and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar. Legislator and former Minister D Sridhar Babu also wrote similar letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Sabita Indra Reddy and Somesh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jeevan-writes-to-governor/article38104344.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:38 IST,TELANGANA||Sero-prevalence survey in all 33 districts starts today||ICMR-National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) and Telangana government will initiate a Statewide SARS CoV-2 serosurvey from January 4 onwards among the general population and healthcare workers, in all the districts of Telangana to assess the extent of community spread of the infection in the State. The sero-prevalence will be assessed by examining the SARS Cov-2, IgG antibodies in the blood samples to be collected from the general population and health care workers (HCW) with the government’s Health department and other administrative departments collaborating, it was announced on Monday. The house-to-house survey will cover 330 villages in all the 33 districts and several wards of the State. “About 16,000 people will be covered in this survey. In each of the 33 districts, 10 villages will be selected randomly and from each village, 40 people above 6 years of age from, both males and females will be covered. In addition, samples and data will also be collected from healthcare workers in all the districts,” said Scientist and Head, Public Health Nutrition Division, ICMR-NIN, Dr Avula Laxmaiah, who is leading the survey. “Over 20 teams each with a scientist/doctor, technician and phlebotomist, four co-ordinators and one lead scientist from NIN will work in tandem with the health department to complete the survey in about three weeks,” said NIN director R. Hemalatha, in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sero-prevalence-survey-to-gauge-community-spread-from-today/article38104336.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:29 IST,TELANGANA||Educational institutions closed from Jan. 8 to 16||The State government has announced that schools and educational institutions will remain closed between January 8 and 16. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting convened by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to review the pandemic situation even as COVID-19 cases are showing a sharp spike in Telangana. The government had issued orders a couple of days ago prohibiting public gatherings in view of the Omicron threat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/educational-institutions-closed-from-jan-8-to-16/article38104205.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:39 IST,TELANGANA||Med college student alleges ragging||A first year student at Government Medical College, Suryapet, has alleged ragging by seniors. The district police said that the student has alleged he was made to knee down and was scolded. Meanwhile, Health Minister T Harish Rao said on Monday morning that a committee was formed to find out if anyone has ragged the student. The directions were issued to Director of Medical Education Dr K Ramesh Reddy. Suryapet DSP Mohan Kumar said that the student has named five people in his complaint. The police have taken up investigations into the allegation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/med-college-student-alleges-ragging/article38104342.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:38 IST,TELANGANA||Bandi arrest a murder of democracy, says Nadda||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Monday flayed the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government after it arrested State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar. In a press statement, he termed the arrest a “murder of democracy and constitutional rights in Telangana”.  “Karyakartas, teachers and employees of the Telangana government had come to the office of Shri Bandi Sanjay Kumar ji at his Karimnagar Lok Sabha office to register a complaint against the KCR [Chief Minister K Chandrashekhara Rao] government passing the regressive Government Order No. 317 against teachers and employees. Following all the COVID-19 appropriate protocols, Shri Bandi Sanjay Kumar ji, along with BJP leaders and workers, sat on a night-long vigil and fast to show his solidarity with the agitating teachers and employees at his office,” Mr. Nadda stated.  “But the KCR government was so scared of this peaceful protest by the BJP State president, party workers and aggrieved teachers and employees that it ordered the police to launch an attack on the peaceful protest. This massive use of force and planned attack and violence is nothing but an act of political vendetta. The police first cut the iron gates of the office and then forcibly entered where the peaceful protest was going on. The police then launched a brutal attack on the BJP State president and others, including women leaders and then arrested them,” he observed. Such crackdown on local BJP leaders was due to the party’s “growing popularity”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bandi-arrest-a-murder-of-democracy-nadda/article38104338.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:10 IST,||Amid spike in COVID cases, Bengal civic polls as per schedule||The West Bengal State Election Commission (SEC) has decided to go ahead with elections to four municipal corporations despite COVID-19 cases touching a new peak for the past few days. Elections to the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Siliguri Municipal Corporation, Asansol Municipal Corporation and the Chandernagore Municipal Corporation are scheduled for January 22. About 17 lakh voters can exercise their franchise in these elections. On Monday, officials of the SEC held a meeting with the State administration on the poll preparations. The process of filing of nominations is continuing as per the earlier notification issued by the Commission. Elections to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation were held on December 19. The State government had on Sunday announced restrictions in the wake of rising COVID-19 infections, which included closure of all educational institutions, restrictions on local train and flight services from both from domestic and international destinations. “In modification of the earlier order, local train services will now be extended up to 10 p.m. instead of 7 p.m.,” a note from the State government said on Monday. During the day, there was chaos at railway stations as there was a rush to board the train before 7 p.m. There were also a few incidents of people falling off crowded local trains. Meanwhile, the COVID-19 positivity rate in the State rose to 19.59%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/amid-spike-in-covid-cases-bengal-civic-polls-as-per-schedule/article38104098.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:11 IST,||SP continues to attract Brahmin leaders||Former Bahujan Samaj Party MP Rakesh Pandey joined the Samajwadi Party (SP) on Monday, as the party continued to attract leaders of the influential Brahmin community ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election later this year. The development came a day after SP president Akhilesh Yadav, in a symbolic gesture towards the community, offered traditional Hindu prayers at the temple of Lord Parshuram built by one of his party’s Brahmin leaders in Gosaiganj area of Lucknow. Offers prayers  Mr. Yadav offered puja and performed aarti at the temple located in Mahurakala village near the Purvanchal Expressway, amid chanting of Vedic mantras by priests called from Ayodhya, Mathura, Varanasi and Prayagraj. Chants of Jai Jai Parshuram resonated at the venue. Mr. Yadav later even tweeted the chant.   Hoardings at the venue sought to establish Mr. Yadav as the preferred choice of the Brahmins for the Chief Minister’s post — “ Brahman ka sankalp, Akhilesh hi vikalp (The Brahmins have resolved, Akhilesh is the alternative),” said the hoardings.  A bronze idol of the axe-wielding Lord Parshuram weighing 7.5 quintal, made by artisans from Jaipur, was installed and unveiled at the temple, said an SP spokesperson. “People of the Brahmin community are the biggest socialists and are justice-loving people. The Brahmin community will take U.P. on the path to socialism,” Mr. Yadav told journalists at the event, where several top Brahmin leaders of the SP, including new entrants, converged in a show of strength. ‘Honour avatars’ Mr. Yadav also said that if the SP was voted to power, his government would honour all the avatars of Lord Vishnu by building a museum or a temple. Former BSP MP Rajesh Pandey, who was inducted into the SP, is the father of Ritesh Pandey, current BSP MP from Ambedkar Nagar in East U.P. Other Brahmin leaders from Purvanchal, including BJP MLA from Sant Kabir Nagar, Digvijay Narain Chaubey; BSP MLA from Gorakhpur, Vinay Shankar Tiwari; and his brother, former BSP MP from Sant Kabir Nagar, Bheesma Shankar Tiwari, had recently joined the SP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sp-continues-to-attract-brahmin-leaders/article38104110.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:09 IST,||Youngsters raring to go after first dose vaccination boost||On a day active cases breached the 10,000 mark in the Capital, 20,998 adolescents got a shot in the arm as the vaccination programme opened for the 15-17 age group on Monday. Jabbed with the first dose of Covaxin, students said they were looking forward to the reopening of schools, catching up with friends, and going out. At Safdarjung Hospital, the first day of the drive was a smooth affair. Those who had not registered online could walk in and receive a shot, but vaccination authorities at the hospital said they were not accepting school ID card as proof since it did not mention the age. Sahana, 15, a resident of Chhattarpur, said she hoped her classes would resume soon. “Initially, wearing a mask and social distancing was difficult but gradually I got used to it. But I am not going out as much as I used to do earlier,” the Class X student said when asked about what she missed the most during the pandemic. E-learning woes Several youngsters saw the immunity boost as an opportunity to say goodbye to Zoom classes and being confined to the four walls of their homes. Aarti, 15, said she would rather the school authorities summoned everyone for daily physical classes. “During the pandemic, the most difficult thing for me was coping with online classes. I understand and learn better through activities in (physical) class,” the ninth grader said. Agreed Poorva, 16, a Class XI student. “It is difficult to connect with teachers during online classes.” For Vicky Tirkey, it was worse – he lost interest altogether during online classes. “You end up playing games on the phone while class is on. Going to school is better as you get to meet your friends and there are other activities too. Now, it is just books,” said the 15-year-old. Moonsun Topno, who trudged to the hospital with his friends from neighbouring Kotla Mubarakpur, hoped the vaccine shot turns a corner for him. The 17-year-old, who is studying in Class XII through distance education, said he loved to play football and missed his regular training at an academy. Seventeen-year-old Sudiksha Singh, a Class XII student, was worried about her future. “Now we can’t talk freely to teachers or each other about our future. Also, when we used to go out before the pandemic, it was refreshing. But now that you’re spending a lot of time in the house, I feel suffocated and under pressure,” she said. Gurugram drive In Gurugram, teenagers got an opportunity to interact with Deputy Commissioner Yash Garg and offer their feedback as the vaccination drive kicked off at DAV Public School in Sector 49. While there are around two lakh eligible adolescents in the 15-17 group, 7,527 lucky ones got their first dose on Monday.  ( With inputs from Ashok Kumar )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/youngsters-raring-to-go-after-first-dose-vaccination-boost/article38104094.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:09 IST,||‘Omicron variant found in 81% of positive samples’||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said the Omicron variant has been found in 81% of COVID-19 positive samples in the city. “In the last few days, 187 reports of genome sequencing have come out and of them, 152 people were found Omicron positive. Omicron is now the dominant variant in Delhi,” he said. The Minister said the number of hospitalisations was less at present. “In the previous waves, a large number of patients were hospitalised. Till yesterday, only 202 patients from Delhi were in hospitals. While the number of [new] cases is increasing, the number of serious cases is not rising proportionally,” he said. Mr. Jain said the Delhi government was ready to fight any variant of the virus, and there were adequate numbers of beds available. “Almost 100% of people are vaccinated with the first dose and around 75% are vaccinated with the second dose.” Vaccination for children between 15-18 years began on Monday. There is no need to panic, the Minister said. “The only way to stop the spread of the virus is to always wear a mask when you step out and follow the COVID-19 guidelines. Prevention is better than cure. I urge people to get vaccinated as soon as possible,” he said.  The Delhi government has stopped sending all positive COVID-19 samples for genome sequencing, an official said. The Hindu had reported last week that officials were planning not to send all samples for genome sequencing.  “Since the cases have gone up in the last three to four days, not all positive samples are being sent for genome sequencing,” the official said. Earlier this month, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that all COVID-19 positive samples would be sent for genome sequencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/omicron-variant-found-in-81-of-positive-samples/article38104091.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:10 IST,||ED attaches Rs. 26 crore assets in fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs. 26.25 crore of Diamond Power Infrastructure Limited (DPIL) and its erstwhile directors, promoters and their family members in connection with a bank fraud case involving Rs. 2,654.40 crore. The value of total attachment so far has now gone up to Rs. 1,148.97 crore. Cheating of lenders The ED probe is based on a first information report registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation against DPIL and others for allegedly cheating a consortium of 19 lenders led by the Bank of India. It is alleged that the company availed itself of higher credit facilities by showing paper transactions with shell companies and related entities. The funds so raised were diverted. The ED has filed a charge sheet against DPIL, its directors and 11 others in the case. Chargesheet filed In April 2018, in the same case, the ED had issued the first attachment order involving assets worth Rs. 1,122.72 crore. It later filed a chargesheet against the former company directors, Amit Bhatnagar, Sumit Bhatnagar and Suresh Bhatnagar, and other accused persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ed-attaches-rs-26-crore-assets-in-fraud-case/article38104099.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:09 IST,||Newly opened park a hit with visitors||Since it was opened to the public on December 26, the Bharat Darshan Park in west Delhi has seen a massive response, generating Rs. 24.81 lakh in ticket sales, according to the data provided by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation. On January 2, the SDMC sold 5,726 tickets which generated Rs. 7.28 lakh, while the park witnessed 6,307 visitors and generated Rs. 8.14 lakh in ticket sales on January 1. The park was constructed by the SDMC over 22 months in an area spanning across 8.5 acres, which houses replicas of 21 monuments from across the country, including the likes of the Taj Mahal, Victoria Memorial Hall and Mysore Palace, using 350 metric tonnes of waste material. Previously, SDMC officials highlighted that the park would serve as a “good source of revenue” for the civic body with the ticket prices for adults costing Rs. 100 during the day, and Rs. 150 in the evenings; the ticket prices for children below the age of 12 stand at Rs. 50 and Rs. 75 respectively. SDMC’s Director of Horticulture, Alok Singh, said that COVID-19 protocols are being maintained at the parkand “no sitting is allowed”. A senior SDMC official said that two proposals for the construction of puzzle parkings will be presented at the civic body’s next Standing Committee meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/newly-opened-park-a-hit-with-visitors/article38104092.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:09 IST,||Two Bills tabled in Delhi Assembly||The Delhi Teachers’ University Bill 2022, which ostensibly seeks to focus on preparing “quality teachers through world-class exposure”, was tabled in the Assembly on Monday. Mentioning the need of a Teachers’ University in Delhi, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said, “Teachers are the real changemakers in the evolving Delhi education model. We gave global exposure to our teachers by sending them to international universities and they completely changed the education system in Delhi government schools.” The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara (Amendment) Bill 2022 was also introduced in the Assembly by Gurdwara Elections Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam. The Bill was presented to seek the addition of one more member to the list of nominated members of the DSGMC, taking its total from nine to 10 members. Head priest of Shri Akal Takht, Damdama Sahib, Talwandi Sabo, Bhatinda, Punjab, has been added to the list of existing four head priests of Sri Akal Takhts, who act as nominated members. After the proposed amendment, the DSGMC would have 46 elected members and 10 nominated members, taking the total tally to 56. The proposed Bill, as passed by the Assembly, will be required to be reserved by the Delhi L-G for consideration and assent of the President of India. Opposition hits out Meanwhile, the Congress said the Delhi government should discuss pressing matters in the Assembly session. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said it was surprising that the agenda for the two-day session was to pass Bills, which could have been discussed in the budget session, as the present priority should be to plan strategy to arrest the spread of COVID-19. Leader of the Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri also sought to target the government over the rising cases in the Capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-bills-tabled-in-delhi-assembly/article38104089.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:10 IST,||M.P. local polls: SC to hear Centre’s plea on Jan. 17||The Supreme Court on Monday said it will hear on January 17 an application filed by the Centre to recall a December 17 order staying the local body election process to OBC reserved seats in Madhya Pradesh. “This will come up on January 17,” a Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and C.T. Ravikumar said. The court had on December 17 referred to a Constitution Bench the verdict of 2010 that had mentioned three conditions, including the setting up of a dedicated commission to conduct a contemporaneous rigorous empirical inquiry into the nature and implications of the backwardness qua the local bodies in the States, which are required to be followed before provisioning such reservation for the OBC category. The apex court had also referred to its order, just two days earlier, directing the State Election Commission of Maharashtra to renotify the OBC seats as general category ones. In its application seeking a recall of the December 17 order, the Centre has said the upliftment of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and OBCs has been its utmost priority and an inadequate representation of OBCs in the local bodies defeats the "very object, intent and purpose of the idea" of de-centralisation of power and taking governance to the grassroots level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mp-local-polls-sc-to-hear-centres-plea-on-jan-17/article38104102.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:09 IST,||Man booked for extorting money from rape accused||The Delhi police have registered a case of extortion and criminal conspiracy against a man for allegedly luring and extorting money from an astrologer booked under the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and for gang rape in 2018. The case pertains to Asif Khan alias Ashu Bhai Guruji, an astrologer in Hauz Khas. Khan, his son Samar Khan, his friend and manager were arrested under Section 376D of the Indian Penal Code for gang rape and sections of the POCSO Act. Khan alleged in his plea that a man named Ram Naresh Sharma approached him after the case was lodged and demanded Rs. 12 crore to get him out of the case. The police said Khan and his employee Shiv Kumar said the victim in their case and Sharma were part of an extortion racket. The victim had lodged another FIR involving another group at Mandawali police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-booked-for-extorting-money-from-rape-accused/article38104095.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:09 IST,||3 stab friend to death over taunts, held in Gujarat||Three youth have been arrested for allegedly kidnapping and killing their friend in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri as he used to taunt one of them over his poverty, the police said on Monday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Parvinder Singh said the accused have been identified as Prince, Harsh and Javed. They allegedly killed Santosh by stabbing him and then throwing his body in a drain. The police said the three were arrested in Gujarat. They revealed that on December 25, Prince had asked Santosh to lend his jacket so that he could impress his girlfriend. But Santosh refused and taunted him over his poverty. Santosh also beat Prince’s friends, the police said. The accused then called the victim on the pretext of a party, where they first got him drunk and then stabbed him to death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-stab-friend-to-death-over-taunts-held-in-gujarat/article38104090.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:43 IST,||Sudan’s PM Hamdok resigns amid crackdown on protesters||Sudan’s civilian Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok resigned on Sunday, more than two months after a coup and following another deadly crackdown on protesters, with the military now firmly in control. Sudan had been undergoing a fragile journey toward civilian rule since the 2019 ouster of autocrat Omar al-Bashir, but was plunged into turmoil when military leader General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan launched his coup on October 25 and detained Mr. Hamdok. Mr. Hamdok was reinstated on November 21 under a deal promising elections in July 2023, but local media had reported he had been absent from his office for days, with rumours swirling over his possible resignation. “I have tried my best to stop the country from sliding towards disaster,” Mr. Hamdok said, addressing the nation on state television. Sudan “is crossing a dangerous turning point that threatens its whole survival”, he said. Mr. Hamdok was the civilian face of the country’s fragile transition, while Gen. Burhan has been the country’s de facto leader following Bashir’s ouster. Mr. Hamdok cited “the fragmentation of the political forces and conflicts between the (military and civilian) components of the transition” and said that “despite everything that has been done to reach a consensus... it has not happened”. Mass protests against the coup have continued even after Mr. Hamdok was reinstated. Protesters charged that the deal to reinstate Mr. Hamdok simply aimed to give the cloak of legitimacy to the generals. Thousands of demonstrators on Sunday braved tear gas, a heavy troop deployment and a telecommunications blackout to demand a civilian government. They lambasted the coup, shouting “power to the people” and demanding the military return to barracks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sudans-pm-hamdock-resigns-amid-crackdown-on-protesters/article38103786.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:44 IST,||Johnson: U.K. hospitals will face ‘considerable pressure’||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Monday said that the U.K.‘s state-run hospitals will face “considerable pressure” in the coming weeks due to the steep rise in virus infections. Speaking during a visit to a vaccine centre, Mr. Johnson said “the pressure on our NHS hospitals is going to be considerable in the course of the next couple of weeks and maybe more” as “Omicron continues to surge through the country”. The U.K. saw record numbers of cases in the last days of 2021 though it has not released figures for the whole country this year. The country is one of Europe’s worst affected with a death toll of nearly 1,49,000. The Prime Minister said that he was aware of high levels of hospital staff absences due to COVID-19, adding: “we’re looking at what we can do to move people into those areas that are particularly badly affected”.  Around 50,000 NHS staff were absent from work on Friday because they were ill or self-isolating due to COVID-19, The Sunday Times reported.  Chris Hopson, the chief executive of NHS Providers, which represents hospitals in England, told Sky News that “the pressure on hospitals outside London is now growing” after the capital bore the brunt of virus cases earlier. Mr. Johnson urged the public to get a booster vaccination, saying there are slots available for two million people this week. So far almost 34 million people have received the booster jabs. The PM defended his decision not to increase virus restrictions over the festive period in England. “Of course we keep all measures under review, but the mixture of things we’re doing at the moment is, I think, the right one”, the Prime Minister said. Omicron variant “does seem pretty conclusively to be less severe than Delta or Alpha,” he said. “It is putting fewer people into ICU.” The number of people in hospital with COVID-19 in England was reported on Sunday as the highest since February at more than 13,000, with 769 of those on ventilators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/johnson-uk-hospitals-will-face-considerable-pressure/article38103788.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:44 IST,||World powers vow to stop spread of nuclear weapons||Five global nuclear powers pledged on Monday to prevent atomic weapons spreading and to avoid nuclear conflict, in a rare joint statement ahead of a review of a key nuclear treaty later this year. “We believe strongly that the further spread of such weapons must be prevented,” said permanent UN Security Council members China, France, Russia, the U.K. and U.S., adding: “A nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought.” The statement was issued after the latest review of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) — which first came into force in 1970 — was postponed from its scheduled date of January 4 to later in the year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Putting aside current differences that have caused major tensions between both China and Russia and their Western partners, the five world powers said they saw “the avoidance of war between nuclear-weapon states and the reduction of strategic risks as our foremost responsibilities.” “As nuclear use would have far-reaching consequences, we also affirm that nuclear weapons — for as long as they continue to exist — should serve defensive purposes, deter aggression, and prevent war,” they said according to the text released by the White House. They added: “We each intend to maintain and further strengthen our national measures to prevent unauthorised or unintended use of nuclear weapons.” The statement comes as tensions between Russia and the United States have reached heights rarely seen since the Cold War over a troop build-up by Moscow close to the Ukrainian border. That has raised fears that the Kremlin is planning a new attack on its pro-Western neighbour. The rise of China meanwhile under President Xi Jinping has also raised concerns that tensions with Washington could lead to conflict, notably over the island of Taiwan. Beijing considers Taiwan part of its territory and has vowed to one day seize it, by force if necessary. Russia welcomes statement Russia welcomed the declaration by the atomic powers and expressed hope it would reduce global tensions. “We hope that, in the current difficult conditions of international security, the approval of such a political statement will help reduce the level of international tensions,” the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told the RIA Novosti news agency that Moscow still considered a summit between the world’s nuclear powers to be “necessary”. The statement also comes as the world powers seek to reach agreement with Iran on reviving the 2015 deal over its controversial nuclear drive, which was rendered moribund by the US walking out of the accord in 2018. Washington, which has never ruled out military action against Iran, has repeatedly warned time is running out to agree a deal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/world-powers-vow-to-stop-spread-of-nuclear-weapons/article38103789.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:40 IST,||Pro-China legislators take oath in Hong Kong, news site shuts||A group of lawmakers loyal to China’s Communist Party were sworn in to Hong Kong’s Legislature on Monday following an election without Opposition candidates, as yet another pro-democracy news outlet announced it could no longer operate amid a growing crackdown on freedoms in the territory. The former British colony that was returned to China in 1997 was once known as a haven for dissent and freedom of the press and expression not seen on the mainland. But the central government in Beijing has clamped down on freedom and expression over the last year, leading to the closure of independent news outlets, the removal of monuments to dissent, and a poorly attended election swept by pro-Beijing politicians. The founders of news outlet Citizen News said the news site will stop publishing on Tuesday. They said on Monday that deteriorating media freedoms in the financial hub put them in an impossible position. “We all love this place, deeply. Regrettably, what was ahead of us is not just pouring rains or blowing winds, but hurricanes and tsunamis,” Citizen News said in a statement.  The outlet is the third to close in recent months, following the shuttering of last pro-democracy print newspaper, Apple Daily , and the online site Stand News.  “What we understood about press freedom has changed a lot,” said Chris Yeung, founder and chief writer at Citizen News. Mr. Yeung said that the trigger for their decision to shut down was what happened to Stand News. Last week, authorities raided Stand News and arrested seven people for allegedly conspiring to publish seditious material. Stand News announced on the same day that it would cease to operate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pro-china-legislators-take-oath-in-hong-kong-news-site-shuts/article38103791.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:43 IST,||Trump, 2 eldest children subpoenaed in New York||New York Attorney General Letitia James recently subpoenaed former President Donald Trump and his two eldest children, demanding their testimony in connection with an ongoing civil investigation into the family’s business practices, according to a court filing made public on Monday. The subpoenas for Mr. Trump, his son Donald Trump Jr. and his daughter Ivanka Trump stem from an investigation “into the valuation of properties owned or controlled” by Mr. Trump and his company, the Trump Organization, the filing said. Messages seeking comment was left with lawyers for the Trumps and Ms. James’ office. The Attorney General’s attempt to get testimony from the former President was reported in December, but the court filing on Monday was the first public disclosure that investigators were also seeking information from Ivanka Trump and Donald Trump Jr. The Trumps are expected to file court papers seeking to quash the subpoenas, setting up a legal fight similar to one that played out last year after Ms. James’ office subpoenaed another son of Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump sued Ms. James last month, seeking to end the investigation after she requested that he sit for a January 7 deposition. Mr. Trump’s lawsuit, filed in federal court, alleges that the probe has violated his constitutional rights in a “thinly-veiled effort to publicly malign Trump and his associates.” Monday’s court filing was the A-G office’s first public acknowledgement that it has previously subpoenaed Mr. Trump’s testimony. Ms. James, a Democrat, has spent more than two years looking at whether the Trump Organization misled banks or tax officials about the value of assets — inflating them to gain favorable loan terms or minimizing them to reap tax savings. Ms. James’ investigators last year interviewed one of Mr. Trump’s sons, Trump Organization executive Eric Trump, as part of the probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-2-eldest-children-subpoenaed-in-new-york/article38103872.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:43 IST,||FDA expands boosters for more U.S. teenagers||The U.S. is expanding COVID-19 boosters as it confronts the Omicron surge, with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) allowing extra Pfizer shots for children as young as 12. Boosters already are recommended for everyone 16 and older, and federal regulators on Monday decided they’re also warranted for 12- to 15-year-olds once enough time has passed since their last dose. But the move isn’t the final step. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention must decide whether to recommend boosters for the younger teens. Dr. Rochelle Walensky, the CDC’s director, is expected to rule later this week. The FDA said everyone 12 and older who’s eligible for a Pfizer booster can get one as early as five months after their last dose rather than six months. FDA vaccine chief Dr. Peter Marks said in a statement the agency made its decision because a booster “may help provide better protection against both the delta and omicron variants,” especially as omicron is “slightly more resistant” to the vaccine-induced antibodies that help fend off infection. Real-world data from Israel tracked more than 6,300 12- to 15-year-olds who got a booster there at least five months after their second Pfizer dose and found no serious safety concerns, the FDA said. Children tend to suffer less serious illness from COVID-19 than adults. But child hospitalisations are rising during the Omicron wave — most of them unvaccinated. Pediatrician and global health expert Dr. Philip Landrigan of Boston College welcomed the FDA’s decisions, but stressed that the main need is to get the unvaccinated their first shots. Meanwhile, thousands of schools have delayed this week’s scheduled reopening. “It is among unvaccinated people that most of the severe illness and death from COVID will occur in coming weeks,” he said in an email. “Many thousands of lives could be saved if people could persuade themselves to get vaccinated.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fda-expands-boosters-for-more-us-teens/article38103784.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:43 IST,||Taliban pour liquor in canal in latest crackdown||A team of Afghan intelligence agents poured around 3,000 litres of liquor into a canal in Kabul, the country’s spy agency said on Sunday, as the new Taliban authorities crack down on the sale of alcohol. Video footage released by the General Directorate of Intelligence showed its agents pouring alcohol stored in barrels into the canal after seizing it during a raid.“ Muslims have to seriously abstain from making and delivering alcohol,” said a religious scholar in the video posted on Twitter.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-pour-liquor-in-canal-in-latest-crackdown/article38103781.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:43 IST,||Brazil's Bolsonaro rushed to hospital with intestinal blockage||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro was rushed to hospital early Monday with abdominal pain that doctors found was caused by an intestinal blockage, and is facing potential surgery nine months out from elections. Mr. Bolsonaro, 66, was on vacation at the beach in Santa Catarina when the pain started, leading to a rushed evacuation to Sao Paulo in the presidential plane.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/brazils-bolsonaro-rushed-to-hospital-with-intestinal-blockage/article38103783.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:43 IST,||A sobering reminder to the powers that be||It was September 2003 and a leading English daily of India was celebrating its 125th anniversary in Chennai. Inaugurating the grand event, the Prime Minister of the day, the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee said: “... In spite of the unfortunate aberrations, whose recurrence must be prevented, India will always remain an open, inclusive and tolerant nation, with the freedom of faith guaranteed to all not only by the statute book but also by the living traditions of this ancient civilisation.” A leader, his assurance He was referring to some ghastly incidents of violence against the two largest minorities in the country witnessed during those days in various regions. The gentle Head of the Government, endowed with exemplary political wisdom, was assuring the nation with confidence that those were just aberrations not to last long, and that the country would soon return to its age-old traditions of pluralism and religious tolerance. Vajpayee’s party had lost at the elections next year but, after a gap of a full decade, returned to power with a bang. Would anyone among the present masters of the nation’s destiny remember the solemn assurance their tallest ever leader had graciously extended to the nation? Vajpayee did not live long enough to witness the “living traditions of this ancient civilisation” being thrown into the dustbin of history. Unfortunately, even his sad demise did not act as a sobering reminder to the powers that be for the need to translate his pious hope into the ground reality of the day. In retrospect, Vajpayee wanted the country to religiously continue treading the path it had chosen for itself while throwing away the yoke of colonial rule in 1947. In the year following the advent of independence in India, the United Nations had proclaimed a Universal Declaration of Human Rights, affirming in its preamble that all members of the world body that had been set up to strive for peace across the globe had “pledged themselves” to the “promotion ... and observance” of all the ideals enshrined in that so-called “Magna Carta of Humanity”. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights had asserted at the outset that “All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.” In the coming years, its implications and demands were spelt out in the minutest details in the two International Human Rights Covenants of 1966, later suffixed with several follow-up instruments like the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief (1981) and the Declaration on the Rights of Minorities (1992). A masterpiece of wisdom When the celebrated Universal Declaration of Human Rights was proclaimed by the United Nations, the newly freed India was in the midst of writing its Constitution for the future. Its noble architects, all highly enlightened leaders of the day, infused the letter and spirit of that masterpiece of human wisdom into its preamble under which the people of India “solemnly resolved” to secure to all its citizens justice, equality and liberty of all kinds and to promote among them all “fraternity assuring the dignity of individual and unity of the nation”. The details of these prefatory pledges were elaborated upon and fortified in Part III of the Constitution on people’s Fundamental Rights. Before too long it was realised by experience that there was a pressing need to alert the people of the country, both the rulers and the ruled, also to their constitutional duties to the nation and the society. Part IVA was then added to spell out citizens’ Fundamental Duties — joint and several. The foremost among these sacred obligations were, and remain, “to abide by the Constitution and respect its ideals and institutions” and “to promote harmony and the spirit of common brotherhood amongst all the people of India transcending religious, linguistic and regional or sectional diversities.” Now, so many years after the beginning of the constitutional era, many deeply patriotic citizens of the country see the prevailing ground situation as an antithesis of the Constitution. They have begun wondering if that magnificent charter of governance “enacted, adopted and given to ourselves” two years after Independence was just an Interim Constitution to be replaced in the coming years with a brand new unwritten one drawn on diametrically opposite lines. Have we, they are asking, really decided to completely abandon our old commitments and allegiance to the international human rights instruments and to kick out our constitutional pledges to preserve religious pluralism and maintain the citizens’ dignity, equality and fraternity? An inoperative IPC Long before the advent of Independence, India had enacted and given to all its inhabitants an Indian Penal Code with a full-fledged chapter on “Offences relating to Religion” laying down penalties for outraging religious feelings, insulting religion or beliefs, disturbing religious assemblies, wounding religious feelings, and other nefarious activities of the sort. Why are, one may ask, these provisions of the Code lying totally inoperative while many people are openly flouting them in broad daylight? Television and newspapers regularly report how some of them, masquerading as saints, keep throwing dirt on the founder of the second largest religion of the contemporary world seen by its over two billion followers across the globe as the most highly revered figure next only to God. Does not all this attract application of the IPC offence of outraging religious feelings? And when some of them cross the limits to incite people to commit atrocities against, and even mass-killing, of the second largest group among the nation’s citizenry, is their audacity not covered by any provision of our Penal Code or by any other law of the country? The election law of India laid down in the Representation of the People Act of 1951 declares “promoting or attempting to promote feelings of enmity or hatred” on grounds of religion, etc. between different classes of citizens “in connection with election” to be a punishable offence (Section 125). Referring to it, an eminent apex court judge of the past, the late V.R. Krishna Iyer, had once observed: “It is a matter for profound regret that political communalism is foliating and flourishing largely because parties and politicians have not the will, professions apart, to give up the chase for power through politicizing communal identity.” It is indeed saddening that, while the election law with its aforementioned penal provision remains intact, this lament of a deeply concerned jurist-judge seems to have become a permanent feature of political discourse across the country. ‘Golden thread of unity’  The top court of the nation has in fact been constantly spelling out for us, from the very beginning, the meaning and implications of the road map the Constitution of the country had laid for us soon after Independence. In the case of Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College vs the State of Gujarat (1974), a large Bench of the Court had observed: “India is the second most populous country of the world. The people inhabiting this vast land profess different religions and speak different languages. It is a mosaic of different religions, languages and cultures. Each of them has made a mark on Indian polity and India today represents a synthesis of them all. Despite the diversity of religion and language there runs through the fabric of the nation the golden thread of a basic innate unity.”   Twenty years later in the cause célèbres captioned S.R. Bommai vs Union of India (1994), an even larger Bench of the Court had proclaimed that “Constitutional provisions prohibit the establishment of a theocratic State and prevent the State from either identifying itself with or otherwise favouring any particular religion” and “secularism is more than a passive attitude of religious tolerance. It is a positive concept of equal treatment of all religions.”  Fading ‘light’ Announcing the tragic demise of the Father of the Nation on January 30, 1948, Jawaharlal Nehru had said: “The light has gone out of our lives; that light will be seen in this country and the world will see it for that light represented something more than the immediate present; it represented the living, the eternal truths, reminding us of the right path, drawing us from error, taking this ancient country to freedom.” On that sad day, year after year since then, sirens have been blaring out in government offices and educational institutions alerting us to remember the teachings of that extraordinary leader who had played the key role in our struggle for Independence. But do we still have the will and the determination to let India remain what the Father of the Nation wanted it to be, then and always in future? Do we remember our first Prime Minister’s optimism that the Mahatma’s light “will be seen”? And, do we care for the solemn assurance given to the nation by another great Prime Minister of the country, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, in 2003 that “India will always remain an open, inclusive and tolerant nation”? Are there any answers? Tahir Mahmood is a former Dean of the Delhi University Law Faculty||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-sobering-reminder-to-the-powers-that-be/article38103769.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:39 IST,||The deafening silence of scientists||In December 1954, Meghnad Saha, one of India’s foremost astrophysicists and an elected parliamentarian, wrote to Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, “My request to you is that you do not smother your Desdemonas on the report of men like this particular Iago. I sometimes believe there are too many Iagos about you, as there have been in history about every person of power and prestige”. By referring to the characters in Shakespeare’s Othello , an aggrieved Saha was showing his displeasure at a situation that he perceived to be bad for Indian science wherein the courtship between the state and science was being ruined by the Machiavellian advisers of the then Prime Minister.  A glorious tradition forgotten We have come a long way from Nehruvian times when scientists could afford to be directly critical of the Prime Minister and still expect to get a pat on their shoulder in return. Over the past few years, a pernicious political landscape that encourages intolerance and superstition has been developed. This has proved to be non-conducive for the time-tested scientific model and freedom of inquiry. For the creation of knowledge, one should be able to think and express themselves freely. One also needs to have a space for dissent, which is a fundamental requirement for democracies to thrive. Are our scientists vocal enough to argue for the freedom of thought and are they able to stand up against pseudoscience? Their silence has given rise to the perception that they too are complicit in creating an unhealthy atmosphere of ultra-nationalism and jingoism, where the glorious tradition followed by socially committed scientists like Saha is forgotten. We have seen this lack of reactivity from Indian scientists and science academies on many occasions in the recent past, starting with the conduct of the 102nd Indian Science Congress in 2015. How did a session suffused with extreme nationalism and promoting junk science find its way into this prestigious meet? How was it vetted and approved by a high-profile committee containing the country’s front-ranking scientists? Completely sidelining the real scientific contributions made in ancient and medieval times, ridiculous claims were made in that forum about ancient ‘Bharat’ being a repository of all modern knowledge. Except a few, like the late Pushpa Bhargava, who always fretted about the lack of scientific temper among Indian scientists, most of our leaders in science chose to ignore something that was patently wrong. Pseudo-scientific remarks by responsible political leaders have continued to hog the limelight ever since. Even when a former Union Minister insisted that Darwin’s Theory of Evolution was scientifically wrong, leading scientists remained silent save a few. More recently, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief made a misinformed statement that the DNA of all the people in India has been the same for 40,000 years. His message clearly goes against the proven fact that Indians have mixed genetic lineages originating from Africa, the Mediterranean, and Eurasian steppes. As a part of revisionist history-writing, the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur has now issued a 2022 calendar. The purpose of it is to argue for a Vedic cultural foundation for the Indus Valley Civilisation — a theory that goes against all the available evidence; morphing an Indus Valley single-horned bull seal into a horse will not solve the evidentiary lacuna. A retinue of junk science propagators and new-age ‘gurus’ have been flourishing in this anti-science environment, often marketing questionable concoctions including cow products to cure COVID-19 and even homosexuality, as though it is some sort of disease. Pseudoscience has provided a foundational base for a huge money-making industry that successfully peddles quackery by sustaining and exploiting the people’s ignorance. Our social and political life resonates uncannily with the fascist era of the 1930s-40s when Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini argued that the “white race” was locked in a deadly demographic competition with races of “lesser purity” whose numbers were growing much faster. It can be instructive in our current political climate to reflect on how science failed as a bulwark against such regressive viewpoints. The science historian, Massimo Mazzotti, at the University of California, Berkeley, ably showed how the fascist regime in Italy, using various intimidation and surveillance tactics, made academic elites toe the official line. The faculties did so without making an actual anti-fascist choice. Instead, they entered the grey zone of cynical detachment. It was due to cynicism and careerism that the scientists of Italy derided racist policies as foolish in private but did not bother to question them publicly. Like Italy, racism and ‘othering’ was very much a part of the political landscape in Germany under the Nazi regime, which saw a big exodus of high-ranking scientists with Jewish tags. Reasons for toeing the line As discussed by Naresh Dadhich, an Indian theoretical physicist, in an article, one of the reasons for this acquiescence is that scientific research relies almost entirely on funding from the government. So, a fear of retribution acts against the idea of engagement with society. Another equally valid reason is that our contemporary science researchers remain entirely cut off from liberal intellectual discourse, unlike in the initial years after Independence. For most scientists today, the idea of science as a form of argument remains foreign. For many of them, exposure to the social sciences is minimal at university. They also don’t get trained in a broad range of social topics at the school level. Globally, STEM students downplay altruism and arguably demonstrate less social concern than students from other streams. The blame squarely lies with the pedagogy followed in our science education system. The leading science and technology institutes recruit students right after school and largely host one or two perfunctory social science courses. Students, thus, mostly remain oblivious to the general liberal intellectual discourse. This issue is of major concern, as the 21st century is witnessing a new rise of illiberal democracy with fascist tendencies that generate intolerance and exclusion in various parts of the world, including India. We are also living at a time when scientific advice is marginalised in public policy debates ranging from natural resource use to environmental impacts. In the early 20th century, many leading scientists were deeply engaged with philosophy and had developed a distinctive way of thinking about the implications of science on society. They were much more proactive about societal issues. The continuity of that legacy appears to have broken. A cowed-down scientific enterprise is not helpful in retaining the secular autonomy of academic pursuits. To regain this cultural space among younger practitioners, science education must include pedagogical inputs that help learners take a deliberative stand against false theories that could undermine civil society and democratic structures. C.P. Rajendran is an adjunct professor at the National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru and an author of a forthcoming book, ‘Earthquakes of the Indian Subcontinent’. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-deafening-silence-of-scientists/article38103778.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:43 IST,||India’s rights record, America’s blinkered vision||Recent Indian foreign policy has a chequered record, the vacillations over the Taliban resuming control in Afghanistan being one instance. But it cannot be denied that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been remarkably successful in maintaining cordial Indian relations with Washington under United States President Joe Biden despite overt wooing of former President Donald Trump. Accommodating view India is considered a critical ally by the United States, the only designated Major Defence Partner, and Ambassador-Designate to India Eric Garcetti told the Senate, “Few nations are more vital to the future of American security and prosperity than India,.” In Delhi last October, U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman, said of India’s purchase of Russian military equipment, “We’ve been quite public about any country that decides to use the S-400. We think that it is dangerous and not in anybody’s security interest,” but our authorities did not think it necessary to rebuke her for flagrant discourtesy on Indian soil. For what American Defence Minister Lloyd James Austin III called “shared values”, Washington takes an accommodating view of widespread Indian downgrades in indices considered credible in assessing democratic norms and human rights. Like Israel, India finds that Washington’s embrace provides a certain immunity from international criticism.  The U.S. State Department’s Country Report on Human Rights Practices itself last March recorded “significant human rights issues” in India, including extrajudicial killings, torture, arbitrary arrest and detention, violence against minorities, unjustified harassment of journalists, and censorship and blocking of websites. India is rated poorly by the U.S.-based Freedom House which called it ‘partly free’, Sweden’s V-Dem Institute which dubbed it an ‘electoral autocracy’, The Economist ’s Democracy Index and the Stockholm Institute for Democracy which India had helped to establish.  A year ago, India ranked 142 in the World Press Freedom Index of Reporters Without Borders. The U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom has for successive years recommended that India be listed as a ‘country of particular concern’ due to its treatment of Muslims and Christians, and India is ranked in the Open Doors World Watch List for ‘extreme’ Christian persecution below Syria, Iraq and Saudi Arabia. The U.S. government has ignored all these findings to the dismay of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and activists due to Narendra Modi’s positioning India as an indispensable partner, and his government has no sympathy for NGOs, portraying their conclusions as biased and uninformed. The world media Diplomacy does not proceed according to ethical standards; nor does the global media. Six dying in a gust of wind in Australia and six in an Illinois warehouse collapse make headlines, while reports that every 25 minutes an Indian woman commits suicide, 48 persons dying in a volcanic eruption in Java and 208 in a typhoon in Philippines are not newsworthy. Nor is the current heroic popular demand in Sudan for a democratic government. In past times, third world leaders in countries such as India, Malaysia, Indonesia and Nigeria tried to create a rival media platform, and Qatar, China and Russia started 24-hour news channels but cannot match the resources and reach of the entrenched, West-dominated English-medium news ecosystem which includes soft power assets such as music, film and culture. Hence, the Central Intelligence Agency is portrayed as all-knowing, despite its abject failures in the Bay of Pigs Invasion, Iraq’s nuclear weapons and the Afghan army’s capabilities. World news is curated by a handful of western capitals, the ‘read outs’ being for the domestic audience, which can enjoy the U.S. and its allies forever fulminating against opponents who meekly submit to the diatribes. Threats of “massive consequences and severe economic cost” against Russia by G7 countries and the European Union are blandly announced without reference to what might be Russia’s concerns for its own security. A boycott of the Winter Olympics in China by irrelevant western officials is heralded, but no boycott is threatened of the Football World Cup at Qatar, an absolute monarchy where there are scant civil and political rights, workers rights are negligible and homosexuality is deemed illegal. The West’s instrument of choice for penalising political adversaries is this: unilateral sanctions of dubious legality in international law. No audit has ever been taken of the immense suffering these sanctions inflict on innocent civilians. The U.S. Treasury lists 36 groups of multiple sanctions, the latest of which is a typically insensitive measure against seven Bangladeshis, including the police chief, just before the 50th anniversary of that nation’s liberation from American ally Pakistan. On the U.S. For the world’s oldest democracy to arbitrate on fundamental rights of others is ironic for a country where in 12 months ending March 2021, its police murdered 37 African-American people per million against 15 per million whites, when African-Americans comprise only 13% of the population. The Summit For Democracy hosted by U.S. President Joe Biden was predictably confused about its participants because not every democracy is liberal and not every society considered liberal is fully democratic. Meaningful summits should be global in attendance and concentrate on pressing problems such as inequality, climate change and arms control on earth and in space. Krishnan Srinivasan is a former Foreign Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indias-rights-record-americas-blinkered-vision/article38103772.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:39 IST,||Aiding in governance||It is well known that the collaborative effort of markets and the Government leads to development of a country. We also know that engaging with communities and non-state informal institutions is as important as working with the Government machinery. Section 135 of the Companies Act mandates corporates who are beyond a certain level of profits and turnover to pay at least 2% of their net profits before tax to the development space. This law gives corporates the necessary impetus to collaborate with non-state actors like Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and Civil Society Organisations (CSOs). This strengthening of citizenry-private partnerships is a major component of development activities. Non-state actors, because of their depth of engagement with communities, bring patient capital to corporate board rooms and help the state, too, by engaging in welfare activities. This is a classic case of state-driven governance mechanism promoting collaboration among non-state actors. A key pillar of democratic governance is citizens’ power to question the state. NGOs and voluntary groups/organisations have played a significant role in building capacities of citizens to hold governments accountable. With the Government taking the stand that any action by an NGO which is critical of the government is ‘anti-national’, more so when funded from abroad, the space for foreign grants has shrunk. Hence, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) grants, which wouldn’t necessarily have flowed had it not been for the CSR law, have assumed importance to provide the much-needed sustenance to NGOs and CSOs as key players in non-state governance. Essential cogs in the wheel State governance should be evolving in nature. However, the Indian bureaucratic elite have little appetite for risk-taking and innovation because of the constant changing goalposts of their politician-bosses or because the quantum of work is more than what they can efficiently handle. Bureaucrats, therefore, often take recourse to the status quo even if it is to at least get some work done and not stall everything by campaigning for change, especially in the realm of governance. There is also the fear of failure, with its deep-rooted consequence of non-risk-takers smoothly sailing to the top posts. In such contexts, it is the non-state actor who innovates and creates breakthrough models of community engagement. They also become the vehicle to carry the demands of people to formal institutions. We saw this in the case of the Right to Information (RTI) campaign, which became a law after decades-long efforts by NGOs. The law has brought a dramatic change in the degree of transparency in India, with most Government ministries falling under its ambit. Corporate houses, when implementing their CSR activities, and governments, when executing their flagship projects, especially in the years preceding elections, are aggressive in their targets. But that doesn’t necessarily work in the development sector where change happens at a glacial pace. It is the non-state actors, who know the lay of the land, who bridge the gap between people and firms/state. It is common knowledge that the District Collector calls on vetted NGOs/CSOs to implement various schemes during the normal course of the day or to step in at short notice when calamities strike. NGOs and CSOs sometimes do the heavy lift and ensure that schemes reach the last person even in the face of disaster. When non-state actors take a large load off the state’s shoulder, the state can focus more on governance. Research shows that it is the synergy of NGOs, Government and corporates which is the holy grail of development. I have learnt from being on the field that NGOs and CSOs with their penetration are best suited for last-mile delivery of government schemes or implementation of a corporate house’s CSR work, thus nudging one another in the path to a developmental state. The tension between the tenets of liberty and equality is balanced by fraternity provided by the empathetic NGOs and CSOs in the journey towards a development state. The CSR law has made the corporate world not only clean its own mess but has also created a legal framework for corporates to work with NGOs and CSOs. NGOs and CSOs in India, irrespective of the open hostility of the current dispensation, will play a major role in mobilising citizen action to right various wrongs. They can help contribute to better polity as well as better governance. Most importantly, they have the legitimacy to operate not just as actors who must ride into the sunset after their job is done but to be as integral cogs in the wheel of good governance. Lijo Chacko is with the Institute of Development Studies, Brighton, U.K. Views expressed here are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/aiding-in-governance/article38103775.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:39 IST,||Chasing Rajenthra Bhalaji||A hunt for former Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji in connection with two job-related cheating cases is proving to be a challenge for the Tamil Nadu police. Over a fortnight after the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court dismissed the AIADMK leader’s anticipatory bail applications, six special police teams have failed to trace him. Among the complaints registered against him by the Virudhunagar District Crime Branch is cheating government job aspirants after collecting Rs. 1.6 crore. There are not many in the AIADMK to shed tears for Mr. Bhalaji, though publicly the party has called the police action an act of political vendetta by the DMK government. For, the rustic politician is controversy’s second child. He had not only alienated local party functionaries with his aggression but caused much embarrassment to the leadership by taking a pronounced pro-Hindu and pro-BJP stand as Minister. In the run up to the 2019 parliamentary polls, he declared, “[Prime Minister] Modi is our [AIADMK] daddy, India’s daddy!” This did not sit well with the cadres who had witnessed former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa lead the party to a historic electoral success in 2014 with an epic remark: “Who is a better administrator — Gujarat’s Modi or this Tamil Nadu lady?” Caught on audio once threatening to eliminate an opponent and later justifying it, and on video manhandling a party man, Mr. Bhalaji has never been known for public niceties. He called for cutting off actor-politician Kamal Haasan’s tongue when the latter described Nathuram Godse as “free India’s first Hindu extremist”. As Minister, he went on record saying if the support for “Islamic terrorism” continued, “nobody can stop Hindu terrorism”. Mr. Bhalaji had also embarrassed then Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami by insisting that the murder of a BJP functionary in Tamil Nadu had a “religious angle” despite the police ruling out such motives. During the ‘Janata curfew’, he tweeted: “The happening in the country are a lesson to bogus crusaders who made fun of Hindu religious practices and beliefs...” Following an uproar, he deleted it. Against this backdrop, there is scepticism over the failure of the police to arrest him with critics questioning if the politician managed to remain untraced due to his proximity to the BJP. However, Mr. Bhalaji’s sister and lawyer have knocked the doors of the High Court alleging harassment by the police. Among the few AIADMK ex-ministers to lose in the 2021 Assembly election, Mr. Bhalaji is also facing a revived probe by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) under the Prevention of Corruption Act. It is inevitable that the AIADMK would back Mr. Bhalaji as the M.K. Stalin government has turned the heat on several former ministers. Five former ministers, including two known to be trusted lieutenants of Mr. Palaniswami, have been booked by the DVAC. More are likely to be targeted. Former Social Welfare Minister V. Saroja is facing a case of cheating job aspirants. One of Mr. Palaniswami’s personal assistants, Mani, has also been arrested on charges of cheating people. Therefore, the party leadership could ill-afford to let Mr. Bhalaji fend for himself. An AIADMK delegation recently met Governor R.N. Ravi alleging that the police was harassing its functionaries. The party has sought to turn the tables on the DMK questioning if the government would arrest Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji, a political turncoat, who as Transport Minister in the Jayalalithaa government, faced a similar case of cheating job aspirants. Irrespective of the political game, the Tamil Nadu police, which prides itself as being on a par with the Scotland Yard police, has its task cut out in arresting Mr. Bhalaji. sureshkumar.d@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/chasing-rajenthra-bhalaji/article38103780.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:42 IST,||Safety at all costs||The death of four workers on New Year’s Day in a blast at a fireworks unit in Kalathur village of Virudhunagar district, the hub of the firecrackers sector in Tamil Nadu, reiterates the need for relentless vigil to enforce safety protocols in an industry that deals with hazardous processes. The blast was said to have been triggered by friction caused by the mishandling of chemicals. Apparently, the workers had come to the unit for a pooja to usher in 2022. Even though the authorities have suspended the unit’s licence and filed cases under the Indian Penal Code and Indian Explosive Substances Act, they have not cited violations such as the licence holder leasing out the unit to others and manufacturing products unauthorisedly. Over the years, the district has seen numerous blasts and successive State Governments had formed, at times, committees to study the factors that led to the blasts. There have been improvements in the way the firecracker industry has been functioning. For example, the extent of child labour has reduced considerably. But, with regard to adherence to and monitoring of safety protocols, the track record leaves much to be desired. There has to be a paradigm shift in the manner an event such as the Kalathur blast is viewed. Generally, any blast is called an accident but such usage unwittingly tends to gloss over the role of those who are responsible for the implementation and the enforcement of safety protocols. There can be no compromise on this count. At the same time, the contribution of the firecracker industry to the country’s economy, especially that of Tamil Nadu, has to be acknowledged. The sector employs eight lakh people, directly and indirectly, in a backward region of the State with no assured irrigation. However, this does not absolve the industry of the responsibility to the life and the health of workers and the larger sections of society. In any investigation of the event, the authorities concerned should seriously consider translating into action some of the suggestions made by an eight-member committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal after a blast in the district that killed over 20 people in February 2021. Headed by former judge of the Punjab and Haryana, and Madras High Courts K. Kannan, the panel had suggested that the Explosives Act be amended to make punishments more stringent than now, employing only certified persons for operations including mixing, filling of chemicals and the making of colour pellets, and using drones for surveillance of various units. There is no dearth of ideas to improve the working of the industry but what is required is that the authorities, both at the levels of Central and State Governments, should ensure the enforcement of safety protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/safety-at-all-costs/article38103620.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:42 IST,||Widening the safety net||Nearly a year after the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines for health-care workers, the primary vaccination schedule to cover 75 million teenagers aged 15-17 years began across the country on January 3. Nearly 0.4 million children received the first dose on the first day. With all adults aged 18 years and above already being covered, the inclusion of teenagers has reduced the eligibility age group to 15 years. The decision to vaccinate teenagers, which was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 25 last year, was based on the emergence of the highly transmissive Omicron variant, its spread to many countries in about a month after it was designated as a variant of concern, the global case surge, and the trend in many developed countries of vaccinating adolescents and children. While there is no clear consensus on whether healthy teenagers above 15 should be vaccinated particularly as severe disease and deaths in this age group are relatively low when infected by the virus and a significant percentage of teenagers and children have been already infected as indicated by a few sero surveys, vaccination does increase the level of protection. Unlike in the case of adults who were vaccinated with one of the two vaccines — Covishield or Covaxin — teenagers will be administered only Covaxin. It was found to be safe and immunogenic in teenagers during a phase-2/3 of the clinical trial; only 175 adolescents aged 12 to 18 years were studied. The data of the trial, yet to be peer-reviewed, were posted on a preprint server on December 29. As in the case of adults, the eligible teenagers will receive the second dose 28 days after the first. Besides providing teenagers with a primary vaccine, health-care and frontline workers and those above 60 years with co-morbidities will be provided with a precaution dose. Providing Covaxin as the precaution dose to all the people who have received the same vaccine as part of the primary vaccination schedule, scientifically called as homologous vaccine booster, will be the best approach at least till there is evidence on using a different vaccine as a booster shot. Though Covaxin accounts for only around 10% of all doses administered till date, the scientific bodies need to factor in vaccine availability too. This becomes particularly important as only Covaxin is used for vaccinating teenagers and its production is very limited in comparison to Covishield. The compulsion to test other vaccines that can be used in place of Covaxin as an additional dose in adults is therefore overwhelming. The approval of two additional vaccines, which are manufactured using different vaccine platforms, will further lessen the reliance on Covaxin for primary vaccination of adults, thus ensuring that the vaccination programme for teenagers does not suffer from shortages midway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/widening-the-safety-net/article38103619.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 03:39 IST,||Mujib to be released unconditionally||New Delhi, Jan. 3: Pakistan President Bhutto to-day announced his decision to release Bangla Bandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rehman unconditionally “in response to world opinion,” but left vague the actual date of release. Mr. Bhutto made known his decision at a mammoth public meeting in Karachi at which he sought the “people’s approval” for this course in the manner of ancient Roman rulers. “You have relieved me of a great burden,” he remarked after the audience, estimated by Radio Pakistan to number lakhs, roared its approval. Mr. Bhutto said he would have comprehensive talks with Mujib on his return to Rawalpindi and would thereafter release him “unconditionally”. He did not mention when he would reach Rawalpindi and when the talks with Sheikh Mujib would take place. He said he would go to his home town of Larkhana before returning to Rawalpindi. Mr. Bhutto addressed one of the largest crowds at a political rally in Karachi in 20 years. Speaking in Urdu for 90 minutes, Mr. Bhutto said he first planned to go to his hometown of Larkhana, about 500 km north of here, and then see Sheikh Mujib for talks he said he had started in Rawalpindi. “I will then release him unconditionally and without bargaining,” said Mr. Bhutto.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mujib-to-be-released-unconditionally/article38103773.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:13 IST,||December goods exports touch $37.3-billion high: Goyal||India’s merchandise exports in December touched $ 37.29 billion, the highest-ever monthly figure, according to Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal. Addressing a press conference here on Monday, Mr. Goyal highlighted the pursuit of export-oriented programmes by the Uttar Pradesh and Tripura governments. “In every sector, there has been significant growth in exports,” said Mr. Goyal. He claimed that every month’s export data from April to December 2021 had displayed a “historic high”. Export figures for December, reflected a 37% increase from $27.22 billion a year earlier. ‘48.9% rise in April-Dec.’ Merchandise exports grew 48.9% to $299.74 billion in the April-December 2021, from $201.37 billion seen in the same period of the previous year, Mr. Goyal said. The Minister said the services side, especially the IT sector, had received special focus of the government. “We have seen $178 billion [services exports] in the first nine months and we are well on track to go up to about $230 billion or upwards of that, which will also be a historic high [for] services exports,” he said, explaining that the sector had performed successfully despite the “big setback” experienced by the travel and tourism industry because of the ongoing pandemic. He also said that credit should also go to India’s diplomatic missions across the world, exporters, industry associations and export promotion councils for collectively working to explore newer global regions and to help expand the “export basket”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/december-goods-exports-touch-373-billion-high-goyal/article38103606.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:13 IST,||RBI approves small, offline e-payments||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has come out with the framework for facilitating small-value digital payments in offline mode, a move that would promote digital payments in semi-urban and rural areas. The framework incorporates feedback received from the pilot experiments on offline transactions conducted in different parts of the country between September 2020 and June 2021. An offline digital payment does not require Internet or telecom connectivity. “Under this new framework, such payments can be carried out face-to-face (proximity mode) using any channel or instrument like cards, wallets and mobile devices,” the RBI said. “Such transactions would not require an Additional Factor of Authentication. Since the transactions are offline, alerts (by way of SMS and / or e-mail) will be received by the customer after a time lag,” it added. There is a limit of Rs. 200 per transaction and an overall limit of Rs. 2,000 until the balance in the account is replenished. The RBI said the framework took effect ‘immediately’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-approves-small-offline-e-payments/article38103614.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:13 IST,||India wants WTO meet on COVID package||India has sought an emergency meeting of the General Council of the World Trade Organization (WTO) this month in Geneva to deliberate upon the world trade body’s proposed response package, including patent waiver proposal, to deal with the pandemic amid rising coronavirus infections globally, an official said. The General Council is WTO’s highest decision-making body in Geneva. Expressing disappointment over no progress on TRIPs (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) waiver proposal to deal with the pandemic, India has called for including this proposal into WTO’s proposed response package. In October 2020, India and South Africa submitted the first proposal, suggesting a waiver for all WTO members on the implementation of certain provisions of the TRIPs agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of COVID-19. In May 2021, a revised proposal was submitted. TRIPs came into effect in January 1995. “We have sought an emergency meeting of the General Council to discuss the WTO’s response package to deal with COVID-19 pandemic including patent waiver proposal. WTO will start its meetings from January 10,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-wants-wto-meet-on-covid-package/article38103610.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:13 IST,||Nomura post-COVID activity index hits high||Post-pandemic economic activity hit a fresh high in the week ended January 2, as per the Nomura India Business Resumption Index reading of 120.3, indicating a 20.3% rise compared with pre-COVID levels. While this was the second week in a row that the index stayed above 120, power demand fell 3.1% from a week earlier compared with a 2.5% rise seen in that week. Workplace mobility measured by Google dipped 6% from the earlier week, but a 10.4% rise in the Apple driving statistics bumped up the overall index. The labour participation rate inched down to 40.6% from 40.7%, Nomura analysts Sonal Varma and Aurodeep Nandi said in a note on Monday. The note, titled ‘Another high in business resumption at the cusp of a third wave’, warned that elevated mobility and a rising positivity rate suggest a further rise in new COVID-19 cases, which has already hit 33,750 on Sunday from about 6,500 cases per day a week earlier. “While early signs point to a lower mortality rate, it bears close monitoring. The restrictions could derail the recovery in contact-intensive services in this quarter, but global experience suggests a smaller impact than previous waves and a swift growth rebound once cases peak,” the note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nomura-post-covid-activity-index-hits-high/article38103607.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:13 IST,||‘India, Israel in talks for free trade agreement’||India is in dialogue with Israel for concluding a Free Trade Agreement (FTA), Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said here on Monday. The announcement coincides with the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries. Both sides are currently in talks to mark the occasion with high-level visits and new agreements. Mr. Goyal also informed that bilateral free trade agreements are being negotiated with the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, Australia and Canada. He said the agreement with the UAE was ‘close to finalisation’ while the FTA with Australia was at a ‘very advanced stage.’ The FTAs would cover a wide range of sectors such as agricultural products and pharmaceuticals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-israel-in-talks-for-free-trade-agreement/article38103603.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:13 IST,||Ashok Leyland Dec. sales dip 2%||Commercial vehicle manufacturer Ashok Leyland Ltd. has reported a 2% dip in total sales volume for December at 12,518 units compared to the year-earlier period, following a drop in light commercial vehicle (LCV) sales. When computed separately, LCV sales, including exports, contracted 17% to 4,899 units while medium and heavy commercial vehicle (M&HCV) sales rose 11% to 7,619 units, the company said in a statement. The M&HCV segment was led by buses with an increase of 57% to 1,020 units and trucks by 6% to 6,599 units. For the nine-month period ended December, total sales grew 41% to 79,607 units. LCV sales rose 21% and M&HCV 64%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ashok-leyland-dec-sales-dip-2/article38103615.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:13 IST,||Banking stocks lead on bourses||Indian equity markets started the first day of trading in the new year on a euphoria with key indices gaining 1.6% backed by heavy buying in the banking and financial pack followed by metal and auto stocks. The S&P BSE Sensex gained 929.40 points or 1.6% to 59,183.22. The top Sensex gainers included Bajaj Finserv (3.59%) and Bajaj Finance (3.52%). Similarly, the NSE Nifty 50 index rose 271.65 points, or 1.57%, to close at 17,625.70. Ajit Mishra, VP, research, Religare Broking Ltd. said market participants overlooked rising Omicron cases and muted global cues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/banking-stocks-lead-on-bourses/article38103605.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:13 IST,||Factory output rises at slower rate: PMI||India’s manufacturing sector activities moderated in December but output remained in the growth territory, amid slower rise in sales and new orders, even as business sentiment was dampened by concerns surrounding supply-chain disruptions, COVID-19 and inflationary pressures, a monthly survey showed. The seasonally-adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index eased to 55.5 in December, from November’s 10-month high of 57.6. The December data pointed to a ‘substantial, albeit slower, rises in sales and output,’ it said, adding the reading was at 56.3, its highest since the final quarter of fiscal 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/factory-output-rises-at-slower-rate-pmi/article38103871.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:13 IST,||Fresh norms on insurance firm directors pay mooted||Insurance regulator IRDAI has issued an exposure draft proposing changes to guidelines on remuneration of non-executive directors as well as MD/CEO/whole-time directors of insurers. This is ‘to ensure sound remuneration or compensation practices and [to] avoid situations resulting from excessive risk taking behaviour due to inappropriate compensation structures,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fresh-norms-on-insurance-firm-directors-pay-mooted/article38103599.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:13 IST,||Omicron covered under health policies: IRDAI||Insurance policies that cover COVID-19 treatment costs will also cover the cost of treatment of the Omicron variant, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India said. It advised insurers to put in place coordination mechanism with network providers to make available seamless cashless facility and requested hospitals to honour SLAs with insurers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/omicron-covered-under-health-policies-irdai/article38103598.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:13 IST,||An open field in the men’s section||The withdrawal of India’s top paddler G. Sathiyan from the UTT-National ranking Central Zone table tennis tournament beginning at the Abhay Prashal Indoor Stadium here on Tuesday has left the doors yet again for a possible new men’s singles champion to emerge. All the three previous National-ranking tournaments have had three different men’s winners — Sharath Kamal (North Zone, Panchkula), Sanil Shetty (Dehradun), and Harmeet Desai (South Zone, Puducherry). And this time, too, the field looks wide open in the absence of Sharath and Sathiyan. The women’s field is also pretty even with very little to separate the top five players. Prapti Sen (North Zone), Sutirtha Mukherjee (Dehra Dun), and Sreeja Akula (South Zone) have triumphed so far.  Speaking to The Hindu here on Monday, Sathiyan said he wasn’t feeling well and hence decided to withdraw.  “Feeling feverish, better to rest and recover and get ready for the Senior Nationals. Also, it’s better to stay safe and I don’t want to put others at risk,” he said. Manav Thakkar and Archana Kamath are riding on momentum having won the men’s and women’s crowns in the Petroleum Sports Promotion Board inter-unit tournament held at the same venue a few days back. Excited “Very excited. I hit peak form at the right time. Defeating Sathiyan in the semifinals of the PSPB inter-unit was indeed special. Moreover, I have not won any domestic title this season and looking forward to it,” said Manav. Qualifier Archana didn’t want to attach too much importance to the PSPB inter-unit win. “Each tournament is different. My win there will have no bearing here,” she said. At the venue here on Monday, all the players and officials underwent an Antigen test for the virus, after which seven players tested positive. Four test positive Competition Manager N. Ganeshan said of the seven players who underwent RTPCR Test four have tested positive and they will have to return home for risk of infecting others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/an-open-field-in-the-mens-section/article38103948.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,||South Africa pacemen call the shots on day one||There were patches of grass on the surface and the ball zipped around. On view was pace, bounce and movement. Welcome to the Wanderers. The pacemen called the shots at the Bullring and the batsmen struggled to cope. India was dismissed for 202 and South Africa lost opener Aiden Markram, playing across and being trapped leg-before by a Mohammed Shami delivery that nipped back. At stumps on day one of the second Freedom Test on Monday, the host was 35 for one. The Proteas could have been two down but ’keeper Rishabh Pant put down a tough catch after Keegan Petersen slashed at Jasprit Bumrah. In a blow to India, in-form seamer Mohammed Siraj appeared to have pulled his hamstring in his run-up and had to leave the field. For India, captain K.L. Rahul made a 133-ball 50 of typical patience and quality and Ashwin rattled up a 46-ball 50, pulling his weight as an all-rounder. South Africa’s impressive beanpole left-arm seamer Marco Jansen scalped four, while there were three wickets each for the nippy comeback man Duanne Olivier and the fast Kagiso Rabada. In low-scoring scraps, runs from the lower-order can often swing games and the aggressive Ashwin timed the ball sweetly in a vital knock. He on-drove and cover-drove Ngidi with footwork and balance, flicked Rabada, and lofted to the right of Olivier before departing attempting to slash Jansen. And some lusty blows by the newly promoted vice-captain, Bumrah, took India beyond 200. Rahul won the toss, elected to bat and put on another exhibition of playing, ‘leaving’ and being in the ‘zone’ — his mental switch for Test cricket has been striking — before stroking elegantly. Between periods of defence, he stroked beautifully. A back-foot punch through cover off Rabada was all class. However, Rahul’s patient vigil ended after he miscued a pull from outside off when Jansen pitched short; Jansen’s lifters were coming at varying heights. In the morning, Rahul and Mayank Agarwal negotiated the crucial first hour. In an attacking move, South Africa brought in Olivier for pace bowling all-rounder Wiaan Mulder and straightaway the Protea bowling looked more threatening. Mayank (26) cover-drove and off-drove Olivier with timing and poise. Jansen, however, ended Mayank’s innings, angling the ball across and finding the edge even as the batter attempted a drive without footwork. Twin strikes Cheteshwar Pujara was prised out by Olivier with a lifter; Pujara defended from a static position when he should have gone right back. Ajinkya Rahane perished to the next delivery, playing away from his body and edging an Olivier away-swinger. India needs runs from both these senior batters. Rahane’s was Olivier’s 50th Test wicket in only his 11th Test. Olivier has a whippy action and can surprise you with his pace off the track. India, 49 for three, could have been in further trouble had Temba Bavuma not put down a tough chance at point when Hanuma Vihari (2) slashed hard at Lungi Ngidi. Vihari settled down to make an impression. There is a solidity about him on these pitches. Strong off his back-foot, he cut Olivier. He fell to a brilliant leaping catch at short-leg by Rassie van der Dussen after the batter fended a rather vicious lifter from Rabada. India lost wickets at regular intervals. The most significant one being that of Pant. Jansen, shifting angles cleverly, got one to straighten at Pant who inside-edged to the ’keeper. It’s all happening at the Bullring!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africa-pacemen-call-the-shots-on-day-one/article38103861.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:47 IST,||BFC starts a clear favourite||Bengaluru FC will look to ride the wave generated by the morale-boosting 4-2 win over Chennaiyin FC when it meets bottom-placed SC East Bengal at the Bambolim Stadium on Tuesday. A second win on the bounce, in its first fixture of the new year, will surely mark a turnaround in the fortunes of BFC, which has struggled for most part of the season. Thursday’s victory arrested a seven-match winless run, largely made possible by coach Marco Pezzaiuoli’s mid-match tactical changes. The players too, more or less, complemented their boss, showing greater verve and purpose. Against East Bengal, BFC, currently eighth in the table, will start clear favourites, for the Kolkata giant is yet to win a game and has a managerial transition to tackle. Jose Manuel Diaz has been replaced by Mario Rivera, though Renedy Singh, the stop-gap, will be in-charge against BFC. More balanced In the last three games Pezzaiuoli has started skipper Sunil Chhetri on the bench. It has coincided with the club’s best run — two draws and one win. While it is no referendum on Chhetri’s quality, BFC, on current form, does appear more balanced. In addition, to have a high-quality game-changer on the bench is a trump card, as it proved against Chennaiyin. East Bengal, on the other hand, comes into the contest on the back of a 1-1 draw against high-flying Hyderabad FC. While this should give the side some confidence, its overall form has been dismal this season with four losses and as many draws and 18 goals conceded. It will also miss forward Antonio Perosevic as he serves a five-match suspension for ‘violent conduct’ in the game against NorthEast United FC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-starts-a-clear-favourite/article38103939.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:53 IST,||‘No ambition to lead England’||Ben Stokes insisted Monday he has no ambition to be England captain with the star all-rounder throwing his support behind under-pressure incumbent Joe Root and beleaguered coach Chris Silverwood. Root will become his country’s longest-serving Test skipper at the fourth Ashes Test in Sydney on Wednesday, surpassing predecessor Alastair Cook’s 59 matches in charge. But he is under the gun after overseeing three consecutive heavy defeats to Australia with some pundits scathing about his captaincy. There are few obvious viable candidates to replace him with vice-captain Stokes at the top of the pile, a move championed by former captain Mike Atherton, among others. But the 30-year-old said he was not interested. “I’ve never really had the ambition to be captain,” he was quoted as saying by the BBC. “Joe Root is someone I always want to play for.” Stokes has led England once previously, a Test defeat by West Indies in 2020 when Root was on paternity leave. Atherton is among those who believe 31-year-old Root’s time is almost up and that Stokes could do the job.  “Root has been a good England captain, and has always carried himself superbly and is an incredible ambassador for the sport,” he wrote in his column for The Times last week.  “But having done the job for five years and having had three cracks at the Ashes, including two awful campaigns in Australia, it is time for someone else to have a go. Ben Stokes is a viable alternative, having done an excellent job as a stand-in briefly in the summer.” However, Stokes said he doesn’t believe Root is ready to give up the role. “I don’t sense that at all with Joe,” he said. “He’s brought this team a long way. He’s done some great things. Obviously, this series hasn’t gone too well, not from a captaincy point of view, but from a team and results point of view. It’s totally Joe’s decision,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-ambition-to-lead-england/article38103991.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,||Possibilities enormous for women’s IPL: Raman||Eight members of the Indian women’s team that went on the tour of Australia stayed back even after the multi-format series concluded last October. They had all been signed up by the Women’s Big Bash League. One of them became the Player of the Tournament. Another equalled the record for the league’s highest individual score. Harmanpreet Kaur and Smriti Mandhana were not the only Indians to impress this season at the world’s strongest T20 domestic league for women. Jemimah Rodrigues, Shafali Varma, Deepti Sharma, Radha Yadav, Poonam Yadav and Richa Ghosh also did their bit for their franchises. Their performances once again put into focus the need for such a professional women’s league in India. W.V. Raman, former coach of the Indian women’s team, believes the possibilities of the women’s IPL are enormous.  “There are two ways of looking at it: you say it could inspire a lot of girls to take up cricket or you say take it nice and easy and once you start a full-fledged (women’s) IPL you want it to be a grand success straight away,” he told The Hindu. “I suppose it will also boil down to the commercial side of things too, because IPL is not just all about cricket.” Middle path He thinks a middle path — a tournament with five teams that will play each other twice or three times — is workable in the immediate future. “If the objective of the IPL is to give exposure to the girls, you would think of providing good quality or if you think of commerce, the commercial angles will depend more on the quality of cricket that is played,” said the former India opener. “At the end of the day, you have to put out a package even if it is slow to take off, it will sustain itself and become a big brand later on.” Expansion He feels the league can be expanded within a couple of years. “They can start it in 2022 (with five teams),” Raman said. “In another two years, the under-19 girls would have played two World Cups. After the first IPL, a lot of young girls would be encouraged by their parents to take up cricket. So by 2024, you will have enough cricketers in terms of numbers and talent.”  You have to put out a package even if it is slow to take off, it will sustain itself and become a big brand later on||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/possibilities-enormous-for-womens-ipl-raman/article38103851.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,||It was like a new debut: Olivier||For Duanne Olivier, it was a case of living a dream again. The comeback paceman said, ““It was like a new debut. I was very nervous today.” The man who had given up hopes of playing for the country again, scalped three on day one of the second Test here on Monday. The gameplan About the gameplan of the South African bowlers, Olivier said, “We made them play as much as possible. Stuck to the process, stuck to the basics and reaped the rewards. We also bowled a fuller length.” Asked to look ahead in the series, Olivier replied, “We are 1-0 down. That’s the reality. The focus is on this Test. Tomorrow is a new day. If we bat big, we can win the Test. Of course, we want to win the series but don’t want to think too far ahead.” He said, “If someone had told us that we would bowl out India for just over 200, we would have taken it any day.” Asked about the pitch, he replied, “It’s a typical Wanderers pitch. It has some grass on it.” Olivier conceded that the first hour was tough when openers K.L. Rahul and Mayank Agarwal were unseparated, but said “Lungi Ngidi and Marco Jansen came on, they bowled very well and created the pressure for us to take wickets.” The paceman said, “Ngidi went wicketless today after bowling so well. On some other days, he might not bowl so well and pick up wickets.” Maharaj’s inclusion About left-arm spinner Keshav Maharaj’s inclusion in the team ahead of a specialist batter on a seamer-friendly pitch, Olivier said, “Keshav might have bowled only one over today but he could send down 20 in the second innings. The wicket could deteriorate and we might need a spinner.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-was-like-a-new-debut-olivier/article38103864.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,||Odisha rallies to stun Mumbai||The ISL produced yet another high-scoring thriller on Monday night. This time around, Mumbai City was at the receiving end as Odisha FC stunned the defending champion and table-topper 4-2 at Vasco's Tilak Maidan Stadium. Odisha was 1-2 down with just 20 minutes remaining, but Jerry Mawihmingthanga produced two superb goals within the space of seven minutes to lead his side to what has been one of the upsets of the season. Goals from Ahmed Jahouh and Igor Angulo had put Mumbai ahead after Aridai Cabrera had given Odisha the lead in the fourth minute. The victory was sealed by Jonathas de Jesus in the dying minutes. Mumbai still on top Mumbai is still leading the table, though, with 16 points from nine games, one more than the second-placed Hyderabad FC. Odisha remains seventh, but it has taken its tally to 13 points, from nine matches, not to mention the improvement it has made in its goal difference. Odisha may have kept its reputation of leaking goals, but on this night it was able to score more than it conceded. And it should thank Jerry for that. He scored his first with a superb header, from close in, off a fine cross from Nandakumar Sekar. The second came off a pass inside the box from Jonathas. Twelve minutes later, he returned the favour, as the Brazilian ensured there wasn’t enough time for Mumbai to come back. If Odisha rattled Mumbai in the second half, it was a different story in the first. The reigning champion, after going 2-1 up, thanks to the brilliance of Jahouh, was all over Odisha.  The results: Odisha FC 4 (Aridai Cabrera 4, Jerry Mawihmingthanga 70 & 77, Jonathas de Jesus 89) bt Mumbai City 2 (Ahmed Jahouh 11, Igor Angulo 38); Sunday: Jamshedpur FC 0 lost to Chennaiyin FC 1 (Lukasz 31).   Tuesday’s match: Bengaluru FC vs SC East Bengal, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/odisha-rallies-to-stun-mumbai/article38103860.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,||Kohli pulls out of Test with back spasm||So, Virat Kohli will not be playing his 100th Test in South Africa after all. Coach Rahul Dravid, on Sunday, had been eloquent in defending the India captain for the manner in which he led the team, connected with the boys and kept them insulated from all the “chatter” around him. Dravid also spoke about celebrating Kohli’s 100th Test, at Cape Town, and added that the India captain would be presented before the media ahead of the match. Kohli has not interacted with the press digitally even once on this tour. Under the circumstances, it was a massive surprise when K.L. Rahul walked out for the toss with Dean Elgar here on Monday. Rahul said Kohli had a “back spasm.” Shortly after the second Test commenced, a BCCI release stated: “Team India captain Virat Kohli had a spasm in his upper back this morning. He won’t feature in the second Test against South Africa.” Normally it would be incredibly hard to keep Kohli away from an overseas Test, particularly when he has an opportunity to achieve a historic feat: India winning its first Test series on South African soil. He eats, sleeps and breathes for moments of success overseas, and is incredibly passionate about it. Could a back spasm keep him out? And he has played with pain in the past. Sources also reveal that Kohli is “hurt” by all the talk about him, the latest being the remarks by selection committee chairman Chetan Sharma. But then, it was Kohli who opened the Pandora’s box when just ahead of the team’s departure from India, he spoke about a lack of communication when he was removed as the ODI skipper. Once he said that, there was bound to be a reaction. Kohli is no longer the all-powerful figure he once was in Indian cricket, someone who could even force a legend such as Anil Kumble out as coach. Mentally, beneath all the statements meant for public consumption, how is he handling his latest position within the hierarchy? And, we may never know the real reason for Kohli missing the second Test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-pulls-out-of-test-with-back-spasm/article38103857.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:13 IST,||Count Of Savoy lives up to the billing||Trainer S.K. Sunderji’s Count Of Savoy (C.S. Jodha up) claimed the Laknavaram Cup, the feature event of Monday’s (Jan. 3) races. The winner is owned by Mrs. M.B. Dubash & Ms. Farida B. Dubash. The results: 1. THUNDER LIGHT PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III): MISS LITTLE ANGEL (Antony Raj) 1, Sye Ra (Ajeeth Kumar) 2, My Master (Gaurav Singh) 3 and New Hustle (Surya Prakash) 4. Not run: Inception. Nk, 2-1/2 and 1-1/4. 1m, 27.57s. Rs. 15 (w), 11, 19 and 15 (p). SHP: 54, THP: 40, SHW: 12 and 41, FP: 96, Q: 74, Tanala: 339. Favourite: Miss Little Angel. Owners: Mr. V. Narendar Reddy & Mr. Eswarchandra Rajagopal Tripuraneni. Trainer: G. Shashikanth.  2. FIRECREST PLATE (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): ANGELITA (Ajeeth Kumar) 1, Beauty Flame (Gaurav Singh) 2, N R I Sport (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Siri (Rupal Singh) 4. 2, 3/4 and 2. 1m, 25.95s. Rs. 39 (w), 13, 19 and 13 (p). SHP: 54, THP: 52, SHW: 14 and 68, FP: 309, Q: 208, Tanala: 607. Favourite: N R I Sport. Owner: Mr. Syed Abdul Subhan. Trainer: Mir Faiyaz Ali Khan.  3. RAMAPPA CUP (2,000m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): BOLD BIDDING (Akshay Kumar) 1, Yesterday (Surya Prakash) 2, Ice Berry (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Queen Blossom (Rupal Singh) 4. 1-1/2, 3/4 and Sh. 2m, 7.25s. Rs. 55 (w), 17, 27 and 43 (p). SHP: 88, THP: 83, SHW: 32 and 70, FP: 640, Q: 439, Tanala: 18,551. Favourite: Wandring Warrior. Owners: Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni & Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  4. STREAK OF DAWN PLATE (1,200m), Maiden, 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): PACIFIC COMMAND (Akshay Kumar) 1, Grand Finale (A.A. Vikrant) 2, Ok Boss (Santosh Raj) 3 and Special Effort (Surya Prakash) 4. 2-3/4, 1/2 and 1/2. 1m, 13.34s. Rs. 18 (w), 11, 31 and 19 (p). SHP: 124, THP: 43, SHW: 13 and 19, FP: 206, Q: 134, Tanala: 1,981. Favourite: Pacific Command. Owners: Mr. Peddi Reddy Prabhakar Reddy & Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  5. LAKNAVARAM CUP (1,600m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): COUNT OF SAVOY (C.S. Jodha) 1, N R I Infinity (B.R. Kumar) 2, November Rain (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Moringa (Surya Prakash) 4. 3-1/2, Nk and 3. 1m, 38.47s. Rs. 11 (w), 10, 15 and 10 (p). SHP: 20, THP: 29, SHW: 10 and 18, FP: 27, Q: 21, Tanala: 49. Favourite: Count Of Savoy. Owners: Mrs. M.B. Dubash & Ms. Farida B. Dubash. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  6. THUNDER LIGHT PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III): ROYAL PAL (Abhay Singh) 1, Neffereti (S.S. Tanwar) 2, Wild Card (Aneel) 3 and Ashwa Pushkin (Rupal Singh) 4. 1m, 28.23s. Rs. 35 (w), 15, 28 and 20 (p). SHP: 127, THP: 47, SHW: 10 and 72, FP: 546, Q: 374, Tanala: 3,949. Favourite: Royal Pal. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: K. Satheesh.  Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 1,282 (274 tkts.) & 30%: 142 (1,053 tkts.); Treble: (i) 566 (93 tkts.), (ii) 89 (928 tkts.); Mini Jackpot: 442 (266 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/count-of-savoy-lives-up-to-the-billing/article38103940.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:13 IST,||Junior Nationals get underway today||The 71st National junior basketball championships will begin at the Basketball Complex, Race Course Road here on Tuesday. The tournament is being organised by Madhya Pradesh Basketball Association under the aegis of Basketball Federation of India. In the boys’ section, Punjab will hope to defend its title even as last year’s runner-up Rajasthan — with five senior internationals in its ranks — looks formidable on paper. Kerala, led by senior international Pranav Prince will hope to improve on last year’s third place finish. Kerala and Punjab are the seeded teams in Group A while Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh head Group B. Reigning champion Kerala starts as favourite in girls’ section, but last year’s runner-up Chhattsigarh and semifinalists Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh are teams that can pull off surprises in the tournament. Seeded teams Kerala and Uttar Pradesh are in Group A while Tamil Nadu and Chhattisgarh are bunched in Group B.  The groups:   Boys: Level I: Group A: Punjab, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Delhi. Group B: Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka. Level II: Group C: Gujarat, Haryana, Jammu & Kashmir, Uttarakhand, West Bengal. Group D: Chandigarh, Goa, Jharkhand, Telangana. Group E: Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Mizoram, Puducherry. Group F: Himachal Pradesh, Assam Nagaland, Odisha.   Girls: Level I: Group A: Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan. Group B: Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Haryana. Level II: Group C: Delhi, Chandigarh, Goa, Uttarakhand. Group D: Karnataka, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Telangana. Group E: West Bengal, Assam, Jammu & Kashmir, Puducherry. Group F: Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Meghalaya .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/junior-national-basketball-from-today/article38103931.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:47 IST,||Muni knocks out Denim||Muni Ananthmani knocked out top seed Denim Yadav 4-6, 6-3, 6-1 in the boys first round of the ITF grade-3 tennis tournament here on Monday. In the pre-quarterfinals, Muni will play Thanaphat Boosarawongse of Thailand, who beat National champion Daksh Prasad for the loss of four games. In another match, Monil Lotlikar beat sixth seed Ilya Mukhin of Russia for the loss of five games. Rushil Khosla beat Reiya Hattori of Japan and will face lucky loser Kriish Tyagi in the second round.  The results (first round):   Boys: Muni Ananthmani bt Denim Yadav 4-6, 6-3, 6-1; Thanaphat Boosarawongse (Tha) bt Daksh Prasad 6-1, 6-3; Daksh Agarwal bt Arunava Majumder 6-1, 6-1; Monil Lotlikar bt Ilya Mukhin (Rus) 6-4, 6-1; Rushil Khosla bt Reiya Hattori (Jpn) 6-4, 7-5; Krish Tyagi bt Aarav Samrat Hada (Nep) 6-4, 6-2; Anssh Kundu bt Aniruddh Sangra 6-3, 7-6(3); Aayush Bhat (USA) bt Ronin Lotlikar 4-6, 6-2, 6-3; Bushan Haobam bt Vineeth Mutyala 7-6(6), 6-3; Shingo Masuda (Jpn) bt Sarthak Arora 6-3, 6-2; Poonthong Komopisut (Tha) bt Udit Gogoi 6-0, 6-3; Yuvan Nandal bt Manas Dhamne 6-4, 6-4.   Girls: Suhitha Maruri bt Sukhmanni Bhandari 6-3, 6-2; Anya Murthy (USA) bt Hitakamya Singh Narwal 6-2, 6-0; Madhurima Sawant bt Radhika Mahajan 4-6, 6-0, 6-1; Tamanna Takoria bt Suhani Gaur 6-2, 2-6, 6-2; Sanjana Sirimalla bt Saloni Tamang (Nep) 6-3, 6-1; Chahana Budhbhatti bt Riya Kaushik 6-1, 6-1.   Tejasvi Dabas bt Saina Deshpande (USA) 4-6, 6-1, 6-4; Sonal Patil bt Diva Bhatia 7-5, 6-3; Rutuja Chaphalkar (USA) bt Lakshmi Gowda 6-1, 6-2; Vaishnavi Adkar bt Nandini Dixit 7-6(5), 6-1; Ruma Gaikaiwari bt Hannah Nagpal 6-4, 0-6, 6-1; Renne Singla bt Sharvani Shrestha (Nep) 6-0, 6-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/muni-knocks-out-denim/article38104076.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:13 IST,||Argentina blanks Greece||World No. 4 Stefanos Tsitsipas crashed to defeat in his first singles match since elbow surgery, losing an epic battle against feisty Argentinian Diego Schwartzman 6-7(5) 6-3, 6-3 at the ATP Cup here on Monday. The Greek star, who went under the knife in late November after pulling out of the ATP Finals, He showed up to play 11th-ranked Schwartzman and looked at his battling best in winning the first set tie-break, moving freely with little sign of his right elbow causing problems. But the 23-year-old lost his focus, and with it, five games in a row. After being broken in the second set, there was no way back on a humid Sydney evening. Federico Delbonis had earlier continued his perfect start to the season by overcoming Greek No. 2 Michail Pervolarakis 7-6(5), 6-1 to give Argentina a 1-0 lead. Later, Tsitsipas returned for the dead doubles rubber with Markos Kalovelonis. Despite a tremendous fight, the duo ended up bowing to Maximo Gonzalez & Andres Molteni, to lose the tie 3-0. Meanwhile, Chile stunned Serbia 2-1. Dusan Lajovic, standing in as Serbia captain in Novak Djokovic’s absence, retired hurt at 0-3 down after sharing the first two sets with Cristian Garin. Alejandro Tabilo had lost Chile’s first singles to Filip Krajinovic, but returned to partner Tomas Barios Vera and clinch the deciding doubles.  The results:   Group A: Spain bt Norway 3-0 {Roberto Bautista Agut bt Casper Ruud 6-4, 7-6(4); Pablo Carreno Busta bt Viktor Durasovic 6-3, 6-3; Alejandro Davidovich Fokina & Pedro Martinez bt Lukas Hellum-Lilleengen & Andreja Petrovic 6-4, 6-1}.   Chile bt Serbia 2-1 {Alejandro Tabilo lost to Filip Krajinovic 4-6, 6-3, 6-7(5); Cristian Garin bt Dusan Lajovic 4-6, 6-4, 3-0 (retd); Tomas Barios Vera & Tabilo bt Nikola Cacic & Matej Sabanov 6-4, 3-6, [10-7]}.   Group D: Poland bt Georgia 3-0 {Hubert Hurkacz bt Aleksandre Metreveli 6-7(3), 6-3, 6-1; Kamil Majchrzak bt Aleksandre Bakshi 6-1, 6-1; Szymon Walkow & Jan Zielinski bt Bakshi & Zura Tkemaladze 6-7(2), 6-2, [10-6]}.   Argentina bt Greece 3-0 {Federico Delbonis bt Michail Pervolarakis 7-6(5), 6-1; Diego Shwartzman bt Stefanos Tsitsipas 6-7(5), 6-3, 6-3; Maximo Gonzalez & Andres Molteni bt Markos Kalovelonis & Tsitsipas 6-3, 4-6, [11-9]} .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/argentina-blanks-greece/article38103930.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,||I am playing more of my natural game: Ashwin||R. Ashwin batted with fluency and freedom and a testing pitch. He said after the first day’s play here, “There was a time when I was keen on being technically right and in the process lost some of my flow.” He added, “Now I am playing more of my natural game. I get into positions to play some shots which some specialists might not be able to do so.” Ashwin said, “Right from the Australia series, I have been batting well. Batting coach Vikram Rathour has been helpful.” He said there was no deliberate plan for him to be attacking. “The first ball was straight so I straight drove. So I just responded to the balls.” Asked about Mohammed Siraj’s fitness, he said, “The medical team is assessing him. Knowing his history he should come back and bowl for us.” On match-winning totals at the Wanderers, Ashwin said, “Always good to bat first and post 250. South Africa has made 250 here and dominated Test matches from there.” About the surface he said, “The pitch was two-paced. Little different to a typical Wanderers pitch.” Queried about the impressive left-arm seamer Marco Jansen, who has been impressive against India, he said, “Left-armers always add variety. He’s got height and bounce. He’s special. Nice side on action, gets close to the wickets.” On K.L. Rahul adapting to Test cricket, he said, “He has found a formula for success in Test cricket. Obviously he has the talent and the skill set. There is no one formula for Tests. It keeps throwing questions at you.” About him playing a part with the ball, Ashwin said, “No one can predict how a pitch will behave. Hopefully, some footmarks would develop and there could be some assistance for me.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-am-playing-more-of-my-natural-game-ashwin/article38103863.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:13 IST,||I-League suspended for six weeks||The I-League was on Monday suspended for six weeks following reports of positive cases in different teams and a steep rise in COVID-19 numbers in West Bengal. The league committee of the All India Football Federation (AIFF), that met virtually, accepted the recommendation of the member of its sports medical committee Dr. Harsh Mahajan, who suggested the tournament be postponed by at least six weeks. The league was first stopped after the completion of just one round when several players and officials from different teams tested positive. This was followed by a steep rise in the outbreak of the pandemic in the State, prompting the league committee to reconvene a meeting with club representatives. The clubs “corroborated” with the recommendations put forth by Dr. Mahajan, said a statement from I-League. The committee will have a review meeting after four weeks to take stock of the situation, it was informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-league-suspended-for-six-weeks/article38103932.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 04:47 IST,||Bengal’s Ranji preparations affected due to positive cases||Bengal’s Ranji Trophy preparations have been affected with seven members, including six players, of the squad testing COVID-19 positive. Sudip Chatterjee, Anustup Majumdar, Kazi Junaid Saifi, Geet Puri, Pradipta Pramanik, Sujit Yadav and assistant coach Sourasish Lahiri have returned positive results, said a Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) source. “The CAB had conducted RTPCR tests on all Bengal cricketers as a safety measure. Certain players have tested positive. The CAB is taking all necessary precautions,” said association secretary Snehasish Ganguly in a statement. Meanwhile, the CAB has put all ongoing local tournaments on hold. It will review the current situation during an emergency meeting of its Apex Council on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengals-ranji-preparations-affected-due-to-positive-cases/article38104074.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:26 IST,||Saqlain not to take up head coach job||Former Pakistan spinner Saqlain Mushtaq has conveyed to the PCB that he would be unable to take up the head coach job with the national team on a full time basis due to his personal commitments. According to a source in the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB), Saqlain, who has worked as interim head coach with the Pakistan team since September, has informed PCB chief Ramiz Raja of his inability to take up the role full-time. “Saqlain told the chairman that while he was happy to have contributed as interim head coach he wouldn’t be able to accept a long term and permanent assignment as head coach as he had prior business and personal commitments.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saqlain-not-to-take-up-head-coach-job/article38104229.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,||de Jong does it for Barcelona||Barcelona overcame its COVID chaos to sneak a tight victory away at Mallorca in the LaLiga on Sunday. Barcelona was without eight first-team players who had tested positive last week while a further six were out through injury or suspension. Xavi Hernandez had said on Saturday it was “crazy” the game had to go ahead, with Jordi Alba, Ousmane Dembele and Gavi were among those infected while Sergio Busquets was suspended and Pedri, Ansu Fati and Memphis Depay injured. But a patched-up Barcelona team climbed to fifth, just a point behind Atletico Madrid, after Luuk de Jong’s header proved the difference.  The results:   LaLiga: Elche 0 drew with Granada 0; Real Betis 0 lost to Celta Vigo 2 (Aspas 36-pen, 45+2); Alaves 1 (Joselu 58-pen) drew with Real Sociedad 1 (Januzaj 14); Real Mallorca 0 lost to Barcelona 1 (L. de Jong 44).   Premier League: Leeds 3 (Harrison 39, Dallas 77, James 90+2) bt Burnley 1 (Cornet 54) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-jong-does-it-for-barcelona/article38103858.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:13 IST,||Divij exits early||Diivj Sharan was beaten 6-4, 6-2 by Dominic Stricker of Switzerland in the first round of the $58,320 Challenger tennis tournament in Traralgon, Australia. Divij, seeded second with Christopher Rungkat of Indonesia in doubles, had won a qualifying match against Patrick Fitzgeralad, to make the main event. In the ATP event in Adelaide, Ramkumar Ramanathan was beaten 6-4, 7-6(7) in the first qualifying round by the former World No.1 junior, now ranked 103 among men, the 18-year-old Holger Rune of Denmark. Ramkumar will play the doubles alongside Rohan Bopanna.  The results: $521,000 ATP, Adelaide, Australia: Qualifying singles (first round): Holger Rune (Den) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-4, 7-6(7).   $58,320 Challenger, Traralgon, Australia: Singles (first round): Dominic Stricker (Sui) bt Divij Sharan 6-4, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/divij-exits-early/article38103945.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,||Warriors beat Panthers||Captain Maninder Singh and all-rounder Mohammad Nabibakhsh helped champion Bengal Warriors beat Jaipur Pink Panthers 31-28 in a closely fought match of the Pro Kabaddi League here on Monday. Maninder scored 13 points while Nabibakhsh fetched 10, including a last-minute Super Tackle, for Bengal. Arjun Deshwal was the sole performer for the Panthers, clinching another Super 10 and finishing the game with 16 points. But his failed attempt in the last raid of the match cost Jaipur a chance to win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/warriors-beat-panthers/article38103862.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:17 IST,||SCOREBOARD||INDIA — 1ST INNINGS   K.L. Rahul c Rabada b Jansen 50 (133b, 9x4), Mayank Agarwal c Verreynne b Jansen 26 (37b, 5x4), Cheteshwar Pujara c Bavuma b Olivier 3 (33b), Ajinkya Rahane c Petersen b Olivier 0 (1b), Hanuma Vihari c van der Dussen b Rabada 20 (53b, 3x4), Rishabh Pant c Verreynne b Jansen 17 (43b, 1x4), R. Ashwin c Petersen b Jansen 46 (50b, 6x4), Shardul Thakur c Petersen b Olivier 0 (5b), Mohammed Shami c & b Rabada 9 (12b, 1x4), Jasprit Bumrah (not out) 14 (11b, 2x4, 1x6), Mohammed Siraj c Verreynne b Rabada 1 (6b); Extras (b-8, lb-3, nb-5): 16; Total (in 63.1 overs): 202.   FALL OF WICKETS   1-36 (Mayank, 14.1 overs), 2-49 (Pujara, 23.3), 3-49 (Rahane, 23.4), 4-91 (Vihari, 38.4), 5-116 (Rahul, 45.5), 6-156 (Pant, 53.4), 7-157 (Thakur, 54.6), 8-185 (Shami, 59.3), 9-187 (Ashwin, 60.5).   SOUTH AFRICA BOWLING   Rabada 17.1-2-64-3, Olivier 17-1-64-3, Ngidi 11-4-26-0, Jansen 17-5-31-4, Maharaj 1-0-6-0.   SOUTH AFRICA     — 1ST INNINGS   Dean Elgar (batting) 11 (57b, 1x4), Aiden Markram lbw b Shami 7 (12b, 1x4), Keegan Petersen (batting) 14 (39b, 2x4); Extras (lb-2, w-1); 3; Total (for one wkt. in 18 overs): 35.   FALL OF WICKET    1-14 (Markram, 3.5).   INDIA BOWLING    Bumrah 8-3-14-0, Shami 6-2-15-1, Siraj 3.5-2-4-0, Thakur 0.1-0-0-0.   Toss: India .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/scoreboard/article38103865.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 06:12 IST,||Joshna returns to the top-10||India’s leading squash player Joshna Chinappa has returned to the top-10 of PSA world rankings. The 35-year-old had reached a career-high 10th place for the first time in 2016. She has returned to the elite club of players in 10th position. Saurav Ghosal has dropped a spot to be 16th in the men’s rankings. It is an important year for Indian squash with Asian Games and Commonwealth Games scheduled.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/joshna-returns-to-the-top-10/article38103944.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:26 IST,||Travancore Royals beat Don Bosco||Travancore Royals defeated Don Bosco FA 3-1 in the Kerala Women’s League football at the Corporation Stadium here on Monday.  The result: Travancore Royals FC 3 (R. Vembarasi 28, Vijayalakshmi Palani 57, M. Saritha 69) bt Don Bosco FA 1 (Amalarasi 31).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/travancore-royals-beat-don-bosco/article38104230.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:31 IST,||Tejaswini stuns Lakshmi, shares lead||G. Tejaswini defeated higher-ranked WFM C. Lakshmi in the fourth round of the ONGC 50th Tamil Nadu State women’s chess championship, organised by Tiruvarur DCA, here on Monday. WFM J. Saranya, P. Bala Kannamma and Tejaswini shared the lead with four points each.  Important results (fourth round): P. Bala Kannamma 4 bt Akshaya Nandakumar 3; V. Meenatchi Rajam 3 lost to J. Saranya 4; C. Lakshmi 3 lost to G. Tejaswini 4; R. Tejaswi 3.5 drew with P.K. Jayashree 3.5; A. Genita Gladys 3 drew with J. Rajasurya 3; Divyabharathi Masanam 3.5 bt A. Raveena Shri 2.5; S. Srimozhi 2.5 lost to B. Harshini 3.5; R. Sananda 2 lost to J. Janani 3; S. Vijayasubhasri 3 bt R. Lakshanaa 2; S. Swetha 2.5 drew with R.B. Mohana Praba 2.5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tejaswini-stuns-lakshmi-shares-lead/article38103989.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 10:06 IST,||Faith, belief and service||At a time when the prevalence of many faiths kept people confused, the advent of the Saivite Nayanmars inspired the spirit of service to Siva and the Sivan Adiyars, and thereby helped to foster Saivism. Tirunavukkarasar’s life shows how by Siva’s grace he experiences a change of heart that brings about the change of faith and a change in the way of his life, pointed out Sivathiru Pa. Peraathu Selvan in a discourse. It is God’s will that he is placed in very challenging situations and that, with His unfailing guidance, he is led out from the darkness of ignorance to the light of God realisation. Even his brief straying into the Samana faith when he is known as Dharmasena becomes a strong basis for his unshakable faith in Saivism. First of all, the incident of his suffering severe stomach colic and the way it is cured through sheer grace of Siva makes him extremely grateful to God for having shown the path to salvation by seeking His feet. He offers the Lord the garland of songs in beautiful Tamizh, the famous pathigam ‘Kuttrayinavaaru.’ Till date it is believed that those who sing this hymn with faith and devotion are sure to get relief from mental sorrow and distress. It is also held that this famous hymn won for him the special title ‘Navukkarasar,’ conferred by the Lord Himself. God subjects him to further trials when the then reigning Pallava king inflicts on him threats and punishments. But he comes out of all this unscathed by the Lord’s grace and the hymns he sings during this period of torture instil tremendous faith in God and fearlessness about death, disease, or any kind of torment, even in hell. Incidentally, it brings a change of faith in the king also. It also inspires joy in serving the Lord alone who is the ruler of the entire universe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/faith-belief-and-service/article38103819.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 10:02 IST,||Sudoku — January 4, 2022||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-4-2022/article38104944.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:55 IST,||Secrets of the sky||The winter has some telescope-worthy experiences that is starting to unfold overhead. There’s a whole universe out there to discover. A group of astronomy enthusiasts are organising an event to offer stargazing experience in the higher climes of the Eastern Ghats. Visakhapatnam-based Treksome is hosting a workshop on the basics of astronomy at Araku Valley on January 8. Here’s a chance to learn the constellations or simply use the star charts and discover the sky through your first telescope. “The sky orientation keeps changing with the time of the year. There are summer constellations and winter constellations. Some of the very prominent winter constellations - Orion, Canis Major, Gemini - can be easily spotted in the evening sky. Orion is the home for some of the brightest stars known to us - Betelgeuse, Rigel, Bellatrix. Castor and Pollux are the ones in Gemini. In our night sky, the brightest star is Sirius,” says Sumanth Behara, who will be guiding a small team through the stargazing experience. In addition, the workshop will give an introduction to the night sky and navigation, stars and constellations, deep sky objects, night sky observation and things to remember. “Venus and Jupiter are pretty bright and can be spotted in the Western sky post sunset. Saturn is faint but can be spotted between Venus and Jupiter,” says Sumanth. The workshop will also give the participants a glimpse of deep sky objects in the sky. “These are not stars and do not they belong to our solar system,” says Sumanth and adds: “Orion’s Nebula, Pleiades cluster, Andromeda Galaxy are some of the examples of deep sky objects.” Discovering the mysterious of the space and sky is fascinating. To get the best of the experience, being at a dark place is significant. That apart, all you need is a warm jacket with a mug of hot chocolate. For registration and other details, contact 7272067067.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/secrets-of-the-sky/article38104222.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:54 IST,||Amala is back with Kanam||The teaser of Oke Oka Jeevitham , released recently, features Amala Akkineni. The actor will play the role of a mother in this project. Director Shree Karthick says, “I wrote this story with Amala in mind. It is a sci-fi subject that revolves around a mother and her emotions. I have directed it in both Tamil and Telugu. Though it started out as as a small-budget film, it is now a bilingual film with a substantial budget.” Apart from Amala, it features Sharwanand, Nasser, Ritu Verma, Satish, Ramesh Thilak and MS Bhaskar. Produced by Dream Warrior Pictures, Oke Oka Jeevitham will be released as Kanam in Tamil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/amala-is-back-with-kanam/article38104220.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:57 IST,||Six visitors at Nitish’s janata durbar test positive for COVID||Six visitors at Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s weekly programme Janata ke durbar mein mukhyamantri (Chief Minister at people’s court) on Monday were found COVID-positive. Some members of the catering staff at his official residence too have been tested positive.  A high-level meeting of officials is likely to be held on Tuesday to monitor the situation and take a decision over imposing a lockdown or night curfew in view of surging cases.  “As many as six visitors who had come to participate in the weekly janata durbar of Chief Minister have been found positive in the antigen test. Later some staff members of the catering team at the Chief Minister’s official residence tested positive,” an official at the janata durbar told The Hindu . Three policemen posted at the gate of the Chief Minister’s official residence too were said to be found positive. Following the development, the Chief Minister’s residence was sanitised.  Earlier in the day, Mr. Kumar had indicated to media persons that the State might go for some restrictive measures to contain the virus spread. “A meeting of officials will be held in Patna on Tuesday evening and then a decision will be taken,” he said. “It is a matter of concern. All those who had come are supposed to get the COVID tests done. After the test, 186 people were cleared to attend the programme but six of them tested positive,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/six-visitors-at-nitishs-janata-durbar-test-positive-for-covid/article38104069.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:58 IST,||Ganjam district is now child marriage free||Odisha’s Ganjam has declared itself a child marriage free district — the first in the State. The district administration has been able to stop as many as 450 child marriages and video-record 48,383 marriages in two years — 2020 and 2021.  “Child marriage impedes women’s development. We decided in 2019 to prevent child marriages on mission mode and generate general awareness against it,” Vijay Amruta Kulange, Ganjam District Magistrate, told The Hindu on Monday.  Mr. Kulange said, “After verification, the Ganjam administration declared it child marriage free district. Sarpanchs and task force committee members had sent recommendations that no child marriage had taken place in their respective areas.”  Ganjam had started a programme Nirbhaya Kadhi (Fearless bud). “It was not easy...We initiated the campaign...tried to prevent adolescent girls from dropping out of school, and counselling them. All heads of educational institutes were directed to inform the administration if any girl aged between 12 and 18 remained absent from school for five days. We followed up with the teachers and other grassroots level workers,” Mr. Kulange said. As many as one lakh teenagers have undergone counselling in the past two years.  The administration also made production of Aadhaar card mandatory for any marriages to take place. Mr. Kulange added, “We had announced Rs. 5,000 for those informing about any child marriage. Now, this has been increased to Rs. 50,000.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ganjam-district-is-now-child-marriage-free/article38104228.ece
04 January 2022||January 04 2022 05:58 IST,||HC gives FB, WhatsApp more time to reply||The Delhi High Court on Monday gave more time to Facebook and WhatsApp to file replies to two notices issued to them by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) which has ordered a probe into the messaging app’s new privacy policy. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said the Data Protection Bill is yet to be finalised and adjourned the proceedings to March 30. “Till then the time to file replies to the June 4 and June 8, last year, notices issued by the CCI to the appellants (Facebook and WhatsApp) is extended,” the HC said. It was hearing appeals by Facebook and WhatsApp challenging an order by a single judge Bench dismissing their pleas against the probe ordered by the CCI into WhatsApp’s new privacy policy. Additional Solicitor-General Aman Lekhi, appearing for the CCI, contended that the Data Protection Bill is “irrelevant” to this controversy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-gives-fb-whatsapp-more-time-to-reply/article38104104.ece
