05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||Supreme Court to hear EWS quota case today||A three-judge Special Bench of the Supreme Court, led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, is scheduled to hear on Wednesday a case raising questions on the Rs. 8 lakh annual income limit criterion fixed to identify the economically weaker sections (EWS) of society for extending reservation benefits. The development came hours after Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana on Tuesday agreed to adjust the various combinations of the court’s Benches, fixed for the week, to accommodate the case. The other two judges on the Special Bench are Justices Surya Kant and A.S. Bopanna. Urgent listing The Union government, represented by Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, has been making back-to-back oral mentionings before the court, on January 3 and 4, to hear the case quickly. January 3 — the very day the court reopened after Christmas holidays — saw Mr. Mehta plead with Justice Chandrachud, who has been hearing the EWS case, for an urgent listing. On Tuesday, again, Mr. Mehta came up before the CJI’s Bench to press for a hearing on January 5 itself. Mr. Mehta underscored that the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test for postgraduate courses (NEET-PG) counselling was suspended since late November because of the questions raised about the criterion in the EWS quota. Medical admissions were getting delayed, and the issue had to be resolved quickly. Resident doctors in Delhi had recently organised a massive protest over the delay in the counselling schedule, leading to violence. ‘Future prospects’ Mr. Mehta submitted to the court that the doctors were rightly agitated about their future prospects. He urged the CJI to list the case on January 5. During the interaction, Chief Justice Ramana said the court’s Benches had already been fixed for the entire opening week of miscellaneous hearings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/supreme-court-to-hear-ews-quota-case-today/article38121931.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:42 IST,||Sharp spike in COVID cases in State||Telangana on Tuesday reported 1,052 fresh Coronavirus cases, over 100% jump from previous day’s tally. While 482 people were detected with COVID on Monday, the daily case load shot up by 570 cases on Tuesday, a sharp spike of 118%. Last high tally The last time over a 1,000 cases were reported was on June 26, 2021, when the second wave of COVID was on the decline. After recording over 200 cases on multiple days in December, a gradual surge was observed from December 23 to January 2. From 317 new infections on January 1, the daily case load surged to 482 on January 3, and to 1052 on January 4. Two more COVID patients died on Tuesday. Ten more fliers were detected with Omicron, taking the total cases of the variant to 94. Genome sequencing results of 50 more samples are awaited. Around 84% of the 1052 new infections were from the three urban districts in the State – 659 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 116 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 109 from Rangareddy. From March 2, 2020 to January 4 of this year, a total of 2.98 crore samples were put through COVID test and 6,84,023 were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 4,858 were active cases, 6,75,132 have recovered, and 4,033 people have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sharp-spike-in-covid-cases-in-state/article38122227.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||States told to share intel on common grid||The Union government has asked the States to share more intelligence inputs through the Multi Agency Centre (MAC), a common counter-terrorism grid under the Intelligence Bureau that was made operational in 2001 following the Kargil War. At a high-level meet on Monday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah asked the Directors-General of Police to share adequate information and actionable inputs through the MAC. As many as 28 organisations, including the Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW), armed forces and State police, are part of the platform. Various security agencies share real-time intelligence inputs on the MAC. Plans are afoot for more than a decade to link the system up to the district level. A senior government official said that though the system existed to share information among various agencies, it was not being implemented effectively. ‘States reluctant’ “States are often reluctant to share information on the platform. There are several gaps in sharing critical information at the right time, the meeting by the Home Minister will give a push to the efforts,” the official stated. There are around 400 secured sites connected with the MAC headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-told-to-share-intel-on-common-grid/article38121929.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:11 IST,||Woman, daughter reunited after 22 years||It was a scene straight from a tear-jerker as a young woman ran to hug an elderly woman walking unsteadily towards her amid the lush green background of a coffee estate. But it was not a staged drama for 31-year-old Anjali and her mother Chaitra, who were tearfully reunited after 22 years in Mudigere taluk of Chikkamagaluru district of Karnataka on Tuesday. The story goes 22 years back when Anjali, the fifth child of Chaitra and Kalimuttu, got separated from her parents. The couple had moved from Tamil Nadu to Mudigere in Karnataka to work in a coffee estate. Recalling the traumatic events at the turn of the century, Ms. Chaitra says that during that time, timber merchants from Kerala used to visit Mudigere. Some of them had brought elephants and mahouts with them to transport the wooden logs. “A mahout’s family had camped close to the estate where we were working and children of both the families were playing together. One day, Anjali went missing. I searched for her every- where but I could not find her. Someone said she had gone with the mahout’s family. But there was no way we could trace her,” recalled Ms. Chaitra. Riven by poverty, she did not file a police complaint. Travelled to Kerala Anjali, who was just nine years old then, travelled to Kerala with the mahout’s family where she worked as a domestic help for some years before marrying Nellamani Saji. After her marriage, she shared the story of her roots with Mr. Saji, who tried to contact people in Mudigere. With the help of friends in Kozhikode, he got in touch with Monu, a social worker in Mudigere. With the help of his friends among estate owners in Mudigere, he traced Ms. Chaitra a couple of days ago. “The information I had gathered from Anjali did match with what Chaitra told me. I took her picture and a video statement and sent them to Anjali on Monday. She immediately responded saying she was her mother,” said Mr. Monu. Anjali, now herself a mother of three children, and Mr. Saji then travelled to Mudigere on Tuesday and met Ms. Chaitra in the presence of Mr. Monu and other friends, who helped make the reunion possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-daughter-reunited-after-22-years/article38121925.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:17 IST,||Schools told to follow SOP, exercise caution||With apprehensions of schools and colleges becoming COVID-19 hotspots, the Department of Public Instruction has directed school managements to exercise caution and strictly adhere to SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) to check the infection from spreading. On Tuesday, Deputy Director of Public Instruction (DDPI) S.S. Keladimath chaired a meeting of education officers and representatives of school managements to review the steps taken so far and to elaborate on further steps to be taken. Emphasising the need for making wearing face masks compulsory for schoolchildren and teaching staff, Mr. Keladimath asked school managements to hold classes on alternate days in case there are more number of students in schools. He also told the school authorities to send a report on the number of children between the age of 15 and 18 getting vaccinated on a daily basis. He asked teachers to take steps to complete the syllabus by January-end and hold special classes, if necessary, for students who are poor in studies. On the need for taking steps to prevent sale of tobacco products near educational institutions, he said that headmasters of schools should take the help of police to close down such shops. He clarified that school headmasters are empowered to penalise parents, teachers or non-teaching staff if they are found chewing tobacco or smoking cigarette on school premises. Mr. Keladimath pointed out that 1,463 children have dropped out of schools and efforts should be made to bring them back on priority. He said that as January 10 was the last date for registration of students appearing for SSLC examination, 424 schools out of the 428 have begun registrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-told-to-follow-sop-exercise-caution/article38122201.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||‘Speed up Vizag port to Bhogapuram road DPR’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has urged Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari to expedite the preparation of the Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the national highway proposed from the Visakhapatnam Port to Bhogapuram via Rushikonda and Bhimili. During his meeting with Mr. Gadkari in New Delhi on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the highway would help reduce the distance between the port and Odisha and Chhattisgarh. The highway would also be close to the beach corridor projects along the coast, he added. Seeking that the highway be a six-lane one considering the traffic congestion in Visakhapatnam, Mr. Reddy said it would contribute to the development of tourism in the region, besides helping in reaching the proposed Bhogapuram International Airport easily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/speed-up-vizag-port-to-bhogapuram-road-dpr/article38121921.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||Health officials worried as self-test kits fly off shelves||The rampant sale of self-test kits amid rising COVID-19 cases is causing alarm among health officials as they are unable to track, isolate and treat those testing positive. Officials in Karnataka said people who have mild flu-like symptoms or those who have to travel frequently are relying on these kits, essentially rapid antigen test. Chief Civic Commissioner of Bengaluru Gaurav Gupta acknowledged the problem this poses, both in terms of capturing accurate data and curtailing the spread of the virus. Though rapid antigen test kits have been in the market for a few months now, sales have gone up only since December, following the Omicron scare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-officials-worried-as-self-test-kits-fly-off-shelves/article38121927.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:53 IST,||Omicron: govt. restricts numbers at functions||The State government has limited the number of persons attending indoor events to 75, given the spread of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 or severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2. A pandemic review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Tuesday also decided to restrict the number of persons attending an outdoor event to 150. The restrictions will apply to marriages, burials, and social and political events. The government also decided to step up vigil for flu symptoms at airports. The government also urged the next of kin of COVID-19 victims to apply for ex gratia. The government has so far counted 181 Omicron cases in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-govt-restricts-numbers-at-functions/article38122285.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:40 IST,||Weekend curfew imposed in State||With COVID-19 cases seeing a rise again, restrictions have been imposed across the State. At a press briefing here on Tuesday, Revenue Minister R. Ashok announced that night curfew would be extended while weekend curfew would be imposed from Friday 10 p.m. to Monday 5 a.m. across the State. During the curfew, essential services and food deliveries will be allowed. These restrictions will be applicable till January 19. The decision to introduce further restrictions was taken at a marathon meeting that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai chaired with health experts and senior IAS officers on Tuesday. All public places, including theatres, hotels, bars, restaurants, pubs, and clubs will be allowed to operate at only 50% of their seating capacity. Offices will function only for five days a week and the Government Secretariat will run with official below the rank of Under Secretary at 50% of the working strength. Meanwhile, in Bengaluru, the State Government has decided to stop physical classes from standards I-IX in city schools from Thursday. However, students in Classes X, XI, and XII will continue to attend offline classes. Colleges, barring medical and paramedical institutes, in Bengaluru will also suspend physical classes. The city on Tuesday recorded 2,053 new cases of COVID-19, a jump of more than 1,000 in a single day. Only 200 people will be allowed for weddings conducted in open spaces. If the wedding is in a closed space, the number of people has been restricted to 100. At all religious places only 50 persons who are fully vaccinated will be allowed entry at any given time. However, malls, shopping complexes, and standalone shops shall be allowed to operate as usual on weekdays. Swimming pools and gyms have to operate at 50% capacity but entry will be restricted to fully vaccinated people. Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar had earlier in the day said that the third wave of COVID-19 infections had begun in Karnataka. Speaking after the meeting, Dr. Sudhakar said international travellers, passengers coming from Maharashtra, Kerala, and Goa should have a negative RT-PCR certificate. All rallies, protests, processions, and congregations will not be allowed from Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weekend-curfew-imposed-in-state/article38121971.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:01 IST,||T.N. posts sharp increase in fresh COVID-19 cases||There was a huge increase in fresh coronavirus infections in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday. In a single day, COVID-19 cases rose from 1,728 to 2,731, with Chennai alone accounting for 1,489 infections. The State’s positivity rate increased from 1.7% to 2.6%. The cases were up by 58% in a day as a number of districts recorded a sharp increase. Along with Chennai, where the number of cases soared from 876 the previous day to 1,489, Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Coimbatore and Vellore recorded a surge. As against 158 cases the previous day, Chengalpattu logged 290 cases. Tiruvallur recorded 147 cases, while Coimbatore and Vellore logged 120 and 105 cases respectively. The State recorded nine deaths, taking the toll to 36,805. There were no COVID-19 deaths in 31 districts. Chennai recorded no fatalities, while there were two deaths each in Tiruvallur and Tiruchi and one death each in Kanniyakumari, Karur, Mayiladuthurai, the Nilgiris and Vellore. The surge pushed the State’s active caseload to 12,412, with Chennai’s count crossing 5,000. There were 5,593 active cases in the city, followed by 1,175 active cases in Chengalpattu. The bed occupancy was quickly rising at Chennai’s COVID-19 health centres and hospitals. A total of 1,015 oxygen beds and 818 non-oxygen beds were occupied. A total of 674 persons were discharged. This took the total number of recovered patients to 27,06,370. The number of confirmed Omicron cases remained at 121.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-sees-sharp-rise-in-fresh-covid-cases/article38122001.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||Eight hurt, five boats burnt as fishermen groups clash||Tension gripped Vasavanipalem, a fishing hamlet in the coastal area of Visakhapatnam city, as two groups of fishermen clashed over the use of ring nets in the restricted area of Bay of Bengal on Tuesday. According to the police, eight persons were injured and five boats belonging to both the groups were burnt in the incident. Clash broke out between the fishermen of Chinajalaripeta and Pedajalaripeta. The use of ring nets has been banned by the State government within 8 km from the coast. But according to one group of fishermen, the other group has been continuing the practice. It is allegedly affecting the catch of the group using the traditional fishing nets. A group of fishermen with ring nets ventured into the waters in their boats for fishing, in the restricted area. Upon knowing about the development, the other group of fishermen, who use traditional nets, entered into a heated argument on the coast as well as in the sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eight-hurt-five-boats-burnt-as-fishermen-groups-clash/article38122446.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:00 IST,||‘Pvt. labs must inform health officials of positive cases’||All private laboratories approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have been asked to immediately notify local health officials of all COVID-19 positive cases so that containment measures can be taken, according to the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. Review Director of Public Health T.S. Selvavinayagam on Tuesday conducted a review of the performance of these laboratories through video-conference. They were told to collect only the prescribed fees, avoid pooling of samples and update all data on the ICMR portal. Surprise checks He said healthcare workers should be protected because of the high rate of transmissibility of the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus. Surprise checks with an inventory audit would be done, if needed. All standard operating procedures should be followed to ensure the quality of investigations and more human resources should be engaged to avoid any backlog when the number of tests increased, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-laboratories-must-inform-health-officials-of-positive-cases/article38122044.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:12 IST,||Weekend curfew in Delhi; curbs on buses, trains lifted||The Delhi government has decided to impose a curfew on Saturdays and Sundays till further orders following the surge in COVID-19 cases in the city. The curfew will be in force from 10 p.m. on Friday till 5 a.m. on Monday. “Essential and emergency services will be exempted from the curfew,” Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said following a DDMA meeting on Tuesday. The Minister also said that to avoid commuters’ rush, buses and metros will run at full capacity. Delhi on Tuesday reported 5,481 new cases over 24 hours, the highest in more than seven months. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and BJP leader Manoj Tiwari also tested positive for the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weekend-curfew-in-delhi-curbs-on-buses-trains-lifted/article38122101.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||Key accused in app case arrested||The Mumbai Police have arrested a woman, alleged to be one of the main culprits behind the obscene app that targeted Muslim women, from Uttarakhand, officials said on Tuesday. The police on Tuesday also arrested the 21-year-old student, Vishal Kumar, who was detained from Bengaluru on Monday evening, after hours of questioning.  A court in Mumbai remanded the student in police custody till January 10. He was one of the four followers of the Bulli Bai app, the police said. The police sought Mr. Kumar’s custody citing instances of him using social media to put out derogatory posts about Muslim women. Both the accused have been charged under Sections 153 (wantonly provoking with intent to cause riot), 509 (insulting modesty of a woman), 354 (assault or use of criminal force to any woman with intention to outrage modesty) of the IPC along with relevant Sections of the Information Technology Act.  On January 1, 2022, the Cyber Police Station of the West Region had registered an FIR against relevant Twitter handles and the developer of ‘Bulli Bai’ for offences under the same charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/key-accused-in-app-case-arrested/article38121918.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||Seven more Omicron cases in State||The State reported seven more Omicron cases on Tuesday. One of them was a 28-year-old person, who had no history of foreign travel, but returned to Krishna district from Goa recently. The Health Department said six other persons had returned from Oman, South Sudan, the UAE, and the U.S. between December 19 and 29. Public Health Director G. Hymavathi said one of them was mildly symptomatic and was in hospital isolation, while all others were healthy under home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-more-omicron-cases-in-state/article38121926.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:10 IST,||Valley of snow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/valley-of-snow/article38121920.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:00 IST,||Submit report on building collapse: SHRC||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has asked the Managing Director of the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board and the Secretary of the Housing and Urban Development Department to submit within six weeks a report on the collapse of a tenement building in Tiruvottiyur. It took suo motu cognisance of a newspaper report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/submit-report-on-building-collapse-shrc/article38122032.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:57 IST,||City to have State’s first LNG Terminal||The Government has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Singapore-based LNG Alliance Company for setting up the State’s first LNG Terminal in Mangaluru, according to Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel. The terminal will be set up in association with New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT) with an investment of Rs. 2,250 crore. The project will provide direct employment to 200 people, Mr. Kateel said in a release on Tuesday. The project will come up as part of the Union Government’s plan to boost the alternative fuel market to achieve net zero carbon by 2070. Mr. Kateel said that he is thanking Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Minister for Heavy and Medium Industries Murugesh Nirani for sanctioning the project to Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-to-have-states-first-lng-terminal/article38122371.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:17 IST,||Ticket checking staff to have PoS machines||To promote digital payments on trains, South Western Railway has partnered with State Bank of India and is equipping its ticket checking staff in all three divisions with PoS (Point of Sale) machines. General Manager of Southern Western Railway Sanjeev Kishore received 120 PoS machines symbolically from Deputy General Manager of SBI Rajendran during the centenary celebration of the Keshwapur Main Branch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ticket-checking-staff-to-have-pos-machines/article38122200.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:17 IST,||‘Govt. ready to address possible third wave’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that the State Government, based on lessons learnt during the first and second waves of COVID-19, has made extensive preparations to face a possible third wave of the pandemic. “We have gained experience in handling the pandemic during the first and second waves. Based on the lessons learnt, we have given impetus to developing health infrastructure,” Mr. Bommai told mediapersons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-ready-to-address-possible-third-wave/article38122203.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 03:49 IST,||TAC for revising norms international travellers||If the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee’s (TAC) recommendations are implemented by the Government, institutional isolation and hospitalisation of all asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic international travellers, testing positive on arrival, will be reduced to five days from the existing 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tac-for-revising-norms-international-travellers/article38121969.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:05 IST,||Odisha child panel objects to raising marriage age||The Odisha State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has opposed the move to raise the legal age for marriage of girls to 21 saying it would not be effective in preventing child marriages and also lead to unwed moth- ers as another Act permits consensual sex after 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-child-panel-objects-to-raising-marriage-age/article38122100.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:57 IST,||Tiger dies at Pilikula||A male tiger in captivity at Pilikula Biological Park here died on Tuesday. According to director of the park H. Jayaprakash Bhandary, the tiger named as Oliver was nine years old. “It was healthy and active till morning. But the big cat suddenly collapsed and died at about 11.45 a.m.,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tiger-dies-at-pilikula/article38122369.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:12 IST,||Two militants killed in Kulgam encounter||Security forces on Tuesday killed two militants in Kulgam of south Kashmir in an encounter, taking the number of ultras killed in a span of 24 hours to four. “Both terrorists were locals and linked to the Resistance Front, affiliated to the LeT,” IGP Vijay Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-militants-killed-in-kulgam-encounter/article38122102.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:12 IST,||Tribals up in arms over panchayat polls quota||A controversy has erupted across non-scheduled areas of Odisha with tribals threatening to boycott the forthcoming panchayat polls. They are aggrieved that no sarpanch and block chairper- son has been reserved for tribals in 23 of 30 districts (non-scheduled areas).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tribals-up-in-arms-over-panchayat-polls-quota/article38122317.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:12 IST,||Northeast should be growth driver: PM||Kicking off the BJP’s campaign in poll-bound Manipur, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday made a pitch for oil palm plantations while envisaging the Northeast as the driver of India’s growth story.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/northeast-should-be-growth-driver-pm/article38122099.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:40 IST,||State to formulate sports policy soon||The State Government will soon formulate a sports policy after receiving a report from the committee headed by Dr. R. Balasubramaniam, founder chairman of Grassroots Research and Advocacy Movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-formulate-sports-policy-soon/article38122385.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||Sri Lanka Cabinet clears oil tank deal||Sri Lanka’s Cabinet has given its nod for a new deal announced by the Energy Minister last week to jointly develop the Trincomalee oil tank farm with India. According to a press statement issued by the Department on Government Information on decisions taken at the first Cabinet meeting of the year held on Monday, India and Sri Lanka “have reached an agreement to implement a joint development project” through diplomatic talks. “Accordingly, the Cabinet of Ministers approved a proposal presented by Minister of Power to allocate 24 oil tanks for the business activities of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation, to allocate 14 tanks of the Lower Oil Tank Complex already in use by Lanka IOC [Indian Oil Corporation] for the company’s business activities and to implement a development project by a company named Trinco Petroleum Terminal Pvt. Ltd. of the remaining 61 tanks, 51% to be owned by Ceylon Petroleum Corporation and 49% by Lanka IOC,” the statement said, reaffirming Minister Udaya Gammanpila’s announcement last week. The statement did not mention the 50-year lease for the 14 tanks run by Lanka IOC that the Minister earlier spoke of. According to local media reports, the agreement on the project is expected to be signed soon. Natural harbour The signing of the agreement will mark a milestone for New Delhi in a long-stalled, controversial project in Sri Lanka’s eastern Trincomalee district, which has an enviable natural harbour. While Indian involvement in a strategic national asset is viewed with suspicion by Sri Lanka’s Sinhala nationalist forces, New Delhi has been keen on partnering Sri Lanka in developing storage tanks of the Second World War era, since it was first discussed around the time of the India-Sri Lanka Accord of 1987. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his visit to the island nation in 2015, spoke of developing Trincomalee as a “regional hub”. The Cabinet also cleared two other proposals with Indian involvement. Ashok Leyland has won the bid for providing 500 new buses to Sri Lanka, while the Sri Lanka Police force will procure 750 jeeps from Mahindra and Mahindra, according to the official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sri-lanka-cabinet-clears-oil-tank-deal/article38121726.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:17 IST,||Northeast should be growth driver: PM||Kicking off the BJP’s campaign in poll-bound Manipur, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday made a pitch for oil palm plantations while envisaging the northeast as the driver of India’s growth story. Mr. Modi said previous governments had neglected the region and alienated its people until New Delhi was brought to the doorsteps of Manipur and the rest of the northeast after he became the Prime Minister in 2014. “After Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose hoisted his Army’s flag for the first time and called it the gateway to India’s Independence, the northeast is now becoming the gateway to fulfilling the dreams of New India,” Mr Modi said at a rally at Imphal after inaugurating 13 projects worth Rs. 1,850 crore and laying the foundation stone of nine others that would cost Rs. 2,950 crore. He banked on farmers in the northeast to cash in on the Centre’s Rs. 11,000-crore oil palm mission. Reducing imports “India spends thousands of crores of rupees in importing palm oil. Much of our mission to let the farmers benefit hugely from oil palm cultivation will happen in the northeast, including Manipur,” he said against the backdrop of protests in the region against the initiative. Mr. Modi accused the previous Congress government in Manipur of creating a divide between the people of Imphal Valley and the hills around it. While the valley is dominated by the largely Hindu Meitei community, the hills are inhabited by several tribal communities, many of whom are Christians. He said the State’s BJP-led coalition had bridged the hill-valley divide, and said the “double-engine government” had transformed Manipur from a “blockade State” into one ready with routes for international trade. Mr. Modi said there was a time when Manipur was left to its fate but he brought the Government of India to the people’s doorsteps in the State and its northeastern neighbours. End to insurgency “I asked the leaders, officers and Ministers to regularly visit the northeast, spend time and formulate need-based schemes. Five from the northeast are in the Union Ministry,” he said. He credited the Centre-State coordination for extinguishing the “fire of insurgency and security” in the northeast. “There is the light of peace and development. Hundreds of youth in the region have joined the mainstream of development by shunning guns,” he said. Protest against visit A “lockdown” called by CorCom, a conglomeration of six extremist groups, had greeted Mr. Modi and his entourage after he landed in Imphal amid tight security. In Tripura’s capital Agartala, his second stop in the region, the Prime Minister highlighted the connectivity with adjoining Bangladesh to project the State as a gateway to usher in all-around development in the northeast. The Prime Minister also inaugurated a Rs. 450-crore terminal building at Agartala’s Maharaja Bir Bikram Airport and remotely launched the State-level Project Mission 100 of Vidyajyoti Schools and the Mukhyamantri Tripura Gram Samriddhi Yojana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/northeast-should-be-growth-driver-pm/article38121731.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:17 IST,||Many States announce more curbs amid surge||India’s COVID-19 tally continued its rise with the country reporting 37,379 new cases in the 24 hours to 8 a.m. on Tuesday — the highest on a day in three months, according to figures from the Health Ministry. The cumulative Omicron tally rose to 1,892 cases as reported from 23 States and Union Territories so far. Of these, 766 cases have recovered or migrated, according to the update. The total number of active cases rose to 1,71,830 and the cumulative toll to 4,82,017, with 124 more fatalities reported in the 24 hours. The active cases comprise 0.49% of the infections reported in the country. The daily test positivity rate was recorded at 3.24%. The case fatality rate remains at 1.38%. As the cases continue to rise, more States are bringing in restrictions on movement and public gatherings. Maharashtra reported a whopping 18,466 cases to take the active case tally to 66,308. In a new single-day high, 10,606 of them were reported from Mumbai taking the city’s active case tally to 47,476. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday night issued revised rules for international passengers coming to the airport. Mumbai airport rules All international passengers arriving at Mumbai will need to undergo a rapid RT-PCR test. If positive, a regular RT-PCR test will be conducted for confirmation. If the test is negative, the passenger will be allowed to go for home quarantine for seven days. Positive symptomatic patients will be admitted to Seven Hills Hospital, Bombay Hospital or Breach Candy Hospital. With Mumbai recording the highest number cases in the State and the country, Mayor Kishori Pednekar hinted at the possibility of a lockdown if the daily COVID-19 cases crossed the 20,000-mark. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said there would be no physical sessions for students of classes 1 to 8 for the rest of January. The Punjab government on Tuesday ordered a series of restrictions, including curfew in all towns and cities from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. till January 15. All schools, colleges, universities and coaching institutions will remain closed till January 15. Odisha on Tuesday registered a 60% jump in the daily cases (680) compared to Monday’s 424. Andhra Pradesh recorded a spike, reporting 334 cases in the past 24 hours. This is the highest daily case figure to have been reported in the past 55 days. In Gujarat too, cases seemed to show a spike with the State reporting 2,265 new infections, taking the active cases to 7881. Ahmedabad emerged as the main hotspot with 1,324 cases on Tuesday. The city administration has declared micro containment zones in the residential societies from where the cases have been reported. The Kerala government on Tuesday issued orders limiting the number of persons attending indoor events to 75 and that of outdoor events to 150 in anticipation of the case surge.increased COVID-19 transmission fuelled by the Omicron variant. The State reported 3,640 cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. The active case pool, which had been declining rapidly these past weeks, has begun to show a rising trend again and now has 20,180 patients. Of these patients, 2,354 persons are being treated for moderate or severe COVID-19 in hospitals across the State, according to official data. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals on Tuesday with COVID-19 was 180. The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday increased the timing under the night curfew: from the earlier 11 p.m. - 5 a.m. to 10 p.m - 6 a.m. In Assam, 475 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Tuesday. (With inputs from  State bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/many-states-announce-curbs-amid-covid-surge/article38121873.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||Two militants killed in Kulgam||Security forces on Tuesday killed two militants in Kulgam of south Kashmir, taking the number of terrorists killed in a span of 24 hours to four. “Both terrorists were locals and linked to the Resistance Front, affiliated to the Lashkar-e-Taiba [LeT]. They were involved in several terror crimes,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said. The police identified them as Amir Ahmad Wani from Alamgunj in Shopian and Sameer Ahmad Khan from Tiken in Pulwama. “Wani was a categorised terrorist. However, the other killed terrorist joined the terror fold recently. Both were part of a group involved in several terror crime cases,” the police said. One AK-47 rifle and a pistol were recovered from their possession. They were encircled in an early-morning operation at Okay village of Kulgam. They were given an option to surrender but they opened fire on the security forces, triggering an encounter, the police said. Besides the police, the Army’s 9 Rashtriya Rifles and the CRPF were part of the operation. The operation followed the killing of two LeT militants, one of them a “commander”, in twin encounters in the Shalimar and Harwan areas of Srinagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-militants-killed-in-kulgam/article38121720.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:17 IST,||ICMR approves indigenous kit to detect Omicron||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved a testing kit for detecting the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. The kit is manufactured by Tata Medical and Diagnostics and is named OmiSure. The kit will be used to confirm Omicron in patients with its S-Gene Target Failure (SGTF) strategy. The ICMR’s letter of approval dated December 30 said: “The tests have been performed as per the manufacturer’s instructions. Responsibility for batch-to-batch consistency lies with the manufacturer.” The kit currently in use to detect Omicron in India has been developed by the U.S.-based scientific instrumentation company Thermo Fisher. It, too, uses the SGTF strategy to detect the variant. The World Health Organization South-East Asia Region on Tuesday said that the focus should now be on enhancing genome sequencing in view of the Omicron variant. “Diagnostic services are critical for public health. During an outbreak, timely information is needed to guide and tailor public health response to stop/ curtail disease spread. Hence, since the onset of the COVID-19 outbreak, one of the key areas of the WHO’s support has been to strengthen laboratory capacities, with the focus on addressing inequalities in access to COVID-19 diagnostics tools,” said Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region. Genomics consortium The WHO is proposing to set up a SARS-CoV-2 genomics consortium in Southeast Asia this year. The consortium will help enhance genomic sequencing and surveillance. This will also help improve the timely use of genomic data for public health decision-making and to strengthen preparedness and response to future outbreaks/ pandemics, added a release issued by the group. Stating that challenges remain, Dr. Singh said that limited trained workforce and other resources are key barriers identified by countries for sustained long-term testing and sequencing capacities. In a bid to address this, the WHO is building a community of practice — sharing of experiences through webinars and sharing of information through platforms such as the regional laboratory network. “With COVID-19 cases once again beginning to increase, we need to remain vigilant. Which means enhancing our capacities to quickly test and provide timely results, and conduct genome sequencing for new variants,” Dr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/icmr-approves-indigenous-kit-to-detect-omicron/article38121869.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||WB sexual assault cases under probe||The Central Bureau of Investigation has so far received 29 complaints of sexual assault from the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in connection with the post-poll violence in West Bengal. While the agency has referred two of them to the State’s Special Investigation Team (SIT), 26 complaints are under investigation by the CBI. The Calcutta High Court ordered the CBI on August 19, 2021 to investigate incidents involving the offences of murder, rape and attempt to rape. “It is clarified that the CBI had received 29 complaints of sexual assault from the NHRC, related to sexual offences, till December 22, 2021,” the agency said. The agency has decided to hand over two of the cases to the State’s SIT on the grounds of the nature of offences, in line with mandate given in the court’s orders. “Further, two complaints relating to same incident of sexual assault were received by the CBI, which were amalgamated, resulting in the registration of only one regular case for investigation. The remaining cases are under progress,” the agency said. The State police had referred 64 incidents to the CBI in accordance with the High Court’s directive. Of these, 39 cases have already been taken over by the CBI by registering cases, four references are under process, while 21 have been returned to the State police/SIT on the grounds of nature of offence. At the time of submitting a status report in the court, the agency had registered 50 cases and one preliminary enquiry into the incidents of post-poll violence. “By the time of submission of the status report, the CBI had submitted chargesheets in 10 cases, while the remaining cases are under progress,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wb-sexual-assault-cases-under-probe/article38121714.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:17 IST,||Cong. tries to find Punjab unit’s pulse||Congress general secretary in charge of organisation K.C. Venugopal on Tuesday met with senior ministers of Punjab, including Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. Though there is no official word on the purpose of the meeting, the timing is significant as it comes just days after Mr. Randhawa publicly aired his differences with Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. At a recent public rally, Mr. Sidhu questioned his own government for not arresting Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former Minister Bikram Singh Majithia, against whom the government had registered an FIR (first information report) in a drug case. “FIR has already been registered and raids are being conducted to arrest Bikram Majithia who is behaving like a fox,” Mr. Randhawa, who holds the Home portfolio, countered. At a press conference on Monday, he said the Punjab Congress chief was ‘unhappy’ at his (Mr. Randhawa) elevation as Home Minister. He was willing to give it up if that makes Mr. Sidhu happy, he had stated. Many believe Mr. Sidhu’s consistent attack on the Charanjit Singh Channi government over issues such as the sacrilege case or the drug mafia could be a way of putting pressure on the party’s top leadership to name him as the party’s chief ministerial face in the coming Assembly polls. ‘Not eyeing positions’ Mr. Sidhu, though, has officially always denied that he has been aspiring for any position in the government. Among those who attended the meeting at Mr. Venugopal’s place included Ministers Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Pargat Singh and Raja Warring. While Mr. Warring and Mr. Pargat Singh are known to be Mr. Sidhu’s close aides, Mr. Ashu and Mr. Randhawa have spoken out against the State Congress chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-tries-to-find-punjab-units-pulse/article38121858.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||Three-judge Bench to hear CJAR petition on 2017 fine||The Supreme Court on Monday referred to a three-judge Bench a plea made by Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) to consider Rs. 25 lakh paid by it on the basis of a 2017 court order to be treated as a donation. In December 2017, a three-judge Bench of Justices R.K. Agrawal and Arun Mishra (both retired now) and A.M. Khanwilkar imposed a cost of Rs. 25 lakh on CJAR to be paid to the Supreme Court Bar Association. CJAR’s PIL The reason for imposing the hefty cost was a PIL petition filed by CJAR, represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, demanding a Special Investigation Team into a conspiracy allegedly hatched by several persons, including a retired High Court judge, to bribe Supreme Court judges for a favourable order in a private medical college case. The plea by CJAR to treat the payment as a donation to the Supreme Court Bar Association came up for hearing before a two-judge Bench of Justices Khanwilkar and C.T. Ravikumar on Tuesday. This Bench said that since the earlier order was passed by a three-judge Bench, any modification in the intent of the 2017 order could only be considered by a Bench having the same number of judges. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal agreed with the court’s stand and indicated that the money was welcome to provide welfare and relief for many lawyers. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for the organisation, said CJAR has several respected senior lawyers and judges onboard, and considering their long services to the legal profession, the money should be treated as a donation rather than as a punishment. Mr. Bhushan said the money should be released to the lawyers’ association so that it could be put to good use as soon as possible. Identical petition The petition of the CJAR was identical to a petition filed by advocate Kamini Jaiswal on the same issue. In 2017, the court had termed both the Jaiswal and CJAR petitions as efforts to “seriously jeopardise the independence of the judicary”. The Justice Agarwal Bench had, four years ago, dismissed the Jaiswal petition by expressing hope that “good sense prevail over the legal fraternity and amends be made as lot of uncalled for damage has been made to the great Institution in which public reposes their faith”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-judge-bench-to-hear-cjar-petition-on-2017-fine/article38121716.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:17 IST,||Soldiers celebrate New Year with tricolour at Galwan valley||Photographs of Indian Army troops holding a large tri-colour at the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh as part of the New Year celebration were released on January 4 by sources in the security establishment. The photographs were also shared by Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju on Twitter with the caption, “Brave Indian Army soldiers in Galwan Valley on the occasion of #NewYear2022”. The images were released three days after China’s state media played up a purported video of PLA soldiers sending New Year greetings to Chinese people from a location near the Galwan valley. In one of the photos of the Indian troops, around 30 Indian soldiers were seen with the national flag. Another photo showed the group with four of them holding the national flag and another tri-colour flying high on a flagpole adjacent to a temporary observation post. The sources said the photographs were taken on January 1 in the Galwan Valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/soldiers-celebrate-new-year-with-tricolour-at-galwan-valley/article38121876.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,||Cruise ship with cluster back in Mumbai||The cruise ship Cordelia Empress , with 66 of the nearly 2,000 people on board testing positive for COVID-19, returned to Mumbai on Tuesday evening after being sent back by the South Goa district administration.  Officials in Mumbai said the ship was sent back after being docked at the Mormugao cruise terminal for 48 hours as some of the infected persons and their relatives on board allegedly refused to get admitted to a medical facility in Goa. After the cruise liner anchored at a passenger terminal in south Mumbai, a team of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the police reached the spot. The BMC arranged five ambulances, each of them a 17-seater, to ferry the patients to a COVID-19 care centre, the officials said. The patients also have the option of quarantining themselves at hotels at their own expense. “The ship with all its passengers had to be sent back after a few of those who had tested positive refused to get admitted to a COVID-19 facility in Goa. Only six crew members who had tested positive were disembarked,” said an official from a shipping services company. The official said that in view of a steep rise in cases, the South Goa District Administration ordered that the entire ship be sent back to Mumbai with COVID-19 positive passengers isolated from the others. There were chaos and protests on the cruise ship after the passengers who had tested negative were also refused permission to disembark by the South Goa district authorities.  The company that operates the Cordelia cruise has issued a statement that sailing tours would be suspended on January 5 in view of the rising COVID-19 cases.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cruise-ship-with-cluster-back-in-mumbai/article38121878.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:17 IST,||In Manipur, Ibobi is best bet for Congress||With knives out for Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren Singh within the BJP and severe anti-incumbency against his government, the Congress, the lead Opposition party in the State, has reason to cheer, except the party is still dragging its feet in the run-up to the Assembly election with a reluctant leadership at the helm. The Congress in the State is still synonymous with 73-year-old Okrom Ibobi Singh, Manipur’s three-time Chief Minister, who is both the party’s strength and weakness. With the Enforcement Directorate pursuing money laundering cases against Mr. Ibobi and family, according to the party leaders, he is missing in action. “One can’t fight the battle without a General. And in our case, the General is yet to open the attack on the BJP. In fact, he is yet to step out of his house,” a senior party functionary said. Missing in action Even in his own home district of Thoubal, he is not heard or seen. On health grounds, he is holding out on meeting the people. But the party is hoping that once the election dates are announced, Mr. Ibobi and others will go full throttle. The party is down to 15 MLAs from its tally of 28 in 2017, thanks to multiple waves of exodus. This includes rebel K. Joykishan, who has been in the departure lounge for a long time. The final nail was driven in August last year, when six-time Congress MLA and party’s State president Govinddas Konthoujam quit to join the BJP. Congress insiders claim that the party has regrouped since then with N. Loken Singh, a four-time MLA, as the State president. “Despite the 15-year rule, the Congress has no organisation or committed cadres. When the MLAs left the party, they left with their supporters hollowing out the party,” another Congress leader added.  Limping into the poll ring, the Congress has Mr. Ibobi as the best bet. Party’s vice-president Devabrata Khumanthem Singh told The Hindu , “It is but natural that the leader of the Congress Legislature Party will lead the battle into the Assembly election. If we do get a favourable mandate, the decision on the Chief Ministerial candidate will once again fall on the legislature party.”  And it is still banking on nostalgia for Mr. Ibobi’s three terms as Chief Minister to pave its way for a return.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-manipur-ibobi-is-best-bet-for-congress/article38121862.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||Officials worried as test kits fly off the shelves||Chief Civic Commissioner of Bengaluru Gaurav Gupta acknowledged the problem this poses, both in terms of capturing accurate data and curtailing the spread of the virus. Though rapid antigen test kits have been in the market for a few months now, sales have gone up only since December, following the Omicron scare. “We now sell anywhere between 15 and 30 kits every day in each shop,” said the regional manager of a pharmacy chain in Bengaluru. Ravindra Kumar M. J., secretary, Bengaluru Chemists and Druggists Association said the COVID-19 at-home tests fall in the price range of Rs. 250-Rs. 350 and are easy to use like pregnancy test kits. But what happens if those who test positive but have only mild symptoms do not isolate themselves for the entire duration or self-medicate? “During the peak of earlier waves of the pandemic, the government had mandated us to take down details of those buying cold, cough and fever medicines. Such a mechanism may be one of the options to track these cases, but presently there are no such instructions,” Mr. Kumar said. Chandan Hiremath, a software engineer who is scheduled to travel to Germany next week, used such a rapid antigen test kit to ease his fears. He tested negative. Unless citizens voluntarily report the results and agree to take an RT-PCR test from a certified facility, the government has no way to capture this data. “Had I tested positive, even if I wanted to report it, I wouldn’t know how to contact the civic body,” said Mr. Hiremath. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in its recent letter to all States and Union territories recommended the use of self-tests/home tests for symptomatic individuals. But the lack of any mechanism to capture positive cases through home tests, unless individuals report it themselves, is a cause for concern. A senior civic health official said home tests, essentially rapid antigen tests, had good accuracy in case of a positive result, but could be misleading in the case of negative results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/officials-worried-as-test-kits-fly-off-the-shelves/article38121712.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||Badal seeks probe into sacrilege incidents||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab, Shiromani Akali Dal patron Parkash Singh Badal on Tuesday asked the Prime Minister to take some concrete steps to expose the conspiracy behind the ongoing incidents of sacrilege against the Sikh faith, besides resolving the other political, religious and economic issues. “As PM, you would earn a lot of goodwill and my personal gratitude if, before coming here, you announce an economic, political, agricultural and territorial package to meet the demands of the Punjabis,” he said. The former Chief Minister said thousands of families are still awaiting justice for the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. He said he was making this request just to remind him of his sacred obligations to the country’s food bowl and sword arm — Punjab. Mr. Badal demanded a major agricultural economic package to pull the Punjab farmers out of indebtedness. “It would be a great gesture if you go beyond optics and announce steps like an inquiry by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court to go into the conspiracy behind the painful series of sacrilegious incidents against Sikh faith and address other issues facing the people of the State.” ‘Transfer Chandigarh’ Mr. Badal also asked Mr. Modi to consider the transfer of Chandigarh and other Punjabi-speaking areas and the resolution of the river waters issue as per riparian principle. He drew the attention of the Prime Minister to the loss of around 800 lives in the agitation against the three farm laws and said these sacrifices must be acknowledged by a concrete gesture by the Union government to help their families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/badal-seeks-probe-into-sacrilege-incidents/article38121911.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||Supreme Court to hear EWS quota case today||The EWS case was heard by a Bench of three judges led by Justice Chandrachud, while the Benches were sitting in a combination of two judges for the week. But Mr. Mehta persisted that even a two-judge Bench led by Justice Chandrachud would be enough to hear the case as long as it was scheduled on Wednesday. The CJI agreed in court to see whether the schedule could be juggled to form a three-judge Special Bench. NEET counselling was suspended after the Union government, on November 25, informed the court about its “considered decision” to revisit the “criteria” determining EWS. The government had asked for four weeks to form a review committee, examine the issue and file a report. The government’s submission followed rounds of grilling from the court in past hearings to reveal the logic and study before zeroing in on the “exact figure” of Rs. 8 lakh as the annual income limit to identify EWS of society. The Centre’s review committee submitted a report on December 31, supporting the Rs. 8 lakh income threshold as a “reasonable” basis to determine EWS. The court’s query was significant as the One Hundred and Third Constitutional Amendment of 2019, which introduced the 10% EWS quota, is itself under challenge before a larger Bench. The Amendment is under question for making economic criterion as the sole ground for grant of reservation benefits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supreme-court-to-hear-ews-quota-case-today/article38121722.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||Key accused in app case arrested in Uttarakhand||The police sought Mr. Kumar’s custody citing instances of him using social media to put out derogatory posts about Muslim women. Both the accused have been charged under Sections 153 (wantonly provoking with intent to cause riot), 509 (insulting modesty of a woman), 354 (assault or use of criminal force to any woman with intention to outrage modesty) of the Indian Penal Code along with relevant Sections of the Information Technology Act. On January 1, 2022, the Cyber Police Station of the West Region had registered an FIR against relevant Twitter handles and the developer of ‘Bulli Bai’ for offences under the same charges. An FIR was registered after several women complained that their photographs had been uploaded by unidentified group to auction them. The court proceedings were held in camera. Minister of State for Home (Urban) and Information Technology Satej D Patil tweeted, “There seems to be a much bigger network behind such coordinated crimes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/key-accused-arrested-from-uttarakhand/article38121723.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||States told to share intel on common grid||The reluctance on the part of the States was also stated in a parliamentary standing committee report in 2020. The committee had observed that the contribution made over the years by State agencies is lower in the overall inputs that had been received at the MAC. The IB had informed the committee that all organisations that are in any way involved in the counter-terrorism effort are members of this centre. All the States have a Subsidiary Multi Agency Centre (SMAC) located in the capitals. The IB informed the panel that the Union Home Ministry, along with the IB, was contemplating to extend the connectivity of SMAC to the districts. “So, the IB is picking up districts in a phased manner because there is an issue of connecting them with the lease line, encryptors, etc. Further, At the MAC level, the meeting of all these agencies is convened almost every day where intelligence of the last 24 hours is brought on to the table, discussed and follow-up action is devised or agreed upon,” the report said. The IB Director had told the committee that there had been a few instances where some State agencies hesitated to share their intelligence inputs with the MAC. A statement issued by the Home Ministry said the meeting was to review prevailing threat scenario in the country and emerging security challenges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-told-to-share-intel-on-common-grid/article38121724.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||HC order on plea against Air India sale tomorrow||The Delhi High Court will pronounce on Thursday its decision on a plea by BJP leader Subramanian Swamy challenging the Air India disinvestment process in which the Tatas emerged as the highest bidder at Rs. 18,000 crore. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said, “We will pass orders the day after,” while asking the parties involved in the case to submit their written responses by Wednesday. Mr. Swamy, who appeared in person, sought a direction to the government to quash the present Air India disinvestment process, terming it “arbitrary, unconstitutional, unfair” and “rigged in favour of the Tatas”. He said the only other bidder in the process was a consortium led by the owner of SpiceJet, which was facing insolvency proceedings in the Madras High Court and thus could not have bid. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta contested the petition, saying disinvestment was a policy decision that could not be contested in courts. He argued that though SpiceJet was facing insolvency proceedings, it was never part of the consortium that bid for Air India. “It was led by its owner Ajay Singh,” he added. Mr. Swamy in his petition argued that the disinvestment of Air India by way of transfer of management control and sale of 100% of its equity shares held by Government of India to Talace Private Ltd. was against the interests of national integrity and security. “The Tatas are very much a part of Air Asia,” he said. Mr. Mehta said that Talace, a wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Sons Private Ltd., which won the Air India bid, had nothing to do with Air Asia. He said any case Air Asia faced in the past was irrelevant here. Senior advocate Harish Salve, representing the Tatas, said the successful bidder here was a 100% Indian company owned 100% by an Indian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-order-on-plea-against-air-india-sale-tomorrow/article38121727.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:17 IST,||Centre tells States to set up field hospitals||The Health Ministry has asked States to take preparatory measures with top priority and regular monitoring in light of the rising number of COVID-19 cases. In a letter on Tuesday, the Ministry said the States were expected to have begun work on re-establishing field and makeshift hospitals and repurpose beds in public and private hospitals to fight another potential surge in cases. The States are also expected to develop COVID-19 care centres in hotel rooms and other similar accommodations to be linked with dedicated hospitals for the care of mild or asymptomatic cases. The States have also been asked to ensure availability of testing kits and ample supply of drugs. Noting that the Omicron variant of the coronavirus accounts for more than 50% of cases in major Indian cities, N.K. Arora, Chairperson of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), said the massive surge in numbers indicated a third wave, but there was no need to panic. The head of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) also analysed the COVID graph in South Africa, where Omicron originated, and spoke of the “epidemiological similarities” between the two countries. “If we look at the behaviour of the Omicron wave in South Africa, where it rapidly increased, in two weeks, the number of cases started coming down and most of the cases were either asymptomatic or had a mild illness,” he said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-tells-states-to-set-up-field-hospitals/article38121867.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:02 IST,||Snow blankets Valley; 42 flights cancelled||A fresh spell of snowfall disrupted air traffic and left tourists stranded in the Kashmir Valley on Tuesday as the weather department issued an “orange alert” and predicted “intensification of wet weather” over the next 24 hours in Jammu & Kashmir. Snowfall started on Monday night and continued till late on Tuesday afternoon. An official spokesperson said the continuous snowfall and poor visibility resulted in the cancellation of 42 flights across all airlines on Tuesday. “Flights were operating as visibility improved,” the official said. The cancellations left scores of tourists stranded in the Valley. Former Chief Minister and National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah criticised the airport authorities for the flight cancellations. “Our ‘international airport’ has no landing aids that enable the runway to remain open when visibility dips. We make such a big deal about tourism and investment promotion, now imagine the plight of those tourists who’ve sat all day outside the terminal and watched their flights get cancelled,” Mr. Abdullah said. Traffic remained unaffected on the Srinagar-Jammu highway, which connects the Kashmir valley with the rest of the country. However, many other important routes remained closed due to inclement weather. “There are chances of avalanches and landslides in vulnerable areas, disruption of power supply in hilly areas and water logging in low lying areas, besides further dip in day temperatures,” the IMD said. The IMD urged people not to venture out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/snow-blankets-valley-42-flights-cancelled/article38121717.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||Man lynched, body set afire in Jharkhand||A 32-year-old man was on Tuesday stoned to death, and his body was set on fire allegedly by a group of people at a village in Jharkhand’s Simdega district on the suspicion that he felled trees to steal wood, the police said. The victim, Sanju Pradhan, was lynched barely 100 metres from his home near Besrajara Bazar area after a mob called him out and stoned him to death. They then gathered a pile of wood and set fire to his body, Kolebira police station in-charge Rameshwar Bhagat said. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren in a tweet told Deputy Commissioner, Simdega: “Please investigate the matter and inform after taking legal action.” The incident occurred barely a fortnight after the Jharkhand Assembly passed the Prevention of Mob Violence and Mob Lynching Bill, 2021, which aims at providing “effective protection” of constitutional rights and the prevention of mob violence in the State. Hundreds of villagers who gathered at the spot insisted that the man was involved in the illegal felling of trees for stealing and smuggling wood, which was against the traditional tribal system. Village head Suban Budh, who claimed to be an eyewitness of the lynching, said Mr. Pradhan was involved in illegal felling of trees, and the Forest Department was informed about it. “But no action was taken,” Mr. Budh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-lynched-body-set-afire-in-jharkhand/article38121718.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||Deshmukh files for default bail||Former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday filed for bail in a money laundering case against him. Mr. Deshmukh, currently lodged in the Arthur Road Jail, filed for statutory bail on the grounds that the Prevention of Money Laundering Act court did not take cognisance of Enforcement Directorate’s chargesheet. The plea says, “Mr. Deshmukh is incarcerated since November 2, when he was remanded to custody. Excluding the date of first remand, a period of 60 days has since elapsed. As he is offering to accept his bail bonds, there is an embargo in continuing his further remand as per of the Code of Criminal Procedure.” The case dates back to March 20, 2021, when former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh wrote to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that Mr. Deshmukh abused his position to seek illegal monetary benefits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deshmukh-files-for-default-bail/article38121721.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||MLA granted protection from arrest||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday granted protection from arrest to BJP MLA Nitesh Rane till January 7 in an attempt-to-murder case. Advocate Nitin Pradhan, appearing for Mr. Rane, sought protection of his client from arrest. Special Public Prosecutor Sudeep Pasbola submitted that there was evidence against Mr. Rane and it would be submitted through a reply. Mr. Rane has been charged with Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. His plea says he has been falsely implicated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mla-granted-protection-from-arrest/article38121728.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:17 IST,||Adityanath trains his guns on SP||Sharpening his attack against the Samajwadi Party (SP), Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday, that those who were getting Lord Krishna in their dreams were forgetting that they had nurtured the demon Kansa in the past. In an obvious reference to SP chief Akhilesh Yadav’s recent comments, the Chief Minister said, “Those who fired at Ram bhakt s are now promising to build the Ram temple in record time. They are putting chameleons to shame when it comes to changing colours.”  On a spree to announce and inaugurate projects in the State before the forthcoming Assembly elections, Mr. Adityanath on Tuesday laid the foundation of an Anti-Terrorism Squad training centre in Deoband town of Saharanpur. “Previous governments wanted to withdraw cases against terrorists, we eliminate terror,” he said, adding the town will “get a new identity when commandos will come out of it”. Deoband is one of the most prominent centres of Islamic education in the world. The CM also inaugurated a 660 MW thermal power project in Harduaganj town of Aligarh Once again linking the recovery of cash from a Kanpur businessman to the Samajwadi Party, Mr. Adityanath said the government’s heavy machinery was unearthing huge amounts of cash that used to be stashed behind walls during the previous government’s rule. “This stashed money was used during riots,” he charged. Such money, he said, was being used to provide one crore tablets and smartphones to students across the State. Invoking the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, and Kashi Vishwanath temple corridor, Mr. Adityanath said, “The fight is between creativity and destruction, it is between nation builders and those who want to divide the nation.” Taking a dig at SP chief Akhilesh Yadav for not making public appearances during the pandemic, Mr. Adityanath said, “He was missing for 20 of the last 22 months. I want to ask you, can a child who doesn’t go to school think of topping the class by attending school for a month before exams? We attended the classes.” Earlier, responding to Mr. Yadav’s statement in Lucknow, in which the SP president said that Lord Krishna came to him in his dreams every night and told him that the Samajwadis would bring “Ram Rajya” to the State, Mr. Adityanath retorted that Lord Krishna must be telling Mr. Yadav to wake up and see that the works that could not be done during the SP’s rule were being done under the BJP rule. “The Lord must be cursing him for not being able to do anything for Mathura, Vrindavan, Barsana, Gokul and Baldev, and how he managed to give birth to a Kansa who orchestrated the infamous Jawahar Bagh incident in Mathura,” Mr. Adityanath said. He was referring to the 2016 clash between the police and followers of Ram Vriksh Yadav in which two policemen, including a Superintendent of Police, and 24 squatters, were killed. “They are not concerned about Lord Krishna. They are followers of Kansa,” Mr. Adityanath said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adityanath-trains-his-guns-on-sp/article38121912.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:17 IST,||EC takes stock of election preparedness||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday held a meeting to discuss the Assembly elections due in five States amid rising COVID-19 cases across the country. According to officials, it was a routine meeting of the three-member commission, which, last week, completed visits to four of the five States that will go to polls. It was yet to announce any further restrictions on campaigning. Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra said in Lucknow on December 30 that all political parties were in favour of holding polls on time. He stated that the commission had told the poll-bound States to speed up vaccination so that 100% of those eligible had received the first dose at least.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-takes-stock-of-election-preparedness/article38121729.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:17 IST,||Denial of FCRA to MoC challenged||A U.S.-incorporated organisation, Global Peace Initiative, and its founder, evangelist K.A. Paul, have approached the Supreme Court challenging the refusal of the government to renew the registration of Mother Teresa's Missionaries of Charity under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA). The registration was not renewed purportedly on the basis of some “adverse inputs”, the writ petition said. “The cancellation of the license of a renowned charitable organisation like the Missionaries of Charity on vague grounds such as 'adverse inputs' will have a chilling effect on all other Non- Governmental Organisations,” it said. The plea has also urged the court to quash the government's direction to not renew the registration of “close to 6,000 NGOs”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/denial-of-fcra-to-moc-challenged/article38121856.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:17 IST,||Modi mum on China bridge, says Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over media reports that China is constructing a bridge on the Pangong Tso (lake) in Ladakh near the Line of Actual Control (LAC).  On Monday, some of the leading media outlets, including The Hindu, reported that China is constructing a bridge in eastern Ladakh, connecting the north and south banks of the Pangong lake, that will considerably bring down the time to move troops between the two sectors.  “PM's silence is deafening. Our land, our people, our borders deserve better,” Mr. Gandhi said on Twitter. Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge targeted the Narendra Modi government by alleging that it was busy with elections when the ‘enemy’ waws at India’s gate. “Enemy is at our gates. PM Modi is taking a siesta,” tweeted Mr. Kharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-is-modi-silent-on-china-bridge-asks-rahul/article38121860.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:17 IST,||Monuments Authority gets new member||Pramod P. Joglekar, a former Professor and Head of the Department of ancient Indian history, culture and archaeology at Deccan College, Pune, was on Tuesday appointed a member of the National Monuments Authority by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet. Professor Joglekar would be a whole-time member of the NMA for a period of three years from the date of assuming office, the note said. It added that the Culture Ministry had been informed about the appointment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/monuments-authority-gets-new-member/article38121870.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:17 IST,||Molnupiravir priced at Rs. 35 a capsule||Pharma major Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories on Tuesday said it would launch 200 mg capsules of molnupiravir, the anti-viral drug that India recently granted emergency use authorisation for COVID-19 treatment, at Rs. 35 each under the brand name Molflu. Each strip would have 10 capsules. With the recommended dose of 800 mg twice a day for five days, the total course of 40 capsules would cost Rs. 1,400, making it among the most affordable treatment options available to patients, Dr. Reddy’s said. Molflu is expected to be available from early next week in pharmacies throughout the country with particular focus on States with a high caseload of COVID-19. The drug would be manufactured in a facility approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Dr. Reddy’s is among a clutch of companies that received emergency use authorisation last week from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to manufacture and market molnupiravir capsules for the treatment of adult patients with COVID-19 who have a high risk of progression of the disease. Last year, the drug maker, like many others, entered into a non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreement with Merck Sharpe Dohme (MSD) to manufacture and supply molnupiravir in India and to over 100 low and middle-income countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/molnupiravir-priced-at-rs-35-a-capsule/article38121874.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||20,268 ducks culled in Alappuzha district||Rapid response teams of the Animal Husbandry Department culled 20,268 ducks within a one-km radius of two bird flu hotspots in Pallipad and Ambalapuzha North grama panchayats on Tuesday. Officials said that bird culling operations had been completed and mopping up would be conducted on Wednesday. While 11,143 birds were culled in and around the hotspot in Pallipad another 9,125 ducks were culled in Ambalapuzha North. Besides, 13,500 eggs and 9,650 kg of feed were also destroyed. The operation was launched a day after the samples of dead ducks belonging to two farmers, which were sent to the National Institute of High-Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for analyses, tested positive for avian influenza. Avian flu (H5N1) has so far been confirmed in seven grama panchayats in Alappuzha. The outbreak was first detected in ducks at Kunnumma South (ward 10) in Thakazhy grama panchayat on December 8. Later the outbreak was reported from Nedumudi and Karuvatta on December 14. It was followed by cases in Purakkad and Cheruthana. Last week, more than 16,000 ducks within a one-km radius of a hotspot in Ambalapuzha North grama panchayat were culled. Officials said that more than one lakh birds, mostly ducks, had died/culled in the district due to the outbreak. It is the fourth outbreak of bird flu to strike the district in the last 7 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20268-ducks-culled-in-alappuzha-district/article38121895.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Home isolation, testing after 5 days for Omicron patients: Minister||People who test positive for the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 should isolate themselves at home, if they have received two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine and have no symptoms. They can get back to their routine if they test negative twice in a span of 24 hours after five days, according to Health Minister Ma. Subramanian. After inaugurating a Siddha COVID-19 Care Centre on Tuesday, the Minister said the Health Department had issued the triage and treatment protocols for those affected by the Omicron variant. Accordingly, home isolation was recommended as the majority of those infected were asymptomatic. It was not advisable for them to visit hospitals, where those affected by the Delta variant were already admitted, as it could impact the nature of the disease. They would be tested after five days. If two swabs return negative for COVID-19 in 24 hours, they could get back to their routine. COVID screening centres In the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), 22 COVID-19 screening centres had been set up, he said, adding that people could get themselves screened at these centres and remain in home isolation. Zonal-level medical teams would stay in touch with those under home isolation over the phone and inquire with them about their health and treatment. “If unvaccinated persons tests positive for the Omicron variant, GCC will provide them a pulse oximeter and monitor their home isolation. Virtual monitoring by involving doctors will be started soon,” the Minister said. Across the country, nearly 40 lakh people aged 15 to 17 were vaccinated on the day the vaccination for this age group was launched. Tamil Nadu accounted for nearly 10% coverage — 3,32,493 people of the eligible population of 33,46,000 were vaccinated. The State has 27 lakh Covaxin doses. Noting that COVID-19 cases were increasing rapidly across the city, he said zones 9 to 15 had more cases. “GCC is taking several measures, and is focusing on establishing containment zones. Wherever there are more cases of Omicron, patients will be kept under home isolation, provided with pulse oximeters to monitor their oxygen saturation level and virtually monitored by doctors. This will start in a few days in Chennai,” the Minister said. Mini clinics The Minister said Amma mini clinics were started as a temporary set-up with 1,820 doctors. No nurses were appointed to the mini clinics, which had no permanent buildings. “These doctors were roped in for COVID-19 management during the second wave of infections. We have extended their work period till March 31, and they are engaged in COVID-19 management,” he said. “When people (some political leaders) issued statements on Amma clinics, we sought details on the number of people who had benefited through Amma mini clinics. Forty-three lakh people have benefited from Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam and 4,500 from Innuyir Kappom. Likewise, we asked for a list specifying how many had benefited in the six months since the opening of the clinics. But no list has been provided so far,” he said. There were plans to rope in these doctors into the Health Department in the same way that nurses and health inspectors, who were recruited on a contractual basis, were being appointed after being awarded merit scores, he said. Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekarbabu was present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/home-isolation-testing-after-5-days-for-omicron-patients-minister/article38122013.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Start-up to upskill 1 million disadvantaged youth||GUVI, an online technical learning platform, will offer upskilling courses for free to over one million disadvantaged youngsters in the country. The start-up was incubated by the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) and the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad. The beneficiaries will receive courses on Python programming and advanced AI in English, Tamil, Hindi and Telugu among other languages. Students can register for the course on GUVI's official website. They also have the option to avail themselves of an IIT-M certificate of the course by taking an assessment and paying a nominal fee to the Institute. Minister lauds start-up Union Higher Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan lauded GUVI for contributing to the efforts of All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) in upskilling economically disadvantaged youth. More details about the initiative can be found at https://www.guvi.in/python -one-million. The AICTE has proposed to distribute free edtech coupons to learners whose annual family income is less than Rs. 8 lakh. M. Arun Prakash, founder of GUVI, said the aim was at providing the best employable skills to nation’s youth that coincides with the aims of the National Educational Alliance for Technology (NEAT). S.P. Balamurugan, co-founder of GUVI, said, “The Python and AI skills included in this initiative focus on the face recognition technology that any beginner can master with a strong will.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/start-up-to-upskill-disadvantaged-youth/article38122040.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 03:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||4-year-old boy undergoes small intestine transplant||Doctors at Dr. Rela Institute and Medical Centre (RIMC) here recently performed a small intestine transplant for a four-year-old boy affected by volvulus, a condition that causes the twisting of the intestinal loop. According to the hospital, the boy from Bengaluru was continuously vomitting for two days. Doctors informed the boy’s family that he had developed volvulus, which resulted in blood supply to the intestinal loop being cut. An emergency surgery revealed that the small intestinal loop had to be removed. In the absence of small intestine and the consequent inability to take food via mouth, the child had to be connected to an infusion pump round the clock for intravenous delivery of nutrients. He was referred to RIMC, where the doctors suggested intestinal transplantation. Naresh Shanmugam, senior consultant, children liver and gastro specialist at the hospital, said while children generally lost only a small portion of small intestine due to volvulus, it was complicated in the boy’s case as he had lost the entire organ, with no chance of rehabilitation. The boy’s father came forward to donate a part of his small intestine. A team headed by Mohamed Rela, hospital chairman and liver transplant surgeon, performed a seven-hour surgery in which 1.5 metres of the father’s small intestine was transplanted to the child. Five weeks after surgery, which happened on September 13, the hospital said the child had fully recovered and was free to have any kind of food. The donor had also recovered. Dr. Rela said that small intestine transplantation was rarely done in India and appreciated the determination of the boy’s family. The hospital said that the surgery has been recognised by Asia Book of Records as the case of youngest boy to undergo small intestine transplant. Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian and Principal Secretary of the Health and Family Welfare Department J. Radhakrishnan participated in the event organised to hand over the certificate of recognition to the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-year-old-boy-undergoes-small-intestine-transplant/article38122029.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 03:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hospital treats two patients for rare cardiac abnormalities||Two patients recently underwent life-saving procedures for cardiac abnormalities in a hospital here. A 23-month baby from Myanmar was diagnosed with an uncommon congenital heart disease. She was admitted to Frontier Lifeline Hospital with a critically low heart rate. Her two ventricles were interchanged using pacemakers to provide relief to her. In an innovative approach, a pacing wire, 1.3 mm in diameter, was screwed through the 7-mm wall separating the ventricles, thus delivering the current to the appropriate ventricles. In another instance, a 45-year-old man underwent a complex, radiofrequency ablation, a keyhole procedure in which cardiac cells with abnormal electrical activity are destroyed by precise heating of the target tissue. For the procedure, the doctors inserted 2-3-mm diameter wires through the lower limb blood vessels and directed it to the appropriate location in the heart. Hospital founder and chief executive officer K.M. Cherian said, “Both [patients] had suffered from chronic heart rhythm abnormalities. We have successfully conducted both surgeries to yield positive results and ensure no risk to the patients.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-treats-two-patients-for-rare-cardiac-abnormalities/article38122030.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Trade Centre to get 904-bed COVID Care Centre||A 904-bedded COVID Care Centre is coming up at the Chennai Trade Centre (CTC) soon. On Tuesday, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin visited the centre and inspected the ongoing work. He directed officials to launch the facility at the earliest. The facility will have 11 kl of oxygen storage, and of the 904 beds, 504 will be oxygen, a press release said. In addition to the facility at the CTC, there is a proposal to develop a COVID Care Centre with more than 5,000 beds at Athipet. This apart, care centres have started operations in Injambakkam, Manjambakkam and the Tondiarpet Communicable Diseases Hospital, officials said. The Greater Chennai Corporation has launched home triaging for COVID-19 patients. The civic body has also opened screening centres at 15 locations on Tuesday. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the number of COVID-19 cases were increasing in the city, especially because of the Omicron variant. As many as 4,200 active cases were reported by the Greater Chennai Corporation, and 2,180 of the patients were permitted to quarantine at home. The civic body has appointed five COVID-19 volunteers for each of the 200 wards of the city. The volunteers will visit COVID-19 patients to check on their needs on a daily basis. The civic body has reintroduced the tele-caller facility in the zonal headquarters of the 15 zones to keep in contact with the COVID-19 patients in home quarantine. Each zone will have five tele-callers along with a medical officer. On Thursday, 45 car ambulances are expected to be launched by Ministers at Ripon Buildings to help COVID-19 patients. Currently, 22 ambulances are being used to take patients to hospitals and 15 screening centres. “The number of cases has been increasing rapidly. The Greater Chennai Corporation has taken it very seriously, and we are proactively trying to anticipate what additional infrastructure will be required. The Corporation has four or five strategies. We have put in place a home triaging system. People should not compromise on masking. They should also go in for vaccination,” Mr. Bedi said. Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister Sekarbabu on Tuesday opened a COVID-19 screening centre at the Barathi Arts College in Royapuram zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-trade-centre-to-have-904-bed-covid-care-facility/article38122026.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Committee formed to monitor dormitories in industrial areas||The Tamil Nadu government has asked Collectors to speak to industrial units in their districts and ensure they maintain a healthy relationship with their workers. “We have asked the Collectors to speak to companies and monitor these places constantly to maintain healthy industrial relations. We have asked them to form committees and inspect these places on various parameters such as hygiene and safety,” a senior official said. Another official said the Kancheepuram Collector had formed a committee, and teams were visiting all the dormitories in the region. “There are many such hostels/dormitories in Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram. All of them will be closely monitored,” the official said. Most of these dormitories are college hostels.  Government officials whom The Hindu spoke to said fresh licences had been issued by the Department of Social Welfare to certain dormitories which could take in the first batch of women returning to work at Foxconn’s manufacturing unit. “Around 550-600 of them are expected to join work in the first phase when the company reopens after getting clearance from its headquarters,” the official said. The officials did not spell out a date for the reopening of the factory.  When asked about media reports on China influencing the Foxconn protests, sources did not want to comment. “There are fringe elements who get active on and off, and they try to fish in troubled waters. But we are making every effort to ensure that Tamil Nadu remains a good investment destination. Such issues crop up when there is no direct relationship between the companies and the workers,” an official said. Apple-supplier Foxconn closed down its unit following protests by its workers after many of their colleagues were hospitalised for food poisoning. The protesting women said the dormitories where they stayed did not meet standards, and living conditions were poor. The government came out with a formal statement that there had been an outbreak of acute diarrhoeal disease, and 159 employees had been admitted to hospital. All of them were discharged upon recovery. Thereafter, inspections were carried out at the dormitories, which were found to have not met the required standards. Last week, Apple placed Foxconn’s Sriperumbudur facility on probation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/committee-formed-to-monitor-dormitories-in-industrial-areas/article38122015.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Margazhi Music Contest gets 654 entries||In its second year running, The Hindu Margazhi Music Contest has received an overwhelming number of entries.  The grand total stands at 654. These are audio/video entries of performances of five-minute duration each in Carnatic classical and Hindustani styles in three age categories: Under 12 (children), 13-19 (juniors) and 20 - 40 (seniors). The Under-12 category got the most number of entries as usual – 292, which is followed by the 13-19 category and then the seniors category. Uploaded online Entries have been uploaded online by participants in vocal and instrumental categories. There are 90 entrants, who have sent under the percussion section too.  The last date for sending entries for The Hindu Margazhi Music Contest was December 31, 2021.  Last year there were around 850 entries, including many from other parts of the world. Unlike last year, where there was a complete lockdown, this year, the sabhas had opened up for the Marghazhi season. The entries are currently being segregated and sent to the judges. Judges The judges for the music contest are: musician, dance scholar and writer Sujatha Vijayaraghavan, vocalist and an associate professor of French Varalakshmi Anandakumar, violinists LN Sisters and gurus M. Lalitha and M. Nandhini, mridangist and guru Erode Nagaraj and Hindustani vocalist and guru Lalita Sharma. The judges would require time to listen to all the performances, tally marks under various heads and then send in the results. The event has been co-sponsored by Indian Oil Corporation Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-hindu-margazhi-music-contest-receives-654-entries/article38122035.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM springs a surprise, distributes masks to commuters in Chennai||Commuters on Anna Salai were in for a surprise on Tuesday morning, as Chief Minister M.K. Stalin personally handed over face masks to them and highlighted the need for wearing masks to contain the spread of COVID-19. The Chief Minister’s convoy initially halted at the bus stop near Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital on Omandurar Government Estate. Mr. Stalin got down from his vehicle and distributed face masks to a few people. He later distributed masks in areas near the Cosmopolitan Club; the Anna Salai - Ethiraj Salai junction near Spencer Plaza; Thousand Lights; Chepauk; Siddhi Vinayagar Koil Street in Teynampet; areas near the traffic signal on Eldams Road; and the bus stop near S.I.E.T. College. Some members of the public exchanged belated New Year greetings with the Chief Minister. Some said they were cooperating with all the containment measures being taken by the government. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and senior officials accompanied the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-springs-a-surprise-distributes-masks-to-commuters-in-chennai/article38122019.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||SC/ST employees’ associations cannot threaten managements: High Court||Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe employees’ associations in various establishments can only make requests, they cannot threaten the management and interfere in administrative decisions so as to compel an institution to act in a manner they wish, the Madras High Court has observed. Justices S. Vaidyanathan and A.A. Nakkiran made the observations while coming down heavily upon the University of Madras for having promoted two Scheduled Caste employees to the post of assistant librarian, between 2011 and 2013, though it was a post which could be filled only through a direct recruitment. The Division Bench pointed out that the employees, P. Dhanasekaran and V. Kalaiappan, had given three representations to the university in 2010 and 2011 to consider promoting them to the post. A reading of those representations, especially the one made in 2011, was in the nature of a threat, the judges said. “[An] SC/ST association can make a request, but cannot threaten and shall not interfere in the administrative action of any institution so as to compel them to act in a particular manner they want,” the Bench wrote, allowing a 2018 writ appeal by the university against a single judge’s order. In 2017, the single judge had directed the university to promote yet another employee, S. Bhaskaran, to the post after he had filed a writ petition claiming that he alone was denied the benefit. Setting aside the single judge’s order, the Division Bench held that none would be entitled to promotion to a direct recruitment post. The Bench ruled that the university syndicate meetings held on August 12, 2011 and April 26, 2013 ought not to have paved the way for the promotion of the two employees. “We want to emphasise that the promotion has not been made mistakenly, rather it has been done wantonly to satisfy somebody,” the Bench wrote. Though departmental action was required against the Registrar, the judges noted with dismay that the Registrar had retired from service after bringing a great disrepute to the institution. The Bench also remarked that the university had lost its reputation in the recent years owing to the act of certain officials. It underscored the need to take stringent action against officials who failed to maintain integrity and devotion to duty and said they should be dismissed from service and deprived of even gratuity.  [An] SC/ST association can make a request, but cannot threaten and shall not interfere in the administrative action of any institution so as to compel them to act in a particular manner they want||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scst-employees-associations-cannot-threaten-managements-high-court/article38122168.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stalin distributes uniforms to priests||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday launched the scheme to provide uniforms and dhoti-angavasthram to Archakas, Bhattacharyas , Odhuvars and Poosaris and staff of temples under the purview of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department. He presented uniforms and the dhotis to 12 persons as a token at a function at the Secretariat.   A total of 52,803 persons, including around 7000 women, who work as priests, temple staff and Odhuvars would receive the clothes. The male priests would get two sets each of dhoti-angavasthram with mayil kann and the women will receive maroon-coloured saris with yellow borders.  The male staff would get two sets each of brown-coloured trousers and sandal-coloured shirts. The scheme, which would cover staff and priests in 36,684 temples, would cost Rs. 10 crore and had been announced in the Budget for 2021-22. Major temples will bear the cost of uniforms. Minister P.K. Sekarbabu said when staff wear uniforms it would be easier for devotees and members of the public to identify them. At present, though staff at major temples do wear uniforms, they are all not the same. In this case, staff of all temples would be dressed in the same colours. Also, the scheme would help staff and priests of smaller temples, who work on smaller salaries, he added. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Secretary B. Chandra Mohan and Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran were present during the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-distributes-uniforms-to-staff-priests-of-temples/article38122042.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bird flu in Kerala: T.N. ramps up surveillance||In view of the Union Government notifying an outbreak of Avian influenza among ducks in Alappuzha district of Kerala last month, authorities in Tamil Nadu have increased surveillance in six border districts. It also announced helplines -- 044-24339097/ 9445032504. An official release from the State Government said authorities were taking preventive measures, coordinating with Collectors of The Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Theni, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts . A total of 26 temporary inter-State border check posts were set up in these districts, where teams prevent the entry of vehicles or trucks carrying live chicken, ducks, turkeys, quails, and eggs, poultry feed, and poultry manure from Kerala. Such vehicles were being sent back, the official release said. Strict monitoring All other vehicles from Kerala that are entering Tamil Nadu through the check posts were being disinfected. Poultry farms were being strictly monitored and sale of chicks or poultry originating from Kerala was being prevented, the release said. A total of 1,061 Rapid Response Teams (RRTs), each comprising one veterinary assistant surgeon, one livestock inspector, two animal husbandry assistants and one sanitary worker, have been formed and kept on alert in all districts. A committee comprising Public Health Department, Southern Railway, Environment and Forest Department, National Egg Coordinating Committee, Poultry Farmers Association and Broiler Coordination Committee, in coordination with the Collectors, would undertake the required measures to prevent the spread of the flu from Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bird-flu-in-kerala-tn-ramps-up-surveillance/article38122043.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Permission denied for Karunanidhi’s statue, Tiruppur Collector tells HC||Tiruppur Collector on Tuesday informed the Madras High Court that he has rejected an application made by a legislator representing Tiruppur South Assembly constituency seeking permission to install a statue of former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi near the railway station bus stop in the city. The Collector said the decision was taken in view of a 2013 Supreme Court order against erection of statues on busy road junctions. Justice S.M. Subramaniam recorded the submission made by Additional Government Pleader M. Rajendiran on behalf of the Collector and closed all further proceedings on the issue. The judge had called for an explanation from the official after Atchaya Thirumuruga Dinesh, who claimed to be the State president of Shivsena, wrote a letter to the judge complaining about the plan to install the former Chief Minister’s statue at a place prone to road accidents.  The author of the letter had requested the judge to initiate suo motu contempt of court proceedings since he had in October 2021 ordered creation of leaders’ parks across the State to shift over there all the statues that pose a threat to road safety. However, the Collector told the court that the MLA had filed the application on August 24, 2021 and it was rejected on September 15, much before the judge passed orders with respect to shifting of statues on October 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permission-denied-for-karunanidhis-statue-tiruppur-collector-tells-hc/article38122087.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Couple held for staging robbery||Government Railway Police (GRP), Thiruvanmiyur, on Tuesday arrested railway staff Tikka Ram Meena of the Thiruvanmiyur MRTS railway station for staging a robbery at the ticket counter with the aid of his wife Saraswathi. Tikka Ram, posted at the ticket counter, had on Monday morning claimed he was tied up at gunpoint by a three-member gang, which took away Rs. 1.32 lakh from the cabin. The couple were produced before a judicial magistrate. An official said the Southern Railway suspended the clerk. Based on the case’s verdict, action would be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-held-for-staging-mrts-robbery/article38122036.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Work to build hospital in Guindy to begin soon||Work to construct a new multi-super speciality hospital on the premises of the King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research, Guindy, may begin by this month. The Public Works Department (PWD) is set to finalise the tender in the next couple of weeks. The department is likely to award the work order this month after the foundation-laying ceremony. It may be recalled that the State Government had announced that a hospital would be built at the nearly 4.8-acre site in the King Institute premises at a cost of Rs. 250 crore last year. Sources in the PWD said the new six-storeyed hospital would come up at a space, spread over nearly 5.53 lakh square feet on the premises. The 500-bedded facility would have three blocks and comprise of various specialities, including plastic surgery, surgical oncology and cardiology. A separate block would be dedicated for the operation theatre complex and intensive care unit. The new hospital would be built with green building concepts and have solar reflective tiles on the terrace. Besides structures for rainwater harvesting, there are also plans to set up plants for sewage and effluent treatment, and to use the treated water for gardening and flushing. The work is expected to be completed in 18 months, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-to-build-hospital-in-guindy-to-begin-soon/article38122490.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||OPS demands payment of flood relief||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Tuesday demanded that those affected by the recent spell of heavy rain be given Rs. 5,000 or Rs. 10,000 in flood relief. In a statement, he said those affected by two spells of heavy rain in November and December should be given Rs. 10,000 each and those who bore the impact of the rain once should get Rs. 5,000 each. He made this demand in the light of Chennai having suffered inundation on Thursday last after an unexpected spell of rain. Mr. Panneerselvam referred to reports of paddy bags getting damaged in Thanjavur district in the rain and urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to get them shifted to protected places belonging to the Central and State governments. AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami and AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran, in their Twitter handles, deplored the government’s decision to “close down Amma clinics”. Mr. Palaniswami said it reflected the government’s “lack of concern” for the poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-demands-payment-of-flood-relief/article38122016.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM launches distribution of Pongal gift||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday launched the distribution of Pongal gift hampers to over 2.15 crore rice ration cardholders and Sri Lankan Tamils living in camps across the State. Each hamper contains grocery items, including rice, jaggery, dry fruits, spices and sugarcane. The initiative would cost the exchequer Rs. 1,296.88 crore, an official release said. Officials have been instructed to ensure that a large number of customers do not come to the ration shops at the same time to collect the hampers, and that physical distancing norms are followed during their distribution. The government has also appealed to the public to turn up at the ration shop on the date and time mentioned in the tokens distributed to them, and follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. Cooperation Minister I. Periasamy, Food Minister R. Sakkarapani, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and senior officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-distribution-of-pongal-gift/article38122020.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 30,000 houses in 20 wards to get sewer connection soon||The long wait for underground sewer connection for over 30,000 houses in 20 wards in the old city area will be over in the next few months as the Coimbatore Corporation is expected to complete construction and commission of the sewage treatment plant in Nanjundapuram. The Corporation sources said as a first step to provide the sewer connection, the Corporation would start issuing applications in the next couple of weeks to the residents in the 20 wards. In the Corporation’s assessment, there were 33,000 houses that would benefit from the move. The 20 wards covered parts of Nallampalayam, Rathinapuri, Ganapathy, Avarampalayam, Gandhipuram, Race Course, P.N. Palayam, Puliakulam, Sungam, Olympus, Ramanathapuram and a few other areas. The Corporation had designed the old city’s underground sewer system in such a way that it treated the sewage from the aforementioned areas at the Nanjundapuram treatment plant, which had an installed capacity to treat 40 million litres a day. The civic body had almost completed all the civil work and was in the process of installing the equipment to treat sewage, fixing the devices needed for odour control and to transmit pollution data on a real-time basis to the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. The sources said the Corporation was mandated to install the odour control and data transmission devices by the National Green Tribunal, which heard a case filed by residents in the neighbourhood of the site chosen for the treatment plant construction. It was this case that had dragged the sewage treatment plant construction for over a decade now as the Corporation had started the work in 2008 at Rs. 33.79 crore. In April that year, the Corporation that suspended work following a court injunction fought legal battles at various fora finally got a go-ahead sometime in 2017 from Supreme Court. As part of the go-ahead order, the Court had asked the Corporation to relocate two tanks away from one of the residential localities in the north, raise the heigh of compound wall, install a higher power diesel generator, odour control devices and pollution data transmission devices. To comply with the order and resume work, the Corporation had re-engaged the contractor who had initially taken up the work. But it had to cancel the contractor, float fresh tender and award the work to another contractor, the sources said. The first tender the Corporation had floated was for Rs. 33.79 crore. At the time of suspending the work, the Corporation had spent Rs. 17.96 crore It floated the second tender for Rs. 43.60 crore and the amount included the works the court had mandated, the sources explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-30000-houses-in-20-wards-to-get-sewer-connection-soon/article38122065.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Jallikattu will be held as per govt. guidelines: Minister||The proposed jallikattu here on January 9 will be held only if the State government gives permission and issues guidelines, Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji said here on Tuesday after inaugurating Pongal goodies distribution. “If the government gives permission for jallikattu in southern districts, the event will be held in Coimbatore as well. It depends on the government’s decision,” he said in response to a question. There was only a certain number of tokens the jallikattu organisers could issue depending on the time taken for the event. They could not accommodate every bull owners’ application and it was depending on the time factor that the organisers had decided to issue 800 – 850 participation tokens, he replied to a question on the organisers denying permission to a few bull owners.  The Minister denied allegations that there was nepotism in awarding contract for liquor bars and that persons from his native Karur district were favoured over applicants from Coimbatore . It was a transparent process where the price quoted in every application for each bar was made public, he said. The Tasmac had come up with 68 eligibility criteria for application and the award of contract was strictly based on the applicants fulfilling those. Number of years in running bars was definitely not one of those. Those who had lost out on the contract for bars were now crying citing the years of experience they had had in running bars. This could not be considered as it was not an eligibility criterion. In fact, the number of applications received to run bars was more this year. The Tasmac had received 11,700 applications as against 6,400 the last time. This itself showed that there was transparency, he pointed out. As for Pongal goodies distribution, 10.78 lakh public distribution system card holders in Coimbatore would stand to gain. The administration would complete distribution of the 20-item goodie kit before January 10. A release from the district administration said Mr. Senthilbalaji inaugurated the distribution in fair price shops in Sulur, Ramanathapuram and a few other places. Tiruppur Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan and Minister for Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj on Tuesday distributed Pongal gifts to beneficiaries at Rudravathi near Dharapuram. A release said that 7,83,755 families would benefit in Tiruppur district and that the State government had allocated over Rs. 42 crore for distribution of Pongal gifts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jallikattu-will-be-held-as-per-govt-guidelines-minister/article38122070.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Action sought against brick kiln owners in Thadagam valley||A 17-year-old girl, who was one of the four persons booked by the Thadagam police on Sunday for alleged trespassing into a brick chamber in Thadagam valley, has appealed to District Collector G.S. Sameeran to initiate action against the brick kiln owners who allegedly attacked and threatened them. According to her petition, she along with activists G. Mohanraj alias Mac Mohan (47) and Thadagam S. Ganesh (44) along with his eight-year-old son visited the Anuvavi-Karupparayan stream on the northern side of Kalaiyanur village “for research purposes” at around 2 p.m. on January 2. The drone camera brought by the team went “missing” due to strong winds when operated and they embarked on a search to find it. At that time, brick chamber owner V.K.V. Sundararaj along with a few men encircled them and accused them of taking photographs of the closed brick chamber, the petition claimed. They allegedly began attacking all four, including the boy, and her father Ramesh, who reached the spot later, was also attacked, the girl said in the petition. She further added that her research was based on the impact of the illegal red earth mining by brick kilns on the streams running in Thadagam valley and that she had completed a book on this subject. Case registered On Sunday, the Thadagam police registered a case against Mr. Sundararaj and six more persons on charges of rioting, voluntarily causing hurt and criminal intimidation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-sought-against-brick-kiln-owners-in-thadagam-valley/article38122074.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rusted revolver lands Cong. leader in soup||The Coimbatore City Police on Tuesday arrested K.S.B.A. Thangal, 60, a Congress functionary from Kerala and former chairman of Pattambi municipality in Palakkad district, after he was found in possession of a country-made revolver with 14 live rounds at the Coimbatore International Airport. According to the police, he arrived at the airport around 4.15 a.m. to board a flight to Bengaluru, which was scheduled for departure at 6.55 a.m. He was travelling to Amritsar via Bengaluru. The airport staff scanned his luggage and the X-ray baggage inspection system detected a revolver. Upon checking, the staff found the country-made revolver loaded with six bullets. There were eight live rounds and one used bullet in his baggage, the police said. They alerted the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel, who questioned Mr. Thangal at the airport. It was found that he did not possess a licence or other relevant documents to carry the weapon. The CISF authorities handed over the Congress functionary to the Peelamedu police. The police seized the weapon, which was in a rusted condition, along with the 14 live rounds and the lone used bullet. Based on a complaint from the security coordinator of the airline service, the Peelamedu police booked Mr. Thangal. He allegedly claimed that the pistol belonged to his father. It had not been used in several years and he was unaware of its presence in his luggage. Mr. Thangal was arrested and remanded in judicial custody, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revolver-in-cong-leaders-baggage/article38121880.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||PM should explain developments on Indo-China border: Raja||Prime Minister Narendra Modi should provide an explanation on the developments on the Indo-China border, Communist Party of India (CPI) General Secretary D. Raja said here on Tuesday when asked about reports that China was constructing a bridge in eastern Ladakh across the Pangong Tso. The Prime Minister and the Defence Minister should explain what is happening in the border. During the Galwan clashes, the Prime Minister had a meeting with representatives of several political parties and said India had not conceded even an inch of land. He should clarify the current position. There are multi-level talks happening between India and China and being neighbouring countries it is necessary to find a solution through dialogue. In India, there is a huge political churning that is happening.  “Our party wants the unity of all secular and democratic parties,” he said. The rule of Prime Minister Modi should come to an end. When he became the Prime Minister, Mr. Modi spoke of Ache Din . It is however, only for the corporates and the common man continued to face problems. Further, the Prime Minister speaks of minimum government and maximum governance. But there is maximum government and mis-governance now, Mr. Raja said.  “We need to defend and save our constitution and democracy.” The national executive meeting of the CPI will be held here from Januray 26 to 28 to prepare for the party’s All India Congress to be held in Vijayawada from October 14 to 18. The party will discuss at its meeting here the issues prevailing in the country, the political situation and the challenges that the people face.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-should-explain-developments-on-indo-china-border-raja/article38122089.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Crypto Club Members Association aims at creating awareness of cryptocurrency||A group of crypto investors, who have formed the Tamil Nadu Crypto Club Members Association, are creating awareness of cryptocurrency among members of the public. C. Kandasamy, president of the association, said a large number of people in the southern States invested in cryptocurrency between 2018 and 2020, when it was not approved. They had also suffered huge losses as they were unaware of the risks. “Now, crypto is recognised and we want to create awareness of it among members of the public, the cautions they should take and what they should look for before investing in it,” he said. In the last one month, since its inception, the association has enrolled nearly 1,000 members from the southern States. The enrolment drive continues and the association plans a series of awareness sessions. “We will also encourage studies to be taken up on cryptocurrencies and conduct awareness programmes for different groups such as lawyers, teachers and others,” he said. By 2025, cryptocurrency will become common and there should be better awareness of it among investors during the next two to three years, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-crypto-club-members-association-aims-at-creating-awareness-of-cryptocurrency/article38122093.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Session for tribal settlement to be organised||The Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) in association with ICAR-Sugarcane Breeding Institute (ICAR-SBI), Coimbatore, will organise an awareness session for the residents of Chinnarpathy tribal settlement near Pollachi on Wednesday. A release said the awareness event named ‘Knowledge Empowerment of Tribals’ will be held at the Advanced Wildlife Management Training Centre at Attakatti. ATR Field Director S. Ramasubramanian and Director of ICAR-SBI, Coimbatore G. Hemaprabha will preside over the event. ICAR-SBI will also launch its Development Action Plan for Scheduled Tribe Component in ATR. “As part of the project, ICAR-SBI will be distributing farm tools, household items, seed kits for setting up and maintaining a nutrition garden and seedlings to the tribal folk in Nagaroothu – 1, Nagaroothu – 2, Old Sarkarpathy, Chinnarpathy, Koomaatti and Paalakinaru,” the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/session-for-tribal-settlement-to-be-organised/article38122076.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two held for uploading obscene videos||The Cyber Crime unit of Coimbatore District Police on Tuesday arrested two YouTubers, a woman and a man, from Madurai on charges of uploading obscene videos. In a statement, the police said Subbulakshmi alias Surya (35) and Sikkandar (48) were arrested by a special team in Madurai based on a complaint received from a 32-year-old woman YouTuber from Periyanaickenpalayam here. The police team confiscated three mobile phones from the accused. The duo was remanded in judicial custody in Coimbatore district and legal action to block the two YouTube channels of the accused was initiated on Tuesday. Held for attempted sexual assault The Pilloor Dam police arrested two men on charges of attempting to sexually assault a 33-year-old woman belonging to the Irular tribal community. The police said V. Rajesh (22) and U. Aneesh (25), who hailed from Palakkad district in Kerala, had visited Sundapatti village on Monday. The two men allegedly waylaid the woman near River Bhavani, threatened her with a knife and solicited sexual favours. A group of villagers handed over both the accused to the Pilloor Dam police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-uploading-obscene-videos/article38122082.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Check sale of spurious organic manure’||The Agriculture Department here has warned farmers in Pollachi and Anamalai to be aware of sale of spurious organic manure. Recommendations In a communication to the farmers, the Department said representatives of unlicenced and unapproved companies were giving recommendations to coconut farmers for organic manure application and administration of pesticide at root. The farmers would should not fall for such claims, the communication said. It asked farmers to go by the recommendations of the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department. And, also buy only recommended items from licenced shops. The communication warned people, who were making false recommendation to sell the spurious products, of action under Fertiliser Control and Essential Commodities Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/check-sale-of-spurious-organic-manure/article38122066.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers write to TNERC on SFS power connection||Vivasayeegal Sangam, a farmers’ organisation, has written to the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission to draw its attention to Tangedco officials’ refusal to allow changes in Self Finance Scheme (SFS) applications. In a letter, the association said that while the Tangedco officials allowed applicant farmers to make changes in applications for free power they refused to entertain similar applications from farmers who had applied under SFS. To allow farmers to change the survey number in applications filed under regular scheme, the officials cited the Commission’s order but refused the same for farmers who had applied under SFS. The farmers sought change in survey numbers because the open well or borewell for which they wanted connection at the time of submitting application would have turned dry now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-write-to-tnerc-on-sfs-power-connection/article38122095.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Encroachment removed||Coimbatore Corporation officials on Monday removed encroachment in a layout in Kalapatti. Sources said that following a court order and instruction from the Corporation Commissioner, the East Zone officials removed two barricades on a road in the layout to provide access to the road to the residents of nearby localities and farmers with land abutting the layout. The sources said the residents of Triyambaka, after having handed over the roads in the layout to the then Kalapatti Town Panchayat, had barricaded both the ends of the main road to deny access to others in the neighbourhood. They had also built a compound wall, which following another court order was demolished in 2015. But they continued with the barricades, the sources said and added that after the court order the Corporation removed the barricades to thrown open the road to all those in the neighbourhood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachment-removed/article38122090.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nodal officer inspects COVID-19 care facility||District Monitoring Officer for COVID-19 Darez Ahamed on Tuesday visited the COVID-19 Care Centre that the district administration had established at the Codissia Trade Far complex, said a release. He later visited the Integrated Command and Control Centre that the Coimbatore Corporation had established at the Kalaiarangam in R.S. Puram. Collector G.S. Sameeran and Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara accompanied Mr. Ahamed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nodal-officer-inspects-covid-19-care-facility/article38122067.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fine slapped||Coimbatore Corporation officials imposed Rs. 5,600 on persons who were not wearing mask. Most of the checking happened at the Gandhipuram bus stands, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fine-slapped/article38122068.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Somanur sub-station (9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on January 6 ): Somanur, part of Karumathapatty, Krishnapuram, part of Samalapuram, Ramachiyampalayam, Thottipalayam, Senthil Nagar, Paramasivam Palayam, and part of Kaniyur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article38122071.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Grievance day||The Superintending Engineer of Coimbatore South will conduct a grievances redress meeting for electricity consumers on January 5 at 11 a.m. at the office of the Executive Engineer, Kuniamuthur, according to a release from Tangedco.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grievance-day/article38122073.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Govt. official held for graft||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption on Tuesday arrested the secretary of a co-operative bank for demanding bribe from a farmer to issue no due certificate. According to the official sources, an 87-year-old farmer had approached Murugan, secretary, Harur Primary Agricultural Cooperative and Rural Development bank, for a no due certificate for the loan he had cleared. The officer had allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs. 3,500 for the certificate. Based on the farmer’s complaint, DVAC sleuths laid a trap on Tuesday. As per the directions of the officials, the farmer handed over chemical-laced currency notes to Murugan. On seeing the officials, Murugan tried to flush the notes in the toilet. However, the notes were recovered from the outlet pipe of the toilet and Murugan was arrested. Further inquiry is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-official-held-for-graft/article38122195.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nine held in firing case||After arresting four persons in connection with the gunning down of Rakesh Kumar, 26, on Sunday night, Dindigul Rural Police have arrested five others. The police identified four of the arrested as Sahya Johnpaul, Anandaraj, Boston Nepak (all from West Marianadhapuram) and Irudayaraj (of Balakrishnapuram). They were sent to judicial custody. On Tuesday, the police arrested Singarayar of West Marianadhapuram. Earlier, the police had arrested Prakash (of Rajiv Gandhi Nagar), Prabhu, John Surya and Ganesamoorthy (all from Balakrishnapuram). When the police had rounded them up in their hideout at RM Colony, the accused attempted to jump off a building in a bid to escape and injured their limbs. They were given treatment at Dindigul Government Medical College Hospital before being sent to judicial custody, the police said. Rakesh Kumar was shot dead with a country-made weapon at Chettikulam due to rivalry over securing fishing rights in an irrigation tank. Meanwhile, four teams, led by as many Deputy Superintendents of Police, conducted searches in several areas in Natham, Sanarapatti and Sirumalai areas for illegal arms, including country-made weapons. The police arrested S. Xavier (of Thavasimadai), V. Mookkan and and L. Chinnazhagu (both from Korachinnampatti), who were found in possession of a country-made gun under Sanarapatti police station limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-held-in-firing-case/article38122177.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of Pongal gift hamper to family card holders begins||Distribution of Pongal gift hamper worth Rs. 7.02 crore to 7,39,771 rice card holders and 1,382 families at the rehabilitation camp for Sri Lankan Tamils began in the district here on Tuesday. Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy, in the presence of Collector H. Krishnanunni, inaugurated the distribution at the fair price shop at Karuppannan Street in the city. He said that the hamper would have 20 grocery items, including raw rice (1kg), jaggery (1kg), cashew nut (50 gm), dry grapes (50gm), ghee (100 ml), salt (1/2kg), wheat flour (1kg), a sugarcane and a cloth bag. Card holders can receive the gift hamper from their respective ration shops till January 31 by following COVID-19 norms. He said that all PDS shops will function on January 7 and instead January 15 will be a holiday for the shops. Officials said that coupons were distributed to card holders mentioning the date and time of distribution and the details were also on display at the ration shops. “Each day 200 card holders will be given the gift hamper at a shop”, they added. Monitoring officers have been appointed to oversee the distribution in each taluks and card holders can contact the officials concerned if they face hardship in receiving the hamper. Zonal officers were Erode (94450-00449), Perundurai (94450-00237), Modakkurichi (94450-74580), Kodumudi (73387-20703), Gobichettipalayam (94450-00441), Nambiyur (73387-20704), Bhavani (94454-77855), Anthiyur (94454-77855), Sathyamangalam (94454-1736) and Talavadi (73387-20705). Card holders can also contact the District Supply Officer, Collectorate at 0424-2252052. Kurinji N. Sivakumar, chairman of Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation, L. Madhubalan, Additional Collector (Development) / Project Officer, District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), K. Navamani, District Panchayat chairperson and other officials were present. Salem Staff Reporter adds: In Salem, District Collector S. Karmegham launched the distribution at a ration shop in Kannankuruchi. According to officials, 10,57,143 rice card holders and 886 rice card holders in Sri Lankan refugee camps would receive the gift kits. In Krishnagiri, Minister for Handlooms R.Gandhi launched the distribution in the presence District Collector V.Jayachandra Banu Reddy. Over five lakh rice card holders would benefit under the scheme in the district. In Namakkal, Tourism Minister M. Mathiventhan launched the distribution at Mullai Nagar. In Dharmapuri, District Collector S. Divyadarshini launched the distribution at Aroor Agriculture Producers Co-operative Society. According to officials there are 1,071 ration shops in the district. As many as 4.60 lakh rice card holders and 718 rice card holders in Sri Lankan refugee camps would receive the gift kits in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-pongal-gift-hamper-to-family-card-holders-begins/article38122190.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Leopard gets trapped in cage||A four-year-old male leopard was found trapped in a cage placed in a quarry at Kurubarahundi village in Talavadi Forest Range in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) on Tuesday. With many incidents of cattle kills by leopards reported in the villages located in the Tamil Nadu – Karnataka border in the last one year, the Forest Department had placed a cage two months ago in a defunct quarry that was suspected to be used by leopards as a hideout to enter the village and hunt prey. On Tuesday morning, the Forest Department staff found a leopard inside the cage and alerted Devendra Kumar Meena, District Forest Officer, Hasanur Division, and Deputy Field Director, STR, and K. Ashokan, wildlife veterinarian of STR. Officials said that the leopard would be released in a forest area in Bhavanisagar Range in Sathyamangalam Division later in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-gets-trapped-in-cage/article38122188.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 ex-gratia handed over to 815 people in Erode||A total of 815 persons, who are kin of COVID-19 victims, were given ex-gratia payment of Rs. 50,000 each from the State Disaster Response Fund. A press release from District Collector H. Krishnanunni said that the State government announced distribution of ex-gratia for the kin of persons who had died of COVID-19 in the State in the last two years. The district administration received a total of 1,725 applications, of which 815 applicants were accepted and ex-gratia payment given. Legal issues As many as 47 applications submitted by persons from other districts were forwarded to the respective district administrations. A total of 29 applicants had legal issues and inquiry is on. Thirty-seven applications were without proper address, and 81 applications did not have medical documents. Hence, the applications were sent to Tahsildar’s office for verification. The release said that necessary documents, including COVID-19 test report, treatment details, death and heir certificates should be submitted to the Disaster Management Department at the Collectorate or at the Tahsildar office at the earliest to claim the ex-gratia payment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-ex-gratia-handed-over-to-815-people-in-erode/article38122192.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Policeman arrested for attempt to rape neighbour in Erode||A 32-year-old policeman has been arrested on charges of attempt to rape his neighbour in the Railway Police quarters here. The accused, Selvan, a jeep driver in the Salem Rural Police, allegedly barged into the victim’s house on Sunday night and attempted to sexually assault her. She escaped and raised an alarm. The woman has been admitted to the District Headquarters Hospital. The 29-year-old victim, who got separated from her husband, works with the Railway Police. Selvan was staying in the same quarters as his wife was attached to the Railway Police. The victim lodged a complaint with the Erode South police who registered a case under Sections 450 (house tress-pass in order to commit crime), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 376 r/w 511 (attempt of rape) and 506 (i) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused was arrested and lodged in prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policeman-arrested-for-attempt-to-rape-neighbour-in-erode/article38122185.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||School vehicles checked for safety||Over 600 school buses and vans were checked for safety on the premises of A.E.T. Matriculation Higher Secondary School here on Tuesday. As per the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Regulation and Control of School Buses) Special Rules 2012, school vehicles have to undergo fitness inspection by Regional Transport Officers so that defects, if any, were rectified before transporting school children. Vehicles under the jurisdiction of Regional Transport Offices in Erode (East), Erode (West) and Perundurai were inspected by Erode Revenue Divisional Officer P. Premalatha. The official checked the vehicles for emergency exit, fitness certificate, fire extinguisher, flooring, GPS tracking system, speed controller and other safety measures. The official also checked the driving licence of drivers. The schools were asked to ensure that vehicles were operated only after obtaining fitness certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-vehicles-checked-for-safety/article38122198.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||41 fresh COVID-19 cases in Erode||Erode district on Tuesday reported 41 new cases of COVID-19, which took the overall tally to 1,07,895. While 56 persons were discharged, 393 persons were under treatment. Salem district reported 49 fresh cases on Tuesday. According to Health Department officials, all cases were indigenous and 36 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal reported 11 new cases. Dharmapuri had seven cases and Krishnagiri saw 10 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/41-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article38122186.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||GST on power consumers opposed||Opposing the levying of Goods and Services Tax (GST) on power consumers. the district unit of the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) questioned whether the Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji was aware of it. In a release, AITUC’s district president S. Chinnasamy said that the Minister had on January 2 in Coimbatore told the reporters that GST was not levied on the electricity consumption charges. “But, GST is collected from last month from power consumers”, the release. The release said that collection of GST is an additional burden on the people who are facing hardship due to the COVID-19 pandemic and sky-rocketing price of essential commodities. “The Minister should immediately intervene and stop collecting GST for power consumers”, the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gst-on-power-consumers-opposed/article38122199.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||In view of maintenance works at the following sub-stations, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on January 7. Ganapathipalayam: Injampalli, Muthugoundanpalayam, Solangapalayam, Pasur, Rakiyapalayam, Madathupalayam, Ganapathipalayam, Pachampalayam, Palani Goundan Palayam, Panjalingapuram, Kangeyampalayam, Sanarpalayam and Kumaranpalayam.  Vendipalayam : Vendipalayam, Konavaikal, Molagoundampalayam, Kollampalayam Housing Unit, Nochikattu Valasu, Solar, Solar Pudur, Nagaratchi Nagar, Jeeva Nagar, Transport Nagar, Lakkapuram, Puduvalasu, Parisal Thurai, Karukkampalayam, Nadarmedu (all areas), 46 Pudur (19 Road area) and Shastri Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article38122191.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||KCR has lost his mental balance, charges Nadda||BJP national president J.P. Nadda came out with all guns blazing against Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao stating he lost his ‘mental balance’ after the bypoll losses at Dubbak and Huzurabad. “He seems to have lost his sense of proportion the way he is behaving in an autocratic manner and showing high-handed attitude. We will expose Mr. Rao and his corrupt practices, we will take our battle to the decisive end,” he asserted at a press conference at the party office. Flanked by Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy and other senior leaders, Mr. Nadda said he had come to the capital to lend solidarity with the fight taken up by the party against the GO 317 on zonal transfers for sake of TS people and the employees. The arrest of TS party president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar is “undemocratic” and the manner in which the police barged into the party office manhandling the latter and thrashing the partymen is a “blot on democracy”. TRS government is the most “undemocratic government” fomenting family rule and “murdering democracy”, he charged and claimed that the Telangana is “proving to be one of most corrupt states under the direction of Mr. Rao with Kaleshwaram project becoming an ATM... a milch cow, as the cost was enhanced from Rs. 36,000 crore to Rs. 1.20 lakh crore with the water just reaching his farm house.” “Not a single drop of water came through the Palamuru-Rangareddy project or Mission Bhagiratha. He (Mr. Rao) is one of most corrupt administrators. He wants to crush the people on the guise of COVID norms whereas his ministers and MLAs merrily hold public meetings and rallies,” maintained Mr. Nadda. The assembled media was also shown a clip of the Chief Minister making fun of the pandemic in the Legislative Assembly to buttress the point. “Our party is a disciplined and ideological party and we will fight this through all democratic methods and legal recourse till the contentious transfer orders are withdrawn,” he said. Rally permission The BJP national president accused the government of bent upon stopping him from taking part in the peace rally citing COVID restrictions and had no answer when he informed the police officials that all the prescribed norms would be adhered to. Earlier, high drama preceded Mr. Nadda’s entry into the capital with the police informing him at the airport that the proposed ‘silent candlelight save democracy rally’ from Gandhi Statue to Paradise Circle in Secunderabad will not be allowed due to COVID restrictions. However, Mr. Nadda assured to follow all the COVID safety protocols and demanded he be allowed to exercise his democratic right to take up the rally. The police relented and permitted the rally be taken out with “40 persons” upon which he went straight to Secunderabad accompanied by senior leaders — Mr. Kishan Reddy, general secretary Tarun Chugh, K. Laxman, Vijayashanti and others. The venue was packed with party supporters as the BJP president paid his respects to Gandhiji’s bust and walked till the crossroads with slogans raised demanding the release of Mr. Sanjay Kumar. The party had vowed to continue agitations across the State and sport black badges for next 14 days, the remand period for the latter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kcr-has-lost-his-mental-balance-charges-nadda/article38121914.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Notice issued to officials for poor road condition||Collector T. Prabhu Shankar has issued a notice to the senior officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for failing to carry out repairs and maintenance of two highway stretches in Karur district. In the notice to the Project Directors of NHAI, who govern the Karur-Tiruchi highway and Karur-Dindigul highway, Mr. Shankar, who is also the Chairman of Traffic Advisory Committee, said that the two highways had suffered extensive damage at various spots. The motorists had been finding it difficult to drive on the damaged portions of the highways. Toll was being collected from the road users at Manavasi on Tiruchi-Karur highway and Velan Chettiyur on Karur-Dindigul highway. But the roads had not been maintained up to the standard. He said that he had also asked the NHAI officials concerned on several occasions to carry out repair and maintenance work so as to prevent accidents. They had been asked to take steps to install lamp posts and put up signboards, But no improvements had taken place till now. Hence, the officials concerned should reply on the steps taken to solve the issues within 10 days. Otherwise, he would be forced to recommend to the Union Ministry of Surface Transport and Highways to remove the toll plazas and stop collection of user charges, said Mr. Shankar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-issues-notice-to-nhai-for-poor-condition-of-highways/article38122160.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Officer told to file report before Jan. 20 in actor assault case||Ernakulam Additional Special Sessions Judge Honey M. Varghese on Tuesday directed the investigation officer in the actor sexual assault case, in which actor Dileep is an accused, to file a report on the investigation being conducted into the revelations by Balachandrakumar, who claims to be Dileep’s friend, in connection with the case. The judge, while ordering the investigation officer to file the report on or before January 20, observed that the investigation was the exclusive prerogative of the investigation officer. The law did not mandate any permission from the court to conduct further investigation. It was only a matter of courtesy to inform the court. Plea adjourned The investigation officer had earlier informed the court that further investigation was being conducted and produced the recorded statement of Balachandrakumar in a sealed cover. The court adjourned to January 21 the hearing on a petition by the prosecution seeking to defer the examination of some of the witnesses. The petition pleaded for postponing the examination in the light of further probe being conducted in the case and as a petition was pending before the High Court against the rejection of the prosecution plea to recall some of the witnesses and summon additional witnesses for examination. The court directed the investigation officer to make necessary arrangements to conduct the prosecution in the light of the Supreme Court directive to dispose of the case on or before February 16. When the case came up for hearing, the prosecution was not represented by any lawyer. Special public prosecutor V.N. Anilkumar had resigned last week citing an uncongenial atmosphere at the sessions court. In an interview to channels, Balachandrakumar said he had seen ‘Pulsar’ Suni, the prime accused in the case, at the residence of Dileep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officer-told-to-file-report-before-jan-20-in-actor-assault-case/article38121886.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Class XII student dies of injuries sustained while alighting from moving govt. bus||A Class XII student succumbed to injuries that she suffered while alighting from a moving bus here on Monday evening. The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation has suspended the driver and conductor of the bus. The deceased was identified as Nivya Shree, a student at the Kelamangalam Government Higher Secondary School. The girl was residing with her family near Shoolagiri. On Monday evening, Nivya Shree boarded the bus near her school to alight at Chinigiripalli near Shoolagiri. At Chinigiripalli, a few passengers alighted and the bus started moving. The bus driver and conductor did not notice Nivya Shree trying to alight from the bus and she reportedly jumped from the moving bus. She suffered severe injuries in her elbows and legs. People nearby alerted the police and the ambulance. Nivya Shree was rushed to Hosur GH and was later referred to Krishnagiri GH. The girl succumbed to injuries during the early hours of Tuesday. TNSTC officials said that an inquiry was conducted and the driver and conductor were placed under suspension. Officials said that both the driver and conductor should have ensured that all passengers had alighted from the bus. All the drivers and conductors in the district were advised on Tuesday to avert such situations in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/class-xii-student-dies-of-injuries-sustained-while-alighting-from-moving-govt-bus/article38122193.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:55 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK has failed to keep its election promises, says former Minister||The DMK, which came to power in the State with a lot of promises, has failed to keep them, according to former AIADMK Minister Sellur K. Raju. Addressing a demonstration organised by his party here on Tuesday, Mr. Raju said the DMK, while in the Opposition, had demanded that the State government distribute Rs. 5,000 assistance. But after coming to power, it failed to distribute Rs. 2,500 Pongal gift, as was done by the Palaniswami-led AIADMK government. Also, the DMK government was yet to redeem its poll promise of giving Rs. 1,000 monthly assistance to women. It had cancelled the contracts awarded for laying arterial roads in Madurai city and, as a result, people suffered due to pothole-ridden roads. The AIADMK demanded that the State government release Rs. 1,000 crore to Madurai Corporation to take up development of basic amenities in the city. Mr. Raju said the corporation was not able to prevent sewage getting mixed with drinking water supplied through pipelines. Similarly, the city reeked of garbage. The corporation was not able to maintain street lights and it had reduced the number of contract and conservancy workers. Former Mayor and Tirupparankundram MLA V.V. Rajan Chellappa said the DMK government should postpone construction of Kalaignar memorial library in the city. “When the roads are in such a pathetic condition, who can reach the library,” he asked. The State government should divert Rs. 112 crore allocated for construction of the library building to the Corporation, he added. Melur MLA Periyapulla alias Selvam and party functionaries M.S. Pandian and R. Gopalakrishnan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-has-failed-to-keep-its-election-promises-says-former-minister/article38122364.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:56 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman seeks CB-CID probe into husband’s death||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered notice to the State on a petition filed by a woman from Ramanathapuram district seeking a CB-CID probe into the death of her husband. Justice G.R. Swaminathan sought the response of the State on the petition filed by M. Thamarai Selvi of Kamuthi, who said she was informed by Madurai Central Prison authorities that her husband Moorthy alias Muniyandi had suffered a heart attack. Later, they informed her that he died. The petitioner said Moorthy was working in Dubai for over 10 years. But, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, he came back to India and started working as a security guard at a firm in Ramanathapuram. On March 18, Moorthy and a few others were detained by police in Ramanathapuram without any reason. Moorthy was beaten up by the police and a number of false cases were foisted against him. The petitioner said her husband was remanded in judicial custody. Subsequently, he was detained order under the Goondas Act. When Moorthy was produced before the Judicial Magistrate, he told his wife that he was beaten up by the police. On October 30, Madurai Central Prison authorities informed the family that her husband suffered a heart attack and they were going to admit him in Government Rajaji Hospital. Later in the day, they informed the family members that Moorthy died. She said Moorthy had not been involved in any illegal activities and the police had foisted false cases against him. They brutally attacked him, inflicting severe internal injuries on him due to which he died of heart attack. She sought a direction for a CB-CID probe into his death. She also sought a direct ion to the State government to provide compensation to the family members and take action against the policemen involved in the death of her husband.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-seeks-cb-cid-probe-into-husbands-death/article38122365.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Order to install CCTVs in spas is against SC verdict on Right to Privacy: HC judge||Justice G.R. Swaminathan of the Madras High Court has said that a recent order passed by another judge of the same court, mandating the installation of CCTV cameras inside spas [massage and therapy centres], appears to run counter to the law laid down by the Supreme Court in the landmark Justice K.S. Puttaswamy case on the Right to Privacy.  Justice Swaminathan observed that Article 21 of the Constitution guarantees the fundamental right to privacy to all. “Through a unanimous verdict, the Supreme Court declared that the right to life and personal liberty guaranteed in Article 21 also includes implicitly a right to privacy. This right to privacy is seen as possessing both inherent value, in that it is important for every person’s basic dignity, and instrumental value, in that it furthers a person’s ability to live life free of interference,” the judge said. Article 21 “The Court held that privacy as guaranteed in Article 21 takes several different forms — It includes a right to bodily autonomy, a right to informational privacy and a right to a privacy of choice. The installation of CCTV equipment inside premises such as a spa would unquestionably infract upon a person’s bodily autonomy. These are inviolable spaces where the prying eye of the State cannot be allowed to enter,” he said. He noted that the other judge’s order directed the installation of CCTV cameras not in public spaces, but in “intimate, private spaces”. In the first place, unless a legislature mandates by law that CCTV cameras ought to be installed in a certain space, to do so would violate Article 21, he said. No right can be absolute. But restrictions can be put in place only by the legislature or the executive. The reach of the fundamental rights cannot be curtailed by any judicial measure. The Supreme Court alone can do so in exercise of its power under Article 142, the judge said. Taking note of the fact that a notification was issued by the government that contemplates the installation of CCTV cameras only at entry and exit points, the judge said it consciously caveats that this would be without prejudice to the individual’s privacy. “Thus, the executive, while enacting subordinate legislation, has been conscious of the privacy concerns of the citizens. Suspicion that immoral activities are taking place in massage centres cannot be a reason enough to intrude into an individual’s right to relax, for it intrinsically is part and parcel of his fundamental right to privacy,” he said. Justice Swaminathan observed, “Most of us view privacy as an individual right. Time has come to look beyond. Priscilla M Regan in her seminal work ‘Legislating Privacy’, highlights the importance of developing and understanding of the social importance of privacy. She conceptualises privacy as a value and as a goal of public policy”. The court was hearing a petition filed by Payel Biswas, a spa owner from Tiruchi. The petitioner sought a direction to the police to issue a no-objection certificate for running the spa. The court directed the Tiruchi Commissioner of Police to consider the representation within four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/order-to-install-cctvs-in-spas-is-against-sc-verdict-on-right-to-privacy-hc-judge/article38122017.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:56 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Jallikattu will be held in Madurai with restrictions’||The government will consider imposing restrictions on jallikattu in Madurai in the wake of COVID-19 threat, Minister for Commercial Taxes P. Moorthi said on Tuesday. Talking to reporters after inaugurating distribution of Pongal gift hampers here in the presence of Collector, S. Aneesh Sekhar, he said jallikattu events would be held but with restrictions. Asked about the nature of restrictions, he said it would be decided based on the situation prevailing then. The Minister said that 9.17 lakh ration cardholders and 718 families living in Sri Lankan Tamils camps would benefit by the distribution of Pongal gift hampers. Each bag containing 20 types of grocery items and condiments was worth Rs. 505. Among them were raw rice, jaggery, green gram, chilli powder, corriander powder, wheat flour, ghee, salt cashew nuts, raisins. The total cost was Rs. 46.42 crore, according to Joint Registrar, Cooperative Societies, S. Gurumoorthy. The distribution would continue even on holidays till Pongal. Those who failed to get the gift hampers before Pongal could get them after the festival. Any family member whose name was in the family card, could collect the gift hamper from the ration shop. In view of SOPs in force, the gift hampers would be given in a staggered manner. In order to avoid crowding at the ration shops, they would be distributed only to 150 to 200 ration cardholders each day. Differently abled persons need not stand in the queue and they would be given priority in distribution of the gift hampers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jallikattu-will-be-held-in-madurai-with-restrictions/article38122368.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Temple land: HC orders status quo||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court ordered status quo to be maintained on an appeal preferred against a single judge order, who took note of the fact that permission was granted to convert a temple land into salt pans at Vilathikulam in Thoothukudi district. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan ordered status quo on the appeal filed by M. Lingaraj of Vilathikulam, who said a portion of the temple land was allotted to a few individuals on lease to do agricultural work. The land was allotted for a period of three years in 2016 in order to generate revenue for the temple. But, the agricultural land was converted into a salt pan. Following this, the villagers lodged a complaint against the individuals. Pollution of tank The appellant said this also led to pollution of a tank since the waste water from the salt pan was being let into the water body. A representation was made in this regard to the authorities, but no action was taken. Later, it was said that the land was permitted to be used as a salt pan. He said this would affect agricultural works and the nearby tank. The single bench of the High Court had dismissed the petition on the ground that the land was permitted to be converted as a salt pan after obtaining a ‘no-objection certificate’ from the Agricultural Department. The appellant sought a stay of the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-orders-status-quo-in-salt-pan-issue/article38122366.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||U.T. considering more curbs to check COVID-19 spread||The government is considering imposing certain restrictions to check the spread of COVID-19 due to Omicron variant in Puducherry, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said on Tuesday. “Cases are rising across the country and there has been a slight increase in the number of cases in the Union Territory. There is a need to impose certain restrictions to avoid major spread of the virus. A decision on the curbs to be imposed will be taken in consultation with the Chief Minister,” she told journalists after inspecting vaccination for teenagers at Soucilabai Government Girls Higher Secondary School. Medical experts have predicted that Omicron infection may not lead to hospitalisation but people have to be on the guard. Vaccination is the only solution, she said. “There was still hesitation among some sections of the elderly to get the jab. There are around 1 lakh people in the Union Territory who were yet to get the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine. The administration was in the process of identifying those among the government servants who were yet to get vaccinated for taking appropriate action against such individuals,” she said. Ms. Soundararajan said around 83,000 teenagers in the age group of 15-17 are eligible for vaccination. On the first day, 454 adolescents received the jab after getting the consent of their parents. In the coming days, the vaccination would certainly gather momentum as there was not much hesitation among the teenagers, she added. Prime Minister’s visit The Lt. Governor informed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would visit Puducherry on January 12 to inaugurate the National Youth Festival at the University. Around 7,500 youth will attend the five-day festival. Union Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports Anurag Sing Thakur will arrive here on Thursday to review the preparations, Ms. Soundararajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-considering-more-curbs-to-check-covid-19-spread/article38122436.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Efforts on to make Puducherry a tourism hot spot’||The government is undertaking a host of schemes to develop the tourism potential of Puducherry and make it a preferred destination, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy said on Tuesday. In his address at the launch of the 27th International Yoga Festival (January 4-7), Mr. Rangasamy said in spite of its small size, Puducherry was a popular tourist spot for its pretty landscape, spiritual vibes and heritage buildings. The Chief Minister pointed out that the government had already launched schemes, such as extending the Promenade Beach and proposed to develop an artefacts museum at the Arikamedu site, which houses remains of a once-flourishing trade links with Greece and Rome, he said. Besides, temples had been renovated and rivers rejuvenated as part of Centrally-funded projects to boost the heritage and spiritual tourism circuits, he said. Since ancient times, Puducherry was graced by Siddhars (saints) who were also practitioners of yoga, an integral part of spirituality, the Chief Minister said. It was heartening that the yoga tradition was being sustained through the festival that had attracted several youth from across the country. Mr. Rangasamy launched augmented reality digital postcards brought out by the Tourism Department. Earlier, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who launched the festival, said the medical benefits of yoga as complementary medicine for conditions such as diabetes and hypertension were proven. An allopath herself, Ms. Soundararajan said yoga had an important role in disease prevention and health promotion. Tourism Minister K. Lakshminarayanan said that while the threat of the Omicron variant had initially cast a shadow on the feasibility of the festival, it was at the same time, an occasion to foreground the immunity-boosting and disease-prevention properties associated with yoga. The yoga festival is being held in compliance with all COVID-19 safety norms, including double-vaccinated status as precondition for participation, the Minister said. Speaker R. Selvam, John Kumar and R. Baskar, MLAs, T. Arun, Tourism Secretary, Priytarshny P., Tourism Director participated.  The yoga festival is being held in compliance with all COVID-19 safety norms, including double vaccination status as a precondition for participation in festival||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-make-puducherry-a-tourism-hot-spot/article38122443.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||CPI delegation calls on Minister||A delegation of Communist Party of India (CPI) leaders on Tuesday met Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan and submitted a memorandum to him highlighting the poor condition of roads in the Union Territory. The delegation, led by party secretary A. M. Saleem, requested the Minister to take steps to immediately repair the damaged roads. The party also urged the Minister to lay new roads. Waterlogging woes The recent heavy rain caused inundation in Indira Gandhi Square and adjoining residential areas. The government should evolve a comprehensive plan to find a solution to the waterlogging in the area. The government should also take steps to repair the check dam at Sellipet, the memorandum said. The party also submitted a charter of demands based on the opinion of people gathered during a signature campaign. Former Minister R. Viswanathan, former legislator Nara Kalainathan, party executive committee members Dinesh Ponniah, K. Sethu Selvam and N. Thanaraman were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-delegation-calls-on-minister/article38122438.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||I-T technical team visits Assembly||Assembly Speaker R. Selvam on Tuesday held discussions with members of the technical team of the Information Technology Department, Government of Puducherry, on National e-Vidhan Application (NeVA) project. The Speaker held discussions with the team on NeVA, a project of the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs to automate the functioning of law making in the Legislative Assembly across the country, when they visited various wings of the Puducherry Assembly. The team also inspected the floor of the House to understand how the proceedings were held. Member of Rajya Sabha S. Selvaganabathy and Assembly Secretary R. Mounissamy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-t-technical-team-visits-assembly/article38122440.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 66 fresh infections, no death reported||In a spike in COVID-19 cases, the Union Territory registered 66 new patients in the data released on Tuesday. No death was reported. Puducherry recorded 45 of the new cases, which were detected from 3,420 tests, followed by Karaikal (13), Mahe (7) and Yanam (1). The test positivity rate was 1.93%, case fatality rate 1.45%and recovery rate stood at 98.38%. With seven patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases stood at 214. This comprised 50 patients in hospital and 164 in home isolation. The cumulative toll in the Union Territory remained at 1,881 — Puducherry (1,469), Karaikal (251), Yanam (109) and Mahe (52). The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,29,619 cases and 1,27,524 recovered patients. Of an estimated 20.53 lakh tests conducted till date, over 17.42 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 4,022 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has till date administered 14,10,815 vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-66-fresh-infections-no-death-reported/article38122441.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pudukottai police alter the case of death of boy hit by stray bullet||The Pudukottai police have altered the case of the death of an 11-year-old boy, who was hit in the head by a stray bullet near the Pasumalaipatti firing range in Pudukottai district on December 30. The boy died of the injury at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on Monday. His body was buried on Tuesday.  Teams from the Central Industrial Security Force and the Tamil Nadu police were carrying out firing exercises at the range when the incident occurred. Pudukottai Superintendent of Police Nisha Parthiban told The Hindu on Tuesday that the case was altered and booked under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code after the boy died. The Keeranur police had earlier booked a case under Sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code.  Police sources said the weapons used by the police for the firing exercise had been seized and would be sent for a ballistic examination. Summonses had been served on the CISF personnel for handing over their weapons used for the practice to ascertain from which type of weapon the bullet had been fired. M.S. Dhandayuthapani, Revenue Divisional Officer, Ilupur, who conducted a parallel inquiry into the incident, submitted a report to the Collector on Tuesday. He had conducted inquiries with CISF officers, police personnel, members of the public, the parents of the boy and revenue officials. During his inquiry, he inspected the firing range and the home of the boy, about two kilometres away, official sources said. The body of the boy was handed over to his parents after post-mortem and buried at Kothamangalapatti village near Narthamalai. Law Minister S. Regupathy and Environment Minister Siva V. Meyyanathan placed wreaths on the body at Kothamangalapatti and handed over a cheque for Rs. 10 lakh, sanctioned from the Chief Minister’s General Relief Fund, to the boy’s parents. DMK Rajya Sabha member M.M. Abdullah, Gandharvakottai MLA M. Chinnadurai and Pudukottai Collector Kavitha Ramu were present. Earlier, Mr. Chinnadurai and a section of villagers, who had gathered at the Thanjavur hospital, demanded the closure of the firing range. Speaking to reporters, the CPI(M) MLA alleged that the firing range of the Tamil Nadu police lacked proper fencing. The incident was not the first of its kind at Pasumalaipatti. Previously, Murugesan of Chithupatti near Pasumalaipatti had sustained a bullet injury on the shoulder and Chinnatha of Oorapatti was hit by a stray bullet in the leg. Following these incidents, the district administration suggested that the police department stop firing practice at this site, and the police obliged for a brief period, Mr. Chinnadurai claimed. The villagers urged the government to ensure a safe environment for them as their homes were situated within 500 metres of the firing range. A group of villagers blocked the Tiruchi-Pudukottai Highway at Narthamalai on Monday, warranting police intervention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pudukottai-police-alter-the-case-of-death-of-boy-hit-by-stray-bullet/article38122021.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Toll goes up in fireworks unit accident||The toll in Saturday’s fire accident at R.K.V.M. Fireworks unit at Kalathoor in Virudhunagar district went up to five with the death of M. Muniyandi, 30, of Mangalam at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on Tuesday. The police said Muniyandi was critically injured in the blast at the fireworks units due to friction caused when chemicals were handled at the mixing unit. With the discharge of one of the injured, six workers, including a woman, are still under treatment for injuries they suffered when flying debris hit them after the blast at the unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-up-in-fireworks-unit-accident/article38122094.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pongal gifts distributed in Ramanathapuram, Dindigul, Theni||Transport Minister R.S. Raja Kannappan on Tuesday said that men might use the cash, if given as part of Pongal gift hamper, to buy liquor and could not have helped the women to celebrate the Pongal festival. Joining issue with AIADMK leaders who have criticised the State government for not giving cash as done earlier by the previous government, he said that the men might spend the cash at liquor shops. It would not have helped the women in making Pongal. Distribution of grocery items and condiments will be of great use to women in making Pongal, he said. He was speaking after inaugurating the distribution of Pongal gift hampers at Paramakudi on Tuesday. A total of 3,89,784 family card holders would get the gift hampers through 558 full time ration shops and 217 part-time ration shops. All rice cardholders and Antyodaya Anna Yojana rice cardholders, ration card holders of police personnel, old age pensioners and inmates of Sri Lankan Tamil Rehabilitation camps would get the gift hampers. Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat, MLAs Kadhar Batcha Muthuramalingam (Ramanathapuram), S. Murugesan (Paramakudi), Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies, Rajendra Prasad, Revenue Divisional Officer, Paramakudi, R. Murugan and District Supply Officer, Maragathanathan were present. Virudhunagar Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran inaugurated the distribution of Pongal gift hampers, Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghnath Reddy in Aruppukottai on Tuesday. The Collector said a total of 5.93 lakh rice family cardholders and 1,003 families of of Sri Lankan Tamils rehabilitation camps were eligible to get the gift hampers. The distribution through 988 ration shops began. Aruppukottai Revenue Divisional Officer Kalyan Kumar, Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies B. Senthil Kumar and District supply Officer Paldurai were present. Dindigul Distribution of Pongal gift hampers to 6,69,440 ration card holders began in Dindigul district on Tuesday. Collector S.Visakan inaugurated the distribution through 1,035 ration shops at Ayyampalayam Town Panchayat. He said that the gift hampers worth Rs. 538 per bag would be distributed in a staggered manner in view of the COVID-19 threat. Palani MLA I.P. Senthil Kumar and Regional Joint Director of Cooperative Societies Gandhinathan were present. Each ration shop would distribute the hampers to 150 to 200 ration card holders. Token mentioning the time and date of distribution of the gift hampers would be issued to all eligible beneficiaries in advance. Anyone of the family members whose name is mentioned in the ration card can go to the ration shop and collect the gift hampers. In case of any grievances or complaints on the distribution, people can call the control room function at the district Collectorate over 0451-2460-097 during working hours. District Panchayat Chairman, M. Baskaran, District Supply Officer, V. Palani Kumar, Deputy Registrar (Cooperatives) Tirumavalavan were present. Theni Collector K.V. Muralidharan inaugurated the Pongal gift hampers distribution at Theni. Periyakulam MLA K.S. Saravanakumar was present. A total of 4,20,897 family card holders would get the benefits through 517 ration shops in Theni district. The distribution will be done between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. Theni district Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies, Arokiya Sukumar, District Supply Officer, M. Shanti, District Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare Officer, Vimalarani. were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pongal-gifts-distributed-in-ramanathapuram-dindigul-theni/article38122180.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Officials create awareness on wearing mask||District Collector S. Karmegham and Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav created awareness on wearing masks at the Five Roads junction and a few other places where people gather in large numbers here on Tuesday. The officials advised the motorists to wear masks while venturing out in the public and provided masks to those found without them. Shop owners were told to to ensure that they were following COVID-19 safety protocols while dealing with customers and deny entry to customers without masks into shops. Bus drivers, conductors, autorickshaw drivers were advised not to allow people on board without masks. The Collector warned that stern action would be taken against those violating COVID-19 safety protocols. Corporation Commissioner T.Christuraj created awareness among the public at the New Bus stand. Mr.Christuraj reviewed the COVID-19 preventive measures at the bus stand and distributed awareness pamphlets. He advised the public, drivers and conductors to wear masks in the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-create-awareness-on-wearing-mask/article38122194.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ambergris seized||The police picked up two persons in possession of ambergris worth Rs. 3.50 crore on Monday. Following an input, Superintendent of Police R. Krishnaraj ordered vehicle check across the district on Monday. When a police team was checking the vehicles near Tenkasi Old Bus-Stand, they intercepted a car with two persons, George Michael, 46, of Kulasekaram in Kanniyakumari district, and his associate Mohan, 52, of Thaazhaiyooththu on Tirunelveli outskirts. As the police team found ambergris, weighing about 21 kg, in the car, the two were taken to the police station for inquiry. The accused reportedly told the police they were scouting for potential buyers for the ambergris, which is used largely in the perfume industry. Since the sale of ambergris has been banned under the Wildlife Protection Act, the police handed over them to forest personnel for investigation and appropriate action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambergris-worth-rs-350-crore-seized/article38122175.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Paddy bags damaged in rain||Thousands of paddy bags stored at an open storage facility near Kumbakonam were damaged in the recent rain. The paddy procured during ‘kuruvai’ season was stored at five permanent godowns and 24 open storage facilities from where they were moved to rice mills. Meanwhile, thousands of paddy bags that were stored at an open storage facility at Sannapuram were damaged in the recent rains causing much worry among farmers. While the farmers allege that the lackadaisical attitude of the open storage facility staff was the prime reason for the loss of paddy, Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation officials refute the allegation, saying the tarpaulin covers were removed by the staff for loading the paddy bags in goods carriers for transportation to modern rice mills a few days ago. Unexpectedly the climate changed and heavy rain lashed. As the showers were heavy and continued for more than 24 hours, the staff were unable to cover the paddy bags resulting in the procured paddy getting drenched and some of the bags damaged by rodents and other animals. Necessary steps have also been initiated to transfer the paddy from the drenched gunny bags and expedite the movement of paddy to the rice mills, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thousands-of-paddy-bags-kept-in-open-storage-facility-damaged-in-rain/article38122150.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kerala government reinstates M. Sivasankar||The government has reinstated IAS officer M. Sivasankar pending the finalisation of the disciplinary action initiated against him. The former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had come under a cloud in July 2020 for his alleged association with the prime accused in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh. A subsequent government inquiry found that Mr. Sivasankar had appointed Swapna as a marketing liaison officer at the Space Park project. At the time, Swapna was on the payrolls of the UAE consulate. The inquiry committee had found that “such association and frequent contacts with a foreign consulate official” violated the All India Service Conduct Rules, 1968. It also considered the “wider ramifications of the smuggling case.” Arrested Subsequently, the Customs arrested Mr. Sivasankar for allegedly abetting the smuggling operation. It arraigned him as the 29th accused. He served time as a remand prisoner for 98 days and was released on bail in February last. The Congress and the BJP had savaged the government for Mr. Sivasankar’s alleged role in the smuggling scandal. The Congress and the BJP used the Customs and Enforcement Directorate probe into the smuggling case to run a recriminatory campaign against Mr. Vijayan in the run-up to the 2021 Assembly polls. However, it did not pay off, and the LDF returned to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-government-reinstates-m-sivasankar/article38121916.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||SilverLine: Pinarayi unveils compensation package||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday unveiled a Rs. 13,265-crore compensation package that promises up to four times the market value of land that would be acquired for the SilverLine semi-high-speed railway project. Considerably higher than the prevailing land acquisition rates, the package was announced at the first of the government’s Statewide outreach programmes held here to drum up support for the ambitious project that is estimated to cost Rs. 63,941 crore. Land acquisition Mr. Vijayan said the compensations will be four times the market rate of land in rural areas and twice the market rate of land acquired in urban areas. A one-time incentive of Rs. 4.6 lakh or Rs. 1.6 lakh along with a house built under norms of the LIFE Mission would be provided additionally for those who stood to lose their homes. In the case of impoverished families who would be rendered homeless, the package will include 5 cents of land and a house under the LIFE Mission or 5 cents of land and a grant of Rs. 4 lakh or a total grant of Rs. 10 lakh. These will be in addition to the land acquisition compensation fixed specifically for the project. Over 9,300 buildings would be taken over and demolished for the project undertaken by the Kerala Rail Development Corporation (K-Rail). The package included Rs. 4,460 crore earmarked for compensating houses that are acquired and Rs. 1,730 crore for rehabilitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silverline-pinarayi-unveils-compensation-package/article38121892.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Remodelled Chathiram bus stand starts functioning||With the opening of remodelled Chathiram bus stand, the traffic snarls in and around the satellite bus terminus in the city have begun to ease. The bus stand was formally inaugurated by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday. After earmarking bays for buses bound for various destinations, the Tiruchi Corporation allowed buses to operate from the bus terminus on Tuesday. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru and Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi flagged off the operation of buses at the remodelled bus stand. A total of 30 bus bays have been created. While the southern wing has been allotted to the buses bound for the routes in southern, eastern and western parts of the city, northern wing will cater to various destinations in the northern parts of the city. Buses bound for K.K. Nagar, Inamkulathur, Vayalur, Kuzhumani, Mathur, HAPP, OFT, Tiruverumbur, Thuvakudi and Somarasampettai are being operated from the southern wing, which has an entry and exit. Buses plying to rural and semi-urban destinations such as Anbil, Lalgudi, Samayapuram, Mannachanallur, Sirugambur, Vathalai, Thirupattur and Thirupanjeeli will start from the northern wing. Buses bound for Mukkombu, Sirugamani, Perugamani and Pettavaithalai are also allotted bays in the northern wing. However, buses operating between Tiruchi Junction and Srirangam continue to halt on the roadside outside the bus stand. Similarly, long distance buses, mainly bound for Ariyalur, Perambalur, Thuraiyur and Ulundurpettai, also continue to operate from the sides of main road leading towards Mela Chinthamani. Since passengers found it difficult to come to grips with the new arrangements, the bus crew helped them find their buses on Tuesday. In order to indicate the bus bays for various destinations, signboards had been placed. “In the absence of a well-established system for so long, the bus crew parked buses at their convenience in the Chathiram bus stand. The remodelled bus stand has addressed many issues. We can park our buses at the respective bays and take rest until the departure time. We notice some improvements in traffic management too,” said C. Muthukumar, a driver of a city bus. Amenities available Amenities such as drinking water, toilets for men and women, passenger waiting hall, a food court, timekeeper office and a police control room have also been established. “It is too early to comment on the amenities. However, we must agree that the city has got a well-established satellite bus stand after so many years,” said K. Senbagamoorthy, a passenger bound for Samayapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remodelled-chathiram-bus-stand-starts-functioning/article38122162.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Builders keep their fingers crossed||Builders are in a wait-and-watch mode, having sensed indications that some kind of lockdown is imminent after the Pongal festival to contain the spread of the third wave of COVID-19 pandemic. The builders seem to have taken note of the Health Department’s caution against the ‘extremely’ infectious Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19. On their part, the district administrations and the health department are pushing for rigid compliance with the prevention measures: wearing face masks, and maintaining social distancing. The builders are not discounting the possibility for 50% seating in buses and trains, in the weeks to come. “For now, there is no cause for concern as the buses and trains are being operated to full capacity. Stoppage or curtailment of the transport services will, no doubt, cause a slowdown in the construction activities,” Ravichandran, a building contractor, said. Builders are hopeful about continuity of train services since a bulk of construction workers travel to the city and suburbs from Manapparai and other rural parts with season tickets. Bus fares are unaffordable on a daily basis for a good number of construction workers who have to be paid not less than Rs. 400 a day. The daily wage for masons is in the range of Rs. 900. The situation for the builders, in fact, turned far from conducive due to the escalation in the cost of construction materials during the pandemic period. The only solace now is the reduction in the cost of cement by Rs. 50 per bag. Notwithstanding the unfavourable factors, the builders are at present midway through projects they had initiated after the lockdown restrictions were eased. Fortunately for the builders in Tiruchi region, there has been a steady patronage from Non-Resident Indians settled in Singapore and Malaysia, despite the pandemic factor. There seems to be a trend among this section of customers to invest in properties that yield steady rental income, Shanmugam, a real estate agent, said. Yet, incorporation of ‘cost escalation clause’ in agreements between the builders and customers is a rarity. Due to this, the builders end up getting lower margins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/builders-keep-their-fingers-crossed/article38122144.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||IIM-T completes a decade||Having completed a decade of eventful existence, Indian Institute of Management - Tiruchi celebrated its Eleventh Foundation Day on Tuesday reflecting on the milestones achieved so far. A video presentation highlighted the journey of the institution and its achievements since its inception in 2011. A memoir titled ‘A Decade of IIM Trichy’ was released on the occasion. While students, faculty, and staff took part in the celebrations in person, the event was witnessed virtually by the institute's Board of Governors and alumni. The chief guest, Sadish Babu, Executive Director - Human Resources, NLC India, dwelt at length on attributes of effective leaders. While managers generally rely on data for decision-making, along with their intuitions and common sense, an effective leader is one who promotes a work culture filled with integrity, ethics, hard work, and empathy. A leader must also provide an umbrella of safety for their employees to develop trust and good relations, Mr. Sadish Babu said. Elucidating further on how an organisation's success or failure is based on leadership excellence, he advocated three ways: expecting more from oneself every passing day; never letting success feed ego or let failures cause disheartenment; and doing something meaningful and impactful to create a legacy. Later, Mr. Sadish Babu planted saplings on the campus in the presence of Institute Director Pawan Kumar Singh, faculty, staff and students. In his address, Jalaj Dani, Chairman, Board of Governors, IIM-Tiruchi, expressed his gratitude to the parents and corporates for supporting the students during the pandemic, and called upon the alumni to give back to the institute. Best project The Best ‘Make A Difference’ (MAD) Project was awarded to the PGPM 2020-2022 batch students Divyansh Gupta, N. Karthik, P. Rishikesh Menon, U. Praveen, P. Ann Mary Michael, and Shashwat Jain. The project was titled ‘Artisans, industry, and livelihood: livelihoods affected by COVID and its mitigation’ and was carried out under the faculty in charge, V. Gopal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iim-t-completes-a-decade/article38122146.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of Pongal gift hampers on in delta region||About 8.26 lakh ration card holders would receive the Pongal gift hampers in Tiruchi district. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N.Nehru on Tuesday distributed the gift hampers to some of the ration card holders ahead of Pongal festival at a ration shop near Sedal Mariamman Temple at Bheema Nagar. The gift hamper consists of 21 grocery items besides a sugarcane and cloth bag. As many as 8.26 lakh ration card holders, who are eligible to draw rice, and 905 Sri Lankan Tamil refugees would be given the hampers through 1,225 ration shops. Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi distributed the hampers to beneficiaries at rations shops at Pothemettupatti near Manapparai and at Kallukuzhi and Kailasapuram Township in Tiruchi. About 150 to 200 ration card holders will be distributed the gift hampers at each ration shop per day. In ration shops with more than 750 cards, tokens specifying the date and time of distribution would be distributed to the beneficiaries to prevent crowding at the shops. Card holders have been instructed to wear face masks and follow personal distancing while coming to the shops to receive the hampers, a release said. Pudukottai Law Minister S. Regupathy distributed the Pongal gift hampers to ration card holders at Alavayal village in Ponnamaravathy union and Thulaiyanur in Tirumayam block. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Regupathy said that the gift hampers would be distributed to 4.83 lakh ration card holders in the district through 1,028 fair price shops. Collector Kavitha Ramu and officials participated in the functions. Nagapattinam In Nagapattinam district, 2.15 lakhe ration rice card holders are to receive the gift hampers. Collector A. Arun Thamburaj initiated the scheme in the presence of N. Gowthaman, chairman, Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Corporation; MLAs Mohammed Shanavas and Nagaimaali, and Chairperson of Nagapattinam district panchayat S. Uma Maheshwari. The gift hampers will be distributed through 357 fair price shops, covering 200 families a day, in compliance with COVID safety protocol. Distribution of gift hampers would continue even after Pongal festival, the Collector said, urging people to comply with the safety measures. Mayiladuthurai A total of 2.76 lakh beneficiaries are to receive Pongal gift hampers in Mayiladuthurai district through 424 fair price shops. The beneficiaries have already been intimated the date and time for receiving the grocery items at the time of distribution of tokens, Collector R. Lalitha said after initiating the process in the presence of S. Ramalingam, MP of Mayiladuthurai Parliamentary constituency, and MLAs Nivedha M. Murugan, S. Rajkumar, and M. Paneerselvam, and senior officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-pongal-gift-hampers-on-in-delta-region/article38122158.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Repairs to be taken up on bridge||Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru on Tuesday said that the old Cauvery bridge, which had developed huge gaps at expansion joints, between Mela Chinthamani and Mambazhasalai would be repaired soon. He told reporters after inspecting the bridge that it was being used since 1976. It had suffered damage on various joints due to poor maintenance during the previous AIADMK regime. Considering the importance of its usage, it had been decided to carry out repairs. Rs. 6.5-crore work order A Governor Order, sanctioning Rs. 6.5 crore, had been issued. The work would begin shortly, according to Highways Department sources. Mr. Nehru said that the process of preparing a Detailed Project Report (DPR) for constructing a new bridge, adjacent to the existing bridge, was over. It is estimated to cost Rs. 130 crore. It required no land acquisition process. Steps had been taken to complete other formalities to construct the new bridge across the Cauvery as early as possible, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/repairs-to-be-taken-up-on-bridge/article38122164.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||NHAI takes up repairs on highway||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has begun repair and relay work on the badly damaged stretch of about 1.40 km between Andhanallur and Thindukarai near Tiruparathurai Toll Plaza on Tiruchi-Karur Highway. According to NHAI sources, the work has been taken up at an estimated cost of Rs. 90 lakh. Double bitumen layer “Apart from filling the potholes, the stretch would be relaid with double bitumen layer,” an official said. Though the contract period is one month, the work is expected to be completed within 10 to 15 days. Though the Karur highway was strengthened and widened by NHAI some years ago, the short stretch was not relaid for long as the proposed bypass road connecting Tiruchi-Madurai and Tiruchi-Karur national highways will run across it. The stretch had developed several huge potholes, posing a threat to road users. It had remained unattended for years together as there has been a prolonged delay in laying the bypass road, much to the consternation of motorists and commuters as they are often caught off-guard by the bad condition on this stretch. On Tuesday, P. Narasimhan, Project Director, NHAI, Tiruchi, and Manimaran, consultant team leader, inspected the progress of the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nhai-takes-up-repairs-on-karur-highway/article38122154.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||82 fresh cases reported in central districts||Fresh cases of COVID-19 continue to rise in the central region with 82 persons testing positive for the virus on Tuesday. Four persons, two from Tiruchi district and one each from Karur and Mayiladuthurai districts, succumbed to the virus infection in the region, according to the bulletin issued by Health Department. The spike in the region was mainly from Tiruchi district where 35 persons tested positive, up from Monday’s count of 27. Thanjavur district reported 16 fresh cases, Karur and Nagapattinam districts eight each, Perambalur seven and Tiruvarur six. Ariyalur and Pudukottai districts reported one case each. There was no fresh case in Mayiladuthurai district. With this, the number of persons under treatment, including those under home treatment, in Tiruchi district went up to 180. Thanjavur district had 119 active cases, Karur 85, Tiruvarur 59, Perambalur 37, Nagapattinam 29, Pudukottai 12, Ariyalur six and Mayiladuthurai four. There was no active Omicron case in the region as on Tuesday, according to the bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/82-fresh-cases-reported-in-central-districts/article38122147.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Home Guard arrested||The Samayapuram Police arrested a Home Guard who was deployed at Mariamman Temple in Samayapuram near here on Monday on charges of misusing his position and allowing devotees inside after getting money from them. Police gave the name of the accused as V. Silambarasan of Bikshandarkoil. Police sources said V. Silambarasan, 32, of Bikshandarkoil had taken some fascimile copies of tokens issued at the ticket counter and affixed his signature and the seal of a police officer and gave it to devotees after obtaining money from them to allow them inside the shrine. Acting on a complaint, the Samayapuram Police arrested Silambarasan and booked a case against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/home-guard-arrested/article38122156.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam on Tuesday stood at 116.26 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 3,974 cusecs and the discharge 1,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article38122152.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two MLAs test positive||The MLAs for Perambalur and Aranthangi have tested positive for COVID 19. Perambalur MLA M. Prabakaran underwent an RT-PCR test at the Perambalur Government Hospital on Monday, ahead of the start of the Assembly session. His sample tested positive. He later took a reconfirmation test at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi. As he tested positive again, he was admitted to the hospital. His assistant T. Manikandan and driver G. Arockiasamy were also found to have contracted the infection and were hospitalised. Aranthangi MLA S.T. Ramachandran got himself tested in Chennai. He said he was under home quarantine based on doctors’ advice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-mlas-test-positive/article38122024.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of Pongal gift hampers begins||Collector V. Vishnu inaugurated distribution of Pongal gifts to all rice cardholders and residents of Sri Lankan refugee camps here on Tuesday at a ration shop at Maharaja Nagar in Palayamkottai He said the gift hamper with 21 items including raw rice, jaggery, cashew, ghee and sugarcane would be given to 4,78,496 cardholders at a cost of Rs. 24.16 crore. Any family member can go to the ration shop to get the gift and a message will be sent to the registered mobile number upon distribution of the gift hamper. Pongal gift would be given in a regulated fashion by allowing 100 to 200 cardholders a day. “Though Friday is the weekly holiday for ration shops, distribution of Pongal gift will continue on January 7 also,” he said appealing to the public to wear masks and keep physical distancing while receiving the gift. Taluk, firkha and village-level teams have been deployed to monitor seamless distribution of the gift to the cardholders. In case of any problem in getting the gift, cardholders may contact Collectorate Control Room at 0462 – 2500761 / 93424 71314. Taluk Supplies Officer Control Room, Tirunelveli – 94450 00380, TSO, Palayamkottai – 94450 00381, TSO, Maanur – 94457 9648 / 94420 80799, TSO, Ambasamudram – 94450 00386, TSO, Nanguneri – 94450 00387, TSO, Radhapuram – 94450 00388, TSO, Cheranmahadevi – 94457 96459, TSO, Thisaiyanvilai – 94999 37025. Palayamkottai MLA M. Abdul Wahab, Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies A. Alagiri, and Managing Director of District Central Cooperative Bank Subhashini were present. In Thoothukudi, Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan inaugurated the distribution of the gift at a ration shop at Eppothumvendraan on Thoothukudi – Madurai Highway. Collector K. Senthil Raj said that 5,15,235 cardholders would receive the gift worth Rs. 28 crore through 960 ration shops across the district. In Kanniyakumari district, the gift is being given to 5,65,805 ration cardholders and residents of Sri Lankan refugee camps through 831 ration shops. Minister for Information Technology T. Mano Thangaraj inaugurated the distribution through videoconference from Chennai even as Collector M. Aravind and Killiyoor MLA S. Rajesh Kumar were present at the Collectorate. Tenkasi Collector S. Gopala Sundararaj inaugurated the distribution of gift at Sankarankovil. He said 4,60,839 cardholders and 179 Sri Lankan refugee families will receive gifts worth Rs. 24.14 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-pongal-gift-hampers-begins/article38122485.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Newborn dumped in hospital toilet||The Cheranmahadevi police are on the lookout for the culprit who dumped a newborn male baby in the toilet of the Government Hospital there. Police said that the septic tank in the Cheranmahadevi Government Hospital premises was cleaned on Monday night by a team of sanitary workers as it overflowed due to block in the outlet pipe. Even as they were cleaning, the workers found the body of a 2 or 3 day-old male baby floating in the tank. After the authorities informed the police about it, the body was retrieved. Police suspect that the baby, which might have born out of illegal affair, might have been dumped. After collecting details about the pregnant women who had been admitted in the hospital for delivery, they are collecting CCTV footages from the hospital and adjacent buildings to identify the culprit. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newborn-dumped-in-hospital-toilet/article38122169.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘10 months needed to assess govt.’s performance’||A period of at least 10 months is needed to assess the performance of the DMK government in the State, said BJP’s legislature party leader in the Assembly and Tirunelveli MLA Nainar Nagendran on Tuesday when he visited a private garment export company here. “It has only been six months [since the DMK came to power]. There are not any major shortcomings to talk about,” he told mediapersons. Ahead of the Assembly session on Wednesday, Mr. Nagendran said the BJP would decide what issues to raise during the session based on the Governor’s address. On Amma Mini Clinics reportedly being closed across the State, he termed it as a “wrong act.” “Ruling governments must develop the schemes introduced by the previous governments,” Mr. Nagendran said. He visited the export firm to explore employment opportunities for the youth in southern districts of the State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-months-needed-to-assess-govts-performance/article38122075.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Planting for Ooty flower show begins||Forest Minister K. Ramachandran inaugurated the planting of flowering plants at the Government Botanical Garden (GBG) in Udhagamandalam on Tuesday in preparation for the summer festival season, and its main event, the Ooty flower show.  The Minister planted dahlias , delphiniums , penstemons and digitalis at the garden.  In a release, the Horticulture Department said that more than 275 varieties of flowering plants would be on display during the flower show that would be held later this year. Plant seeds had also been imported from various parts of the globe, including Japan, the USA, Germany and the Netherlands as well as from different parts of India and would be in bloom in time for the flower show, the release said. By the time the flower show would be held, more than 5.5 lakh plants would be planted in the garden, with steps being taken to ensure that they were kept in good health and protected from the elements, especially the winter frost that characterised the upper Nilgiris, officials from the department said. Around 35,000 flowering and potted plants would be arranged in the viewing galleries and lawns in the garden during the flower show. The COVID-19 pandemic has led to the cancellation of the annual flower show in Udhagamandalam as well as other events scheduled during the summer festival season such as the fruit show and the spices show for the last two years. Officials said the event would only be held based on the COVID-19 situation prevailing at the time the event was organised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/planting-for-ooty-flower-show-begins/article38122079.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure migrant workers in Nilgiris get access to rations’||Sudhanshu Pandey, Secretary, Department of Food and Public Distribution, Government of India, has told the district administration to interact with owners of tea estates in the Nilgiris and help migrant workers enrol in the ‘One nation, one ration card’ programme, said a release. Mr. Pandey held a review meeting for Tamil Nadu on Monday on the implementation of Central government schemes. He said 8,000 to 10,000 migrant workers from Jharkhand, Bihar, West Bengal and other States were working in the Nilgiris. In order to ensure that they get access to the rations, the district administration was asked to sensitise the owners of tea estates employing migrant labourers to the programme. “While reviewing the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) scheme, it was observed that the State needed to gear up its distribution of the entire allocation of the food grains made by the government of India,” the press release said, adding that the Secretary advised the State to undertake data analysis to ensure that all beneficiaries of the scheme received the benefits. The State government was also advised to get verification of the National Food Security Act (NFSA) card holders done to ensure all eligible beneficiaries get food grains at a subsidised rate. He also reviewed the status of fortified rice distribution. “Emphasising that diversification of crop is very important, he also advised the administration to formulate policies to incentivise the farmers to take up farming of pulses and oil seeds and reduce the dependence on imports,” the press release added. V. Rajaraman, Commissioner of Civil Supplies (Tamil Nadu), S.P.Amrith, Nilgiris District Collector and other officials were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-migrant-workers-in-nilgiris-get-access-to-rations/article38122081.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district reports 105 fresh COVID-19 infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,711 with 105 new cases reported on Tuesday. While 49,270 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 296. The district's death toll is 1,145. In Ranipet district, 19 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,768. In Tirupattur district, nine cases were reported on Tuesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,497. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases stood at 11, taking the overall tally to 55,402. Out of these, 54,671 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 58.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-reports-105-fresh-covid-19-infections/article38122434.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of Pongal gift hampers begins in Villupuram||Distribution of Pongal gift hampers for all rice ration card holders and families living in Sri Lankan Tamil rehabilitation camps began in Villupuram district on Tuesday. The gift packs contain 20 grocery items, including raw rice, jaggery, cashew, raisins, cardamom and green gram. Minister for Higher Education K. Ponmudi inaugurated the distribution at Thiruvennainallur in the presence of Collector D. Mohan. According to an official release, the Pongal gift packs would be distributed to more than 6.5 lakh ration card holders in Villupuram district through 1,254 ration shops in the coming days. The gift hampers would be distributed to 200 beneficiaries a day. The beneficiaries included 434 Sri Lankan refugee families living in camps. The tokens would have the date and time of distribution. The distribution would be through the point of sale machine. After the sale, the cardholder would get an SMS. The distribution would continue even after the Pongal festival. If members of the public had any difficulty in getting the hamper, including cloth bag, they could call on 04146-229854. Kallakurichi Minister for Public Works E.V. Velu inaugurated the distribution of Pongal gift packs to beneficiaries in Kallakurichi district. A total of 4,23,453 cardholders attached to 766 fair price shops will receive the gift hamper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-pongal-gift-hampers-begins-in-villupuram/article38122433.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||10 persons injured as bus driver veers to avoid running over snake||In a freak accident, 10 persons sustained injuries when the TNSTC bus they were travelling in hit the median, crossed over to the other side and collided with an autorickshaw, when the driver tried to avoid running over a snake. The accident occurred near Arasur in Villupuram on Tuesday. Police said the bus proceeding to Madurai from Chennai was nearing Arasur when a snake suddenly crossed the road. The bus driver, S. Kamaraj, 55, veered to the right, lost control, crossed the median and collided with an autorickshaw coming in the opposite direction. The injured, including the autorickshaw driver, were admitted to the Government Villupuram Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-injured-as-bus-driver-veers-to-avoid-running-over-snake/article38122445.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:56 IST,TAMIL NADU||Relief given||The district administration has distributed Rs. 50,000 to 557 families of persons who had lost their lives due to COVID-19 infection till date. In a statement, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that the administration has received applications seeking compensation from 1,014 persons till date. Meanwhile, since 27 applicants were from other districts. The district administration referred their applications to the district concerned. The remaining applications could not be processed due to want of relevant documents. He urged the applicants to submit all the required documents at the office of Joint Director (Medical Services), Virudhunagar, for processing their applications for providing the compensation. Legal heirs of the COVID-19 victims can upload their applications through the websitewww.tn.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-distributed/article38122176.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu posts sharp increase in fresh COVID-19 infections||Kancheepuram and Tiruppur reported 54 fresh cases each, while there were 49 persons tested positive in Salem and 43 in Kanniyakumari. Thoothukudi recorded 42 cases, while there were 41 cases in Erode. Mayiladuthurai was the only district with no fresh case and 14 districts reported fewer than 10 cases each. Chennai, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Tiruvallur, Tiruppur, Erode, Kancheepuram, Salem, Thoothukudi and Vellore were the districts of concern, based on the high caseload, officials said. As many as 48 persons who returned from abroad and other States were among those who tested positive. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 27,55,587. The State recorded nine deaths, taking the toll to 36,805. There were no COVID-19 deaths in 31 districts. Chennai recorded no fatalities, while there were two deaths each in Tiruvallur and Tiruchi and one death each in Kanniyakumari, Karur, Mayiladuthurai, the Nilgiris and Vellore. The surge pushed the State’s active caseload to 12,412, with Chennai’s count crossing 5,000. There were 5,593 active cases in the city, followed by 1,175 active cases in Chengalpattu. The bed occupancy was quickly rising at Chennai’s COVID-19 health centres and hospitals. A total of 1,015 oxygen beds and 818 non-oxygen beds were occupied. A total of 674 persons were discharged. This took the total number of recovered patients to 27,06,370. The number of confirmed Omicron cases remained at 121. Of them, 108 persons were discharged. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday chaired a meeting at the Secretariat to review the COVID-19 situation in the State. The rising number of cases was discussed in detail. The meeting discussed whether the existing restrictions were sufficient, or if more curbs were necessary, official sources said. An official word on what transpired at the meeting is likely to be issued on Wednesday, the sources added. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu and senior officials were present at the meeting.  Chennai, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Tiruvallur, Tiruppur, Erode, Kancheepuram, Salem, Thoothukudi and Vellore are the districts of concern||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-sees-sharp-increase-in-fresh-covid-19-infections/article38122023.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases continue to rise in Coimbatore district||For the fifth consecutive day, the daily COVID-19 caseload of Coimbatore district continues to increase as 120 new cases were reported on Tuesday. The Health Department did not report any new deaths and the overall toll remained at 2,518. A total of 94 persons were reported to have recovered and there were 926 active cases. The positivity rate for the district was 1.6% as per Monday’s data. Tiruppur district reported 54 new cases on Tuesday. the toll remained at 1,027. Number of active cases was 473 and 53 persons recovered from COVID-19. According to Monday’s data, the positivity rate of Tiruppur district was 1.8%. In the Nilgiris, 12 persons tested positive and the total number of COVID-19 cases stood at 54,633. The toll increased from 219 to 220 on Tuesday while 53 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-continue-to-rise-in-coimbatore-district/article38122077.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:55 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campus Connect||The Department of PG and Research Department of Commerce of N.M.S.S. Vellaichamy Nadar College in Nagamalai Pudukottai organised a one-day seminar on ‘Recent developments in banking’ on December 27. L. Sugirtha, Assistant Professor of Commerce, welcomed the gathering. R. Rajeswara Palanichamy, Principal i/c., gave the presidential address. The chief-guest, R. Gouthaman, Regional Manager, Tamilnad Mercantile Bank, Madurai region, traced the functioning of traditional banks to the new generation banks. He spoke on types of banks and deposits, features of CASA (Current Account Savings Account), procedure for giving loans, and other services of the banks. A bank must delight its customers to retain them, he said and explained the TAT concept - ‘turnaround time’ of customers by a bank and how computerisation had led to core banking which has revolutionised this sector. The goal of new generation banks is to make it needless for a customer to step into a bank by replacing brick and mortor system of banking with virtual banking. Around 150 students took part in the seminar.   The ECE department of Sethu Institute of Technology in Kariapatti conducted a symposium, ‘Electrocognizance 2k’21,’ on December 23. The newsletter and ADROIT magazine were released by Principal A. Senthil Kumar. A. Merline, Dean, M. Parisa Beham, HoD, and R. Tamilselvi, PG HoD of COS, were present. The chief guest, V. Sumithra, JTO, BSNL-Madurai, gave away prizes to participants of technical and non-technical events. The Unnat Bharat Abhiyan cell and Women Empowerment Cell of SIT organised an awareness programme on ‘Environmental safety and sanitation, and hygiene for Women at Samaththuvapuram, Kalkurichi village, on December 30. The students removed plastic wastes, planted 100 saplings and conducted a mime show on the theme to drive home the message. Doctors M. Niranjana and Catherine from Primary Health Centre, Kalkurichi, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect/article38122362.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem||AVS Engineering College: Seminar on Entrepreneurs Awareness Camp for Tamil Nadu Student Innovators Award 2021, 1.30 p.m.  Shevaroys College of Arts and Science: NSS special camp, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem/article38122196.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements. Coimbatore||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society: Margazhi programme, Sree Venugopala Perumal and Sree Kalyana Venkata Perumal temple, Kovaipudur,  5.30 a.m. onwards   KG College of Arts and Science: Session on “Achieving Problem-Solution Fit and Product Market Fit”,  10 a.m. KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: Webinar on “Electronics Payments and Safeguard Therein”,  6 pm. KPR College of Arts Science and Research: Campus connect 2022, 10.30 a.m.  Rotary Club of Coimbatore Metropolis: Milestone celebration, Ganga Hospital Auditorium, 6 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-coimbatore/article38122072.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi today||RELIGION Sri Ananthakrishna Varadharaja Perumal Temple, Angarai: Dhanur masa bhajans, 5.30 a.m.  GENERAL Union Ministry of Textiles and State Department of Handlooms: Handloom expo, IMA Hall, Salai Road, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article38122491.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Farmers stage protest||Members of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene staged a protest in Belagavi on Monday against land acquisition for the Belagavi-Dharwad and Hubballi railway line. Farmers took out a rally from Rani Channamma Circle to the Deputy Commissioner’s office, shouting slogans. They said that the farmers will be thrown out onto the streets as the government will acquire fertile land for the project. They staged a rasta roko at the circle for some time, where their leaders made speeches. The protestors submitted a memorandum to the government against land acquisition and dispersed. The State Cabinet has cleared a grant of nearly Rs. 900 crore for the direct line between Belagavi and Hubballi that passes through Hire Bagewadi and Kittur villages. The feasibility survey has been completed. However, land acquisition is yet to begin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-stage-protest/article38122206.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||Revised norms for COVID-19 positive international travellers||If the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee’s (TAC) recommendations are implemented by the Government, institutional isolation and hospitalisation of all asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic international travellers, testing positive on arrival, will be reduced to five days from the existing 10. Taking note of the simmering discontent over mandatory hospitalisation of even asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic international travellers, the TAC that held its 145th meeting on Monday night, recommended that such patients should be put up in COVID Care Centres (CCCs). These can be free government CCCs, budget hotels (attached to a government hospital) and private CCC (of different categories like 3 star, 5 star, etc.) on payment basis (attached to private hospitals). “The duration of CCC/institutional isolation should be for five days, and if free of respiratory symptoms and oxygen saturation is over 94% during the preceding three days then they can be discharged with a negative RT-PCR test on the fifth day. In case of asymptomatics the fifth day should be counted from the day of sample collection/testing,” stated the TAC’s report. “This should be followed by further five days of home quarantine with strict COVID Appropriate Behaviour. At the end of these five days if asymptomatic then they can be released from home quarantine. No further testing is necessary,” the report stated. “The discharge of symptomatic patients, who are repeatedly testing RT-PCR positive from the 10th day as per existing protocol, should be done on the 14th day based on clinical assessment by the treating physician. However, post hospital discharge the current guidelines of home quarantine are applicable. A revised discharge policy should be issued in this regard,” the report pointed out. Around 6-8 international passengers arriving from high-risk countries are testing positive at the airports daily. They are shifted to Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute and Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru or any designated pirvate hospital of their choice for 10 days of isolation, treatment and testing as per guidelines. “However, more than 90% of these patients are asymptomatic and only a few are mildly symptomatic. Also these mildly symptomatic persons have recovered in one to three days including those who were Omicron positive. They were hospitalised as per Government of India’s norms in the absence of clinical experience of Omicron treatment,” TAC sources said. “These persons, who were apparently healthy and fine, were very agitated during their isolation in the hospital as they considered it was irrational to isolate them when they are asymptomatic. The more demanding were those who paid for their hospitalisation in designated private hospitals as it was considered a sheer wasteful expenditure and avoidable. In this context, the TAC was requested to re-examine this approach more so in the context of a surge in COVID cases,” sources said. Following the surge in cases that are suspected due to Omicron, the TAC has recommended that the facility of home isolation with tele-monitoring should be soon activated. Only those who are eligible such as asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic who have facilities at home with a caregiver should be permitted for home isolation. “Triage centres should be started in every ward, PHCs and taluka hospitals with medical (MBBS) and paramedical manpower. Newer treatment regimens having Molnupiravir 800 mg BID for five days; injection Remdesivir 200 mg on day 1 followed by 100 mg intravenous on day two and three for patients above 60 years and those who have comorbidities should be introduced,” the report added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revised-norms-for-covid-19-positive-international-travellers/article38122006.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 03:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Transport Dept. receives first application for e-bike taxis||Six months after unveiling the ‘Karnataka Electric Bike Taxi Scheme’, the Transport Department has received only one application for a licence from Bengaluru-based mobility solutions platform, Bounce.  Transport Commissioner N. Shivakumar told The Hindu that the State Government would come out with a notification on fixing bike taxi fares, after which the application seeking a licence would be processed. “We received the application a few weeks ago. Unless bike taxi fares get notified, a licence cannot be issued. We are corresponding with the Government on fixing the fare structure,” said Mr. Shivakumar.  When contacted, a spokesperson from Bounce acknowledged that the firm had approached the Karnataka State Transport Authority to operate the e-bike taxis. While releasing the scheme, the department had announced that fares would fall in two slabs: Rs. 25 for the first 5 km and Rs. 50 thereafter till 10 km. The State Government is also considering feasibility of another fare structure. Sources said that is considering Rs. 10 as a base price for the first 2 km and thereafter Rs. 10 for every 2 km (Rs. 50 up to 10 km). The Government is likely to come out with a notification by selecting either one of the two fare structures. In July 2021, the State Government introduced a policy allowing private players, individuals, firms, and aggregators to run electric bike taxis in Bengaluru. Citizens can avail of the service for a maximum distance of 10 km. It stated that the distance covered by a passenger would be measured on the basis of an odometer fitted on the bike. Minors below the age of 15 have been prohibited from using bike taxis. The scheme did not receive the expected response. A senior Transport Department official attributed it to various factors. “The foremost reason is that we are allowing only e-bikes to operate as taxis. At present, aggregators running taxi business have provided mobile app platforms by attaching vehicles of drivers. They are not making huge investments on the vehicles, but are earning money by providing business to drivers. If they apply the same module to e-bike taxis, it may take time,” said the official. He added that it would also take time for people to invest in e-bikes and run them as taxis. The scheme was introduced with the aim of improving first- and last-mile connectivity from metro stations and bus stops. If it takes off, it is likely to provide an affordable commuting option for the public for short-distance travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/transport-dept-receives-first-application-for-e-bike-taxis/article38121998.ece
05 January 2022||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bring lakes back to life again||In two pandemic-hit years, when life as we knew it was upended, environmental concerns took a backseat. Ironically, scientists repeatedly warned that it is habitat loss, climate change and such environmental aspects that brought us to where we are in the first place. As the city came out of the devastation of the COVID-19 second wave, the same issues started creeping back into conversations - potholed roads, ruined lakes, traffic. And concerned citizens realised that promises of lakes being brought back to life still remained on paper. As we step into another year, amidst the looming threat of a third wave, citizens are hoping that there are lessons learnt, promises kept, work undertaken and giving back to Bengaluru the lakes that were once brimming with life. V. Ramprasad from Friends of Lakes said the task before civic agencies is clear cut: all lakes need to be surveyed and fenced, buffer zones marked, storm-water drains to be marked, a TAC to be formed and the Lake Development Corporation strengthened “But the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has given three different numbers for the total number of lakes in the city in court so far. Sewage is flowing even into rejuvenated lakes. They need to look into the technical engineering aspects, carry out rejuvenation as per orders of the N.K. Patil report,” he said. For citizens fighting to save specific lakes, the struggle has been real. A frothing Bellandur Lake became the poster child of the poor state of lakes in the city. Nine years on, and little has changed. Sonali Singh, Citizen Change Maker, Bellandur Lake Group, said, “Our fervent and only wish for the ninth consecutive year is to see Bellandur Lake – the largest lake in Bengaluru – finally rejuvenated this year and teaming with flora, fauna and migratory birds, with restored water holding capacity to recharge the groundwater in the area and only clean treated water entering the lake.” She further said, "When the NGT, in a suo motu case, called on the Government of Karnataka in 2018 to rejuvenate Bellandur Lake, citizens were overjoyed. It’s going to be five years since...nothing has progressed. Bellandur Lake is yet to be dewatered and desilted, encroachments removed and STP to prevent raw sewage entering the lake made operational.” Sandeep Anirudhan, Convenor - Namma Whitefield, echoed similar concerns, “Our wishlist is simple. Stop BBMP from violating the Pattandur Agrahara Lake buffer zone, stop construction of the illegal road within the buffer zone, survey the lake boundaries and fence it, evict encroachers within the lake boundary, mark buffer zone boundaries, demolish constructions in the buffer zone, make a detailed project report for lake rejuvenation in consultation with the public, and then revive the lake.” There are also those from the few success stories in this chapter who have a point or two to put across to civic agencies. “What we want for Puttenahalli Lake is what we want for all the lakes in the city – that they thrive. That can happen only when the Government and the local community work together,” said Usha Rajagopalan, Chairperson, Puttenahalli Neighbourhood Lake Improvement Trust (PNLIT). She recalled that a decade ago, BBMP had invited a few citizen groups to nurture the lakes in their neighbourhoods. “They are all doing well because we have gone the extra mile to maintain them. Yet, it appears that the BBMP does not recognise the value of our contribution and has not renewed our MoUs. We hope this will be done this year. Also, we face issues of sewage influx and encroachment which only the authorities can resolve. Will they? At least in 2022?” she asked. Listing the challenges it faced over the last two years, the BBMP has assured citizens of action. R. Suguna, chief engineer, lakes and storm-water drains, BBMP, told The Hindu that apart from the obvious delay due to COVID-19, heavy rains last year contributed to the delay in rejuvenation works. “But work on eight lakes is almost over and should be completed by this month,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bring-lakes-back-to-life-again/article38121993.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 03:51 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID Care Centres reopened||With the number of new COVID-19 cases jumping by more than 1,000 in a single day to touch 2,053 on Tuesday, the civic body has decided to reopen COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC). The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is looking at establishing one CCC in each Assembly constituency in the city. This comes days after the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) had recommended making them operational again. On Tuesday, after inspecting the CCC at Kempegowda Community Hall at Nandini Layout in Mahalakshmi Layout Assembly constituency that has been established under CSR (corporate social responsibility), BBMP’s chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that health officials had been directed to check the feasibility and keep CCCs ready. Minister for Excise K. Gopalaih said the CCC had 18 ICU beds and 40 oxygen concentrators. “We will appoint the medical personnel required soon,” he said. Already, officials have operationalised 100 beds at the Haj Bhavan. During the second wave, a CCC with 400 bed-capacity was established there. Currently, there are two CCCs in the city with a total of 90 beds. According to BBMP’s COVID-19 war room report, 22 beds in these two facilities are occupied, while the remaining 68 are vacant. BBMP Chief Health Officer Balasundar said that the facilities will be kept ready to be operationalised when the need arises. “As of now, given the number of cases being reported, we don’t see a need to reopen all CCCs,” he said. Mr. Gupta said that while the number of cases are increasing, compared to the second wave, experts have predicted that the number of hospitalisations may be fewer, given the vaccination coverage. “Many infected people may recover with home isolation,” he said, urging citizens to take all necessary precautions and follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-care-centres-reopened/article38121987.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 03:51 IST,KARNATAKA||BDA recovers Rs. 300 crore worth of encroached land||The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA), which carried out multiple drives across the city, has cleared and recovered encroached land worth over Rs. 300 crore. BDA officials on Tuesday demolished illegal structures that have come up on over two acres of BDA land near Prasanna Theatre in Rajajinagar 6th phase and recovered the properties. The illegal structures cleared include five sheds and a garage. Prior to carrying out the drive, notices were served to people concerned to remove the structures. The value of the land recovered is worth Rs. 175 crore. In another drive, over one acre of land was recovered near Attiguppe in Vijayanagar. Officials said the development authority had won the case in Karnataka High Court. The value of this property, where a petrol bunk had illegally come up, is Rs. 125 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bda-recovers-rs-300-crore-worth-of-encroached-land/article38121989.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:20 IST,KARNATAKA||Positivity rate shoots up to 2.59% in Karnataka||COVID-19 cases in Karnataka are doubling every two-three days. With 2,479 cases reported on Tuesday, the day’s test positivity rate shot up to 2.59% from 1.60% reported on Monday. From 289 cases on December 27, Karnataka has seen a 8.5-fold rise in COVID cases in the last 10 days. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who tweeted about the narrowing doubling rate, appealed to people to follow protocols. “Data shows us that cases are doubling every two-three days in Karnataka! While the Government is working on containment measures for the new wave, appeal to everyone to strictly follow 3Ms: Mask up, Maintain social distance and Maintain hand hygiene,” stated the Minister’s tweet. “Positivity rate shoots up to 2.59% in Karnataka with 2,479 new cases reported today,” he said in another tweet. Nearly 83% (2.053) of Tuesday’s new cases have been reported from Bengaluru taking the day’s TPR in the State capital to 2.85%, higher than the State’s average daily TPR. With four deaths, the State's toll rose to 38,355 and the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.16%. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 288 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 29,61,410. The State now has 13,532 active patients. As many as 95,391 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 68,798 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,68,72,133. Nine districts in Karnataka have achieved 100% first dose coverage and the overall first dose coverage in Karnataka touched 97.5% on Tuesday. With 3,89,62,190 second doses administered so far, the overall second dose coverage has touched 79.6%. As many as 3,50,200 children in the 15-17 age group were vaccinated on Tuesday.   December 27: 289 new cases December 28: 356 December 29: 566 December 30: 707 December 31: 832 January 1: 1,033 January 2: 1,187 January 3: 1,290 January 4: 2,479  Cases: 2,479 Deaths: 4 Discharges: 288 Tests: 95,391 Vaccinations : 5,43,697 Test Positivity Rate: 2.59% Case Fatality Rate: 0.16% Omicron (cumulative) : 76||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/positivity-rate-shoots-up-to-259-in-karnataka/article38122009.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:09 IST,KARNATAKA||‘JLR not required to take Centre’s nod for eco-tourism activities in forest area’||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday held that Jungle Lodges and Resorts (JLR) Ltd., which is controlled by the State Government, was not required to take permission from the Central Government under the provisions of the Forest (Conservation) Act to commence and operate eco-tourism activities in forest area. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Suraj Govindaraj, passed the order while dismissing a PIL petition, filed by P.S. Mohan and four other residents of Kushalnagar in Kodagu district. The petitioners had questioned establishment of eco-tourism activities by JLR at Dubare forest area in Kushalnagar. Claiming that the lodges are among non-forest activities, the petitioners had contended that JLR is carrying out these activities sans approval of the Union government under Section 2 (3) of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. However, the he Bench noticed that the permission, under Section 2(3) of the Forest (Conservation) Act from the Central Government, is required for assigning forest area by way of lease “to any private person or to any authority, corporation, agency or any other organisation not owned, managed or controlled by Government.” JLR, being an agency controlled by the State Government, was not required to take permission from the Central Government for the non-forest activities, the Bench said. The Bench a cost of cost of Rs. 50,000 on the petitioners for wasting the time of the court. It was contended on behalf of the State Government that JLR was established by the Departments of Forests and Tourism for promoting and providing eco-tourism facilities, and a senior officer of the cadre of Indian Forest Service holds the posts of managing director of the JLR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jlr-not-required-to-take-centres-nod-for-eco-tourism-activities-in-forest-area/article38121999.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Weekly TPR at taluk level should be deciding factor’||The State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that the weekly Test Positivity Rate (WTPR) at taluk level should be the deciding factor for starting online classes, 50% attendance, and closure of schools/colleges. At its meeting held on Monday, the TAC has recommended that educational institutions will have to function with 50% attendance if the WTPR at the taluk level is between 1% and <2% and switch to remote learning if it is between 2% and 3%. The TAC has recommended work from home facility for special groups, such as pregnant women in third trimester, lactating mothers, specially abled persons, those on renal dialysis, cancer treatment and immunocompromised patients apart from those who have undergone cardiac surgeries. In the wake of the surge in cases and rise in the number of international travellers testing RT-PCR positive on arrival at the airport, the TAC has recommended that the State should start using S-gene target failure (SGTF) test kits in more hospitals. It had earlier recommended that SGTF kits should be procured at the Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute for probable diagnosis of Omicron. Now, the TAC has said SGTF kits should be procured on priority for use in the testing labs at Victoria Hospital, NIMHANS, KIMS, Hubballi, BIMS, Belagavi, MMC Mysuru and GIMS, Kalaburagi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weekly-tpr-at-taluk-level-should-be-deciding-factor/article38122007.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:20 IST,KARNATAKA||In-charge officers named||The State Government has reappointed IAS officers to take charge of various aspects of the management of COVID-19 in Karnataka. An order by Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar on Tuesday stated that R. Vinoth Priya has been put in charge of mobilising ILI and SARI cases to hospitals, while Additional Chief Secretary Shalini Rajneesh will be in charge of sample collection, testing and labs. Munish Moudgil remains in-charge of the State war room. V. Ponnuraj will be in charge of screening international passengers. Pankaj Kumar Pandey has now been posted to handle home isolation cases and containment zones while Pratap Reddy and M. Shivashankar will be in charge of liquid oxygen movement. Vipin Singh and Biswajit Mishra will be in charge of telecounselling, training and the helpline. Uma Mahadevan has been put in charge of the corporate sector and NGOs. Ms. Mahadevan and Priya Mary Francis will be in charge of import of COVID-19 related equipment. Pallavi Akurathi has been put in charge of orphaned children and Pavan Kumar Malpatti will be in charge of monitoring of liquid oxygen movement from Ballari district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-charge-officers-named/article38122010.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:09 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. told to expedite construction of organ transplantation institute||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State Government to commence construction of a new building for the Gastroenterology Sciences and Organ Transplantation Institute in the land identified on the premises of SDS Tuberculosis Research Centre and Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, Benglauru. ‘Affected TB patients’ A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Suraj Govindaraj, passed the order while dismissing a PIL petition filed in 2017 by R. Chandrashekara, a former Vice-Chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences and B. Rudrappa, a retired government doctor. The petitioners had contended that construction of new building at the proposed land affected the fresh air required for the tuberculosis patients. While observing that the petitioners have not placed any material in support of their contention, the Bench noted that the Government had not started construction of new institute due to pendency of the petition since 2017 though the court had not retrained construction. Bring down cost The Government, in its statement, had said that new facility is required to cater to the need of the patients suffering from organ failures as establishment of new institute which will initially have 200-bed capacity and later can be enhanced to 500 beds, would considerably bring down cost of organ transplantation process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-told-to-expedite-construction-of-organ-transplantation-institute/article38121984.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 03:51 IST,KARNATAKA||Akshaya Patra Foundation ties up with UN WFP||The Akshaya Patra Foundation and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in India have entered into a partnership to enhance the effectiveness of the Pradhan Mantri Poshan Shakti Nirman (formerly mid-day meal scheme). Bishow Parajuli, representative and Country Director for WFP in India, said that “The partnership is a strategic force multiplier bringing deep work and experience together. India was strategically important for School Meals Coalition that was launched in 2020 with WFP as a coordinating body, as it implemented the largest school feeding programme in the world.” Since its inception in 1961, school meals have been part of WFP’s mission. WFP has six decades of experience supporting school feeding, and working with more than 100 countries to set up sustainable national school feeding programmes. Feeding programmes Chanchalapthi Dasa, vice-chairman, The Akshaya Patra Foundation, said, “With this partnership, the foundation intends to complement WFP’s global network of running large-scale feeding programmes across the world.” A steering committee formed between these organisations would plan, discuss and mobilise financial resources to implement various activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/akshaya-patra-foundation-ties-up-with-un-wfp/article38121985.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||HC to hear cases through virtual mode in Bengaluru||With steady rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in Bengaluru, the High Court of Karnataka will again switch over to virtual mode for hearing of cases by suspending the hybrid mode (which had allowed hearing both in physical and virtual formats) at its Principal Bench in Bengalueu from January 5 to 14. The High Court issued new Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on Tuesday for its three Benches at Bengaluru, Dharwad and Kalaburagi, and the district and sessions courts of Bengaluru urban and rural districts. However, the hearing of cases at the Benches at Dharwad and Kalaburagi would continue in hybrid mode with a condition that the party-in-person litigants will have to appear only through virtual mode and option of appearing either through virtual or physical mode is open only for advocates of these two Benches. Meanwhile, at the Principal Bench the petitions can be filed in three modes – submitting physical copies in designated courters, sending scanned copy in PDF format to the designated e-mail IDs, and through e-format using court’s portal. In cases of all the courts functioning from the city civil court complex and Mayo hall court complex in Bengaluru city, the courts shall take-up only the urgent matters/ bail applications/interim application, the SOP stated. The hearing of such matters shall be through hybrid mode, and as for as possible the same shall be heard through video conferencing, it has been notified in the SOP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-to-hear-cases-through-virtual-mode-in-bengaluru/article38122002.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 03:51 IST,KARNATAKA||Student killed in accident||A 21-year-old B.E. student was killed and her cousin was injured when their motorcycle was knocked down by a speeding truck at Garuda Mall junction in Ashok Nagar on Tuesday morning. The deceased, Sanjana Priya, a resident of R.S. Palya, was riding pillion. According to the police, she and her cousin Vinay Kumar, were heading to a relative’s house in Jayanagar for breakfast. Sanjana’s brother was following them on his bike. When they reached the Garuda Mall junction, the truck knocked them down. Passers-by took them to a hospital in the area where she succumbed. “Sensing trouble, the truck driver abandoned the vehicle and escaped,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/student-killed-in-accident/article38121990.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 03:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Sandalwood smuggling gang arrested||The Chintamani Rural Police, during a random check of vehicles on Monday, busted a sandalwood smuggling gang reportedly involved in over nine cases in and around Chickballapur. The police recovered 70.2 kg of sandalwood logs worth Rs. 21 lakh, and arrested seven members of the gang. Sub-Inspector Narayanaswamy, who was checking vehicles on Bengaluru-Kadapa Road around 6 p.m., stopped their vehicle. The occupants confronted the police, but sensing trouble, the driver tried to take a u-turn. One of the gang members dropped a sack filled with sandalwood logs. The police gave chase and caught the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sandalwood-smuggling-gang-arrested/article38121996.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:09 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. bans political rallies||The stage appears to be set for political confrontation as the State Government has banned all public programmes, including political rallies ahead of the padayatra of the Congress scheduled to be taken out from Mekedatu to Bengaluru from January 8. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of experts, ministers and officials convened by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday. When specifically asked if the Congress could take out its proposed yatra, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said no political party, including the BJP, were allowed to take out jathas. “The decision has been taken in the public interest after examining measures taken by various states and countries. It is not aimed at any particular organisation,” he told reporters. A few hours earlier, KPCC President D.K. Shivakumar had declared that there was no question of calling off the party’s padayatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-bans-political-rallies/article38122005.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 03:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Train passenger attacked, robbed||A 32-year-old man fell from a moving train onto the railway track when an unidentified man attacked him in an attempt to steal his mobile phone. Though the incident took place on Thursday, the victim, Nandish M.P., recovered from his injuries before filing a complaint with the city railway police on Sunday. According to the police Nandish, who works in the H.R. department of a PSU, commutes daily from his hometown in Mandya to Bengaluru where he works. “On Thursday, he was returning home by train. As there was a huge rush, he was standing on the footboard holding a phone in his hand,” said a police officer. In his statement, the victim said that as the train was passing the underbridge near Kengeri, an unidentified man and attacked him with a wooden log. “A sudden blow caused Nandish to lose control. He fell from the moving train while other passengers looked on,” he added. Fortunately, he fell on the side of the track and the mobile phone slipped from his hand. Before he could recover, the attacker picked up the phone and fled away. Nandish’s friend Devin Kumar, who was traveling with him, managed to get down from the train and rushed to his aid. He was admitted to a private hospital where he recovered on Sunday before filing a complaint. Based on the complaint, the city railway police have registered a case of theft and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-passenger-attacked-robbed/article38121995.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||Congress, BJP spar over spat between Minister and MP||The Congress and the BJP continued to fight over Monday’s episode of Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and Congress MP D.K. Suresh almost coming to blows at a government programme in Ramanagaram. KPCC working president and former Home Minister Ramalinga Reddy demanded that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai sack Mr. Narayan for his alleged ‘bad behaviour’. Mr. Reddy said the Minister addressed singularly and made derogatory remarks against Congress leaders. The Minister provoked Mr. Suresh and other Congress leaders, which forced them to stage a protest at the function. “Why does a Minister speak like that? Will any Minister speak like that in a government function attended by the Chief Minister? Why did Mr. Narayan provoke the MP?” Taking exception to Mr. Narayan’s conduct on the stage, Mr. Reddy said, “This is not a jungle raj to demonstrate a leader’s manhood.” The Minister should have tolerance and speak in a disciplined manner. The MP rushed towards the Minister and indulged in a verbal duel as the latter provoked him. “Why should the MP remain silent when the Minister spoke like that?” Voters taught a lesson to the ruling BJP in elections to the Karnataka Legislative Council and urban local bodies. “These Ministers will lose deposits in the State Legislative Assembly elections in 2023 if they continue to behave like this,” Mr Reddy told reporters in Bengaluru. Meanwhile BJP workers held protests in multiple places including Bengaluru to criticise the behaviour of Mr. Suresh, which they termed as “unruly and violent”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-bjp-spar-over-spat-between-minister-and-mp/article38122004.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:20 IST,KARNATAKA||Students in Koppa protest seeking permission to wear saffron shawls||A protest by a group of students seeking permission to attend classes wearing saffron shawls prompted the principal of Government First Grade College at Koppa in Chikkamagaluru district to suspend the dress code up to January 10. Prof. S. Anantha, the principal, has convened a parents’ meeting on January 10 to decide on a dress code for students. The college has a total strength of 850 students. Around 50 students staged a protest on January 4 demanding that they be allowed to wear saffron shawls while attending classes, as Muslim girls had been allowed to cover their heads with a scarf. Different dress codes “We have different dress codes, given the various courses offered in the college. However, a few students have objected to the scarf worn by some girls. They are demanding permission to wear saffron shawls. When the issue was raised three years ago, a decision was taken in a parents’ meeting that Muslim girls could cover their heads with a scarf. Now, new students have joined the college. They are raising the issue again,” said Mr. Anantha. Meeting In order to resolve the issue, the principal has suspended the dress code until the next parents’ meeting. “Let them wear whatever they want up to January 10. We will hold the meeting under the chairmanship of MLA T.D. Raje Gowda, who is also chairman of the College Development Committee. We have invited parents and people’s representatives to the meeting,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-in-koppa-protest-seeking-permission-to-wear-saffron-shawls/article38122398.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Sanghatane seeks 50 more days of additional work under MGNREGA||Urging the State Government to provide 50 more days of additional work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), farm workers staged protests in Dharwad taluk on Tuesday. The demonstrations were staged under the aegis of Raitha Krishi Karmikara Sanghatane. While a demonstration was staged in front of the zilla panchayat office in Dharwad by members of Mugali unit of the sanghatane, another demonstration was staged by sanghatane members at Honnapur village in Dharwad taluk. Addressing the protestors in Dharwad, sanghatane leader Deepa said that because of adverse weather, farmers have lost their yield and consequently, farm workers did not have any work for their livelihood. She said that farm workers were finding it extremely difficult to manage their families and meet the educational demands of their children. Hence, the State Government should provide them additional 50 days work under the MGNREGA, Ms. Deepa said. She also said that the workers who were provided jobs under MGNREGA had not received their payment for a few months now. The sanghatane will urge the officials to, therefore, considering the plight of workers, release their wages at the earliest, she said. Sanghatane office-bearers Manjula Jagadali and Sridevi and others were present. A memorandum was submitted to the zilla panchayat officials. In the protest staged at Honnapur village in front of the gram panchayat office, the protestors sought additional mandays under MGNREGA. Sanghatane office-bearers Kempanna Khanapur, Mahanand Prakash, Geeta Kempanna Kumbar and others, who led the protest, submitted a memorandum to the Panchayat Development Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sanghatane-seeks-50-more-days-of-additional-work-under-mgnrega/article38122214.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. prepared to address a possible third wave: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that the State Government, based on lessons learnt during the first and second waves of COVID-19, has made extensive preparations to face a possible third wave of the pandemic. “We have gained experience in handling the pandemic during the first and second waves. Based on the lessons learnt, we have given impetus to developing health infrastructure. We have augmented hospital beds and oxygen production. The indents for medicines are taken from every district for streamlining the supply of required medicine,” Mr. Bommai told mediapersons at Kalaburagi Airport on Tuesday. He was here to inaugurate the 36th State Conference of Karnataka Union of Working Journalists. When asked about COVID-19 screening at check-posts along the Karnataka-Maharashtra border, the Chief Minister admitted that screening there is poor and said that he will hold the jurisdictional police responsible for the entry of people without valid pandemic test reports. “Karnataka shares lengthy borders with Maharashtra and Kerala where the Omicron variant of COVID-19 is fast spreading. Screening is proper at check-posts on the major inter-State roads. However, we have heard that people take rural routes to cross the State border. We will hold jurisdictional police responsible for such infiltration. Two doses of COVID-19 vaccination and a latest RT-PCR test negative report is a must for entering the State,” Mr. Bommai said. To a question on the possibility of another lockdown in the State, the Chief Minister said that his government will take a decision after considering the recommendations of the COVID-19 Task Force. “Lockdowns in the previous waves of the pandemic have hit the economy hard. The condition is slowly improving. That is why the government is thinking of imposing such restrictions that will minimise the blows to the economy,” Mr. Bommai said, appealing to people to join hands with the government in curbing the pandemic by maintaining COVID-19-appropriate behaviour.  We have heard that people take rural routes to cross the State border but we will hold jurisdictional police responsible for such infiltration Basavaraj Bommai Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-prepared-to-address-a-possible-third-wave-cm/article38122211.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Bommai reiterates Rs. 3,000 cr. allocation for KKRDB||Asserting his government’s commitment to the development of the Kalyana Karnataka region, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that he will keep his promise of providing Rs. 3,000 crore special grants to Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB) in the next budget. “I had promised that I will provide Rs. 3,000 crore grants to KKRDB and I will keep my words. Action plans for the funds are being prepared. I will shortly hold meetings with people’s representatives from the region and finalise the action plans and allocate the funds in the next budget. Unlike in the previous years, I will release the entire amount in the same year and ensure that the amount is spent in the earliest possible time,” Mr. Bommai said. He added that Article 371(J) of the Constitution (Special Status to Kalyana Karnataka) will be meaningful when the benefits reach the last man. He was delivering his inaugural address at the 36th State Conference of Karnataka Union of Working Journalists at Basavarajappa Appa Memorial Hall here on Tuesday. The event was attended by Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani, Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers Bhagawanth Khuba, Lok Sabha member from Kalaburagi Umesh Jadhav and the head of Sharana Basaveshwara Samsthana Sharanabasappa Appa, among others. The promises he made in his address included filling 14,000 posts lying vacant in different departments in the region, including 5000 posts in the Education Department, within six months and constituting KKRDB by appointing all members within two days. Recalling the assertion of freedom of press by the Indian media even during tough times like Emergency, Mr. Bommai commended the journalists for their resolute fight against the suppression of their voices. “Media has always done good work by highlighting the problems in society as well as in governance. There have been attempts to suppress freedom of press in history, like during the Emergency. But, Indian media stood firmly and asserted its freedom, despite all odds,” Mr. Bommai said. “After the advent of liberalisation, globalisation and privatisation policies, everything began to be seen in terms of profit and loss. There is little space for human values. There is a dire need of preserving and nurturing human values and the media has a greater role to play in this connection. Watchful media can create an informed citizenry. This will lead to great changes,” Mr. Bommai said. Admitting that the media houses are facing difficulties and hardships, the Chief Minister said that his government is more concerned about small media houses operating in rural areas and that it is committed to helping them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-reiterates-rs-3000-cr-allocation-for-kkrdb/article38122210.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Cycling marathon flagged off||The 36th State-level conference of Karnataka Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) began with a cycling marathon in Kalaburagi on Sunday. In-charge Deputy Commissioner and Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Dilesh Sasi flagged off the cycling marathon jointly organised by the district administration, the Kalaburagi City Corporation and the KUWJ. Along with journalists, Kalaburagi Police Commissioner Y.S. Ravi kumar, City Corporation Commissioner Snehal Lokhande, Kalaburagi Cycling Club president Kiran Shetkar and KUWJ State president Shivanand Tagadur participated in the marathon, from Kannada Bhavan to Jagat Circle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cycling-marathon-flagged-off/article38122204.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Media working to strengthen democracy’||Freedom of the Press is an important part of democracy and the Press in India has always been in the vanguard of protecting and strengthening the foundations of democracy, according to Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge. He was speaking at the valedictory function of the 36th State-level conference of the Karnataka Union of Working Journalists here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/media-working-to-strengthen-democracy/article38122212.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Brand Kalaburgi seminar inaugurated||The media is considered as the fourth pillar and it plays an exceptionally important role in disseminating, informing, educating and reforming society in a larger perspective, Large and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani has said. He was speaking after inaugurating a seminar, Brand Kalaburgi, to discuss on the developments of Kalyana Karnataka region at the 36th State-level Conference of the Karnataka Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) in Kalaburagi on Monday. Mr. Nirani said that the mediapersons have been playing a very effective role in mitigating the problems and leading society on the right direction. Felicitations Meanwhile, some personalities from Kalaburagi who have made contributions in various fields were given the title Brand Kalaburgi and were felicitated on the occasion. Chairman of Kalyana Karnataka Human Resource, Agriculture and Cultural Association Basavaraj Patil Sedam and other legislators were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/brand-kalaburgi-seminar-inaugurated/article38122207.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Tiger dies at Pilikula zoo||A male tiger in captivity at Pilikula Biological Park here died on Tuesday. According to director of the park H. Jayaprakash Bhandary, the tiger named as Oliver was nine years old.  “It was healthy and active till morning. But the big cat suddenly collapsed and died at about 11.45 a.m. Though veterinary doctors in the zoo tried their best to save it, the tiger passed away,” he told The Hindu .  The director said that the care taker of the tiger, while cleaning its enclosure, shifted the animal to the next immediate enclosure. After the enclosure was cleaned, the tiger returned but suddenly collapsed. The care taker said that it was gasping for breath. Three veterinary doctors who conducted the post-mortem suspected that it could have collapsed due to cardiac arrest. The tiger weighed 175 kg. He said that samples of the tiger’s organs have been sent for tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tiger-dies-at-pilikula-zoo/article38122377.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Drones likely to be used to curb illegal sand extraction||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said here on Tuesday that the district administration is planning to use drones for surveillance to curb illegal sand extraction. In addition, he said, it has been planned to use water boats or speed boats for the purpose. Drones and boats will either be hired or purchased. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a public hearing on getting Blue Flag certification for Tannirbavi Beach, the Deputy Commissioner said that the district administration has been receiving complaints against illegal sand extraction in the coastal regulatory zone areas. When the government authorities raided such sites to inspect and stop extraction, those involved in illegal extraction got to know about it through informants and fled the sites. Some riverine sites are inaccessible by roads and the government officials found it difficult to go there. Drones, water boats or speed boats will come in handy in such occasions for surveillance. Drones are especially useful to detect illegal sand extraction done in the early hours of the day. They will also help in detecting places where sand has been stocked illegally. Dr. Rajendra said that the administration is planning to install high-mast lights on beaches at Someshwara, Uchila, Battampady, Tannirbavi, Panambur, Idya, Surathkal and Sasihitlu for safety and security purposes. The plan is to install at least one such light initially. “With this, people can use beaches from 7 p.m. till 10 p.m. or 11 p.m.,” he said. The District Tourism Committee will discuss this proposal with elected representatives to draw funds from their local area development accounts. “The intention is to provide enough light on beaches and increase their utilisation hours,” he said. The lights will be installed by the committee, the Deputy Commissioner added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drones-likely-to-be-used-to-curb-illegal-sand-extraction/article38122375.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Legal Services Authority unites estranged couple||The Dakshina Kannada District Legal Services Authority on Tuesday was able to unite an estranged couple who had decided to separate following serious differences of opinion. The happy ending came after four or five counselling sessions by judicial officers and counsellors for a 48-year-old pharmacy owner and a 46-year-old Ayurvedic doctor from Mangaluru. While the man, a B.Pharma graduate, was running a pharmacy shop, his wife was running the clinic adjacent to the pharmacy. However, after several years of their marriage, serious differences of opinion arose between the couple. It was said that the wife was keeping her earnings in fixed deposits in the name of her daughters which her husand did not like. Many other reasons also compelled the couple to take a decision to live separately in October last. The woman and her children went to live in Siddapura in Udupi district and thereafter, filed a plea before the authority seeking maintenance, assistance for her children’s education and other expenses. After going through her application, the authority asked the couple to visit its office in the District Court Complex. Principal District and Sessions Judge and Chairman of the uthority B. Muralidhara Pai, Member-Secretary Prithviraj Vernekar and others conducted four counselling sessions. They were told the benefits of living together for themselves as well as their children. The judicial officers also enlightened them on the ways available to lead a content life. The authority was thus able to unite the estranged couple within a very short span of time, a press release said. The man and his wife too thanked the authority for the gesture and said that their reunion came on their wedding anniversary day. They also said that it would be better for couples with serious differences of opinion to approach the authority to get the right guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/legal-services-authority-unites-estranged-couple/article38122372.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Workshop||Mangaluru City Corporation will organise a wokshop for ward committee members and ward nodal officers at the Town Hall here in two sessions on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workshop/article38122378.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||MCC gets Vijayanagar 3rd Stage||All revenue-related transactions pertaining to properties in Vijayanagar 3rd Stage were transferred from the Mysuru Development Authority (MUDA) to Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) with effect from Tuesday. In all, nearly 3,500 properties will come under the MCC ambit and transactions pertaining to khatha, issuing building Completion Report (CR), issuing building license etc. will now be undertaken by the MCC. The MCC will also be responsible for maintenance of civic infrastructure and amenities in the area. District in charge Minister S.T. Somashekar inaugurated the programme and handed over khatha to some of the beneficiaries besides distributing some building licenses and trade licenses. G.T. Deve Gowda, MLA, said nearly Rs. 25 crore worth of civic works will be taken up from February 1, including road repairs, UGD and storm water repairs. Mr. Devegowda said nearly Rs. 377 crore had been sanctioned for undertaking various repairs and maintenance works in the MUDA layouts as a one-time measure of which Rs. 25 crore had been sanctioned for works in Vijayanagar 3rd stage. He said the Government was also implementing the Haleunduwadi drinking water project and once completed, it would ensure adequate water supply to the projected population of Mysuru for the next 50 years. MUDA chairman H.V. Rajeev said the transfer of Vijayanagar layout from MUDA to MCC will change for the better the fortunes of local residents. He said while some properties had khatha issued by the MCC, there were others in the same area where the MUDA had approved the building plan and issued building license. Hence, there was confusion among the authorities as to who would take up the maintenance works. But now it has been resolved, he added. The works under one-time measure to be taken up by the authorities including sprucing up civic infrastructure including road repairs, UGD repairs, providing street lights. This is part of the Rs. 377 crore sanctioned by the State Government to spruce up infrastructure in MUDA layouts before they could be handed over to MCC for maintenance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-gets-vijayanagar-3rd-stage/article38122389.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||Combing operations on to trap tiger||A tiger on prowl and suspected to have killed a cow in Antharsanthe in H.D. Kote taluk of Mysuru district has raised concerns among the local community. Based on the complaints by the local villagers that the cow was killed by the tiger in Antharsanthe on Sunday, the authorities installed camera traps and it was examined after a couple of days. Advisory issued The images indicated the presence of a tiger following which the local community was issued an advisory not to venture outside between 6 p.m. and 8 a.m. People in the adjoining villages too have been notified about the tiger on the prowl. In the meanwhile, three teams have been constituted to comb the area while a cage with a bait has also been placed close to the place where the tiger had killed the cow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/combing-operations-on-to-trap-tiger/article38122000.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||Concern in Mandya over two COVID clusters||Two new clusters of COVID-19 have been reported in Mandya amidst the growing threat of a third wave. In the wake of clusters, Minister in-charge of Mandya district Narayana Gowda on Tuesday told the officials of the Department of Health and Family Welfare to make arrangements for shifting patients to COVID Care Centres. As many as 15 schoolchildren and a teacher in Makovahalli have tested positive. The Minister told the DHO and the THOs to treat the infected children, shifting them to the COVID Care Centrem and subject all their contacts, including parents and family members, to RT-PCR tests. As a safety precaution, the Minister asked for shifting all 30 infected patients to the COVID Care Centre in Srirangapatna. He told the district authorities to keep a tab on those returning to the district from other States as there is information that the 30 infected persons in Srirangapatna had returned after an inter-State travel. The district administration has taken steps to open COVID Care Centres in all taluks of Mandya. Meanwhile, the Minister asked the DHO to ensure availability of medical oxygen in all government hospitals and other facilities. On Tuesday, 17 new cases were reported in Mandya and five were discharged. The active case tally stands at 91 with the highest number of active cases reported from Srirangapatna, which has 33 active cases. Nagamangala and Maddur have 18 and 16 active cases respectively. As many as 2,481 tests were carried out on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/concern-in-mandya-over-two-covid-clusters/article38122390.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||Support pours in for striking guest lecturers||Support is pouring in for guest lecturers of degree colleges who are on indefinite agitation across the State in support of their demands. On Tuesday, the Mysuru unit of All India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO) extended its support to the guest lecturers in Mysuru as they have continued to strike since the last many days seeking justice from the State Government. The lecturers are boycotting classes and staging demonstrations seeking job security. AIDSO, in its letter to the Minister for Higher Education, said the guest lecturers are in distress and struggling with uncertainty over their jobs and salaries. Many of them are working as guest lecturers in colleges for the last 10-15 years and many are highly qualified with doctoral degrees and cleared NET, which gives them eligibility to become assistant professors in degree colleges and universities. “It is a matter of great disappointment that despite their continued services as guest lecturers, they are not assured of job security and timely salaries and the Government has failed to safeguard their interests,” AIDSO said in its letter. The Government has failed to respond to their demands in spite of their protest for many days. These lecturers have been playing an important role in shaping the future of the students. “As students, we have come in support of the lecturers by extending moral support to them,” the protesting students said. AIDSO urged the Government to speak to the lecturers as their strike has disrupted physical classes in colleges. “The Government must consider their demands,” it urged. AAP extends support The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Mysuru said their services should be regularised giving them job security as in Delhi since their demands are legitimate. “Several associations have expressed their support but in spite of the guest lecturers protesting all over the State, the Government and Higher Education Minister ignoring them is unfortunate,” Malavika Gubbivani, president, AAP, Mysuru said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/support-pours-in-for-striking-guest-lecturers/article38122392.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Drop padayatra plan in interest of public health’||Minister for Co-operation S.T. Somashekar on Tuesday called upon the Congress to drop the proposed padayatra from Mekedatu in the interest of public health. Fielding queries from reporters, Mr. Somashekar denied there was any conspiracy by the Government to ban the padayatra. However, he sought to draw the Congress leaders’ attention to the rising cases in different parts of the State, particularly in Bengaluru, which is almost nearing “red zone”. He feared that the number of cases could further rise from the padayatra. He urged the Congress leaders to drop the padayatra, which he also described as a “political gimmick” for votes. He said the BJP Government was seriously pursuing the Mekedatu project with the Centre and accused the Congress of doing little to implement the project when they were in power. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and his predecessor B.S. Yediyurappa had closely worked with the Centre to push for the project, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drop-padayatra-plan-in-interest-of-public-health/article38122393.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Khelo India varsity games to be held in Bengaluru’||The Khelo India University Games will be held in Bengaluru shortly, announced Minister for Youth Empowerment and Sports K.C. Narayana Gowda. He said the games will be held at Kanteerava Stadium and Jain University campus in Bengaluru. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to kick off the games in Bengaluru. Khelo India University Games is a national-level meet where athletes from universities across the country compete in sporting disciplines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/khelo-india-varsity-games-to-be-held-in-bengaluru/article38122386.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||Tax net widens||Mysuru City Corporation incurred nearly Rs. 2.26 crore every year for maintenance of existing infrastructure in Vijayanagar 3rd stage. But the expenditure outgo did not match or commensurate with revenue generated out of property tax. For, out of nearly 3,500 properties in the layout, 1,500 were within the ambit of MUDA. The upgrade of Hootgalli to municipal council added to the confusion on who would issue trade license, building license etc. The transfer of all properties to MCC not only clears the confusion but will also augment the revenue generated through property-related transactions. Besides, the property tax net of the MCC will also widen and shore up its resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tax-net-widens/article38122387.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||Notice issued to pvt. college||The Department of PU Education has issued notice to a private PU College in the city over a dispute between the trustees that has a bearing on students’ education. It has transpired that difference of opinion among the trustees over fund utilisation has escalated to an extent wherein one of the members got the land leased to run the educational institution cancelled and the same was registered afresh in the name of another institution. Deputy Director of PU Education Srinivasmurthy said cancellation of lease has been challenged in court. On Monday, there was a fracas in front of the institution located in Vijayanagar where the gates were shut even with a few students inside. But Mr. Srinivasmmurthy said classes were yet to commence and order was subsequently restored. However, a notice has been issued to the trustees to explain the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/notice-issued-to-pvt-college/article38122394.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:09 IST,KARNATAKA||Weekend curfew imposed in Karnataka||During the curfew, essential services and food deliveries will be allowed. These restrictions will be applicable till January 19. The decision to introduce further restrictions was taken at a marathon meeting that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai chaired with health experts and senior IAS officers on Tuesday. All public places, including theatres, hotels, bars, restaurants, pubs, and clubs will be allowed to operate at only 50% of their seating capacity. Offices will function only for five days a week and the Secretariat with officials below the rank of Under Secretary will have 50% working strength. Only 200 people will be allowed for weddings conducted in open spaces. If the wedding is in a closed space, the number of people has been restricted to 100. At all religious places only 50 persons who are fully vaccinated will be allowed entry at any given time. However, malls, shopping complexes, and standalone shops shall be allowed to operate as usual on weekdays. Swimming pools and gyms have to operate at 50% capacity but entry will be restricted to fully vaccinated people. Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar had earlier in the day said that the third wave of COVID-19 infections had begun in Karnataka. Speaking after the meeting, Dr. Sudhakar said international travellers, passengers coming from Maharashtra, Kerala, and Goa should have a negative RT-PCR certificate. All rallies, protests, processions, and congregations will not be allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weekend-curfew-imposed-in-karnataka/article38122396.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Schools told to follow SOP, exercise caution||He also told the school authorities to send a report on the number of children between the age of 15 and 18 getting vaccinated on a daily basis. He asked teachers to take steps to complete the syllabus by January-end and hold special classes, if necessary, for students who are poor in studies. On the need for taking steps to prevent sale of tobacco products near educational institutions, he said that headmasters of schools should take the help of police to close down such shops. He clarified that school headmasters are empowered to penalise parents, teachers or non-teaching staff if they are found chewing tobacco or smoking cigarette on school premises. Mr. Keladimath pointed out that 1,463 children have dropped out of schools and efforts should be made to bring them back on priority. He said that as January 10 was the last date for registration of students appearing for SSLC examination, 424 schools out of the 428 have begun registrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-told-to-follow-sop-exercise-caution/article38122215.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:52 IST,KERALA||Riyas opens two roads in Chengannur||The government will chalk out a special plan to tap the tourism potential of the Chengannur Assembly constituency, Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. He was inaugurating the Chammathu Mukku-Kakkada road and the Chennithala-Ayathupady-Mundolikadavu road in Chengannur on Monday. The Minister also launched the construction of three bridges — Keezhcherikadavu, Chakkulathukadavu and Sharngakavu — in the constituency. “The Chengannur constituency has witnessed a slew of development works in the past five years. Tourism projects in the constituency will be implemented based on the proposals and suggestions submitted by local MLA and Minister Saji Cherian. ,” Mr. Riyas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/riyas-opens-two-roads-in-chengannur/article38122334.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:50 IST,KERALA||Clamour for separate Home Minister||The delegates meeting of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] district conference at Kumily on Tuesday demanded a separate Minister for Home Affairs as the police force in the State was being misused by some elements. The delegates said the misdeeds of some in the force had put the government under a shadow despite its good work. “A reshuffle was needed in the police force. The party should intervene for the effective functioning of the police system. Some elements in the police were working against the interests of the government. Some initiatives to find such actions and corrective measures were needed. The police association is not active and it had failed to identify those in the police force doing spy work and thereby giving a bad name to the good works done by the government,” said a paper at the delegates section. The delegates criticised the actions of the Idukki District Police Chief. Senior police officers from other States were working for their interests. They lacked interest for the well-being of the people, the paper said. Against CM’s stance Though Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had taken the stance that party leaders should not intervene in the Home Department, some partners in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) such as the Communist Party of India were allegedly trying to influence the police, according to the delegates. Regarding action against former Devikulam MLA S. Rajendran, State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Monday evening said the party State secretariat would announce the action against him. The district committee had recommended action against Mr. Rajendran and a letter submitted by him was also with the secretariat. The next secretariat meeting would consider the issue and take action accordingly, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clamour-for-separate-home-minister/article38122346.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Literacy programme in Wayanad||Padhna Likhna Abhiyan, a literacy programme organised by the State Literacy Mission in association with the three-tier local bodies, has got under way in Wayanad. The project, to be implemented with financial assistance from the Union government, aims at total literacy in the country by 2030. It envisages making 30,000 neo-literates in the district by March 31, 2022. The project will be executed through 3,000 voluntary instructors selected from Kudumbashree members, anganwadi workers, tribal promoters, instructors of tribal literacy programme, and NSS and NCC cadets in the district. It expects to find at least 1,000 to 25,00 illiterates in each local body in the district. The syllabus of the State Literacy Mission will be used for the programme. The Union government will bear 60% of the project cost, and the State government the rest. The training programme for instructors will begin in the first week of January. T. Siddique, MLA, inaugurated the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/literacy-programme-in-wayanad/article38122293.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Passengers escape unhurt as bus catches fire||A bus that was carrying around 50 passengers caught fire and was fully destroyed at Podikundu in Kannur on Tuesday morning. The bus plying between Paliyath Valappu and Kannur was engulfed in fire on the National Highway near Kannur Central Jail around 10 a.m. No casualties were reported. The passengers were evacuated from the bus after a spark and smoke were noticed from near the driver’s seat. The bus was stopped immediately and everyone in the bus got down. Within no time, the bus was covered in smoke and engulfed by fire. The movement of vehicles was restricted on the road owing to the incident. The Fire and Rescue personnel rushed to the spot and put out the blaze.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/passengers-escape-unhurt-as-bus-catches-fire/article38122296.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:50 IST,KERALA||Assaulted passenger has criminal record||The passenger who was assaulted by an Assistant Sub-Inspector while travelling on a train recently has been identified as Shameer, 50, of Neerveli in Koothuparamba. He has a criminal record. As per preliminary information, he could not be traced and is yet to be questioned in connection with the incident. The police found that he had been living in Irikkur. He was found travelling in an inebriated condition on Maveli Express. After complaints from passengers and as he could not produce a valid ticket, the police officer forced him to get down at the Vadakara railway station. Suspended Following protests after the video clip surfaced, an inquiry was conducted against Kannur Railway police station assistant sub-inspector M.C. Pramod and he was placed under suspension. When contacted, Kannur District Police Chief R. Ilango said the identified passenger had previous records of crime, but there were no cases in which he was wanted now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assaulted-passenger-has-criminal-record/article38122347.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||Tenders for redevelopment of railway stations in March||The Construction Wing of the Southern Railway would invite tenders in March to redevelop Ernakulam Junction, Ernakulam Town, Trivandrum Central and Kanyakumari railway stations in March, providing a boost to passenger amenities at the stations. In this, the existing building that houses Ernakulam Junction station would be demolished, in whose place a five-storey building will be built. Similarly, a three-storey building will be built on the station’s eastern entry. The two structures will be linked by a concourse, while a 105-metre-long skywalk will link the station’s foot overbridge with the adjacent Kochi metro station, reliable sources said. The station’s entry and exit will be at different locations, aimed at lessening crowds. The platforms too will be renovated. A multi-rise car park has also been envisaged, considering space constraints. The entire project cost is estimated at approximately Rs. 400 crore. The project will be completed within two years of the commencement of work. The contract will be for engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) of the different components, they added. The estimate for the other three stations is being worked out. As per plan, the firm which is awarded the tender would have to ready a design which makes optimal use of available space, pool in funds and construct the building. It will be able to make commercial use of whatever space the Railway does not need. But the Railway will operate the entire premises, since it owns the land. As per the project’s concept plan, the station ought to be developed to international standards, as a multi-modal transport hub having disabled-friendly amenities. The structures must be eco-friendly and must make maximum use of light and ventilation. The extension of the three short platforms at the station, to host trains having 24 coaches, is overdue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tenders-for-redevelopment-of-railway-stations-in-march/article38122303.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:40 IST,KERALA||Rice bowl of district hit hard by unseasonal rain, spring tide||Thottara Punja, contiguous paddy fields spread across nearly 1,200 acres in three panchayats in Mulanthuruthy block and known as the rice bowl of the district, is set to produce very little rice this time after being hit hard by heavy unseasonal rain and unprecedented flooding caused by spring tide. The paddy fields in Edakkattuvayal, Amballoor and Velloor remained waterlogged in the heavy rain that lashed the district in October, disrupting preparatory works. The farming in Thottara Punja takes place during a 120-day window from November. “Not more than 20% of the acreage is likely to go under farming this time. Though water has eventually drained out of the fields, farmers remain reluctant to undertake farming fearing that another spell of unexpected heavy summer showers would leave their efforts and investments wasted,” said Raju.P. Nair, president, Mulanthuruthy block panchayat. A Thottara Punja committee has also been set up with the assistant director of agriculture as the nodal officer. This is to channelise the various projects related to Thottara Punja through a single entity rather than different local bodies executing projects in isolation. Combined project In a joint initiative, the district panchayat, Mulanthuruthy block panchayat and Edakkattuvayal and Amballoor panchayats had prepared a combined project worth Rs. 40 lakh with the stakeholders contributing Rs. 20 lakh, Rs. 10 lakh and Rs. 5 lakh each respectively to find a permanent solution to the problems faced by the farming community. The project was also cleared by the District Planning Committee (DPC). The project basically had two parts — installation of a 50 horse power vertical axle motor pump to flush out water from the fields and a long-term dewatering proposal to prevent the intrusion of water from the river to the fields. While the proposal for setting up the pump at an investment of about Rs. 17.75 lakh is under way, the construction of shutters for dewatering has hit a roadblock. “Nineteen shutters have to be constructed for dewatering, which was entrusted with the minor irrigation department. But the department has now objected to it citing that it is not a listed agency authorised to undertake such a work in local bodies,” said Mr. Nair. This proved to be a blow to complete the project before the onset of the summer showers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rice-bowl-of-district-hit-hard-by-unseasonal-rain-spring-tide/article38122313.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:40 IST,KERALA||Action sought against dumping of waste close to Kochi backwaters||The State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on Solid Waste Management has sought the intervention of the National Green Tribunal against the attempts to convert the land south of the highway on Willingdon Island between Alexander Parambithara bridge and Kannangatt bridge into an illegal plastic and hazardous waste dump. Committee chairman A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai had visited the site in mid-December following complaints of illegal dumping of refuse on the land located close to the Kochi backwaters. A site inspection report by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board had revealed that about five acres were affected owing to the unauthorised dumping of non-biodegradable waste over several months. The land is owned by the Cochin Port Trust. In his report filed before the Southern Bench of the tribunal, the SLMC chairman said that it was shocking to note that solid and hazardous waste materials were seen dumped over an area covering a length of 200 metres on the banks of the backwaters, south to the public road between Alexander Parambithara bridge (crossing over Kollam-Kottapuram national waterway) and Kannangatt bridge. The entire road side was seen dumped with non-degradable solid waste. It appeared that waste dumping had commenced months ago. A trench was seen dug at the entry to prevent the entry of vehicles carrying waste materials to the area. Board officials informed that it was done at the intervention of the District Collector after receiving the complaint. There was visible violation of solid waste disposal rules in the area, which is ecologically fragile as the dumping site was very close to the backwaters dotted by mangrove forests, it said. There was every chance of leachate flow to the backwaters, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-sought-against-dumping-of-waste-close-to-kochi-backwaters/article38122306.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:40 IST,KERALA||Plea against election of Sreenijin dismissed||The Kerala High Court has rejected a petition challenging the election of P.V. Sreenijin, Communist Party of India (Marxist) candidate from the Kunnathunad Assembly constituency in Ernakulam district. The petition was filed by V.K. Velayudhan. According to him, the nomination papers of Mr. Sreenijin were improperly accepted by the returning officer despite him mentioning his caste and religion in the papers. Since he belonged to a particular political party which followed the concept of secularism, he was not expected to disclose his religious identity in the nomination, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-against-election-of-sreenijin-dismissed/article38122307.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:40 IST,KERALA||Collector bereaved||Ernakulam District Collector Jafar Malik’s mother, Mubina Banu, 59, died at Sawai Madhopur in Rajasthan on Tuesday. She will be laid to rest on Wednesday around 10 a.m. She is survived by her husband Abrar Ahammad and four children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-bereaved/article38122309.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:40 IST,KERALA||Sanskrit varsity to review performance of its centres||A performance assessment of the regional centres of Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit is on the anvil following the controversy over the admission of ineligible students to the postgraduate programmes for the new academic year. The decision comes in the wake of reports that the declining number of aspirants in some of the regional centres had prompted the authorities to tweak the admission norms or to bypass it by relaxing the rules. Eight students, who were admitted to the postgraduate programmes in the new academic year, were expelled after it was found that they had failed to clear the sixth semester exam of the qualifying undergraduate exam. At least six of these candidates were admitted at the regional centre of the varsity in Koyilandy, according to the official estimates. “A performance evaluation of the regional centres over the last two years has to be carried out to identify the various issues. The directors concerned of the regional centres have the responsibility to ensure its proper functioning,” said Prof. M. K. Jayaraj, Vice Chancellor in-charge, on Tuesday. Prof. Jayaraj, Vice Chancellor of Calicut University who is holding additional charge of the Sanskrit University, said that these centres had adequate faculty members, which included permanent and guest teachers. “However, an assessment of the regional centres is required to chalk out the required solutions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sanskrit-varsity-to-review-performance-of-its-centres/article38122310.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Land Board seeks five months to recover land from MLA||The Taluk Land Board, Thamarassery, has sought five months’ time from the Kerala High Court to complete proceedings and pass orders for recovering excess land in the possession of Nilambur MLA P.V. Anwar. In a statement filed before the High Court, Board Chairman P. Anwar Sadath submitted that since it was prima facie found that Mr. Anwar was holding excess land of 12 acres, the Board decided to register a suo motu case and proceed against Mr. Anwar. As a result, a case was registered and notice was issued to him and his family members. Detailed inquiry The Land Board would take an urgent decision after conducting a detailed inquiry and after hearing Mr. Anwar and other affected persons, the statement added. The statement was filed in response to a petition filed by K.V. Shaji of Malappuram, seeking to initiate contempt of court proceedings against the Chairman of the Taluk Land Board and Additional Tahasildar (LR) for not complying with the High Court directive to expedite the proceedings and take the matter to its logical conclusion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-board-seeks-five-months-to-recover-land-from-mla/article38122292.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:40 IST,KERALA||Mayor discusses water shortage with KWA||Mayor M. Anilkumar, who met Kerala Water Authority (KWA) officials here on Monday in connection with the issue of drinking water shortage, decided to convene meetings of local monitoring committees on an emergency basis and to review the situation every 15 days. A communication from the Kochi Corporation said the meeting was convened in the background of a serious shortage of drinking water in many parts of the city, especially West Kochi areas. Senior KWA officials have been asked to monitor the situation to check if any manipulation was being done on the main water supply line and to submit a report in 15 days, the communication said. The Mayor also asked KWA officials to plug leakages in valves on a war footing. A meeting will be held in 15 days to review the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mayor-discusses-water-shortage-with-kwa/article38122308.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:40 IST,KERALA||Bail plea of Mofia’s husband rejected||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday dismissed the bail plea of Muhammed Suhail, husband of Mofia Parveen, 21, of Aluva, who committed suicide allegedly due to domestic abuse and dowry harassment. The court, however, granted bail to his parents, Yusuf and Rukhia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bail-plea-of-mofias-husband-rejected/article38122311.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:52 IST,KERALA||Suspended bus services to resume||The District Development Committee has decided to resume Kerala State Road Transport Corporation bus services that were suspended during the COVID-19 pandemic in rural parts. District Collector Afsana Parveen, who chaired a meeting here recently in this connection, said immediate action will be taken in the matter, a common demand of people’s representatives. The travel woes of students from rural Kollam, especially those residing in eastern parts, were brought to the attention of the committee by MLAs Sujith Vijayan Pillai, Kovoor Kunjumon and C.R.Mahesh. Directive to RTO The committee has instructed the Regional Transport Office to solve the issue at the earliest. The District Medical Officer briefed the committee on the precautionary measures taken by the Health Department to prevent the spread of Omicron. Committee members pointed out the delay in getting the result of the autopsy results from the Paripally Medical College as a matter of concern. The Superintendent of the hospital said that the procedures will be completed and the reports will be issued in accordance with the receipt of swab results. It was also decided in the meeting to take steps to address the drinking water problem in Karunagapally and Alappad. Grama panchayats concerned will be instructed to prevent encroachment on the sides of the Pulamon canal. Funds utilized District planning officer informed the committee that 82.31% of the funds allocated for development activities in Kollam district has been utilized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suspended-bus-services-to-resume/article38122335.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:52 IST,KERALA||Cow subsidy project launched||The Domestic Animal Museum, which is being set up at the Kuriyottumala government high-tech dairy by the Kollam district panchayat, is a commendable initiative, Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development J.Chinchu Rani said here on Tuesday. She was inaugurating the district panchayat’s Kamadhenu Santhvana Sparsham project which provides cows and calves with full subsidy to families who have lost their livelihood due to COVID-19. “There are endless possibilities for farm tourism in the district,” added the Minister offering complete support of the government to the museum project. In the first phase of the Kamadhenu project, 32 beneficiaries were provided cows and calves. “Breeding of cows is crucial in achieving self-sufficiency in milk production. Genetically modified breeds from other States should be brought here and this will help in increasing milk production. Through this, a new model can be created in the dairy sector,” she said. District panchayat president Sam K. Daniel presided over the function. “All those who are eligible will benefit from the project in a phased manner,” he said adding that the panchayat aims to complete the first phase of the farm tourism project by March 2022. District panchayat Pathanapuram division member Sunitha Rajesh presented the project. Vice president Sumalal, standing committee chairpersons P.K Gopan, Vasantha Ramesh and Anil. S. Kallelibhagam, district panchayat members R. Reshmi, Shyamala Amma, S Soman and Sreeja Harish were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cow-subsidy-project-launched/article38122338.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:52 IST,KERALA||Kerala ensures fairness in job opportunities: Balagopal||Kerala is a State that ensures equality of opportunity in the employment sector despite the COVID-19 pandemic, Finance Minister K.N.Balagopal said here on Tuesday. He was inaugurating a Tulika Thuruth literature camp organised by the Kerala State Youth Welfare Board at Munroe Thuruthu. “COVID-19’s new variants are disrupting the order of the world and it’s mostly reflected in the employment sector. The work-from- home system adversely affects opportunities, but on the other hand, the growth of technology is also leading to positive changes. New areas of employment are emerging with promises,” he said. Mr.Balagopal added that the government is committed to ensuring that opportunities are available to all under all circumstances. “A lot of opportunities await as part of big development projects. A new generation that can embrace change will move forward both in literature and in life,” he said. Kovoor Kunjumon, MLA, presided over the function while State Youth Commission chairperson Chintha Jerome, bock panchayat member B. Jayachandran, district youth programme officer V. S Bindu, youth coordinator S. Shabeer, camp director Kureepuzha Sreekumar and Youth Welfare Board member Santosh Kala were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-ensures-fairness-in-job-opportunities-balagopal/article38122341.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:55 IST,KERALA||Applications invited for LBS courses||The Centre for Disability Studies functioning under the LBS Center for Science and Technology has invited applications for its Data Entry and Office Automation course starting from January 12. For more details, contact 0474 2970780.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited-for-lbs-courses/article38122426.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:52 IST,KERALA||Missing woman found unconscious||A 19-year-old woman from Vaikom who had disappeared into the bushes beside Vembanad Lake near Cheepungal on Monday was found lying unconscious at a remote location on Tuesday morning According to the police, the woman reached the spot along with her friend, Gopu, 22, of Vechoor, around 11 a.m. on Monday. The duo, however, soon picked up an altercation over a personal issue which culminated in a tragic end with the youth committing suicide. As the couple did not return after several hours, local people searched the area in the evening and found the man hanging. The police were soon called in and they recovered a suicide note left behind by the victim along with a bag and mobile phone. The terrified woman, however, had gone into hiding behind the bushes and spent almost 20 hours at the same spot. The fatigued woman while attempting to resurface on Tuesday morning fell unconscious. On an alert by the local people, a police team reached the spot and shifted her to a hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/missing-woman-found-unconscious/article38122332.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:52 IST,KERALA||Job fair at Ettumanur||A job fair being organised by the Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council (K-DISK) will be held at Mangalam Engineering College in Ettumanur on January 7. As many as 110 employers from diverse fields, including banking and non-banking, FMCG and information technology, will attend the event, which is being organised as part of the Kerala Knowledge Economy Mission of the State government. About 1,500 vacancies are up for grabs. In view of the COVID-19 situation, spot registration will not be available to the candidates. Minister for Cooperation and Registration V.N. Vasavan will inaugurate the event at 9 a.m on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/job-fair-at-ettumanur/article38122333.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Corpn. to devise plan to bridge COVID-induced academic gap||The Kozhikode Corporation is planning to launch a special action plan to bridge the gap in education of school students caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. A meeting chaired by Mayor Beena Philip on Monday decided to form an expert panel, comprising teachers, parent-teacher associations, educationalists, child psychologists, volunteers, sports and arts activists, and residents’ associations, to devise programmes for the purpose. Former finance minister T.M. Thomas Isaac also took part in the meeting. “There are students who have forgotten the basics as they stayed away from school for two years. The programme will be designed in such a way that they get compensatory classes for whatever they have missed, including arts and music,” said Rekha C., chairperson of the education standing committee of the Corporation. Database of students The plan will be ready to be implemented by March-end. Every school under the Corporation will come under the purview of the plan. A database of students talented in various capacities will be made, based on inputs from teachers. Special sessions would be arranged for them in their respective areas of interests, involving people who had excelled in the areas, said Ms. Rekha. “It will be a nice experience for students to meet and interact with personalities that they look up to,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-devise-plan-to-bridge-covid-induced-academic-gap/article38122288.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Traders oppose Valiyangadi food street project||The plan of the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation to convert Valiyangadi into a food street by night, despite the support of the Department of Tourism, has met with a roadblock as the trade unions and merchant organisations of the city have opposed it. They expressed their protest against the project at a meeting convened by District Collector N.Tej Lohit Reddy on Monday to discuss it. The organisations claimed that the project will destroy Valiyangadi, one of the oldest commercial streets in the State. The food street project is one in which food wagons will be parked in Valiyangadi street from 7 p.m. to 12 p.m. after business hours. The wagons and bunks will provide different kinds of food to the public. By morning, the street will be completely clean and ready for business as usual. ‘Business may be hit’ However, the trade organisations claimed that the food street project will lead to a hike in the rent of buildings in Valiyangadi and that the merchants will be unable to afford it, leading to a decline of business on the street. “The low rent is what helps us continue to do business in Valiyangadi”, Shyaam Sunder Eradi, president of the Calicut Foodgrains Merchants’ Association, said. The trade leaders said that around 10,000 labourers were working in Valiyangadi and that many of them may lose jobs if the street was converted into a food street. Also, the street will not be free by 7 p.m. as the inter-State lorries will be unloading stock till 9 p.m. The lorries that need to unload early in the morning also park on the street at night. The organisations suggested the authorities use either the renovated Bhatt Road beach or the land of the Harbour Department on the beach for the project, instead of Valiyangadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-oppose-valiyangadi-food-street-project/article38122291.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||K-Rail, Ghat tunnel road will destroy environment: greens||A collective of environmental, social and cultural organisations in the district is holding a protest at Kattilpeedika near Vengalam on Thursday against the implementation of K-Rail on the grounds that the project would adversely affect the natural ecosystem of north Kerala. A meeting of the organisations under the aegis of the All Kerala River Protection Committee on Monday led to the formation of a solidarity committee in support of the ongoing protests against K-Rail. State secretary of the River Protection Committee, T.V. Rajan, said that K-Rail, along with the tunnel road to Wayanad, would lead to large-scale destruction of the forest and cause water shortage in the region. The Madayipara biodiversity park in Kannur would have to be destroyed to set up K-Rail. This would lead to the drying up of rivulets in Kuppam, Ramapuram, and Perumba, besides affecting the 637 identified plant species, 142 species of butterflies, 186 species of birds, 60 species of dragonflies, 24 species of reptiles and 19 species of mammals. The Kavvayi lake, the third largest in the State and an ecologically fragile water body, which was the meeting place of seven rivers, would dry out. The absence of laterite hills would end the flow of water to the rivers and the lake. The Kadalundi Bird Sanctuary, the lotus plantation in Thirunavaya, and the kole wetlands in Ponnani and Thrissur would be affected by K-Rail, which would cross more than 160 water sources. All this would result in utmost water scarcity in north Kerala, Mr. Rajan said. On the tunnel road project across the Western Ghats, they said it would affect the capacity of the hills to hold rain water. The tunnel going under the ecologically fragile ghats would lead to the destruction of the Chalippuzha, Iruvazhinji river, Marippuzha, and Cherupuzha, besides affecting the flow of water into the Chaliyar. Building a tunnel through the Vellarimala, Vavul Mala, and Thollayiram Kandi, within the Ghats, would require large-scale deforestation, Mr. Rajan said, adding that the government was going ahead with the project without a proper environmental impact study and clearance from the Forest Department. Around 20 organisations, including the Western Ghats River Protection Committee, Prakrithi Samrakshana Samiti, Sarvodaya Mandalam, Lohya Vichara Vedi, Paristhithi Samrakshana Samiti and National Centre for Nature and Environment, besides the Chemmaram Wetland Protection Committee are part of the protest.  K-Rail, along with tunnel road, will lead to destruction of forest and cause water shortage in region T.V. Rajan River Protection Committee secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/k-rail-ghat-tunnel-road-will-destroy-environment-greens/article38122289.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:55 IST,KERALA||Plagiarism: complainant faces CU probe||The Syndicate of the University of Calicut (CU) recently took a rather strange decision to initiate an inquiry against an applicant to the post of assistant professor at its Department of Russian and Comparative Literature, who had alleged that a person appointed to the post had plagiarised her PhD thesis. P.C. Ancy Bay, a native of Tenhipalam, had alleged that over 60% of the PhD thesis of M. Sreekala, an assistant professor since January 2021, was plagiarised. Ms. Bay was one of the applicants for the post and was placed second on the rank list. She later filed a complaint with the Chief Minister’s office, which was taken up at the Syndicate meeting on December 30. The complaint said,“...the PhD submitted by Ms. Sreekala constitutes a plagiarised document and therefore, not eligible for, nor did it deserve the PhD degree. I request you to examine the facts and arguments submitted in this petition objectively. I request your timely intervention in the matter, and if my petition is found valid legally, I request you to initiate an executive procedure that could cancel the corrupt appointment of Ms. Sreekala in the Department of Russian and Comparative Literature, at the earliest.” Sources said allegations of plagiarism had been levelled against Ms. Sreekala earlier as well. It had been pointed out that a committee led by M.M. Basheer, the then Dean of Language and Literature, in 2016 had found plagiarised content in one book and three research articles published by Ms. Sreekala. However, the full report of the committee is yet to be made public. Ms. Sreekala later worked at the department as a temporary teacher. A report by the Assistant Registrar, recruitment section of the university, said, “...But, in the present complaint, specific allegations are made against the PhD thesis submitted by her. It is understood that no such inquiry regarding academic plagiarism in the thesis submitted by Ms. Sreekala had been conducted as yet. It is also understood that the plagiarism check policy was implemented only in the university in April 2015 and Ms. Sreekala was awarded PhD in July 2012, well before the said period”. The complaint was later forwarded to the Directorate of Research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plagiarism-complainant-faces-cu-probe/article38122294.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Jail warder held under POCSO Act||The Kasaba police on Tuesday arrested a jail warder attached to the Central Prison and Correctional Home in Kannur on the charge of sexually abusing a 17-year-old boy in Kozhikode city. The police said Bhagavathy Kottayil Sunesh, 40, was arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) on the basis of various complaints. He had allegedly sexually abused the boy near the Sreekandeswaram temple and a lodge in the city. He was produced in the Additional District Court and remanded in judicial custody, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jail-warder-held-under-pocso-act/article38122287.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:50 IST,KERALA||‘None can hijack Samastha’||Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama president Syed Mohammed Jifri Muthukoya Thangalhas has refused to be drawn into a controversy on the love-hate relationship between his organisation and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). However, replying to questions at a news conference here on Tuesday, he said none could hijack the Samastha. He was reacting to a statement of Samastha vice president M.T. Abdulla Musliyar that the Samastha and the IUML were related to each other. “That is his personal opinion. You should ask him about that. What the president and general secretary say is the official position of the Samastha,” Mr. Thangal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/none-can-hijack-samastha/article38122345.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:50 IST,KERALA||Many in Samastha against Jifri Thangal’s stance||The Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama (SKJU), the biggest body of Islamic scholars in the State, popular by the forename Samastha, seems to be heading towards a repetition of history. Although it was interpreted as signs of rejuvenation when its president Syed Mohammed Jifri Muthukoya Thangal tried to instil the orthodox Sunni spirit into the organisation, recent developments indicate that Mr. Thangal’s position in the Samastha looks precarious rather than commanding. A large section in the Samastha, owing allegiance to the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), is against the stand adopted by Mr. Thangal, especially vis-à-vis the religious organisation’s stance on political parties. For Mr. Thangal, the IUML is a political party like any other, though the Samastha is closer to it than any other party. Origin of dispute However, for many other junior colleagues of Mr. Thangal, both the Samastha and the IUML are nearly inseparable and almost synonymous. This is where the dispute begins when it comes to matters concerning politics and religion. Malappuram meeting The attempts to corner Mr. Thangal, for his forthright and outspoken Sunni stand that often clashes with the interests of the IUML, were evident at the Malappuram meeting of the Samastha golden jubilee finale on Sunday. A few resolutions, with obvious political intentions, were moved at the mega conference without Mr. Thangal’s knowledge and permission. Among the five-point resolutions, the one against Communism and Communists in the State was especially publicised later with the photographs of Mr. Thangal. He was quick to realise the “evil designs” behind the negative publicity he was being given. He soon not only disowned the resolution but also said it was moved without his knowledge and permission. Mr. Thangal, during his inaugural speech, had not said anything against the government or the Communists. He said the Samastha was a religious forum where followers of different political parties, including the IUML, could function. He had focussed his speech sharply on the threats being posed by deviant Muslim groups to the traditional Sunni faith — which was largely the objective of the Samastha. IUML and Samastha However, M.T. Abdulla Musliar, who spoke after Mr. Thangal, sent home the message that the IUML and the Samastha were synonymous. His speech was carefully planned and placed in such a way as to make it clear that Thangal’s words were not the ultimate in the organisation. His message was loud and clear: Mr. Thangal too may have an unceremonious exit like his predecessor Azhari Thangal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-in-samastha-against-jifri-thangals-stance/article38122349.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Call to revive ‘Ulama activism’||Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama (Kanthapuram faction) secretary Ponmala Abdul Khadir Musliar has called for collective efforts from the Sunni community to revive “Ulama activism” propounded by former Sunni leader M.A. Abdul Khadar Musliyar. Inaugurating an academic conference on ‘World of M.A. Ustad’ at Hikamiyya College at Manjeri, Mr. Musliar said M.A. Ustad had displayed great farsightedness in bringing religious education to the doorsteps of even the poorest Muslim homes in the State. “M.A. Ustad played an undeniable role in bringing about a positive transformation to the community. The new generation has many things to learn from him,” he said. Kerala Muslim Jamat president Kootampara Abdurahman Darimi presided over the function. K.K.S. Thangal led the prayer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-revive-ulama-activism/article38122295.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:55 IST,KERALA||18 new amphibian species found in Parambikulam||A herpetofaunal survey conducted in the Parambikulam Tiger Reserve has found 18 new species of amphibians, brightening the arguments for furthering the conservation of the protected region. The study, commissioned by the Parambikulam Tiger Conservation Foundation, has revealed that the protected tiger reserve is home to one-third of the total amphibian species found in Kerala. As many as 59 species of amphibians belonging to two orders and 10 families were recorded in the survey held recently. In the last survey held in 2016, only 41 amphibian species had been documented in Parambikulam. Kerala has recorded 176 amphibian species so far. Endemic species  An endemic frog species called swamp tree frog or Thekkan chathuppan ( Mercurana myristicapalustris ) was found for the first time in Parambikulam. Similarly, another endemic frog called Indian dot frog or Chengal kurivalan ( Uperodon mormoratus ) was also recorded for the first time in the tiger reserve. It was rarely found south of Palakkad Gap in the Western Ghats.  “The results were excellent compared to other protected areas in the State,” said Parambikulam Tiger Reserve deputy director Vysak Sasikumar, who coordinated the study. As many as 34 amphibian species found in the tiger reserve are classified as endangered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Mr. Sasikumar said that 37 species were endemic to the Western Ghats and 11 were endemic to Kerala. “The findings enhance the value of the Parambikulam Tiger Reserve as a well-protected repository of biodiversity and endemism,” he said.  When Cholakarumbi ( Melanobatrachus indicus ), a rare and endangered frog species called galaxy frog, was identified from multiple locations, Pathala thavala ( Nasikabatrachus sahyadrensis ) or purple frog was also recorded with its tadpoles in Parambikulam.  The study was done in three phases, covering the active breeding time of the amphibians in the Western Ghats from July to October. It covered both the southwest monsoon and the retreating northeast monsoon. A visual encounter survey (VES) formed the crux of the mapping. The locations for the survey were selected based on altitude, forest type, vegetation, and microhabitat conditions. Besides, the amphibians and reptiles encountered by the forest staff during patrolling were also considered. Herpetologist Sujith V. Gopalan and conservation biologist Vishnu Vijayan led the survey along with the staff of the Parambikulam Tiger Reserve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/18-new-amphibian-species-found-in-parambikulam/article38122421.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:55 IST,KERALA||Passengers seek halt for Amrita at Pudunagaram||The Palakkad-Pollachi Rail Passengers Association has demanded that the Thiruvananathapuram-Madurai Amrita Express (16343) and its pairing train be given a halt at the Pudunagaram railway station. It has demanded that the Chennai-Palakkad Express (22651) and its pairing train be given a halt at Kollengode. The association has pointed out that Kollengode is being depended on by many passengers and denying a halt at Kollengode would be an insult to a large number of passengers. The association has said the people of Koduvayur, Chittur and Peruvambu were increasingly depending on Amrita Express to travel to Thiruvananthapuram. “A stop at Pudunagaram will be a great relief for those passengers,” A. Sadik, secretary of the Association, has said. The association has also demanded restoration of passenger trains and rescheduling of Tiruchendur Passenger (56769) to start its journey at 6 a.m. from Palakkad Junction. “Railways should end its neglect towards the Palakkad-Pollachi line,” Mr. Sadik has said. Association president Murukan Erattil has presided over the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/passengers-seek-halt-for-train-at-pudunagaram/article38122084.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:55 IST,KERALA||VISWAS anniversary today||The Victims Information, Sensitisation, Welfare and Assistance Society (VISWAS), an organisation working for the victims of various excesses and crimes, will celebrate its ninth anniversary here on Wednesday. Palakkad Principal Judge B. Kamal Pasha will inaugurate the celebrations at 4 p.m. at the Collectorate. Sub Collector Balpreet Singh will preside over the function. VN Rajan Victimology Library will be commissioned at the function. Dr. Madhavan Menon Memorial Awards for the best legal students from Palakkad district and the prizes to the winners of the Velayudhan Nambiar Memorial Inter-Law College Debate will be distributed at the function. Several dignitaries were expected to attend the function, said VISWAS secretary P. Premnath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/viswas-anniversary-today/article38122422.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||Diverse feedback on SilverLine||The State government’s outreach programme to dispel apprehensions regarding the SilverLine project in the capital district elicited an array of suggestions from people from various walks of life. Urging the government to forge ahead with the project that is “crucial for the State’s development”, former Chief Secretary K. Jayakumar called for issuing a white paper that would eradicate misconceptions. Former State Police Chief Jacob Punnoose, who felt that the project would significantly decrease road accidents and fatalities, proposed linking the rail corridor with national transport networks. Trivandrum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TCCI) president S.N. Raghuchandran Nair also stressed the need to ensure last-mile connectivity by linking the stations of the proposed rail corridor with various towns in the district. Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College resident medical officer Mohan Roy said the significance of the SilverLine project must factor in physical and mental health benefits. The facility is bound to reduce fatigue among commuters who travel long distances frequently. Ambulance facility Responding to a suggestion by Indian Medical Association (IMA) Thiruvananthapuram branch president Prasanth C.V., K-Rail managing director V. Ajith Kumar said a cabin each in the proposed trains will be designed in a manner they can be converted as ambulances to transport patients. Kerala Vypari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi leader Peringamala Ramachandran said transporting vegetables and other perishables in the semi-high-speed train could prevent the existing wastage of 30% and thereby bring down price of commodities. Cardinal Baselios Cleemis Catholicos, the Major Archbishop of Malankara Syrian Catholic Church, called for speedy disbursal of compensation for those whose holdings will be acquired for the project. Metropolitan Gabriel Mar Gregorios of the Thiruvananthapuram diocese of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church stressed the need for a mass campaign at the grassroots-level to placate all sections of society, especially those who stood to lose their land. Palayam Imam V.P. Suhaib Moulavi urged the government to spare places of worships and graveyards as much as possible during land acquisition in view of the paucity of vacant spaces to relocate them. Sree Narayana Dharma Sangham Trust (Sivagiri Madhom) president Swami Sathchidananda opined that compulsions relating to faith need not be given priority while striving for human welfare. Danseuse Neena Prasad said the project was a dream that has come true for numerous women who commuted long distances daily for their livelihood. Arrangements must be ensured for women’s safety while travelling, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/diverse-feedback-on-silverline/article38122473.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:50 IST,KERALA||Cong. to resist K-Rail on a ‘war footing’, to uproot markers||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran asserted here on Tuesday that the Congress would resist K-Rail (SilverLine) on a “war footing”. “If required, Congress workers will uproot the markers placed by the government to demarcate the alignment of the proposed semi-high-speed railway line,” he said. The party was willing to run the gauntlet of risking a law and order issue to thwart the “anti-people” project. Asked if removing the markers would be a symbolic protest, Mr. Sudhakaran retorted, “A symbolic protest against [Chief Minister] Pinarayi [Vijayan] is pointless”. He alleged that Mr. Vijayan was keen on the nearly Rs. 2-lakh-crore project for the sizeable commission involved. Mr. Vijayan had learnt the basics of harvesting commission by contracting the Canadian firm SNC-Lavalin to upgrade hydel power projects in Kerala as Power Minister. Mr. Vijayan had sacrificed the State’s interests at the altar of private profiteering, Mr. Sudhakaran alleged. The government had contracted a “blacklisted” Japanese firm selling outdated rail technology to execute SilverLine. The government hand-picked the consultancy tasked to conduct the social and environmental impact study without any global tender. “The agency would probably report to Mr. Vijayan’s liking,” he said. Mr. Sudhakaran said the number of families who would lose their homes, land, and livelihood due to SilverLine was just the tip of the iceberg. K-Rail would freeze all development within a two-km radius of the steeply high railway embankment. Alternative plan The United Democratic Front was willing to submit an alternative mass rapid transit system if the government would listen. Ideally, the government should link the four airports in Kerala to reduce commute time. K-Rail would push the State’s economy into an irredeemable debt trap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-to-resist-k-rail-on-a-war-footing-to-uproot-markers/article38122352.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:50 IST,KERALA||Cong. prime rival in State: Kanam||The Congress remains the prime political rival of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala, CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran has said. Speaking at a meet-the-press at the Press Club here on Tuesday, Mr. Rajendran said Binoy Viswam, MP, had said in a national context that there was no party to replace the Congress as a bulwark against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The political context in Kerala was starkly different. In 2004, the LDF had supported the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government at the Centre. At the same time, it had fought the Congress in the Assembly election in Kerala.  Mr. Viswam’s statement had arguably caused some flutter in the LDF. CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishna had maintained that Mr. Viswam’s position could put the wind in Congress’ sails as the LDF and the United Democratic Front girded themselves up for the upcoming Assembly byelection in Thrikkakkara. It did not help the CPI that Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhkaran had welcomed Mr. Viswam’s words.  No room for ambiguity Mr. Rajendran said there was no ground for any ambiguity. “In Kerala, it is always the LDF versus the UDF,” he said. Asked about a possible electoral alliance with the Congress at the national level, Mr. Rajendran said, “CPI(M) and CPI party congresses are due. The central committees of the respective parties will discuss such matters.” Mr. Rajendran slammed UDF MPs for petitioning the Centre against backing the K-Rail (SilverLine) project in Kerala. Partisan politics had prompted the Congress to oppose the scheme blindly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-prime-rival-in-state-kanam/article38122351.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||Three teenagers killed in Vazhayila bike accident||Three teenagers died after the motorcycle they were travelling on rammed a tree near Vazhayila Junction within the Aruvikkara police station limits here on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as Steffin Vinod (17) from Puravoorkonam near Vazhayila, Vineesh (17) from Oolampara and Siddharth (17) from Kulathinkara near Peroorkada. While Vineesh was a Plus One student at the Government Medical College Higher Secondary School, the two others were Plus One students at the Concordia Higher Secondary School at Peroorkada. According to the Aruvikkara police, the accident happened around 4 p.m. The three of them were travelling from Nedumangad to Peroorkada, with Vineesh riding the motorcycle. A CCTV visual of the accident shows him losing control of the two-wheeler at a sharp turn just before Vazhayila junction and the vehicle veering off into the nearby bushes and ramming a tree. The police said the three had sustained serious injuries after hitting their heads on the tree and the ground. Though they were rushed to the Medical College Hospital, the teenagers were declared dead on arrival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-teenagers-killed-in-vazhayila-bike-accident/article38122479.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||Operation Ruchi: 8 food outlets shut for violations||Eight food establishments were closed by the Food Safety department during inspections conducted in connection with Christmas and New Year across the State. As many as 611 establishments were found to be violating food safety norms. The department had launched Operation Ruchi to ensure that cakes and other bakery products reaching markets for Christmas and New Year were safe for consumption. It was launched following receipt of information that chemicals, both allowed and banned, artificial colours, taste enhancers, and preservatives were used in excess in cake and bakery products. Bakeries, cake manufacturing centres, and small-scale home-based manufacturing units in all districts were inspected by special squads from December 17 to 31. Of the 2,829 establishments inspected, 77 establishments that were found violating the Food Safety and Standards Act had to pay fines. Notices were issued to 534 establishments, and 815 food samples (363 statutory and 452 surveillance) collected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/operation-ruchi-8-food-outlets-shut-for-violations/article38122472.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||Orphaned children can get their names changed||The Local Self-Government department (LSGD) has issued orders to all birth and death registrars to allow children who are under care in child welfare centres or yet to be adopted to change their names in the birth registers. A lack of clarity in the law had prevented children without parents from changing their names. The change has been made in the birth and death registration process for orphaned children following an observation by the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights in October last year against not allowing change of names of such children. The commission observed that it is a violation of a child’s human rights to not be allowed to change its name only for the reason that he/she does not have parents, when other children who have either parents or adoptive parents can change theirs. In the existing laws or in any of the circulars till date, there is no mention of the case of orphaned children under care in an orphanage or are yet to be adopted. A circular issued in 2014 had allowed children one of whose parents had died or abandoned them to change their names based on the application of the remaining parent. However, the case of orphaned children was never mentioned until an order was issued a few days ago. The birth, death and marriage registration certificates in most local bodies are now available on the respective online portal. For changes in the records, the relevant documents must be submitted to the office. The updated certificate can be downloaded from the website for print.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/orphaned-children-can-get-their-names-changed/article38122478.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||Scrap shops under lens||City Police Commissioner G. Sparjan Kumar on Tuesday issued orders to inspect scrap shops in the city. The move comes against the backdrop of a massive fire that had gutted a scrapyard at Killipalam a day ago. Local police units have been instructed to examine the licenses of such outlets and fire safety arrangements in place. Action will be taken against those flouting norms, he said. The Karamana police have instituted a probe to ascertain the circumstances that led to the fire at Killipalam. The statements of the owner and employees of the scrapyard were recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scrap-shops-under-lens/article38122477.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||Proposal for changes in HSE revaluation rules||Any increase in marks following revaluation will be allowed, as per a draft proposal for revision of the higher secondary education (HSE) examination manual. Earlier, mark change was permitted only if there was a 10% increase after revaluation. The draft proposal was discussed at a meeting of teachers’ organisations convened by Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty on Tuesday. Another proposal is to allow a student who has failed in Plus One or Plus Two examinations to reappear for that particular year’s examination. Currently, a student who fails in Plus Two has to appear for both Plus One and Plus Two examinations. While 75% attendance was compulsory to appear for exams, it has been proposed that 50% attendance with permission from the Director of General Education suffices if it is for reasonable reasons. The draft proposes that the number of answer scripts to be valued by teachers in each of the two sessions in a day be increased to 20 from the present 13. However, the teachers opined that too many papers could compromise valuation quality. A special squad to ensure effective functioning of valuations camps too has been proposed. An affidavit from a notary, instead of a magistrate, has been proposed in case of loss of higher secondary certificate. Khader Committee A meeting of the Quality Improvement Programme (QIP) monitoring committee that followed decided to frame special rules for implementing the Khader Committee recommendations as a package in phases. The Minister assured that the salary and service conditions of current employees would not be affected. Staff fixation that has not been held for two years will be held this year, and transfer of higher secondary teachers will be completed this month, the Minister said. There will be no half-yearly examinations this year, but only class tests to evaluate students. Representatives of two opposition teacher organisations — the Kerala Pradesh School Teachers’ Association and the Kerala School Teachers’ Union — walked out of the meeting. They alleged that only teachers’ organisations that are part of the QIP were called for the meeting to discuss the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/proposal-for-changes-in-hse-revaluation-rules/article38122343.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:51 IST,KERALA||Pinarayi hoodwinking people: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was hoodwinking the people by promising families displaced by K-Rail due compensation. Mr. Vijayan heads a government infamous for its unfulfilled promises. The Chief Minister has refused to take the common folk into confidence about K-Rail, Mr. Surendran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-hoodwinking-people-bjp/article38122353.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:51 IST,KERALA||98,084 more children vaccinated||Kerala vaccinated 98,084 children in the 15-18 age group against COVID-19 on Tuesday, the second day of a special vaccination drive for children. Thrissur district came on top, administering the vaccine to 16,625 children, followed by Kannur 16,475, and Palakkad 11,098. The State has thus administered the first dose of Covaxin to 1,36,767 children. The State has opened 949 vaccination sites for children and 696 sites for those above 18 years. So far, 98.6% of the eligible population (above 18 years) has been delivered the first dose, while 80% of the eligible population has been fully vaccinated. As part of the special vaccination drive for children, vaccination sites will be open on all days of the week, except Wednesdays, at the District/ General/ Taluk hospitals and community health centres. Children can be vaccinated at primary/ family health centres on Tuesdays, Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/98084-more-children-vaccinated/article38122356.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:51 IST,KERALA||Slight increase in active case pool in State||Kerala reported 3,640 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 71,120 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 52,58,614 cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 48,637 with the State adding 453 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Tuesday. 2,363 recoveries The State’s active case pool that had been declining rapidly these past weeks has been showing a slight increase for the past four days. The active case pool now has 20,180 patients. A total of 2,363 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on Tuesday. On Tuesday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 180.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/slight-increase-in-active-case-pool-in-state/article38122358.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||Anert to hold rooftop solar power scheme programme||The Agency for New and Renewable Energy Research and Technology (Anert) will organise a programme to propagate awareness on Soura Thejas, a subsidised scheme for installing rooftop grid-connected solar power plants in houses, at its headquarters here on January 5, 6 and 7. The programme, which will be held from 9.30 a.m. to 7.30 p.m. on the three days, will also facilitate spot registration. The public will be able to interact directly with developers to choose products of their choice. Loan assistance Major banks, including State Bank of India (SBI), HDFC and Union Bank of India will participate in the event to help with loan assistance. The services of experts from Anert will be made available at the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anert-to-hold-rooftop-solar-power-scheme-programme/article38122470.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||Samagra’s resource centres get a boost||The district unit of the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala has started implementing creative programmes to improve the functioning of its local resource centres. The local resource centres, which are located mostly in hilly and coastal areas, were launched to provide more opportunities to socially and financially backward students. These function in after-school hours and during holidays, and the activities are led by education volunteers appointed by the Samagra. A status study was conducted by trainers and coordinators of Samagra’s block resource centre with the aim of transforming these into cultural and academic centres, according to a statement from the district Samagra Shiksha unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/samagras-resource-centres-get-a-boost/article38122471.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||Academic excellence award||Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) member secretary Rajan Varghese has been selected for the K. Sadasivan Pillai Memorial Academic Excellence Award instituted by the Council for Teacher Education Foundation (CETF), Kerala. The award has been instituted for comprehensive contributions in the higher education sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/academic-excellence-award/article38122474.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||599 new COVID cases in district||The capital district recorded 599 new COVID-19 cases and 571 recoveries on Tuesday as the number of active cases stood at 3,045. A test positivity rate (TPR) of 7.8% was recorded on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/599-new-covid-cases-in-district/article38122475.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||Ponmudi to reopen for visitors today||The Ponmudi ecotourism centre which was closed three months ago owing to inclement weather will be reopened for visitors on Wednesday.  Entry will be permitted only for those who register on the website www.keralaforestecotourism.com/ponmuditvm .  Maximum 1,500 people A maximum of 1,500 people will be permitted in a day, an official release here said. Police and forest officials will jointly coordinate activities in the area, the released said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ponmudi-to-reopen-for-visitors-today/article38122476.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:55 IST,KERALA||Motor transport workers to go ahead with stir||A joint protest committee of motor transport workers has decided to go ahead with protests, including motor vehicle strikes, demanding that the Union government address the crisis in the sector due to various policies. As part of the agitation, a joint convention will be organised in Thrissur on January 29. In a press release issued here on Tuesday, the committee said the constant increase in petrol and diesel prices, hike in insurance premiums, the vehicle scrappage policy and the mandatory GPS policy have created extra burden for workers as well as those who run smaller transport businesses. The amendments to motor vehicle policies will only lead to monopolisation in the sector. Some officials of the Motor Vehicle department in the State are also working at odds with the Left Democratic Front government’s stated policy, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/motor-workers-to-go-ahead-with-stir/article38122344.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:55 IST,KERALA||Riyas: second Kuthiran tunnel to open in April||The second tunnel at Kuthiran will be opened in April, Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas has reiterated. He was chairing a meeting of Public Works department (PWD) officials from Thrissur, Ernakulam, Idukki, Malappuram and Palakkad, representing 60 constituencies here on Monday. PWD mission team State nodal officer S. Shanavas presided. Kerala could become the State with the best roads in the country if the functioning of PWD officials was streamlined, the Minister said. The Minister recently launched a Constituency Monitoring Team to strengthen the functioning of the department. The project aims at entrusting the responsibility of public works in each of the 140 Assembly constituencies to a team led by a Superintending, Executive or Assistant Executive Engineer. Accordingly, 24 Superintending Engineers, 57 Executive Engineers and 59 Assistant Executive Engineers have been given duty. Reports Road maintenance wing Chief Engineer Manu Mohan is the State chief nodal officer. There are regional nodal officers too. Nodal officers should monitor work in each constituency and submit reports once in two months. The chief nodal officer will submit the report to the Minister. The new monitoring team will function in addition to the existing monitoring system in the department. “Our objective is to ensure that the public works in the State are finished efficiently in a time-bound manner,” the Minister said.  Kerala can become the State with the best roads in the country if the PWD is streamlined, says Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/riyas-second-kuthiran-tunnel-to-open-in-april/article38122424.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:55 IST,KERALA||K.M. Bhat commemorated||The 11th Dr. K.M. Bhat memorial function and distribution of award for the year 2021 were held at the Kerala Forest Research Institute, Peechi, recently. The chief guest of the function was K.K. Pandey, Scientist G, Institute of Wood Science and Technology, Bengaluru.  Mr. Pandey made a lecture on ‘Transparent wood: a promising material for functional and structural applications’ on the occasion. He explained the significance and applications of transparent wood as a developing technology of wider commercial applications.  Mr. Pandey distributed the Dr. K.M. Bhat Memorial Award for the best PhD thesis of the year 2021 to Dhaneesh Bhaskar, research scholar, KFRI. Syam Viswanath, director and chairman of the endowment committee, presided over the function. T.V. Sajeev, registrar in-charge, welcomed the gathering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/km-bhat-commemorated/article38122425.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:51 IST,KERALA||Pinarayi unveils Rs. 13,265-cr. SilverLine payout||Pitching the project as one that would usher in long-term environmental benefits, Mr. Vijayan reiterated that the rail corridor would not pass through ecologically fragile areas and wildlife sanctuaries. The natural course of rivers and waterbodies would remain unaffected. There would be no impact on paddy fields and wetlands as 88 km of the corridor would be established on viaducts. SilverLine is expected to bring down carbon emissions by 2.88 lakh tonnes by 2025 and 5.95 lakh tonnes by 2052. The usage of fossil fuels would come down with the Ro-Ro service that will be offered on trains. Allays fears Mr. Vijayan rebuffed criticisms that the 292.72-km embankment of the rail corridor would divide the State into two parts. In addition to overbridges and underpasses every 500 metres, a quarter of the corridor’s entire length will pass on viaducts and through tunnels. Referring to opinions that the existing railway infrastructure should be ideally upgraded instead of pursuing SilverLine, Mr. Vijayan said train speeds have remained unchanged despite the doubling of railway lines. Pointing out that there were 626 curves along the existing railway corridor from Thiruvananthapuram to Kozhikode, he claimed these could not be straightened due to the hurdles associated with land acquisition along densely-populated areas. Revenue Minister K. Rajan, Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil, Transport Minister Antony Raju and General Education Minister V. Sivankutty were among those who were present. The programme was attended by industrialists, religious leaders, present and former bureaucrats, traders’ representatives, doctors and cultural activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-unveils-rs-13265-cr-silverline-payout/article38122355.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:40 IST,KERALA||Kicking it off||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kicking-it-off/article38122305.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Jumping with joy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jumping-with-joy/article38122298.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||Steeped in devotion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steeped-in-devotion/article38122481.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||Warm welcome||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/warm-welcome/article38122483.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:55 IST,KERALA||Against govt. stand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/against-govt-stand/article38122429.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:06 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flyover demolition from today||The demolition of the Road Over Bridge connecting National Highway 44 with the heart of the city will begin on Wednesday. Traffic on the flyover was stopped from 3 p.m. on Tuesday from both sides. Traffic Deputy Superintendent of Police Prasad Reddy said all heavy vehicles coming into the Anantapur city would be allowed only between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. till the new four-lane flyover becomes functional. “In view of the demolition activities to be taken up for the next 20 days, all service roads alongside the existing ROB too would be out of bounds for all vehilces,” Mr. Reddy said. Buses coming from Hyderabad will enter the four-lane Gooty approach Road from Somuladoddi and come to bus-station in the city, and those heavy vehicles proceeding towards Tadipatri, can take the NTR Road and proceed further. All small vehicles coming into the city or leaving the city can take either the Ram Nagar Flyover to reach Rudrampeta-NH 44 junction or the Saifullah Flyover and reach Tapovanam-NH 44 Junction at both ends of the city. The construction of the new flyover, as part of the widening of 9.2 km of the existing NH 32 connecting NH 44 with NH 42, is likely to take one year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flyover-demolition-from-today/article38121937.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:05 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Student ‘commits suicide’ in Anantapur||A girl student of Hulekal Government High School in Kanekal mandal allegedly committed suicide after her mother reportedly chided her for not studying well. The Kanekal police said when the girl took the extreme step when there was nobody at home. The police personnel have registered a case and are investigating the case. The body was sent for post-mortem at Kanekal Government Hospital. Vaccination angle The family members had initially claimed she was down with fever since Monday evening following COVID-19 vaccination, but the Kanekal police are investigating from a possible suicide angle.  Anantapur District Medical and Health Officer(DMHO) Y. Kameswara Prasad told The Hindu that the medical officers had conducted an inquiry into the incident.  “Ligature marks were seen on the neck of the student and no other classmate of the student had complained of any other discomfort after taking the vaccine,” Dr. Prasad said and added that the final result of the autopsy would reveal the cause. Helpline There is always someone to talk to at: 100; 9989819191 or reach over email: ananthapuramupolice@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/student-commits-suicide-in-anantapur/article38121934.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constitutional validity of Dam Safety Act challenged in HC||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) Lok Sabha member S. Ramalingam, representing Mayiladuthurai constituency in Tamil Nadu, has moved the Madras High Court challenging the constitutional validity of the Dam Safety Act, 2021 on the grounds that it goes against federalism and is beyond the legislative competence of the Centre. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu on Tuesday accepted a request made by senior counsel P. Wilson for an early hearing of the case and directed the Registry to list the matter for January 10. Counsel said he would, by then, serve papers on Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan. In an affidavit filed in support of his petition, the Member of Parliament wrote: “The impugned (under challenge) Act is a legislation passed by the Union through brute majority to blatantly usurp the States’ power in broad day light when legislators like myself were helpless to prevent the violence done to the Constitution.” Vague definitions Mr. Ramalingam contended that certain terms, including the word ‘dam’ in the Act, had been deliberately defined vaguely to give unbridled power to the Centre to treat any dam as a ‘specified dam’. Mr. Ramalingam feared that if the definitions were accepted, almost all the dams in the country would fall under the purview of the Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/constitutional-validity-of-dam-safety-act-challenged-in-hc/article38121879.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:06 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||“Jagan govt. committed to ST welfare”||The Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government is committed to protecting livelihood, security and forest rights of ST communities, said State ST Commission chairman Kumbha Ravi Babu. The ST panel chief, who was on a two-day visit to Chittoor district on Tuesday, interacted with the residents of ST Colony at Kuyyavanka village of Tavanampalle mandal, 35 km from here. During the inspection, the residents brought to the notice of Mr. Ravi Babu that though they had been cultivating the lands in the forest-fringe areas for ages, they were reportedly facing rough weather from the forest department personnel. Due to the alleged objections from forest officials, the residents said that they were unable to construct pucca houses under the schemes. The issues of lack of power supply, drinking water problem, and raiding of crops by wild elephants in hamlets in the western mandals also came up during the interaction. Mr. Ravi Babu assured the residents that he would take up their issue with the State government for redress at the earliest. Earlier, the ST commission chief had visited the lands under cultivation by the ST communities in the forest-fringe areas and obtained information about the crop patterns and marketing facilities at their disposal. The staff of the Apollo Total Health project at Aragonda in Tavanamapalle mandal apprised the commission chairman about the health awareness campaigns undertaken at the ST hamlets abutting the forests. Senior officials of the police, revenue, and tribal welfare departments took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-govt-committed-to-st-welfare/article38121939.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||People are bearing the brunt of Jagan’s reckless policies: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday described Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy as a “betrayer” and a “liar,” who was bent on ruining Andhra Pradesh in an irreparable manner. Addressing the media here, Mr. Naidu termed Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy as a “man of destruction,” whose government “perpetrated attacks on constitutional institutions, obstructed Polavaram project, demolished Amaravati, centralised corruption, and increased the financial burden on the poor people.” ‘Destructive approach’ “The destruction, which had begun with the demolition of the government’s Praja Vedika in 2019, has been going on even now,” Mr. Naidu said. “The poorer sections are bearing the brunt of Mr. Reddy’s reckless policies, which have also pushed the State into a debt trap,” he observed. Educated people and businesses might go to other States for opportunities, but the poor people would have to remain in Andhra Pradesh and repay the mounting debt, he said. “Destruction is easy, bit it will require a lot of effort to construct anything,” Mr. Naidu observed. Stating that the government’s decision on Amaravati marked the peak of Mr. Reddy’s “destructive approach,” Mr. Naidu said more than 29,000 farmers had voluntarily given 33,000 acres for a noble objective of constructing a capital for the State. “Intellectuals should debate the issue and analyse the disastrous consequences of the government’s three-capital move,” he said. Reverse tenders Blaming the YSRCP government’s reverse tendering for the delay in the Polavaram project, Mr. Naidu wondered whether Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy would be able to complete the project this year. “Can the government release a White Paper on the delay? They have promised to complete Polavaram by December 2021, but the DPR has not yet been finalised,” Mr. Naidu said. The Chief Minister should explain why he could not obtain clearances for such an important project even after 32 months, he said. Mr. Reddy failed to live up to expectations due to his “corrupt agenda,” Mr. Naidu said, and added that the Chief Minister had ignored the interlinking of rivers, brought out a “jobless” calendar, chased away big industries, destroyed agriculture, and removed Anna Canteens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-are-bearing-the-brunt-of-jagans-reckless-policies-naidu/article38122409.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:12 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Work with diligence and commitment’||Elected representatives of Guntur Municipal Corporation should work with commitment and dedication to develop the city , said MLC Lella Appireddy. He was speaking at the inaugural training session for corporators held on Tuesday. “This is a big opportunity for you to make a mark in public life. Guntur is one of the oldest municipalities in the country and it was formed in the year 1866. During its formative years, the municipal council as well as the chairman were nominated by the Collector and almost controlled by him. The town has, however, been served by some of the outstanding and enlightened persons, inspired by the ideals of service and statesmanship. Now, you have a role model in Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who has been among the masses for 10 years on a trot and finally winning a massive mandate in the year 2019. Since then, he has been working hard for ensuring equality in society,” said Mr. Appireddy. Calling upon the corporators, many of them first timers, to eschew corruption, Mr. Appireddy asked them to work with diligence and honesty in solving the problems of the poorer sections. Mayor Kavati Manohar Naidu said Guntur municipality was upgraded to grade III in 1891, I Grade in 1917, special grade in 1952 and selection grade in 1960. In 1994, it was made a Municipal Corporation and in 1995, the first direct election of the Municipal Corporation was conducted. Since then, many Mayors and Municipal Commissioners had served the city. “We are witnessing history as the elections were held to GMC after a gap of 10 years. The people of the city voted overwhelmingly in support of the YSRCP and its our duty to keep their trust,” said Mr. Manohar Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-with-diligence-and-commitment/article38122492.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS HC seeks status report over rising COVID cases||Telangana High Court on Tuesday sought a fresh status report from the State government on the steps taken to contain spread of COVID-19 and proliferation of new virus variant, Omicron. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili, hearing a batch of PIL petitions pertaining to COVID-19, also wanted a report from the expert committee that advises the State government on measures to check the infectious disease. Earlier, counsels appearing for different petitioners requested the HC to instruct the State government to consider undertaking all steps to ensure the pandemic did not rise its head like it did in the second wave last year. Plea to shut schools Lawyer Chikkudu Prabhakar repeatedly requested the bench to hold hearing of cases in virtual mode in the backdrop of steep rise in COVID cases. He also wanted the government to shut all schools stating that children were said to be more susceptible to the new variant. Advocate Ravichandran appealed to the bench to take up hearing of COVID-connected pleas even during Sankranti vacation for the HC as the positive cases were increasing multi-fold. Advocate General B.S. Prasad presented the status report filed by the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare on measures initiated by the government to stall spreading of the pandemic. He informed the HC that all precautions were being taken by the government in the backdrop of the new variant spreading its tentacles much faster vis-a-vis other variant like Delta. The government was imposing fines on individuals not adhering to COVID-appropriate behaviour such as not wearing masks, he said. Meanwhile, the HC announced immediate suspension of physical hearing of cases by all division and single benches of the HC till further orders in the backdrop of fast rising COVID-19 cases. The notification of the HC, however, said the judges would have the discretion over whether to hear cases physically or virtually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-seeks-fresh-status-report-over-rising-covid-infections/article38122241.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nadda in BJP’s Telangana ‘peace rally’||Amid restrictions, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J.P. Nadda on Tuesday paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi’s statue here as part of the party’s “peace rally” in protest against the arrest of the BJP’s Telangana unit president Bandi Sanjay Kumar. High drama prevailed on Tuesday evening as Mr. Nadda arrived at the city airport to participate in the rally but police denied permission for holding it in view of COVID-19-related prohibitory orders. Mr. Nadda told reporters at the airport that the city’s Joint Commissioner of Police Kartikeya had met him and told him that COVID-19 norms should be adhered to and that no permission was accorded for the event. Mr. Nadda said he told the official that he would follow all COVID-19 norms and go to Mahatma Gandhi’s statue accordingly, in a democratic way. The police official, however, expressed his inability saying he had no permission for it, he said.  “I said you wanted me to adopt the norms and I adopted the norms. I will go as per the norms. They can tell me where they feel that I am not following it. I will fulfil if there is any shortcoming in following the norms. But, I will go to pay my respects at Gandhi ji ’s statue in a democratic way and within the system,” Mr. Nadda said.  He is scheduled to participate in a three-day coordination meeting of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, and various organisations inspired by the Sangh, from Thursday. Union Minister Kishan Reddy also took part in the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nadda-in-bjps-telangana-peace-rally/article38121896.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:36 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special postal cover on Gollala Mamidada shrine||The Department of Posts is going to release a special postal cover on the famous 19th century Kodandarama temple to celebrate and conserve the architectural beauty of the temple’s east and west gopurams at Gollala Mamidada village in East Godavari district on January 7. The temple is dedicated to Lord Kodandarama Swamy. Built by Dwarampudi Subbaiah and his wife Mahakshmi in 1889, the two entrance towers were renovated in the early 1930s. Both towers contain sculptures depicting the events of the Ramayana. The towers were constructed with cement. According to available literature, the east tower is 160 feet tall, and the west gate is 200 feet tall, making them one of the tallest gopurams in India and an 11-storied architectural marvel. The Gollala Maamidada village in Pedapudi mandal is also referred to as ‘Gopurala Mamidada’ for the temple’s entrance towers. Kakinada Postal Superintendent S. Nageswara Reddy stated that the special postal cover would celebrate the cultural heritage and architectural beauty of the temple in East Godavari district. Temple Hereditary Trustee Dwarampudi Srirama Murali Krishna Srinivasa Reddy and village elders thanked the Department of Posts. Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu and BC Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna would release the special postal cover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-postal-cover-on-gollala-mamidada-shrine/article38122451.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Reovirus’ wreaks havoc on wild crab cultivation||Mud Crab Reovirus (MCRV) has been found to be the reason for the mass mortality of crabs (Scylla serrate) in Andhra Pradesh. Joint research by the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) and the Centre for Advanced Study in Marine Biology (Annamalai University, Tamil Nadu) has confirmed the presence of MCRV in samples collected from the Nagayalanka fields and open markets in Krishna district. Since 2019, mortalities were noticed by the MSSRF in the areas of Machilipatnam sand Nagayalanka in Krishna district. MCRV, also known as the “sleeping disease”, has taken a toll on crabs in every farming method; crab fattening and crab polyculture, in which shrimp and crab are cultured in the same pond, and exclusive mud crab ponds. In 2014, the Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture (CIBA-Chennai) introduced crab fattening technology in Andhra Pradesh. “MCRV is responsible for the mass mortality of crabs. The viral pathogen belongs to the family of ‘Reoviridae’. It mainly affects the connective tissue of hepatopancreas, gills, and intestine,” MSSRF Director (Coastal Systems Research) Dr. Ramasubramanian and Dr. Ayyagari Gopalakrishnan (Annamalai University) said. In 2007, the MCRV paralysed the crab species cultivation in China. Andhra Pradesh case A group of crab farmers recently appealed to scientiests at the CIBA-Chennai to help decide on the future course of action in the wake of rising mortality in crabs in the Diviseema region of Krishna district.  “We are still to get any word from the CIBA scientists on the measures to tackle the mass mortality, and the management of the existing ponds,” Nagayalanka-based brackishwater farmers told The Hindu .  According to the Andhra Pradesh State Fisheries Department, the total area under wild crab cultivation in Andhra Pradesh is around 25,000 acres, including 4,500 acres in Krishna district by 2019. Wild crab cultivation is carried out in Nellore, Prakasam, Guntur, Krishna and Godavari districts of Andhra Pradesh. At least 60% of cultivation has been affected since 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reovirus-hits-mud-crab-cultivation-in-ap/article38121888.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Time to dethrone two major ruling communities’||Kapu leader Mudragada Padmanabham has called upon the Dalits, the Backward Classes, and the Kapus to join hands for a “united political movement to dethrone the communities that have been in power since formation of Andhra Pradesh.” In an open letter on Tuesday, Mr. Padmanabham, who had recently said he quit the Kapu reservation movement he spearheaded, alleged that the “Dalits, BCs, and Kapus are being enslaved by two major communities.” Stressing the need for a blueprint for “coming out of the political clutches of the two major communities,” he observed that the State “is nobody’s estate.” “The Dalits, the BCs, and the Kapus have been reduced to palanquin bearers by the two major communities,” Mr. Padmanabham alleged. “It is high time we decided how long should we remain the palanquin bearers for other communities, whose population is well below the combined population of the BCs, Dalits, and Kapus,” he said. Mr. Padmanabham proposed to launch a journey to decide the political movement with the direct involvement of the elders from all the communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/time-to-dethrone-two-major-ruling-communities/article38122411.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:36 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNTU-K convocation on February 11||Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University-Kakinada Vice-Chancellor G.V.R. Prasada Raju on Tuesday said the university’s eighth convocation would be held here on February 11. Various degrees, including Ph.D., would be awarded to the candidates who passed out from the respective programmes in the academic year 2018-19 and 2019-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jntu-k-convocation-on-february-11/article38122449.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:05 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||22 tribal school students taken ill after mid-day meal||Twenty-two tribal school students were taken ill after they had their lunch as part of the mid-day meal scheme at the school on Tuesday at Kadiripuram Thanda in Chagalamarri mandal in the district. The school has 48 students. Soon after eating the meal, the students began vomiting and their health condition was of concern. In-charge headmaster Sankar immediately called 108 ambulances and shifted all of them to Chagalamarri government health centre. Doctors at the health centre treated the students and said that the health condition of the students was stable. Parents of the students raised a hue and cry for not informing them and bringing the children for treatment, and sought action against those who allegdly served bad quality of food that had led to the incident. Allagadda MLA Gangula Bijendra Reddy immediately rushed to the hospital and consoled the students and parents. He promised the best treatment and ordered an inquiry into the incident by the Mandal Education Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/22-tribal-school-students-taken-ill-after-mid-day-meal/article38121935.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:05 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yerrabothula Papireddy is Kurnool ZP chief||Kolimigundla Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency member Yerrabothula Papireddy was unanimously elected as Kurnool Zilla Parishad Chairman on Tuesday at a special general meeting. Mr. Papireddy is the son of Yerrabothula Venkata Reddy, who was also selected as the ZPTC chairman but died before the voting took place. In his place, Sanjamala ZPTC Malikireddy Venkata Subba Reddy was elected as the ZP Chairman, but his term was also short-lived. Soon after Mr. Paireddy got elected unanimously from Kolimigundla in the bye-elections recently, Mr. Subba Reddy put in his papers. Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy attended the general body meeting as a special invitee. The presiding officer and District Collector P. Koteswara Rao declared Mr. Papireddy elected and gave him the certificate and administered to him the oath of office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yerrabothula-papireddy-is-kurnool-zp-chief/article38121933.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:06 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health officials in Prakasam on tenterhooks||Health professionals in Prakasam district have stepped up surveillance in Ongole and Chirala in the wake of detection of Omicron variant cases among foreign returnees. Seventeen of of 1,696 foreign returnees, who have been subjected to testing, have tested positive for COVID-19. One of the primary contacts of a foreign returnee had also tested positive for the virus, according to COVID Management Centre Coordinator B.Thirumala Rao. All the COVID positive samples had been sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, for genome sequencing. Cluster containment strategy has been unveiled in Cloughpet in Ongole and also Zakavaripet in Chirala. The health condition of foreign returnees was being closely observed by restricting themselves to their homes. Even as COVID cases spiked elsewhere in the country signalling the beginning of the third wave, the active cases dipped to a new low of 21 in Prakasam district on Tuesday. The health situation in the district now is well under control, according District Medical and Health Officer P.Ratnavalli. Only two persons contracted the disease in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Tuesday, a health bulletin compiled by the State Government said. The recovery rate improved to 99.17% in the district, which witnessed a maximum of 20,000-plus cases in May 2021. Over 1.37 lakh people have been recovered from the virus in the district so far. Meanwhile, the vaccination drive picked up pace as about 53,000 persons in the age group of 15 to 18 years took the jab on Monday and Tuesday. Dr. Rao said 29.38% of the targetted teenagers were covered in the first two days of the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-officials-in-prakasam-on-tenterhooks/article38121941.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:06 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Counselling for estranged couples will be resumed’||Prakasam Superintendent of Police Malika Garg on Tuesday promised to revive the counselling centres, whose functioning had been suspended following spike in COVID-19 cases last year. The centres, manned by psychologists, social activists and Non-Governmental organisations(NGOs) representatives, facilitate settlement of domestic disputes, she said after a surprise inspection of the Disha police station here on Tuesday. The functioning of the women-centered police station would be toned up further to provide enhanced security to women, the SP said after going through various cases under investigation including those relating to atrocities against women. ‘Probe pending cases’ Ms. Malika Garg directed the staff at the Disha Police Station, a platform for resolving women’s complaints, to expeditiously probe all pending cases and render justice to hapless women. Patrolling stepped up Later, the SP asked the police personnel to step up patrolling and map vulnerable spots to ensure the safety and security of women at all times. Describing the Disha app as an versatile mobile app, she wanted the police officers concerned to ensure that a maximum number of women and teenage girls downloaded the app for their safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/counselling-for-estranged-couples-will-be-resumed/article38121940.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:36 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Artisans at All India Craft Bazaar a happy lot over good sales||Artisans who converged from across the country at the All India Craft Bazaar being organised at the Srikakulam District Forest Office are a happy lot as they are doing brisk sales. The artisans have come from several States, such as Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and other places. After having suffered a lot of losses in the past two years due to the impact of COVID-19, the artisans heaved a sigh of relief after their products began seeing high demand ahead of the Sankranti festival. The Craft Bazaar exhibition, which began on December 23, 2021, would continue till January 31, according to Visakhapatnam Artisans Development Society president Mohammed Nasim and general secretary Mohammed Saleem. The artisans displayed saris, dress material, shawls, carpets, soft covers, fancy items, and wood carving material at the exhibition. Isetekhar Ahmad, an artisan who has come from Uttar Pradesh to sell khadi shirts, said that his sales had doubled this year compared to previous exhibitions. Mohammed Noushad, a trader from Delhi, said that there was a huge demand for his door curtains. “Normally exhibitions are held in cities. People living in rural and semi-urban areas rarely get an opportunity to visit exhibitions. With the availability of cash after the current harvesting season, many farmers are buying goods in the exhibition,” he said. A carpet seller from Uttar Pradesh, Shahzad Ahmed, said that 50% of his stock was already sold in the last 10 days. Jallu Tirupati Rao, an advocate who visited the Craft Bazaar, said that such exhibitions provide a wide range of products at affordable costs as the artisans were selling their products directly to customers instead of depending on middlemen and wholesale and retail dealers. “Paints, pearls, toys, and stone photos are available at affordable rates at this exhibition,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/artisans-at-all-india-craft-bazaar-a-happy-lot-over-good-sales/article38122453.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hold Assembly session, remove me as Chancellor, says Governor||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Tuesday suggested that the government convene a special session of the Assembly to divest him of the charge of Chancellor of universities in the State. Speaking to reporters in Kochi, Mr. Khan denied that his recalcitrance to discharge duties as Chancellor had precipitated an administrative crisis in universities. “The solution is very easy. They [the government] can call a special session of the Assembly. They can appoint the Chief Minister as Chancellor. Or else, let the government bring in an Ordinance for the purpose. I will immediately sign it,” he said. The Governor seemed to indict the government for impinging on the autonomy of varsities. Mr. Khan said the Assembly had made him Chancellor through an act of law. “And I see every day that the very people who passed the law are breaking it. There is interference at every step. I am given a responsibility, but then impeded from discharging my duty.” Mr. Khan said “something definitely has happened” which made him decide not to continue as Chancellor. “But I won’t discuss the issue because it involves national institutions,” he said. In what seemed to be a reference to his contentious decision, purportedly at the behest of the government, to endorse the extension of the Kannur University Vice Chancellor beyond the retirement age, Mr. Khan said: “You do something in the day. Then you go home and your conscience pricks you. You decide I am not going to continue my job. Something serious has happened. Constitutional propriety must be respected. And that is the reason why I do not want to discuss those very, very serious issues publicly.” ‘No power tussle’ Mr. Khan pointed out that conflicts often happen when there is a power tussle. “Here, I am not asking for power. I am saying that it has become difficult for me to work as Chancellor. Please make some alternative arrangement,” he said. Mr. Khan said “something not ordinary serious, but very serious” had influenced his decision to stay away from the Chancellor’s duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hold-assembly-session-remove-me-as-chancellor-says-governor/article38121890.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:06 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kabaddi fever grips Tirupati||‘Le Panga’ said the publicity graffiti pasted across the temple city ahead of ‘Tirupati Corporation gold cup All India invitation men and women Kabaddi tournament’ slated to begin on Wednesday. Players from across the country have started pouring into the city from Monday for the five-day event. International badminton player Pullela Gopichand arrived to a warm reception on Tuesday, who will be the star attraction at the inaugural session. Similarly, the presence of Honnappa Gowda, the first to bag an ‘Arjuna award’ for Kabaddi, is sure to breathe inspiration into the 700-plus aspiring national players. As a prelude to the event, a dazzing fireworks show was organised on Tuesday evening, which drew the attention of the denizens. COVID test on arrival Forty-three teams from 22 States are participating in the five-day sporting event. A strict protocol is in place to conduct ‘on arrival’ COVID-19 RT-PCR test for all the players and accommodate them only after securing a negative report. Similarly, the double vaccination certificate had been secured at the screening level from every participant. “We have readied accommodation for the contingent of nearly 1,000 visitors, including 700-plus players, team managers, coaches, physiotherapists and so on. Any player testing positive will be immediately quarantined and will be taken care of till their recovery,” says Municipal Corporation of Tirupati Commissioner P.S. Girisha About 140 rooms in the TTD’s Srinivasam and Madhavam pilgrims’ complexes had been allocated for the visiting teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kabaddi-fever-grips-tirupati/article38121943.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:13 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘On arrival’ COVID test must for kabaddi players||The organisers of All India Invitation Kabaddi Tournament are leaving no stone unturned to curtail the spread of COVID-19 in the temple city. Forty-three teams from 22 States are participating in the five-day sporting event. A strict protocol is in place to conduct ‘on arrival’ RT-PCR test for all the players and accommodate them only after securing a negative report. Similarly, the double vaccination certificate had been secured at the screening level from every participant. “We have readied accommodation for the contingent of nearly 1,000 visitors.. Any player testing positive will be immediately quarantined and will be taken care of till their recovery,” says Municipal Corporation of Tirupati Commissioner P.S. Girisha About 140 rooms in the TTD’s Srinivasam and Madhavam pilgrims’ complexes had been allocated for the visiting teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/on-arrival-covid-test-must-for-kabaddi-players/article38122499.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||RGV questions role of govt. in deciding price of film tickets||Film-maker Ram Gopal Varma has posed a series of questions to I&PR and Cinematography Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) on the “ceiling” fixed on the price of cinema tickets by the State government. Taking to the Twitter on Tuesday, Mr. Varma questioned, “What precisely is the role of the government in deciding the market price of any product, including films?” “The government may intervene and fix a price below or above the equilibrium when there’s a dire shortage of an essential commodity like wheat, rice, kerosene oil. But how does that apply to films?” he wondered. Mr. Varma further sought to know “why doesn’t the government subsidise cinema on the lines of healthcare and educational services if it feels it is essential for the poor?” He also wanted to know if the Minister would consider creating ‘Ration Theatres’ on the lines of ration shops set up for distribution of rice and sugar. ‘Dual price system’ Offering a “dual price system” as a solution to the ongoing row, Mr. Varma said under the system the producers would sell tickets as per their price and the government would by some tickets and sell them to the poor at a lower price. This way, he said, “the producers will get their money and the government its votes.” “I request you to understand that your government has been given the power to support from the bottom and not to sit on the top of our heads,” Mr. Varma said in his tweet. Appealing to the film industry, Mr. Varma said, “It is not my request, but my demand to all my colleagues in the film industry to speak up on their true feelings about the ticket rates issue, because, if you do not speak now, you can never speak up later.” Panel reconstituted Meanwhile, the State government, in response to the appeals of the producers, distributors and exhibitors,reconstituted the committeeto discuss the issues pertaining to the cinema ticket pricing. The committee comprises representatives of the Telugu Film Chamber of Commerce, distributors, exhibitors, and cine-goers as members, along with government officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rgv-questions-role-of-govt-in-deciding-price-of-film-tickets/article38122416.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees spike in daily cases||The State witnessed a spike in COVID-19 infections and positivity rate with 334 cases and more than 1% test positivity rate reported in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The single-day infection tally was the highest in the past 55 days, and for the first time in 66 days since October 30, the daily test positivity rate crossed 1%. During the past day, 28,311 samples were tested and 1.18% of them turned positive. During the past week, 1,255 infections were reported registering a 76% rise over the previous week.  The number of active cases also increased to 1,516 and only 95 patients recovered in the past day. The active cases tally hit the bottom with 1,049 cases only a week ago (December 29) and it has been on the rise continuously since then.   The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,499 and 20,77,942 respectively, while the total recoveries and recovery rate stand at 20,61,927 and 99.23%.  More than half of the fresh infections were reported in three districts which have been witnessing a spike in cases of late. Visakhapatnam reported 80 infections in the past day, while Chittoor reported 55 and Krishna reported 50 infections. They were followed by Guntur (39), Anantapur (29), East Godavari (17), West Godavari (16), Srikakulam (15), Nellore (14), Kurnool (7), Kadapa (4), Prakasam (4) and Vizianagaram (4). The lone death was reported in the Nellore district. Also, Visakhapatnam, Chittoor and Krishna together have over half (780 cases) of the total active cases in the State. The active case tallies are as follows: Visakhapatnam (306), Chittoor (262), Krishna (212), East Godavari (146), Guntur (131), Nellore (109), West Godavari (99), Srikakulam (75), Anantapur (68), Kurnool (34), Kadapa (28), Vizianagaram (24), Prakasam (22).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sees-spike-in-daily-cases/article38122419.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:12 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chennai police pick up 3 druggists from State||Three medical shop owners who were allegedly illegally selling prescription drugs for high sums of money were taken into custody by the Greater Chennai police here on Monday midnight. A team of T.N. Police, along with the Drug Control Administration (DCA) officials and State Police, raided a few medical shops in Vijayawada on Monday. They seized the stock registers, bills and other incriminating documents. The raids were conducted based on a tip-off from Tamil Nadu police that some youth addicted to sedatives, meant to be sold only on a doctor’s prescription, were procuring it from Andhra Pradesh. The drugstore owners in the State were reportedly selling the sedatives in bulk. The St. Thomas Mount police registered a case on December 30, 2021,. Medicines seized They seized a large quantity of Tydol 100 mg tablets (Tapentadol 100 mg) from two persons and booked a case against them under the Narcotics Drugs and Pscyhotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The drugs were marketed by a Mumbai-based pharmaceuticals company and the accused confessed to have procured the tablets from two medical shops in Vijayawada through an intermediary, who had sent the drugs through a courier firm. The team, led by St. Thomas Mount Inspector A. Antony Joachim Jerry and Drug Inspector P. Srirama Murthy conducted raids on the medical shops. Police and the DCA officials seized drugs, records, bills and other incriminating material from the drugstores “We gave an intimation to the court and notices would be served on the owners of the medical shops. A case under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act would be registered,” said Krishna district DCA Assistant Director K. Anil Kumar. Police and the DCA officials verified the medical shops and their godowns and found that the stores were licensed. The samples of the drugs and some ledgers have been seized, the AD said.  “Both the police and the DCA officials are investigating into the alleged sale, illegal hoarding and sale of drugs at high rates and other allegations,” the officer told The Hindu on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chennai-police-pick-up-3-druggists-from-state/article38122493.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor calls for steps to contain infant mortalities||Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, who is also the Administrator of the Scheduled and Tribal areas in the State, has expressed concern at the rise in the number of infant deaths Patharudakota village in Padabayalu Mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency. He has instructed his Special Chief Secretary R.P. Sisodia to obtain a detailed report from the Secretary, Tribal Welfare, on the issue. The Director of Tribal Welfare, in his report submitted to the Secretary, has said Patharudakota village was a multi-tribe habitation of 138 households with Bagatha, Kondadora and a few Poraja families, and the villagers were worried as 14 infant deaths were reported since May 2018, eight of them in the last nine months. All the deaths occurred within three months of birth. All of them were institutional deliveries with normal birth weight and the mothers were reported to be in good health condition. After a detailed investigation, the deaths were attributed to calcium deficiency in the mothers and drinking water contamination due to rusting of old pipelines. In response to the Governor’s call, the department has initiated steps such as replacing the drinking water pipeline, provision of a second ambulance for emergency medical service, deputing a multi-specialist team from the King George Hospital (KGH), Visakhapatnam, and deploying a staff nurse at the village for close observation of the health of the new-born infants. Arrangements had also been made for the stay of lactating mothers along with their infant children at Birth Waiting Home in Munchingput, provision of additional nutrition to the pregnant and lactating mothers and laying of a drinking water pipeline to the Primary Health Centre. The Director of Tribal Welfare, in his report, outlined long term measures such as setting up proper communication facilities, construction of a bridge over the rivulet between Rudakota and Patharudakota villages and construction of residential quarters for the PHC staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-governor-expresses-concern-at-infant-deaths/article38121893.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister tells officials to keep school kits ready||Education Minister A. Suresh on Tuesday directed the officials to make arrangements for the launch of the third phase of Jagananna Vidya Kanuka programme in the beginning of the new academic year. Reviewing the progress of the works taken up by various wings such a Samagra Shiksha, AP Residential Education Society, AP Education Infrastructure Development Corporation, Government Examinations wing and State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT), the Minister enquired about the steps being taken for the launch of the next phase of Vidya Kanuka, Amma Vodi, Vidya Deevena, and Vasathi Deevena programmes. Referring to Jagananna Vidya Kanuka, the Minister wanted the officials to keep the education kits ready for distribution to students of Classes 1 to 10 in the beginning of the academic year. To avoid delay, the officials should finalise the tenders and issue work orders to the selected agency for timely supply of the material. The list of student beneficiaries of Amma Vodi should be prepared and kept ready, he said. Under the Vidya Deevena programme, the government would pay full fee of students from the economically backward classes pursing courses like ITI, degree, engineering and medicine. Nadu-Nedu works He also took stock of the progress achieved in the works pertaining to development of playgrounds, construction of additional classrooms and compound walls in schools that had been taken up in the first and second phases of Nadu-Nedu scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-tells-officials-to-keep-school-kits-ready/article38122414.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:13 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 4.40 lakh teenagers vaccinated on 2nd day||The government has administered vaccines against COVID-19 to 4.48 lakh more teenagers on the second day of the vaccination drive for people falling in the 15-18 age group across the State on Tuesday. On Monday, a total of 4.92 lakh teenagers had received the first dose of Covaxin and by 8 p.m. on Tuesday a total of 9.41 lakh people in the category received the first dose, according to data available on the CoWin portal. On the whole, 5.88 lakh doses of vaccines were administered in the State on Tuesday, and so far 7.09 crore doses were administered. Among them, 4.08 crore were first doses and 3.007 crore were second doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-440-lakh-teenagers-vaccinated-on-2nd-day/article38122498.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:13 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State to celebrate Tourism Day on Jan. 25||Heritage walks, tributes to freedom fighters, photo exhibitions, cultural programmes and felicitations to freedom fighters and their family members will mark National Tourism Day celebrations in the State on January 25, said Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation Managing Director and CEO of Andhra Pradesh Tourism Authority Satyanarayana. Addressing a video conference with tourism officers from across the State, Mr. Satyanarayana said the occasion would be celebrated in all 13 districts, coinciding with Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav. He said the celebrations would be organised amid strict adherence to COVID protocol. He asked the tourism officers to offer special discounts on food items and hold activities such as quiz, painting and singing competitions to mark the occasion in their respective districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-to-celebrate-tourism-day-on-jan-25/article38122501.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:12 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Counselling given to ganja, blade batch offenders||Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata and other police officers gave counselling to suspected ganja peddlers and blade batch offenders in One Town area in the city on Tuesday. Mr. Kanthi Rana directed police to keep a tab on the movements of the criminals and asked them to change their behaviour. Police will extern them from the city, if the offenders did not change their habits and stop criminal activities, he said. A meeting would be held with South Central Railway and the police personnel on developing abandoned areas to prevent crime, the Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/counselling-given-to-ganja-blade-batch-offenders/article38122495.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:13 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||UTF protest against merger of primary classes||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh United Teachers’ Federation on Tuesday said State-wise protests would be staged at school complexes on January 5 and 6, demanding that the government roll back its decision to merge Classes 3, 4 and 5 in high schools, wherever they were located within 3 km of distance. In a statement, federation’s State president N. Venkateswarlu and general secretary K. S. S. Prasad demanded that the GO 85, which was released “under the guise of educational reforms” be withdrawn immediately. They said through circular 172, the officials were gearing up to merge Classes 3, 4 and 5 in upper primary and high schools wherever they were located within 3 kms of distance. They said this would not only reduce the number of schools and teacher posts, but would also further contribute to student drop-out rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/utf-protest-against-merger-of-primary-classes/article38122502.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:12 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman dies in accident||V. Baby Sarojini, 55, was killed in a road accident at Jujjavaram village, near Pamarru, in the district on Tuesday. Alleging that a speeding police vehicle it her and thta she died of injuries, the villagers staged a dharna on Machilipatnam-Vijayawada highway. They demanded stern action against the vehicle driver. The Pamarru police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-dies-in-accident/article38122496.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials gear up to face third wave||The district administration is gearing up to tackle the predicted third wave and a meeting was chaired by the District Collector with all the stakeholders and the departments concerned here on Tuesday. Addressing the meeting, District Collector A. Mallikarjuna informed the officials to revive the committees that were formed during the first and second waves, so that specific areas can be focussed upon. During the first and the second waves, the district administration had formed about 20 special committees on containment, hospitals, manpower, pharmacy, laboratory, dead bodies management and others. He urged the heads of the committees to get them back into shape and be ready for any eventuality. He asked the District Medical and Health Officer to take stock of the pharmacy and see that the emergency drugs such as Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, steroids and blood thinners are stocked in sufficient numbers. He also warned the management of the private hospitals not to repeat the mistakes that were made during the first and second waves. He reminded that there should not be any delay in the admission process, should not charge more than the prescribed fee and said that strict action would be taken if the vacancy position is not updated on a real time mode. Mr. Mallikarjuna also cautioned the government nodal officers, who are attached to the private hospitals, to keep regular tab on the vacancy position and warned that action would be initiated if they failed to do so. The District Collector also took stock of the availability of oxygen in the district and asked the three private hospitals that has the capacity of over 100 beds to get their PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) oxygen plants ready in a week’s time. In the district, there are about 27 PSA plants and of them 14 are in government hospitals and the remaining are in private hospitals. He said that the need of the hour is to sign and review the MoUs with the producers of LMO (liquid medical oxygen) such as the RINL. He also asked the representatives of the 74 private hospitals to strictly follow the 50% Aarogyasri norms and keep the beds and staff ready, as going forward Visakhapatnam would once again become a regional centre, as patients from neighbouring districts such as Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and East Godavari and even from other States such as Odisha would make their way to the city hospitals. He also asked the officials to revive the call centres and get them operational and also keep the home isolation kits ready. Cases go up Meanwhile, the daily COVID-19 case load doubled from 40 to 80, here on Tuesday morning. With this, the total cases increased to 1,59, 206. The district has been seeing a steady rise in the last one week. On December 28, the daily tally was just 7 and within one week’s time it has gone up to 80, with a steady rise of 30 to 40 cases on a daily basis, said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. The discharges on Tuesday were 10, taking the total discharges to 1,58,206.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-gear-up-to-face-third-wave/article38122513.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police bring tribal students to city on a two-day pleasure trip||The Class X students of the Ekalavya Ashram School at Pedabayalu were brought on a two-day pleasure trip to the city under the ‘Mundadugu’ programme of the district police on Tuesday. The bus, carrying the 37 girls and their teachers, was flagged off by Paderu ASP P. Jagadish at Paderu. They were given a grand reception with the bursting of crackers at the Armed Reserve Grounds at Kailasagiri. Interacting with the girls, Superintendent of Police (Visakha Rural) B. Krishna Rao asked about their native villages. He hoped that they would study well and get good jobs, and thereby support their parents and family members. The girl students thanked the Police Department for organising the pleasure trip. They were taken to the Zoo, Andhra University, Visakhapatnam Airport and Dr. YSR Central Park on Tuesday. The students were accompanied by their teachers Gouthami, Venkata Rao and Srikanth and Pedabayalu ASI Manoj Kumar. Special Enforcement Bureau Joint Director S. Satish Kumar, DSP (DAR) R.P.L. Shanti Kumar, DSP (SB) A. Venkata Rao, Inspectors Muralidhar, A. Ramakrishna, Aravind Kishore, Satish and Venkata Rao, SIs Satyanarayana, Sivaramakrishna and Naidu were among those who participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-bring-tribal-students-to-city-on-a-two-day-pleasure-trip/article38122507.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan should have broached VSP issue with PM: committee||Leaders of Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee (VUPPC) have taken exception to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy not raising the issue of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) during his two-day interactions with the Prime Minister and Union Ministers in Delhi on the issues concerning the State. In a statement here on Tuesday, VUPPC leaders J. Ayodhya Ram, Gandham Venkata Rao and K. Satyanarayana Rao said that the statement released by the Chief Minister’s office states that the Mr. Jagan had discussed the Special Category Status (SCS), Polavaram Project, the disputes between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana States, increasing the ceiling on loan and reducing the budget deficit. The VUPPC leaders noted that they were shocked to find that the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant issue was not mentioned in the memorandum given to the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-should-have-broached-vsp-issue-with-pm-committee/article38122508.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sankranti special train to be run between Vizag and Kacheguda||A festival special train will be operated between Kacheguda and Visakhapatnam to clear the extra rush of passengers during Sankranti. Train no. 07497 Kacheguda-Visakhapatnam festival special train will leave Kacheguda at 9 p.m. on January 7 and 14 and arrive in Visakhapatnam on the next day at 9.15 a.m. In the return direction, 07498 Visakhapatnam - Kacheguda festival special train will leave Visakhapatnam at 7 p.m. on January 8 and reach Kacheguda on the next day at 8 a.m., according to a statement issued by A.K. Tripathi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager. This train will have stoppages at Malkajgiri, Cherlapalli, Kazipet, Warangal, Khammam Rayanapadu, Eluru, Tadepalligudem, Rajahmundry, Samalkot and Duvvada. Passengers are requested to strictly follow all the safety protocols before and during the journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sankranti-special-train-to-be-run-between-vizag-and-kacheguda/article38122457.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man kills wife and commits suicide||A man in an inebriated condition allegedly hacked his wife to death with an axe and later reportedly committed suicide by slitting his throat at Ramaraopalem tribal hamlet under Lothugedda Panchayat of Chintapalle police station limits in Visakha Agency, on Monday night. The deceased were identified as G. Ganapati (37) and his wife G. Tulasi (34), both were agriculture labourers. The police said that Ganapathi was addicted to liquor and used to pick up fights with his wife regularly sover petty issues. The couple had two children Sai and Santhosh, the police said.The bodies were shifted to the government hospital for post-mortem and a case was registered. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-kills-wife-and-commits-suicide/article38122461.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC to operate 641 Sankranti special buses from city||The Visakhpatnam Region of AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) will operate a total of 641 special buses from Visakhapatnam to various destinations within the State before Sankranti and 232 special buses from other destinations to Visakhapatnam after Sankranti. After festival In addition to these, a total of 50 specials will be operated from Visakhapatnam to Hyderabad after Sankranti, from January 16 to 23. The special buses will be operated from January 8 to 14. They include 21 to Amalapuram/Razole, 10 to Bhimavaram, 50 to Vijayawada, 65 to Kakinada, 130 to Rajahmundry, 50 to Palasa, 45 to Pathapatnam, 170 to Srikakulam and 50 each to Vizianagaram and Palakonda. The post-Sankranti specials to be operated, from January 16 to 23, from various destinations to Visakhapatnam include 16 Amalapuram/Razole, 11 from Bhimavaram/Narsapur, 55 from Vijayawada, 45 from Kakinada and 105 from Rajahmundry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-to-run-641-sankranti-special-buses-from-vizag/article38122456.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP government bent on destroying PSUs, alleges CITU||The anti-worker, anti-farmer and pro-corporate policies of the BJP government will ultimately impact common people and they should be made to understand this for the success of the forthcoming nationwide general strike, the speakers said at a national seminar against privatisation. The seminar was organised, under the aegis of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions(CITU) at the Visakhapatnam Public Library here on Tuesday. General Secretary of Water Transport Workers Federation of India T. Narendra Rao alleged that the four labour codes, brought out by the BJP government, were meant to help the MNCs and corporate groups, which had helped the party before the last general elections. CITU national secretary Prasanta N. Chowdhury said that while the objective of the Electricity Supply Act of 1948 was not to make profit but to supply electricity to all parts of the country, the present Electricity Bill intends to privatise the power sector on the plea of providing cheaper electricity through private players. CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao alleged that the BJP government was bent on ‘destroying the PSUs’. The Centre had not made any investment on Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) after 1991 but was now planning to go for strategic sale of the plant. The struggles organised by the workers over the years have checked the privatisation efforts of the successive governments since 1991.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-government-bent-on-destroying-psus-alleges-citu/article38122455.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Improve education standards, ITDA Project Officer tells officials||Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer Ronanki Gopalakrishna has called upon the officials to improve the education standards, which suffered a setback due to the COVID-19 pandemic. At a meeting on Tuesday, he said that from January 20 to April 30 special coaching classes should be conducted for three hours every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/improve-education-standards-itda-project-officer-tells-officials/article38122505.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division collects Rs. 2.05 crore in ticket checking drives in December||The Waltair Railway Division earned Rs. 2.05 crore in the ticket checking drives conducted during December 2021. This is the highest-ever record surpassing all the previous records. As many as 35,342 cases were detected during the drives conducted all over the Division. There are five ticket checking bases over the Division , said A.K. Tripathi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-205-crore-collected-from-ticketless-travellers/article38122458.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speed up Vizag port to Bhogapuram road DPR: CM||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has urged the Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari to expedite the preparation of the Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the National Highway proposed from Visakhapatnam Port to Bhogapuram via Rushikonda and Bhimili. During his meeting with Mr. Gadkari in New Delhi on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the highway would help reduce the distance between the port and Odisha and Chhattisgarh. The highway would also be close to the beach corridor projects along the coast, he added. Seeking that the highway be a six-lane one considering the traffic congestion in Visakhapatnam, Mr. Reddy said it would also contribute to the development of tourism in the region, besides helping in reaching the proposed Bhogapuram International Airport easily. Bypass road The Chief Minister also urged Mr. Gadkari to consider the State government’s proposal mooted earlier for a bypass to the east of Vijayawada. He said land acquisition for the purpose would be completed as soon as possible. He said the State government would extend exemption to the project from SGST and royalty to reduce its cost. The CM also sought extension of the four-lane road in Bapatla as a part of the construction of the NH-216 on the Kathipudi-Ongole corridor as there was a possibility of traffic jams on the stretch due to the presence of educational institutions, tourist flow and an air base.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-asks-gadkari-to-speed-up-vizag-port-bhogapuram-road-dpr/article38121885.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two fishermen groups clash over use of ring nets in city||Tension gripped Vasavanipalem area, a fishing hamlet in the coastal area of Visakhapatnam city, as two groups of fishermen clashed over the use of ring nets in the restricted area of Bay of Bengal on Tuesday. According to the police, eight persons were injured in the clash and five boats belonging to both the groups were burnt. The clash broke out between the fishermen of Chinajalaripeta and Pedajalaripeta. The use of ring nets has been banned by the State government within 8 km from the coast. But according to one group of fishermen, the other group has been continuing the practice. It was allegedly affecting the fish catch of the group using the traditional fishing nets. On Tuesday, a group of fishermen with ring nets ventured into the waters in their boats for fishing, in the restricted area. Upon knowing about the development, the other group of fishermen, who use traditional nets, entered into a heated argument on the coast as well as in the water. The group using traditional nets rushed into the waters with their boats and surrounded the boats using ring nets. After a heated argument, the group poured petrol and diesel on the boats of the other group and set the boats afire. Thereafter, the other group retaliated and burnt a couple of boats of the rival group. In the incident, five boats were gutted and eight fishermen injured, said IG (Visakhapatnam range) L.K.V. Ranga Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-fishermen-groups-clash-over-use-of-ring-nets-in-vizag/article38122460.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:13 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTR health varsity convocation tomorrow||The NTR University of Health Sciences will host its 22nd and 23rd joint convocation on Thursday at Tummalapalli Kalakshetram here. University Registrar K. Shankar said the event would start at 11.30 a.m. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, Chairman of the Coimbatore-based Gem Hospital C. Palanivelu and Chairman of Hyderabad-based Asian Institute of Gastroenterology D. Nageswar Reddy would participate. Children aged below 12 would not be allowed inside the auditorium, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ntr-health-varsity-convocation-tomorrow/article38122500.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:13 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leading the change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/leading-the-change/article38122504.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:12 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Head constable, constable awarded||K. Srinivas Rao, head constable, attached to Central Crime Station, Gudivada, and P. Anjaneyulu, working in Koduru police station, were selected for weekly best performance awards. SP Siddharth Kaushal presented the awards to Mr. Srinivas, who solved a house burglary case under Mudinepalli police station limits. Mr. Anjaneyulu unravelled the robbery case under Nagayalanka police station in Avanigadda sub-division limits. The awards were presented at a function at District Police Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/head-constable-constable-awarded/article38122494.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Twin escalator inaugurated||A twin escalator was opened for public use by Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy on Tuesday night. The escalator was opened near Gate no. 4 on Platform no.8 (Gnanapuram-side) of Visakhapatnam Railway Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/twin-escalator-inaugurated/article38122510.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||CLP leader demands probe into suicide||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka has demanded that the State government order a thorough probe into the charges of “abetment to suicide” against the TRS district leader Vanama Raghavendra Rao in the tragic death of a former Mee Seva operator Ramakrishna, who killed himself, his wife and 12-year-old daughter by causing LPG cylinder blast at his house in Old Paloncha on Monday. Mr Vikramarka visited the hospital, where the second daughter of Ramakrishna, who suffered 80% burns in the cylinder explosion, is battling for life in Kothagudem on Tuesday. Later, speaking to mediapersons the CLP leader said a suicide note, purportedly written by the deceased Ramakrishna, blamed Raghavendra Rao for his “extreme step.” The government should immediately order a detailed investigation into the incident, he said. The CLP leader further added that they were planning to meet Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and DGP M. Mahender Reddy seeking their intervention to ensure an expeditious investigation into the incident and justice to the lone survivor (Ramakrishna’s second daughter) who is fighting for her life at a hospital in the coal town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/clp-leader-demands-probe-into-causes-for-suicide/article38122276.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||PoS machines for ticket checking staff||To promote digital payments on trains, South Western Railway has partnered with State Bank of India and is equipping its ticket checking staff in all three divisions with PoS (Point of Sale) machines. General Manager of Southern Western Railway Sanjeev Kishore received 120 PoS machines symbolically from Deputy General Manager of SBI Rajendran during the centenary year celebration of the Keshwapur Main Branch in Hubballi on Monday. Speaking at the function, Mr. Kishore said that to further the Digital India initiative of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the railway zone has partnered with SBI to promote digital payment methods. “Already South Western Railway was utilising 330 PoS machines across the zone at Unreserved Ticketing System/ Passenger Reservation System counters and parcel offices. Now, for the first time, 120 PoS machines received from SBI will be used by TTE/Ticket Checking Staff,” he said. He said that this move will improve transparency, speed of transaction and promote cash-less payment among passengers during COVID-19. In Hubballi, Bengaluru and Mysuru divisions 40, 50 and 30 PoS machines, respectively, will be put to use, he added. Mr. Kishore said that the move will also provide flexibility of payment options to passengers. It will also eliminate human errors by minimising human interference and speed up transactions, while helping keep real-time track of cash flow and easy maintenance of records. Senior railway officials A. Srinivas Rao, Arvind Kumar Rajak , SBI Assistant General Manager R.S. Sangal and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/now-railway-ticket-checking-staff-to-have-pos-machines/article38122209.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||Real estate developers to be given lake protection responsibilities||The State government has announced on Tuesday that the responsibility of lake protection in the city will be handed over to the real estate companies developing ventures in the areas around the lakes concerned. In what is seen as a major shift in the government’s policy towards conservation of water bodies, lake development in the city will be integrated with the layout and building permissions henceforth to fix accountability, a statement from the HMDA informed. Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao has issued instructions to the MA&UD officials towards the same during a meeting, and said lakes should be protected as they are part of the heritage. Due to the heavy real estate development and dereliction of lakes, sewage is entering the water bodies, and to address this issue, the lake conservation, development and restoration responsibilities are being given to the developers, a statement from HMDA informed. This will be applicable to developers of layouts, multi-storeyed buildings, gated communities and commercial complexes within the GHMC and HMDA areas, it said. They should take up the responsibility of the water bodies existing in the area, and 500 metres of circumference around them. Assessment of the developers’ responsibility for lake protection will be done at the time of issuing permissions, and it will be applicable to all new ventures, the note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/real-estate-developers-to-be-given-lake-protection-responsibilities/article38122263.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||FIR registered in Bulli Bai app case||A case was registered in connection with the Bulli Bai app which saw photos of Muslim women, including Hyderabad activist Khalida Parveen and freelance journalist Ayesha Minhaz, being uploaded with derogatory messages. Acting on the complaint of Ms Parveen, who was targeted on the app, the Hyderabad Cyber Crime Police booked a case under section 67 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and Sections 354 D and 509 of the Indian Penal Code.  Speaking to The Hindu , Ms Parveen had said, “This shows the rotten mindset of those behind Bulli Bai. I am their mother’s age. There are names of women of all ages. These people think that Muslim women are powerless. But that is far from the truth,” Ms Parveen said, adding that she is unafraid.  ‘More than trolling’ On the other hand, Ms Minhaz said that Bulli Bai is much more than just a case of trolling. She described it as a coordinated cyber attack which reflects of a hatred for Muslims and Muslim women. “These are people who spent a lot of time planning and coordinating a cyber attack on Muslim women. It reflects the deepening hatred for Muslims and one of the ways it can be deployed to dehumanise Muslim women. That it has become so easy for someone to be so violent online and face no repercussions is a failure of law enforcement,” she said, adding that the inaction also points to how social media platforms have done little to curb hate speech. “It is painful, hurtful and infuriating,” she said.  It reflects deepening hatred for Muslims and one of the ways it can be deployed to dehumanise Muslim women. That it has become so easy for someone to be so violent online and face no repercussions is a failure of law enforcement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fir-registered-in-bulli-bai-app-case/article38122246.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:46 IST,TELANGANA||SCCL plans to scale up production||Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has plans to extract 2.2 lakh tonnes of coal and remove 14.8 lakh cubic metres of overburden every day in the remaining period of the current fiscal to achieve the production target of 68 million tonnes of coal. Chairman and Managing Director of the company N. Sridhar held a monthly production review meeting with Directors, Advisors and Area General Managers here on Monday to chalk out the strategy to achieve the production target for the current year. He complimented the company workers and officials for registering a good progress in the first three quarters of 2021-22 compared to the previous year. In the first nine months of 2021-22, the company had achieved 42% growth in coal production, 52% increase in coal dispatches and 23% progress in the overburden removal compared to the previous year, the CMD said at the meeting. He instructed the authorities to meet the required targets of production and dispatch in the remaining three months of the financial year. Fixing the area-wise targets of coal production during the remainder of the fiscal, Mr. Sridhar wanted the authorities to aim at extracting 2 lakh tonnes of coal every month from Adriyala Longwall project and 30,000 tonnes by every continuous miner (machinery).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plan-to-scale-up-production/article38122258.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||Many road projects inching closer to finish line||The year 2022 may prove to be the most eventful for the GHMC in terms of infrastructural development, with several projects part of the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) lined up for inauguration. If everything goes as per plan, close to 15 components of the SRDP may be launched this year for public use, at several locations in the city. Some of them at major junctions have been under construction for several years now, creating severe traffic problems and roundabouts for the commuters, resulting in increased travel time. A case in point is the LB Nagar junction, where a total six structures are under construction towards Chintalkunta and towards Bairamalguda. In much relief to the commuters, the Left Hand Side (LHS) flyover near Bairamalguda and the Right Hand Side (RHS) vehicle underpass of L.B. Nagar are dated for completion in February, 2022. The RHS flyover of the LB Nagar, work for which had been stalled for several months owing to land acquisition issues pertaining to a temple on the roadside, is scheduled for completion in March this year. Construction of the second level flyover at Bairamalguda along with the LHS and RHS loops is likely to be completed by year-end. The longest flyover in the city at Shaikpet was the first structure to be launched this year as new year gift to the Western Hyderabad. This will be followed by the Road Under Bridge (RUB) at Tukaram Gate, also most likely to be completed this month. The railway overbridge (ROB) at Kaitalapur, through scheduled for completion six months ago, has been held over due to the legal wrangle with a property owner against acquisition. Court nod awaited Officials informed that only a ramp is pending in the whole structure, which could be taken up as soon as the court gives a go ahead. The completion, nevertheless, is tentatively scheduled for March this year, subject to the clearance of court case. The flyover at Bahadurpura too is scheduled for completion in March, which would ease the traffic issues in the area. More structures, including extension of the Chandrayangutta flyover, a six-lane flyover at Nagole, and multi-level flyovers/grade separators covering Botanical Garden, Kothaguda and Kondapur junctions are expected to be completed in June, while the ROB near Falaknuma could be ready by September as per the schedule. Construction of the 120-foot-wide road from Shilpa Layout towards Gachibowli Junction is likely to be completed by December. The combined cost of all the structures scheduled for release this year, is estimated at Rs. 1,550 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/many-road-projects-inching-closer-to-finish-line/article38122237.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:46 IST,TELANGANA||Singareni thermal plant achieves highest PLF in the country||Singareni Thermal Power Plant (STPP), a unit of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL), has achieved the highest plant load factor (PLF) for all thermal power stations in the country in the first three quarters of 2021-22, by the end of December. It clocked 87.18% PLF in the first nine months of the current fiscal. Incidentally, the thermal power stations of Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TSGenco) stood second at national level with a PLF of 73.98%. Quoting the rankings for thermal power stations issued by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), officials of SCCL stated that West Bengal Power Development Corporation stood third with 70.29% PLF followed by Chhattisgarh Power Generation Corporation with 68.1%, Odisha Power Generation Corporation with 63.95% and Andhra Pradesh Genco with 58.83%. Complimenting the authorities for keeping STPP at the top in terms of PLF with proper management, Chairman and Managing Director of SCCL N. Sridhar said the thermal plant had generated 6,904 million units of energy in the first nine months of the current fiscal with a 29% growth over the last year – 5,335 MU. Similarly, the energy sales had clocked a revenue of Rs. 2,879 crore in the first three quarters this year with 20% growth compared to Rs. 2,386 crore netted during the same period last year. Mr. Sridhar directed the authorities to complete the electrification of the railway line from Srirampur area mines to the thermal power plant at Pegadapalli near Jaipur in Mancherial district for speedy supply of coal. Accidents avoided The CMD said although the authorities were managing the thermal plant without giving any scope for accidents so far and suggested them to set up a committee on the safety measures in the plant. On the company’s progress in establishing solar power plants in the mining areas, Mr. Sridhar said solar plants with 219 megawatt capacity had already been established. On the plans of establishing a floating solar power plant on the water of Lower Manair Dam reservoir, the CMD wanted the officials to complete the survey work by the month-end and prepare detailed project report by February-end so that tenders could be invited in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/singareni-thermal-plant-achieves-highest-plf-in-the-country/article38122259.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||Activists question the handover of lakes to realtors||Activists and civil society representatives severely castigated the move by the State government to hand over the responsibility of lake protection to real estate developers. The government has announced its policy through a statement on Tuesday, which said responsibility for protection of the water bodies will be part of the conditions for issuing layout/building permission. Activist and founder of Save Our Urban Lakes Lubna Sarwat questioned the very foundation of the decision and called it illegal. “We already have the WALTA Act, 2002, which the Telangana government had adopted in its entirety in 2016. According to the Act, there are State level, district level and mandal level authorities who are entrusted with the responsibility of protection of water bodies. Heads and functionaries from all the State government departments concerned, ministers, public representatives and more importantly civil society representatives are part of these authorities which enjoy judicial powers to stop encroachment and pollution of lakes,” Ms. Sarwat said. Highly polluting Besides, construction has been upgraded from Orange category to Red category of industries, by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, which indicated that it is a highly polluting industry. “It is nobody’s secret that everywhere, real estate developers are eating away into the lakes, by developing ventures inside the lake or buffer areas. I alone have filed a dozen cases against developers encroaching the lakes. Does the government intend to legalise the encroachments? Is the minister cracking some kind of joke on the people of Telangana?” Ms. Sarwat fumed, and alleged that the government agencies are hand in glove with real estate developers to compromise lake protection. Secretary, Forum for Good Governance, M. Padmanabha Reddy likened the decision to “handing over the house key to the burglar.” “Tanks belong to the people. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), Hyderabad Metropolitan Authority ( HMDA) and Irrigation are the departments responsible for protection of the lakes. Handing over the lake protection to real estate agencies goes against the people’s interest,” Mr. Padmanabha Reddy opined. Marked boundaries Each lake has an irrigation memoir with its boundaries marked, he said. The government’s responsibility is to fence the lake as per the coordinates, and divert the sewage flows, towards protecting it. “People’s participation should be ensured by roping in the resident welfare associations and colony welfare associations. If at all, the builders and developers may be charged for the development of lakes in the area,” he said.  GHMC, HMDA and Irrigation are responsible for protection of the lakes. Involving real estate agencies goes against the people’s interest M. Padmanabha Reddy,Secretary, Forum for Good Governance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/activists-question-the-handover-of-lakes-to-realtors/article38122264.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||SEC of Delhi visits TSEC to study best practices||State Election Commissioner (SEC) of Delhi and Chandigarh S.K. Srivastava, who is also the chairman of the standing committee of All-India State Election Commissioners, visited the Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) here on Tuesday to study the best practices being followed by the latter. Telangana SEC C. Parthasarathi explained about the rural and urban local bodies in the State and the elections conducted to them. He also explained about “T-Poll” software ( technology) and its different modules being used by TSEC. Principal Secretary (IT) Jayesh Ranjan, Managing Director of Telangana State Technological Services Venkateshwar Rao gave a power point presentation on the facial recognition technology designed for recognising the genuine voters and exercising the right of franchise through the e-voting system from home. Mr. Srivastava complimented the TSEC and the IT Department for introducing several reforms in conducting elections, particularly to the local bodies, and assured that he would share the best practices being followed by TSEC with other State Election Commissions as also the ECI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sec-of-delhi-lauds-tsec-practices/article38122268.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||GHMC saves over Rs. 418 cr. after switching to LED streetlights||GHMC could accrue massive savings in terms of electricity charges, thanks to the use of LED lamps for streetlighting. A statement from the civic body informed that the savings amounted to more than Rs. 418 crore so far over the street lighting. A total 4.93 lakh streetlights of different wattages were installed in the 30 circles and six zones of the GHMC area, using LED bulbs, in the financial year 2017-18. Of the total, Rs. 348 crore have been saved in electricity charges, Rs. 52 crore in material procurement, and Rs. 18.5 crore in labour rationalisation, the statement informed. The LED street lamps were installed in joint coordination with the Energy Efficiency Services Limited, a public sector utility in joint venture with NTPC, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-saves-over-rs-418-cr-after-switching-to-led-streetlights/article38122239.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||‘Level of depravity is shocking’||The Human Rights Forum (HRF), through a statement on Tuesday, condemned the “auction” of Muslim women by right wing trolls through an online platform, and expressed solidarity with the victims. Over 100 women journalists, activists and others active on social media have been targeted through a fake online auction site ‘Bulli Bai’, similar to another app ‘Sulli Deals’ which surfaced in June last year, the statement noted, and said it was “organised pursuing” by right wing trolls of outspoken Muslim women centred on their gender and religion. “We believe the purpose of this hideous online sexual violence is to humiliate, intimidate and badger the women into silence. These virtual auctions reflect how our digital ecosystem reeks of Islamophobia, denigration of Muslim women and plain bigotry. The level of depravity is truly shocking,” the statement said, and called upon authorities concerned to diligently and expeditiously pursue investigation against the purveyors of the crimes and ensure prosecution. It called upon digital spaces such as GitHub where the apps were hosted, to ensure their platforms are not used for targeted harassment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/level-of-depravity-is-shocking/article38122244.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||Waqf Board to hold meeting with qazis||Telangana State Waqf Board Chairman Mohammed Saleem on Tuesday convened a meeting with qazis of the State to discuss the implications of the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill which seeks to increase the age of marriage of women from 18 year to 21 years. Qazis, and the process of solemnising Muslim marriages, attached to the TSWB by means of the Qazath Section. Mr Saleem said the Bill is now being scrutinised by a parliamentary panel which will take a decision. He emphasised that at this juncture, the age at which women can get married remains 18 years. He stressed that coming to a conclusion for the parliamentary panel is time consuming. Mr Saleem urged the qazis to allay fears, if any, of the men and women who are about to get married. He urged qazis to counsel such couple and families in case there exist questions in connection with the proposed raising of the age of marriage. The TSWB Chairman said that an association of qazis of the State informed him that they would be submitting a memorandum on the issue. This would, he said, would be carefully examined. Mr Saleem said that he would ensure that the Bill is withdrawn, and that he would inform Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao of the issue. He also said that a memorandum would be sent to President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Minister of Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/waqf-board-to-hold-meeting-with-qazis/article38122255.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||Coordination meeting of RSS-affiliated bodies from today||The RSS will hold a three-day coordination meeting of the chief functionaries of various organisations “inspired” by the outfit, here from Wednesday. The ‘Samanvay Baithak’ (coordination meeting), to be held at Annojiguda here, would be attended by top functionaries of the various organisations affiliated to the RSS, Sangh sources here said on Tuesday. “The Samanvay Baithak (coordination meeting) of the chief functionaries of various organisations inspired by the RSS working in different areas of social life will be held from January 5 to 7 at Bhagyanagar, Telangana,” the RSS said on twitter on December 21. This all-India level meeting is held once a year, Sunil Ambekar, Akhil Bharatiya Prachar Pramukh, RSS, has said on the Sangh’s website. RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat, its Sarkaryavah Dattatreya Hosbale, along with all the five sah-sarkaryavah and other office-bearers of the Sangh, will take part in the meeting to review the activities of the allied organisations. BJP national president J P Nadda will also attend the meeting. Representatives from 36 organisations, including Hiranmaya Pandya and B. Surendran of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, Alok Kumar and Milind Parande of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, would also participate in the meeting. All these organisations are active in sectors like education, economy and others. While sharing their experiences on the current situation, every organisation would inform about the efforts being made by them, Ambekar had said. Special discussions would also be held in the meeting on the important areas of environment, family awareness and social cohesion and coordinated efforts in those fields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/coordination-meeting-of-rss-affiliated-bodies/article38122265.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:34 IST,TELANGANA||Bay of Bengal beckons TRS-BJP: Revanth||“It is just a year away for the two bosom buddies — Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — to head to the Bay of Bengal and stay drowned there if one goes by the recent utterances and trading of charges against one another, which are just meant for public consumption, and their dubious behind-the-scene manipulations,” said Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and MP A. Revanth Reddy on Tuesday. In a media statement, the TPCC president said that the theatrics that the leaders of the two parties are engaged in, while ostensibly blaming each other, is not missing the eye of the people of Telangana, who are reading between the lines and waiting to serve a deadly blow on both opportunists for their anti-people approaches. “The so-called arrest of the BJP’s State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar reportedly because he is ‘set to create public unrest’ with his programme at Karimnagar is yet another classic instance of fooling the gullible people. It is not just the Congress party but every individual from Telangana realizes that this is part of a stage-managed drama being enacted by a known betrayer like K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his comrades-in-crime from the State BJP, particularly Sanjay Kumar,” he said. Politically speaking the arrest of Sanjay Kumar is a part of the deal between the two leaders to show that BJP is the primary Opposition in Telangana, he alleged. “Sanjay Kumar’s arrest was the thanksgiving twist given to the friendship. In return, the BJP, which openly flayed the ‘inept’ KCR administration, praised the State government for the manner the COVID crisis was handled. I am sure that both parties are headed for doom in Telangana. In the next elections the two parties on one side will be shown the route to the Bay of Bengal by the Congress party, come 2023,” he said. Earlier, Revanth Reddy Tweeted: “DRAMA Starts!! Part-1: Bandi Sanjay Arrest. Part-2: JP Nadda ji to be taken into CUSTODY today. All this to show BJP as the primary opposition in Telangana? Now that I made this Public, let’s watch the drama unfold.” BJP general secretary B.L. Santosh reacted to this Tweet and said: “Keep tweeting & taunting Sir. When the fire reaches you, you will have only Hussain Sagar to soak yourself in. Good luck. Let’s meet in 2023.” To this, Revanth Reddy replied: “Telangana understood the bonhomie between TRS and BJP. Both your parties on one side and @incindia on the other.. will show you the way to the Bay of Bengal in 2023.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bay-of-bengal-beckons-trs-bjp-revanth/article38122273.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:46 IST,TELANGANA||High Court disposes of PIL plea over Numaish||Observing that the State government was the best judge to decide whether to continue the Industrial Exhibition or not in the backdrop of rising Omicron cases, Telangana High Court on Tuesday disposed of a PIL petition on safety matters connected to the exhibition. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili declined to permit the Industrial Exhibition Society to challenge the decision of the State government to suspend activities of the Numaish two days after it started. The government issued a GO mandating the Exhibition Society to secure prior permissions from the Fire Safety, GHMC and Police departments to organise Numaish. Without permissions from these departments, the exhibition cannot be held, the GO stated. The PIL plea was filed by HC advocate Khaja Aijazuddin stating that the outbreak of a major fire accident at Numaish in Nampally in 2019 posed threat to lives of hundreds of people. The fire accident also resulted in massive loss to the stall operators. The exhibition was being organised without securing permission from the Fire Safety authorities which was a serious violation, he stated. The Exhibition Society counsel requested the court to allow it to challenge suspension of Numaish. He contended that the government should not have any objection over organising Numaish when malls, super markets and cinema halls were being allowed to operate even as Omicron cases were going up. The bench said if the counsel wanted people to die by visiting the expo in the backdrop of high incidence of COVID-19. It was not correct to organise Numaish when people were scared even to come out of their houses due to the pandemic, the bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-disposes-of-pil-plea-over-numaish/article38122260.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||TS Municipal Act 2019 in Braille script released||Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development, IT and Industries K.T. Rama Rao released the Telangana State Municipal Act 2019 in the Braille script which will help the visually challenged in accessing information related to the municipal rules, on Tuesday. Said to be first of its kind in the country, the book has information about the government’s ongoing programmes including greening, water supply, sanitation, health, public toilets, streetlights, markets, disaster management, pollution control, building permissions, e-municipal services, trade licenses and others. The Minister said the government has been implementing various programmes especially for the persons with disabilities. The book is already available in English and Telugu. Ministers Errabelli Dayakar Rao and Satyavathi Rathod, MP Venkatesh Netha, MLAs Challa Dharmareddy, Diwakar Rao, Maganti Gopinath, principal secretary Arvind Kumar, CDMA Director N Satyanarayana and other officials were present, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-municipal-act-2019-in-braille-script-released/article38122261.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||A forum to showcase innovations for elderly, PwDs||A State-level exhibition on Assistive Technology showcasing assistive and rehabilitative solutions for the elderly and persons with disabilities (PwDs) was organised in the city on Tuesday, coinciding with World Braille Day, by Telangana State Innovation Cell in collaboration with the Welfare of Disabled and Senior Citizens Department. Innovations of grassroot innovators, students from Telangana and startups across India were on display. The exhibition sought to identify the best solutions, scale them to market-ready and recognise the efforts being made to innovate in the space, a release from IT and Industries Minister K.T.Rama Rao’s office said. Special Secretary to the Department Divya Devarajan, Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan, State Commissioner of Welfare of Disabled and Senior Citizens Shailaja Sajja and Chairman of Telangana Vikalangula Co-operative Corporation Vasudeva Reddy attended the programme. The exhibition was a part of the larger Assistive Technology Summit 2021. Innovations awarded Three innovations by student were presented awards, in a competition organised as part of the exhibition. The first prize went to an innovation named Infant Cry Detector, second to Smart fabricia Using IoT, and the third to Myoelectric arm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-forum-to-showcase-innovations-for-elderly-pwds/article38122242.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||ISB to back start-ups by women||The Indian School of Business (ISB) through its I-Venture on Tuesday announced the launch of ‘Women of Innovation’ (I-WIN), a programme to support women-founded / co-founded start-ups. The programme aims to mentor and handhold women entrepreneurs to fine-tune business model, explore fundraising avenues and forge partnerships, in the process paving new growth trajectories. The entrepreneurs can glide through the go-to-market stage and scale up their products and technologies as a result of the multi-pronged approach of I-WIN. Sector agnostic start-ups with a minimum of one-year incorporation and proof of concept stage ventures can apply, ISB said in a release. Women entrepreneurs are important for the economy's growth because their participation directly impacts the improvement of the standard of living and helps in job creation. Well-equipped women entrepreneurs help in opening newer growth avenues and bring about positive outcomes at the community level. I-WIN is an attempt in that direction, said Saumya Kumar, Director, I-Venture @ ISB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/isb-to-back-start-ups-by-women/article38122250.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||RPO in 2021 issued 4.42 lakh passports||The Regional Passport Office, Hyderabad, in 2021, issued as many as 4.42 lakh passports and passport clearance certificates. According to information released from the RPO on Tuesday, last year’s numbers are significantly higher than the numbers recorded in 2020 – which stood at 2.93 lakh. During last year’s lockdown, services were not stopped and all emergency passport requirements were looked into. After the lockdown last year, the passport offices opened with 50% appointments, and then at 75% in August. In September last year, the passport offices worked at full capacity, taking 100% of appointments. RPO started 200 additional appointments per day across all PSKs, decreasing waiting time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rpo-in-2021-issued-442-lakh-passports/article38122266.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||HC likely to hear Sanjay’s plea in virtual mode today||Justice Ujjal Bhuyan of Telangana High Court is likely to hear on Wednesday the criminal petition filed by arrested BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar seeking to quash the first information report (FIR) issued against him. Two days ago Karimnagar police arrested Mr. Sanjay after foiling his ‘jagarana deeksha’ at his camp office in Karimnagar city. The ‘deeksha’ was undertaken by the MP protesting against GO 317 issued by State government for re-allotment of employees, especially teachers, to different districts. The BJP party State chief moved a Lunch Motion on Tuesday in the HC seeking a direction to set aside the FIR issued by Karimnagar police against him. Different sections of Indian Penal Code were invoked against him and his associates. The petition came up for hearing before Justice K. Lakshman in the afternoon. Former advocate general and senior counsel Desai Prakash Reddy appeared for the MP who was presently lodged in Karimnagar prison. Before the senior counsel presented his contentions, Justice K. Lakshman said that his bench cannot hear the plea filed by the MP as per the roster As per the roster it would be heard by the bench of Justice Ujjal Bhuyan. Justice Ujjal Bhuyan is likely to hear the MP’s petition in virtual mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-hc-likely-to-hear-bandi-sanjays-plea-in-virtual-mode-today/article38122111.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||‘Drama Starts’ tweets Revanth||In a sarcastic comment on the arrest of BJP State president and Lok Sabha member B. Sanjay Kumar, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A Revanth termed it as a drama. On Tuesday morning Mr. Revanth tweeted: “Drama Starts!! Part 1- Bandi Sanjay arrest. Part 2- JP Nadda ji to be taken into custody today. All this shows BJP as the primary opposition in Telangana? Now that I made this public, lets watch the drama unfold.. @INCIndia @RahulGandhi.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drama-starts-tweets-revanth/article38122466.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||BJP and TRS playing games: Congress||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) working president Mahesh Kumar Goud said that both the TRS and the BJP have been playing politics and the arrest of BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar was a part of that. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday, Mr. Mahesh Kumar said that TRS has been trying to create a picture as if the BJP is the main Opposition in the State while the actual strength of the party was limited only to 14 Assembly constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-and-trs-playing-games-congress/article38122467.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||LVPEI gets ophthalmic research biorepository||L.V. Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI) Hyderabad campus is now equipped with state-of-the-art ophthalmic research biorepository, said to be the first in the country. This facility has been set up with generous support from K. Ravindranath, the former dean of Sri Venkateshwara University in Tirupati. Biorepositories are collections of human tissue for future research on disease mechanisms, therapeutics and diagnostics. The centre, which has been named after the donor, will have all the necessary facilities such as cyropreservation facilities, freezers, specially trained staff, etc. Blinding diseases “This facility will help us treat blinding diseases in innovative therapies. We can preserve the sanctity of patient samples, develop better molecular mechanisms for both common and rare diseases,” said Sayan Basu, network director of Prof Brien Holden Eye Research Centre, which is a centre for excellence for ocular research in LVPEI, informed a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lvpei-gets-ophthalmic-research-biorepository/article38122243.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||TSWREIS invites online applications||Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TSWREIS) has invited online applications from eligible candidates for admission into COEs - Centres of Excellence, general and vocational colleges in social welfare residential educational institutions for the academic year 2022-2023. The candidates appearing for SSC exam in March, 2022 and 10th class through CBSE/ICSE in the academic 2021-2022 on a regular basis are eligible to apply for the the TSWR JC & COE CET – 2022. Candidates can submit online applications from January 6 to January 25 by 5 p.m. Entrance exam will be conducted on February 20 (Sunday) in designated centres across Telangana. Candidates are instructed to visit the TSWREIS websites www.tswreis.ac.in ; www.tsswreisjc.cgg.gov in for prospectus and other admission related details, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tswreis-invites-online-applications/article38122254.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||1.91L ryots get RB benefit on Tuesday||An amount of Rs. 512.26 crore was credited to the bank accounts of 1.91 lakh landholding farmers as investment support for the rabi season under the Rythu Bandhu scheme on the sixth day of benefit transfer on Tuesday. According to officials, an amount of Rs. 5,806.35 crore has been transferred to the accounts of 59,51,428 farmers so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/191l-ryots-get-rb-benefit-on-tuesday/article38122270.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||Congress enrols 6 lakh members in digital drive||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) working president Mahesh Kumar Goud said that so far 6 lakh digital members were enrolled into the party. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday, Mr. Mahesh Kumar said that all those members are being extended Rs. 2 lakh insurance. The TPCC working president has alleged that a family had committed suicide due to harassment by son of Kothagudem MLA Vanama Venakateswara Rao. He said that several cases were already pending against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-enrols-6-lakh-members-in-digital-drive/article38122271.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||Man, son die as tractor rams bike||A man around 30-years-old and his son were killed and his wife seriously injured when the bike they were travelling on was hit by a tractor at Ninepaka village in Chityal mandal on Tuesday night. Sources said that a tractor rammed into their bike at a high speed near Bathukamma Thalli statue on the outskirts of Ninepaka village. The man, whose identity could not be ascertained immediately, and his son died on the spot. His wife, who was riding pillion on the bike, suffered grievous multiple injuries after falling off the bike. She was admitted to a hospital in the mandal headquarters town. The trio were heading towards Anduku Thanda village at the time of the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-son-die-as-tractor-rams-bike/article38122468.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||TRS unleashing repression against BJP leaders: Minister||Union Minister for Culture, Tourism and Development of North Eastern Region G. Kishan Reddy on Tuesday accused the Telagana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) dispensation in the State of unleashing repression against the BJP leaders and cadres for espousing the cause of the agitated employees and teachers, who are up in arms against the controversial provisions of the GO 317 and the “arbitrary” zonal transfer policy. “False cases have been registered against BJP State president and Karimnagar Member of Parliament Bandi Sanjay and several other party cadres for taking up the cause of aggrieved employees and teachers,” he said, condemning the ‘police raid’ on the MP’s camp office during ‘Jagarana Deeksha’ here on Sunday night. Mr. Reddy along with Huzurabad MLA Eatala Rajendar on Tuesday met Mr. Sanjay during “mulakat” in the district jail, where the latter is lodged in connection with a case booked against him by Karimnagar police on charges of violating prohibitory orders, COVID-19 safety regulations and obstructing police from discharging their duties during his Jagarana Deeksha, which was foiled by the police at his camp office on Sunday night. Speaking to reporters at Karimnagar MP’s camp office later in the day, Mr. Kishan Reddy alleged that the police behaved in a high-handed manner with Mr. Sanjay and several other party leaders during the latter’s Jagarana Deeksha in support of the demand of various employees’ and teachers’ unions for changes to GO 317. The Deeksha, modelled on the Gandhian concept of Satyagraha, was a peaceful programme intended to highlight the concerns of teachers and employees, he said, alleging that the police raided the MP’s camp office after breaking open the shutter locks with gas cutters, creating chaos. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao owes an explanation over the biased approach in enforcement of COVID-19 safety regulations,” he said referring to reports of instances of the ruling TRS leaders participating in various programmes in Hyderabad and elsewhere in the State recently “without adhering” to COVID appropriate behaviour. We have already apprised our party Central leadership and Union Home Minister Amit Shah about Sunday’s incident, Mr. Kishan Reddy said, adding that the party cadres would not be cowed down by the “intimidating tactics” of the TRS regime. “The party cadres will take up people’s issues with renewed commitment, unfazed by the TRS regime’s repressive measures. People will teach the dictatorial regime at the helm in the State a fitting lesson at an appropriate time,” Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-unleashing-repression-against-bjp-leaders-minister/article38122278.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||State to formulate sports policy soon: Minister||The State Government will soon formulate a sports policy after receiving a report from the committee headed by Dr. R. Balasubramaniam, founder chairman of Grassroots Research and Advocacy Movement (GRAAM). Addressing the gathering at the State-level Yuvajanothsava or State Youth Festival at Adichunchanagiri in Mandya near here on Tuesday, Minister for Youth Empowerment and Sports K.C. Narayana Gowda said the State Government had constituted the committee. He said the Government was looking forward to ensure maximum participation of sportspersons from Karnataka in the next Olympics to be held in Paris in 2024. A total of 75 promising sportspersons had been adopted by the State Government under its Amrit Sports Adoption Scheme. Mr. Gowda said the Government Flying Training School in Jakkur on the outskirts of Bengaluru, which has been shut since the last four years, will be reopened. Though the State Government was planning to celebrate Yuvajanothsava on a grand scale this year, the COVID-19 pandemic had forced the authorities to scale down celebrations. Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot, who participated in the inaugural ceremony of Yuvajanothsava, said youth played a very important role in the country’s overall development. Minister for Energy and Kannada and Culture V. Sunil Kumar said change was possible only if the youth made up their minds. Seer of Adichunchanagiri Mutt Sri Nirmalanandanath Swami said human resource was a crucial element in the resources of a country. The two-day Yuvajanothsava will feature a variety of programmes including song, music, dance, mono-act, and debate competitions. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommaiis scheduled to participate in the valedictory. A total of 57 persons from each district is participating. About 100 winners will be shortlisted for participation in the national youth fest to be held in Puducherry, said a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-to-formulate-sports-policy-soon-minister/article38122256.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||Holy cow!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/holy-cow/article38122249.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:07 IST,||Another scam in government recruitment surfaces in Gujarat||Another scam in government recruitment has surfaced in Gujarat when the State government on Tuesday ordered an inquiry into the allegations of irregularities in an online exam being held for the recruitment of engineers for the Gujarat Energy Transmission Corporation. The exam began on Tuesday and will continue for the next three days at many centres. The administration was forced to order the probe after State Aam Aadmi Party youth wing leader Yuvrajsinh Jadeja alleged that some middlemen, in connivance with some officials and a private agency which is conducting the online exam, were helping candidates by taking a huge amount of money. Mr. Jadeja also produced a series of documents to substantiate his charges. As soon as Mr. Jadeja’s media briefing got over, the State government announced that all allegations would be probed. Education Minister and Cabinet spokesman Jitu Vaghani told reporters in Gandhinagar that Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel has ordered an enquiry. “Our government believes in transparency. Nearly 35,000 aspirants are appearing in this exam. Strict action would follow if anyone is found guilty,” he said. As per the AAP leader, the role of a Maharashtra-headquartered firm, which has been given the contract by GETCO to conduct the recruitment test, is also under the radar. The government has defended the agency contending that it was hired earlier for the recruitment of the railway police and also by some central PSUs. The Minister ruled out cancelling the exam. “Let the probe bring out the truth.” The online test, which began at 12 noon, is being conducted for the recruitment of 300 electrical and 53 civil engineers. “The scam is being run by people based in Bayad town of Arvalli district. The candidates who have paid an advance only pretend to appear in the exam but will not answer any question....people sitting in a control room will click answers for them,” Mr. Jadeja claimed. “This agency’s name had surfaced in a similar scam in the past. The middlemen usually charge Rs. 20 lakh from each candidate and take Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh as advance. With the help of this agency and officials, right answers are clicked on behalf of the candidates,” he alleged, explaining how the exam was being gamed. He also named around a dozen persons who are actively involved in the malpractice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/another-scam-in-government-recruitment-surfaces-in-gujarat/article38122114.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:16 IST,||Tribals up in arms over quota in Odisha panchayat elections||A massive controversy has erupted across non-scheduled areas of Odisha with tribals threatening to boycott and disrupt forthcoming panchayat elections. Organisations comprising tribal population are aggrieved that not a single post of sarpanch and block chairperson has been reserved for tribals in 23 out of 30 districts (non-scheduled areas). 22.5% tribal population Scheduled areas are those which have predominant population from tribal communities. Three districts Mayurbhanj, Sundargarh and Koraput have been identified as fully scheduled areas whereas parts of Rayagada, Keonjhar, Sambalpur, Boudh, Kandhamal, Ganjam, Kalahandi and Balasore are scheduled areas. As tribals constitute 22.5% of State’s total population, reservation of posts of sarpanch, block chairman and zilla parishad chairman has been made based on their population percentage. Accordingly, posts have been reserved for tribals only in scheduled areas. “The Orissa HC has directed to reserve posts as per the proportion of State’s population. The reservation exercise has been carried out as per Section 10 (5) of Odisha Gram Panchayat Act. As against 22.5% tribal population in Odisha, the government has earmarked 31% of posts of sarpanch and block chairperson for tribals, So there is no question of depriving tribals,” said Gyana Ranjan Dash, Director of Panchayat Raj. As per the draft publication for reservation of offices of all panchayat samitis, no reservation has been provided for tribal candidates in non-scheduled areas. Protesting against non-representation of tribals in gram panchayats, the Zilla Adivasi Kalyan Sangh (ZAKS) on Monday staged a demonstration in front of the office of the Balangir Collector. “Since the beginning, posts of sarpanch and block chairpersons have been reserved for tribal candidates. However, the draft notification says no block or gram panchayat has been earmarked for tribals in Balangir,” said Niranjan Bisi, general secretary of the ZAKS, Balangir. Mr. Bisi said, “We will not let panchayat election take place. Tribals will not even file nomination for any posts. In Khaprakhol and Tureikela, more than 35% of population are tribals.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tribals-up-in-arms-over-quota-in-panchayat-elections/article38122113.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:15 IST,||Keep hospital beds, ICUs ready within 10 days, says Naveen||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday gave 10 days to both private and government hospitals to keep beds and intensive care units ready at par with the health infrastructure created during the peak of the second COVID wave in the State. Mr. Patnaik held a high-level meeting on COVID-19 preparedness on a day when the State registered a 60% spike in cases. As many as 680 people tested positive in the past 24 hours as compared to 424 pople in the previous corresponding period. “In order to prevent the spread of the infection, we have to impose restrictions in right proportion. These should not affect the livelihood of people,” advised Mr. Patnaik. He emphasised on the need for putting all systems in place to combat the pandemic as the rate of spread of the infection would be faster this time compared to the previous waves. Meanwhile, as many as 31 students tested positive at the National Institute of Science Education and Research, Bhubaneswar, campus while the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Bhubaneswar, was sealed following detection of positive cases. Khordha district saw its COVID-19 graph shooting up from 151 to 263 in 24 hours. Odisha’s caseload has increased to 10,56,660 while only 2,888 people are recuperating at hospitals and homes. Most of the infected persons are asymptomatic. One person succumbed to COVID-19 on Tuesday taking the death toll to 8,464.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/keep-hospital-beds-icus-ready-within-10-days-says-naveen/article38122321.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:16 IST,||The grass-to-gold industry in Odisha’s tribal heartland is flourishing||They found an opportunity during a pandemic. While the COVID-19 outbreak cast immense misery on the livelihood of millions in the country, a tribe in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district took up the challenge to expand its wares. A group of 200 women belonging to the Bathudi tribe in a remote village of Mayurbhanj began research and development in their own small way and are now reaping the benefits. From a basket of 100 crafts made of the Sabai grass, they have churned out 300 crafts in a year. The Sabai grass is a natural fibre grown abundantly in the hilly areas of Mayurbhanj. About a decade ago, it was mainly used for making ropes only. “In 2020, when the sale of the Sabai grass craft had gone down and the orders dried up, we decided to make best use of the lean period. We decided to explore what other crafts could be made out of the grass,” said Usharani Naik, who leads the Gohaldihi cluster of artisans in Mayurbhanj district. New designs, products The Gohaldihi cluster, involving 232 artisans across 14 villages, was identified as a potential Sabai Grass Craft Cluster for the programme intervention of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes Research and Training Institute, Bhubaneswar, with the support of the Odisha Mineral Bearing Areas Development Corporation. Ms. Naik said, “Our members started exploring possibilities of creating a new craft out of the grass...we came up with new designs and products and gave shape to those as finished products. We discovered that our range of products had rapidly increased from 100 odd crafts to 300.” After COVID-19 lockdown measures were relaxed, the market for the Sabai grass bounced back. “Our products have been appreciated. The annual turnover shot up to Rs. 1 crore,” she said. By making products such as a foot mat to jewellery items and from vanity bags to chairs, the expertise of women has improved. The Odisha Rural Development And Marketing Society (ORMAS), an autonomous professional body under the aegis of the Panchayati Raj Department, roped in the National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad, which provided skill training for new products. The ORMAS also has tied up with the National Institute of Fashion Technology for improvement in the products. “Now, 700 to 800 artisans, mostly tribal women, are working in four clusters. The annual turnover ranges from Rs. 3 crore to Rs. 4 crore. The market is expanding. We have got export license which would enable us to send the product to foreign countries such as the U.S.A. and the United Kingdom regularly,” said Biman Mal, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of ORMAS, Mayurbhanj. The Sabai srass usually grows in the degraded and highlands requiring little irrigation and manuring. Moreover, soil erosion is arrested to some extent by its cultivation. Mayurbhanj’s District Development Report says annual turnover of the Sabai industry can be stepped up to Rs. 100 to Rs. 200 crore. “The annual average income of individual artisans in Gohaldihi cluster is Rs. 12,000 to Rs. 15,000 from the Sabai grass craft making. Some tribal women have become master craftspersons and are training other women,” said Manguli Naik, who herself is a master craftswoman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/the-grass-to-gold-industry-in-odishas-tribal-heartland-is-flourishing/article38122330.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:16 IST,||Odisha child panel opposes raising legal age of marriage||The Odisha State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (OSCPCR) has opposed the move to raise the legal age for marriage of girls to 21 saying it would not be effective in preventing child marriages and at the same time it could create unwed mothers as another Act permits consensual sex after 18. In a letter addressed to Vinay P. Sahasrabuddhe, Chairperson of the Committee on Education, Women, Children, Youth and Sports, OSCPCR Chairperson Sandhayabati Pradhan said, “The change of legislation in isolation will never be able to stop child marriages unless there is socio-behavioural change among the parents and the community.” Ms. Pradhan said: “Factors like distress and poverty, patriarchal norms and practices, lack of opportunity for schooling, employment and the like are still contributing to a large extent to child marriages. There is also a need to strengthen families by providing appropriate livelihood opportunity. Cases registered “The National Crime Records Bureau data says only 785 cases have been registered under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act in 2020 which was 523 in 2019 and 501 in 2018. On the other hand, 23.3% girls were marrying before the legal age as captured by NFHS – 5,” she said. She said: “The Juvenile Justice Care and Protection Act and the Integrated Child Protection Scheme have the scope to extend support to such vulnerable children only up to the age of 18. In such circumstances there will be no space to provide support to a child bride or groom in between the age of 19 to 21 if rescued from child marriage. “The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 has restricted consensual sex up to the age of 18. This implies that someone may have sexual act after 18 but won’t be able to marry till 21 which will create new sets of issues like increasing unwed mothers and foeticide thereafter,” Ms. Pradhan added. The OSCPCR said instead of raising the legal age of marriage of girls to 21, the minimum legal age for both boys and girls must be 18.  The National Crime Records Bureau data says only 785 cases have been registered under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act in 2020 Sandhayabati Pradhan OSCPCR Chairperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/odisha-child-panel-opposes-raising-legal-age-of-marriage/article38122129.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:15 IST,||Assam CM chairs 18-hour security meet||The status of cases registered since May 2021 was the focus of discussion during a two-day conference of Assam’s Superintendents of Police that Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma chaired for 18 hours at a stretch. The conference, held at Duliajan in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh district, concluded on Tuesday. “I wanted to know the status of the cases registered over the past eight months,” Mr. Sarma told reporters. He said the law and order and other issues were discussed at the meeting where the SPs and the additional SPs provided updates on the security scenario in their districts. Mr. Sarma instructed the top police officers to take the war against drugs to a “deciding state”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/assam-cm-chairs-18-hour-security-meet/article38122322.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:16 IST,||Concern over NITI Aayog’s low ranking for Rajasthan||Health rights groups in Rajasthan on Tuesday expressed concern over the NITI Aayog giving low ranking in the health index round IV report with the findings that health status had stagnated and health services were deteriorating in most parts of the State. The ranking was given recently on the basis of 24 indicators related to health outcomes and on key inputs and processes. The report ‘Healthy States, Progressive India’, prepared by the NITI Aayog, the World Bank and the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, has placed Rajasthan at the 16th position among 19 big States. Moreover, the State has shown a decline between the base year 2018-19 and the reference year 2019-20. ‘Worst performer’ Rajasthan has been depicted as the ‘worst performer’ in health outcomes measured in the form of neonatal, under five and maternal mortality rates, tuberculosis treatment success rate, etc. It falters even on institutional deliveries and immunisation in comparison with other States. Activists attached to the Jan Swasthya Abhiyan (JSA) here demanded that the State government get its act together and take decisive steps to improve the health status of people. The JSA highlighted the enactment of the Right to Health Care Act, strengthening of primary healthcare and making free and rational medication accessible to all as the urgent steps needed in Rajasthan. Chhaya Pachauli, director of voluntary group Prayas, said the State government must ensure that all citizens get free basic preventive and curative services within half-an-hour of walking distance as part of the right to healthcare. The State must also invest generously in primary healthcare and maternal and child health services which should be delivered through an outreach in villages or through the institutions such as the anganwadi centres. “The functioning of the primary healthcare services largely influences indicators such as immunisation, antenatal care, institutional deliveries and infant and maternal mortality rates, which were the key variables on which the NITI Aayog’s report was based,” Ms. Pachauli said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/concern-over-niti-aayogs-low-ranking-for-rajasthan/article38122125.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:16 IST,||Stage set for Kolkata film festival from Jan. 7||Amidst rising COVID-19 cases, the West Bengal government has decided to go ahead with the 27th Kolkata International Film Festival where 200 films will be screened across ten venues in the city starting January 7.  The inaugural film will be Satyajit Ray’s 1970 classic Aranyer Din Ratri. The festival will offer centenary tribute to Satyajit Ray, Chidananda Dasgupta and Hungarian filmmaker Miklós Jancsó. It will also pay special tribute to Buddhadeb Dasgupta, Dilip Kumar and Jean Paul Belmondo among others.  Finland is going to be theme country for the festival this year. Six films from Finland will be screened. Fifty-nine films will be screened in the competitive section. Along with the venues at Nandan cultural complex in the city, films will be screened at Nazrul Mancha and a few other venues. The Kolkata International Film Festival used to be a mega event where actors from Bollywood would participate in the opening and closing ceremony. However, this time the festival is likely to be a muted event. The festival will conclude on January 14. Ganga Sagar Mela While the State government has decided to go ahead with the film festival, questions are being raised about the Ganga Sagar Mela which will be held in the second week of January. A doctor has filed a petition before Calcutta High Court challenging the State’s decision to hold the annual pilgrimage. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had said that she could not stop or impose curbs on the mela as it was not a State government event and people from across the country participated in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/stage-set-for-kolkata-film-festival-from-jan-7/article38122127.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:15 IST,||Give property tax waiver from 2020, says Cong.||Days after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray sounded Shiv Sena’scampaign bugle for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls by waiving property tax on flats up to 500 square feet in Mumbai, its ally Congress on Tuesday said the decision should be implemented from 2020 and not from 2022. “We want to congratulate the Chief Minister for announcing this decision, but we want to draw his attention to repeated demands made by Congress in 2021 not only on waiving the tax from 2020 but also to cut down 60% property tax on flats and commercial shops with area of 501 to 700 square feet,” said Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap. Mr. Thackeray’s announcement on January 1 was seen as the Sena’s new year gift to Mumbai residents and also an indication that the party has begun its campaign for the civic polls. Mr. Thackeray had said that his party had made the promise in its manifesto for the 2017 civic polls and he was fulfilling it. The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party too has already demanded that the waiver should be applied from the time promise was made and not from 2022 only. The Congress on Tuesday wrote to Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal and Mr. Thackeray reiterating its demands. “Mumbai Congress had made this demand by writing letters on January 15, 2021, March 15, 2021 and June 17, 2021. I hope that our demand will be fulfilled,” he said. Mr. Jagtap has also opposed the BMC’s decision to conduct future meetings of the civic body online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/give-property-tax-waiver-from-2020-says-cong/article38122320.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:15 IST,||Maharashtra govt. brings forward EVs target date||The Maharashtra government has decided to shift the target date of inducting electric vehicles into its fleet from April 1, 2022 to January 1, 2022. “Keeping our commitment to clean mobility and encouraging citizens, the government of Maharashtra has decided to implement the decision of purchasing or renting only Electric Vehicles for Government/ Urban Local Bodies/ Corporations from 1st January 2022 instead of 1st April 2022,” said State Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray. In July 2021, the government unveiled its EV policy in a bid to attract EV manufacturing companies and allied businesses to the State by offering incentives to the industries as well as the consumers. Under the policy, it was decided that all new government vehicles that were to be purchased would be EVs from April 1, 2022. The State government has however decided to start early and from January 1. The policy includes ensuring that EVs comprise at least 10% of the new vehicles registered by 2025, 25% electrification of public transport by 2025 in six urban centres: Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Amravati and Nashik; and setting up 2,500 charging stations in urban areas and highways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-govt-brings-forward-evs-target-date/article38122326.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:16 IST,||Fake input tax credit racket busted in Mumbai||A fake input tax credit racket involving GST of Rs. 22 crore was busted by the office of Thane CGST Commissionerate of Mumbai zone. Acting on a tip-off from the Central Intelligence Unit, Mumbai CGST Zone, a father and son duo, proprietors of two separate firms M/s Shah Enterprises and M/s U.S. Enterprises located at Kandivali West in Mumbai were arrested. Both the firms are registered with GST for trading in ferrous waste and scrap and were fraudulently availing themselves of ITC to the tune of Rs. 11.80 crore and Rs. 10.23 crore respectively without receiving goods or services, in violation of the provisions of CGST Act 2017. Both these firms were availing themselves of fake ITC from fake entities and passing them on to other entities of this network. The two were arrested under Section 69 of CGST Act 2017. They were produced before the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Esplanade in Mumbai on Tuesday and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. The operation was part of large-scale exercise launched by the CGST, Mumbai Zone, to stamp out fake ITC network that had been causing unhealthy competition with honest taxpayers and defrauding the government exchequer of its rightful taxes. The department will intensify the drive against fraudsters and tax evaders in the days to come.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fake-input-tax-credit-racket-busted-in-mumbai/article38122123.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:16 IST,||Hospital bed occupancy highest in 14 days||With the number of daily COVID-19 cases and positivity rate continuing to surge across the Capital, the occupancy of hospital beds under various categories has been at its highest in the past fortnight, according to government data. While the number of new COVID-19 cases went from 52 to 4,099, active cases rose from 385 to 10,986 and the positivity rate surged from 0.09% to 6.46% between December 11 and January 3. The occupancy of COVID and oxygen-supported beds increased by 2.5 times, ICU beds by over three times and ventilators by two times during this period. However, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said 94.1% of the total 9,042 beds for COVID-19 were vacant as of Tuesday. Dedicated beds According to Health Department records, 420 dedicated COVID beds were occupied on January 3 opposed to 152 on December 11 and the occupancy of ICU beds has gone up to 113 from 37. Ventilator bed occupancy was recorded at 48, up from 20 and that of oxygenated beds at 398 compared to 148 during the 14-day period. According to government sources however, when it came to ventilators, only 14 of them were in use. Health Department data show that COVID bed occupancy had breached the 300 mark on January 2 with 307 such beds being occupied, followed by a sudden surge in the next 24 hours bringing the bed occupancy to 420 by the next day. COVID ICU bed occupancy fluctuated in two digits throughout the 14-day period before reaching 65 on January 2 and breaching the 100 mark within 24 hours and settling at 113 on January 3. Oxygen-supported beds progressively inched closer to the 300 mark during the period before breaching it within 24 hours between January 2 and 3 and rising to 398, up from 293. As of January 2, when compared to the rest of the country, Delhi’s case fatality rate was higher and recovery rate lower. While the Capital’s case fatality rate was 1.73 compared to the national case fatality rate of 1.38, the recovery rate was 97.70 compared to 98.20. Tests in Delhi per million were significantly higher than nationally at 17,29,958 tests per million compared to the national figure of 5,03,661 per million. ‘Symptoms mild’ Seeking to reassure Delhiites, Mr. Sisodia said experts believe that the symptoms of Omicron are very mild and the infected people are recovering very quickly. He appealed to people to opt for hospitalisation only in case of a dip in oxygen levels. “At present, Delhi has reported over 11,000 COVID cases of which only 350 people are hospitalised and only 124 patients are on oxygen beds. There are seven persons who are on ventilators as of now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hospital-bed-occupancy-highest-in-14-days/article38122118.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:07 IST,||‘Delhi could see 50K daily cases’||The current wave of COVID-19 could peak around January 20 in Delhi with 50,000 daily new cases if no restrictions are imposed, an IIT Kanpur team has informed the government, an official source said.  “The prediction is based on the ‘Sutra’ model it has created, which takes into account different factors,” the source told The Hindu .   Last year, the Delhi government had asked IIT Kanpur to form a team, comprising epidemiologists and other experts, to come up with accurate predictions on when the third wave could hit the city and how high the cases could go.  South Africa pattern Nandini Sharma, director-professor of the Community Medicine Department at Maulana Azad Medical College, Delhi, said it was possible that the city could see a peak of infection around January 20. “We are in a way mirroring South Africa in the rise of Omicron cases. So, it is probable that we could see a peak by January 20 as cases are already going down in that country,” Dr. Sharma said. She said the incubation period of the Omicron variant was only two-three days (lesser than Delta) and it takes a week to recover from the disease which is highly infectious. “But it is difficult to say how many people will actually get the virus as it is mostly asymptomatic and infections are mild,” she added. Jugal Kishore, head of the Community Medicine Department at Safdarjung Hospital, said the current wave could peak in Delhi slightly before January 20 and added that in South Africa, cases peaked in about 15 days. But he said 50,000 daily cases seem to be very high. “Even before the Omicron variant hit the country, about 90% people in Delhi had antibodies against the virus as per serosurveys. Since reinfections are very less, there is only a lesser number of people left to be infected compared to the second wave. Because of this, daily cases could go up to a maximum of 25,000 in Delhi, but not beyond that and the majority will not require hospital admissions,” he said. Crackdown on gatherings Dr. Sharma said the government should prevent large gatherings which could turn into super spreader events as even if 2% of cases become serious, the healthcare system will be overwhelmed. She said that past experience shows even “if we impose restrictions, we may not be able to control the spread of the disease”. Dr. Kishore said the government should be focusing on ramping up the healthcare infrastructure and home isolation and not imposing lockdowns. “There are two reasons why the government should not impose a lockdown. First, it affects a lot of poor people, who will lose their livelihood that may further increase stress and decrease immunity. Second, it will delay the peak and increase the chances of mutation of the virus, which is currently causing only mild infections,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-could-see-50k-daily-cases/article38122106.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:07 IST,||‘Teachers’ varsity will make India Vishwaguru’||The Delhi Assembly on Tuesday passed the Delhi Teachers’ University Bill with Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia saying teachers graduating from the university will lead India to become a “Vishwaguru”. Participating in the discussion, Mr. Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, said the BJP is not serious about education. The Central government, he said, has increased the fees of IITs from Rs. 90,000 to Rs. 3 lakh while the IIM fees have gone up to Rs. 23 lakh. This will make it difficult for the children from poor families to get admission in these institutions, he said. Mr. Sisodia said he is ready to answer every question in the Assembly but the BJP does not have the “courage to hear the truth”. BJP MLA Ajay Mahawar demanded that the Babarpur Assembly constituency be renamed after former president and scientist A.P.J. Abdul Kalam while another BJP MLA Abhay Verma requested Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to change the name of Laxmi Nagar metro station to Laxmi Nagar-Shakarpur metro station. Leader of the Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said the government “could not respond” either to his allegations or the questions raised by him. During the debate on Delhi Teachers’ University Bill, Mr. Bidhuri said the government keeps announcing universities “only for publicity”. The LoP also placed in the Assembly grievances of the teachers and staff members of 12 government-funded colleges of Delhi University. “The staff members have not got their salaries for six months. Thousands of posts of principals, vice-principals and teachers are lying vacant in Delhi schools. Not a single guest teacher was confirmed, but thousands of them were fired,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “The government has increased the fees at Delhi Technological University by lakhs of rupees. The promise of education to poor children has also proved to be false,” the BJP leader said. Mr. Bidhuri said he also questioned the new excise policy during the question-and-answer period and asked how many liquor shops were open in non-conforming areas and how much commission was given to wholesalers and retailers. But, Mr. Sisodia “did not have this information”, he said. “Mr. Sisodia admitted that in the Master Plan-2021, liquor shops have been allowed in non-conforming areas, but when asked where these shops were open, he could not answer,” Mr. Bidhuri said. New liquor policy Mr. Sisodia said due to the new liquor policy in Delhi, “the commission of BJP leaders has been stopped” which is why they are “furious and upset”. “The policy has stopped the theft of Rs. 3,500 crore. Earlier, this money used to go to BJP leaders as commission, now it is coming to Delhi’s treasury,” he said. Mr. Sisodia made the statement during the discussion on the new liquor policy in the House. He said before the new policy, there was no liquor shop in about 80 wards of Delhi. In these places, illegal outlets were being run under the patronage of BJP leaders in connivance with the corporations and the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/teachers-varsity-will-make-india-vishwaguru/article38122109.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:07 IST,||Western disturbances to bring rain in Capital||Under the influence of two consecutive western disturbances, the Capital is in for a wet spell that is likely to last till January 9. The Indian Meteorological Department forecast says the minimum temperatures are likely to rise by 2-3 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature is likely to fall by a few notches due to overcast conditions and there is no possibility of cold wave conditions. On Tuesday, the maximum temperature was 23.2 degrees Celsius, four degrees above normal, while the minimum was 8 degrees Celsius, which was one notch above normal. Under the influence of the first western disturbance, scattered to fairly widespread light/moderate rain is likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan and West Uttar Pradesh till January 6. A second intense western disturbance is very likely to affect northwest India from the night of January 6, the IMD said. Under the influence of these two weather systems, the Capital is likely to stay cloudy with chances of rain. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be 19 and 11 degrees respectively on January 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/western-disturbances-to-bring-rain-in-capital/article38122104.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:07 IST,||HC asks Delhi govt. to consider early retesting of international travellers||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday said it expected the AAP government to expeditiously consider the issue of early retesting of international travellers who test positive for COVID-19 on arrival. Justice Rekha Palli was hearing a plea by a mother whose 18-year-old son was admitted to a private hospital here for isolation after testing positive for the virus upon his arrival at the IGI Airport from the United Kingdom on December 24 last year. “It is expected that in case no guidelines are issued by the Union of India, the Delhi government should expeditiously consider the matter so that patients like the petitioner’s son do not suffer,” Justice Palli said. The court also asked the Delhi government why the genome sequencing report of the boy, stated to be positive for the Omicron variant, cannot be shared with him. The order came after the mother said although her son was now with her, several other patients were being held up in various health facilities for days as the hospitals were not conducting COVID-19 retests periodically. The mother had moved the HC last month seeking to conduct periodic tests for COVID-19 and discharge her son as soon as he is found negative. She also sought to know the outcome of the genome sequencing test carried on her son. The mother had argued that she has not been provided with the genomic sequencing report or even a reference number pertaining to the genomic testing to enable her to ascertain the result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-asks-delhi-govt-to-consider-early-retesting-of-international-travellers/article38122108.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:07 IST,||Police get Centre’s nod to seek details from GitHub||The Ministry of Home Affairs has approved the Delhi police’s request to seek details from GitHub, the hosting platform, about ‘Sulli Deals’ under the MLAT (Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty), six months after a first information report was registered, an official said. A senior police officer said a request was sent earlier under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to GitHub to share details about the said application and its creators. However, they had to send a formal request through the MLAT route. “We have written to GitHub multiple times but it has not responded... that is causing the delay,” an officer said. The officer added that after procuring the relevant documents, they will also file an official request under the MLAT in the ‘Bulli Bai’ case. In July, photos of several Muslim women were uploaded on the ‘Sulli Deals’ application where they were “auctioned”. Separate FIRs were filed in the matter in both Delhi and Noida but no headway was made after GitHub failed to respond to the CrPC notices. Recently, ‘Bulli Bai’, another application on GitHub, put up photos of Muslim women in a lewd context, following which a case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-get-centres-nod-to-seek-details-from-github/article38122103.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:15 IST,||HC on retest of travellers||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday said it expected the AAP government to expeditiously consider the issue of early retesting of international travellers who test positive for COVID-19 on arrival. Justice Rekha Palli was hearing a plea by a mother whose son was admitted to a private hospital here after testing positive for the virus upon his arrival from the U.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-on-retest-of-travellers/article38122327.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:07 IST,||Ponzi scheme||The Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police on Tuesday said it has arrested a 36-year-old man for allegedly duping nearly 60 people of around Rs. 1.5 crore. The accused promised the victims good returns from a Ponzi scheme but he and his accomplice fled with their money, officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ponzi-scheme/article38122107.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:09 IST,||Social worker Sindhutai Sapkal passes away||Renowned social worker Sindhutai Sapkal, fondly known as ‘orphan children’s mother’, died following a heart attack at a private hospital here, doctors said. Sapkal, who had received the Padma Shri last year, had completed 74 years in November. She had been admitted to the Galaxy Care Hospital here. “She had undergone a hernia surgery one-and-a-half months ago and recovery was very slow. Today [Tuesday] she died of a heart attack around 8 p.m.,” said Shailesh Puntambekar, Medical Director of the hospital. Sapkal, who grew up in extreme poverty, went on to set up institutes for orphan children. Born on November 14, 1948, in Wardha district of Maharashtra, Sapkal was forced to drop out of school after she had passed Class IV. At the tender age of 12, she was married to a 32-year-old man. After she gave birth to three children, her husband abandoned her even when she was pregnant. Her mother and the village where she had grown up refused to help, forcing her to beg to raise her daughters at one point. She overcame these circumstances with sheer willpower and started working for orphans. Having raised over 1,050 orphan children, she could boast of having 207 sons-in-law and 36 daughters-in-law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/social-worker-sindhutai-sapkal-passes-away/article38122122.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:15 IST,||Minister’s remarks on OBCs spark row||The BJP in Maharashtra on Tuesday hit out at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Minister Jitendra Awhad and the Maha Vikas Aghadi government over the former’s allegedly pejorative remarks on the OBC community. The BJP’s OBC leaders, including MLC Gopichand Padalkar and Chandrashekhar Bawankule, condemned Mr. Awhad’s allegedly ‘disparaging’ remarks and demanded his resignation. ‘Not doing enough’ Speaking on the occasion of social reformer and educationist Savitribai Phule’s birth anniversary on Monday, Mr. Awhad had admonished the OBC community for not doing enough to secure its rights. “I don’t have much faith in the OBCs. Despite the Mandal Commission which held out reservation for the OBCs, the community’s leaders were not in the field to fight because it seems the community does not want to fight to secure their rights. It was the Mahars and other Dalits who fought,” he said. The NCP leader added that it was pointless fighting for one’s rights on WhatsApp and that the community had to take to the streets if it really sought reservation, and work hand-in-hand with the State government. Taking umbrage at the Minister’s remarks, Mr. Padalkar said he was not aware of what history Mr. Awhad read. “I think he [Mr. Awhad] is just a ‘contract worker’ who makes such remarks to please the powers that be. Is Mr. Awhad not aware that hundreds of OBCs had immolated themselves at the time of the Mandal Commission?” Mr. Padalkar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ministers-remarks-on-obcs-spark-row/article38122323.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:15 IST,||Taking precautions||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/taking-precautions/article38122325.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:08 IST,||Strict measures needed||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/strict-measures-needed/article38122116.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:10 IST,||Xi signs combat training order for PLA||China’s President Xi Jinping on Tuesday signed an annual mobilisation order to mark the start of this year’s training for the Chinese military, with an emphasis on “combining training with combat operations”. The training mobilisation orders are issued by Mr. Xi, who also heads the Central Military Commission (CMC), usually in January and the mobilisation orders have in the past impacted how the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) carries out its exercises that often begin in the subsequent weeks following the order. The official Xinhua news agency said Mr. Xi signed this year’s order on Tuesday and “declared the start of military training for the year.” “The entire rank and file of the armed forces are required to resolutely implement the plans and instructions of the Party leadership and the CMC, according to the order, adding that the changing landscape of national security and combat circumstances must be accurately understood,” the report said. Evolution of technology “The armed forces must closely follow the evolution of technology, warfare and rivals, redouble their efforts to better combine training with combat operations, and strengthen systematic training and the use of technologies to develop an elite force that is capable of fighting and winning wars,” the order said, adding that “all officers and soldiers should uphold the spirit of fearing neither death nor hardship, and conduct training in a vigorous, well-designed and safe manner to boost their commanding and fighting capability and foster excellent conduct.” The order in 2021 had similarly emphasised “enhancing training in real combat conditions”. Mr. Xi had also issued an order on training in combat conditions in January 2020. Four months later, the PLA deployed two divisions right up to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh after the completion of routine exercises, sparking the worst crisis along the India-China border in decades. Twenty months on, disengagement is yet to happen at several locations along the LAC after multiple rounds of diplomatic and military talks, while tens of thousands of troops remain deployed in forward areas. The PLA has also continued to build infrastructure in forward areas to sustain its deployments through the winter, while India has matched the PLA’s build-up with its own deployments. The training mobilisation order in January 2020 had called for strengthening military training in combat conditions and it was seen by observers as altering the pattern of annual exercises and forward deployments not only closer to the LAC but also in other theatres, leading to tensions in the South China Sea as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/xi-signs-mobilisation-order-for-pla-training/article38121704.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:10 IST,||China to ‘modernise’ nuclear arsenal||China said on Tuesday it will continue to “modernise” its nuclear arsenal and called upon the U.S. and Russia to reduce their own stockpiles a day after global powers pledged to prevent such weapons from spreading. In a rare joint statement setting aside rising West-East tensions, the U.S., China, Russia, Britain and France reaffirmed their goal of creating a world free of atomic weapons and avoiding a nuclear conflict. The five nuclear powers also committed to full future disarmament from atomic weapons, which have only been used in conflict in the U.S. bombings of Japan at the end of the Second World War. But squaring that rhetoric with reality will not be easy at a time of spiralling tensions between those same global powers not seen since the Cold War. There are growing global concerns about China’s rapid military modernisation, especially after its armed forces last year announced they had developed a hypersonic missile that can fly at five times the speed of sound. The U.S. has also said China is expanding its nuclear arsenal with as many as 700 warheads by 2027 and possibly 1,000 by 2030. On Tuesday, China defended its nuclear weapons policy and said Russia and the U.S. — by far the world’s largest nuclear powers — should make the first move on disarmament. “The U.S. and Russia still possess 90% of the nuclear warheads on Earth,” Fu Cong, Director General of the department of arms control at the Chinese Foreign Ministry, said. “They must reduce their nuclear arsenal in an irreversible and legally binding manner.” Mr. Fu dismissed U.S. claims that China was vastly increasing its nuclear capabilities. “China has always adopted the no first use policy and we maintain our nuclear capabilities at the minimal level required for our national security,” he said. But he said Beijing would “continue to modernise its nuclear arsenal for reliability and safety issues”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-to-modernise-nuclear-arsenal/article38121705.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:10 IST,||Tear gas fired as thousands in Sudan protest against military||Sudanese security forces fired tear gas on Tuesday at anti-coup protesters in Khartoum chanting slogans against the military following the resignation of the country’s civilian premier on Sunday, witnesses said. Protesters shouted “No, no to military rule” and called for the disbandment of Sudan’s ruling council headed by General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, who led an October 25 coup that derailed a transition to civilian rule. Streets leading to the presidential palace and army headquarters were sealed off by hefty deployments of troops, riot police and paramilitary units, witnesses said. Security forces fired tear gas near the palace, and later at another rally north of the capital and in the eastern city of Port Sudan. The protesters also gathered in Khartoum’s twin city Omdurman and the South Darfur capital Nyala, taking the total on the streets across the country into the thousands. Pro-democracy activists have stepped up calls for demonstrations since the October coup which saw then-Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok and Cabinet Ministers detained. The coup has triggered mass demonstrations and a bloody crackdown that has left at least 57 people dead, according to the independent Doctors’ Committee. Mr. Hamdok resigned late Sunday — six weeks after he was reappointed by Gen. Burhan — saying the country was now at a “dangerous crossroads threatening its very survival”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tear-gas-fired-as-thousands-in-sudan-protest-against-military/article38121708.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:10 IST,||Theranos founder convicted for fraud||Fallen U.S. biotech star Elizabeth Holmes was convicted on Monday of defrauding investors in her blood-testing startup Theranos, in a high-profile case seen as an indictment of Silicon Valley culture. Holmes is a rare example of a tech exec being brought to book over a company flaming out, in a sector littered with the carcasses of money-losing companies that once promised untold riches. Her case shone a spotlight on the blurred line between the hustle that characterises the industry and outright criminal dishonesty. “The guilty verdicts in this case reflect Ms. Holmes’ culpability in this large-scale investor fraud and she must now face sentencing for her crimes,” U.S. Attorney Stephanie Hinds said in a prepared statement read outside the courthouse by a representative. The 37-year-old now faces the possibility of 20 years behind bars for each conviction. She remains at liberty ahead of another hearing on the terms of her bail next week. No date was set for sentencing. Ms. Holmes had vowed to revolutionise health diagnostics with self-service machines that could run an array of tests on just a few drops of blood, a vision that drew high-profile backers and made her a billionaire by the age of 30. Prosecutors spent 11 weeks presenting over two dozen witnesses, as they painstakingly laid out their argument that Holmes knew her technology fell short, and deliberately misled investors and patients. She personally put the logos of pharma giants Pfizer and Schering-Plough onto Theranos reports hailing the company’s blood-testing technology, which were then shared with investors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/theranos-founder-convicted-for-fra-ud/article38121710.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:10 IST,||Diplomat Keshap to helm U.S.-India industry body||The former Chargé d’Affaires at the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, Atul Keshap, has been appointed president of the U.S.-India Business Council (USIBC), an industry body, according to a statement from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. He will replace Nisha Biswal, who has been appointed the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Senior Vice President of International Strategy and Global Initiatives and South Asia. “With the two countries on the cusp of entering an even more robust era in our strategic partnership, I feel privileged and honored to lead USIBC,” Mr. Keshap said about his appointment. Mr. Kehsap was also previously the U.S. Ambassador to Sri Lanka and the Maldives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/diplomat-keshap-to-helm-us-india-industry-body/article38121703.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:10 IST,||Prince Andrew urges judge to dismiss sex abuse case||Prince Andrew’s lawyers pressed a New York judge on Tuesday to dismiss a sexual assault lawsuit brought against the British royal, arguing he was protected by a settlement that his accuser signed in 2009. His attorneys argue that a once-confidential settlement between accuser Virginia Giuffre and late disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein unveiled on Monday for the first time, protects the Prince from litigation. Ms. Giuffre alleges that Epstein lent her out for sex with his associates, including the Prince. He has denied the allegation. As per the deal, she agreed to drop a civil claim against Epstein for $5,00,000 in 2009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/prince-andrew-to-seek-dismissal-of-sex-abuse-case/article38121706.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:10 IST,||U.S. sets global record with 1 million cases||The United States reported more than one million new COVID-19 cases on Monday after the long New Year’s weekend, according to data from Johns Hopkins University, as the Omicron variant spread at a blistering pace. There were 1,080,211 new cases in the country, a global record, although the number of cases reported on a Monday is usually higher than other days because of delays in weekend tallying, especially after such a three-day holiday weekend. Still, the figure is double the number of daily cases compared to the previous Monday. The rolling average over seven days — which experts see as more reliable —was 4,86,000 cases per day as of Monday evening, the university said. The new figure comes a day after top U.S. pandemic advisor Anthony Fauci said the country was experiencing “almost a vertical increase” in COVID-19 cases, adding the peak may be only weeks away. Omicron strain accounted for around 59% of U.S. cases in the week ending December 25, according to government modelling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-sets-global-record-with-1-million-cases/article38121711.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 03:32 IST,||Disproving the charge of conspiracy||In his new book, Gandhi’s Assassin: The Making of Nathuram Godse and his Idea of India , Dhirendra K. Jha throws light on a pretrial statement Godse made, which refutes the self-portrait he offered in the courtroom “and the myths which pro-RSS writers created to suppress the real life that the assassin had lived and influences that had worked on him and led him to murder Gandhi.” An excerpt: What the events would mean ultimately for the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and the Hindu Mahasabha was difficult to predict, but within twenty-four hours of Gandhi’s assassination they were looking for ways that might save them from ruin and salvage some of their standing. The grief of the multitude was unmistakable, and people seemed to have lost their minds. At the heart of the violent reaction lay the sense of grievance nurtured by many people belonging to the depressed castes towards Maharashtrian Brahmins. It was through the RSS and the Hindu Mahasabha that a section of Maharashtrian Brahmins had dreamt of achieving the goal of a Hindu Rashtra. The antipathies that emerged after the assassination intensified the popular distrust of the RSS and the Mahasabha. The retaliation on January 31 was intense, beyond what anyone had imagined. About turn The next morning, Madhav Sadashiv Golwalkar issued a written statement from Nagpur: ‘In the presence of this appalling tragedy I hope people will learn the lesson and practise the doctrine of love and service. Believing in this doctrine, I direct all my brother swayamsevaks to maintain a loving attitude towards all, even if there be any sort of provocation born out of misunderstanding and to remember that even this misplaced frenzy is an expression of unbounded love and reverence, in which the whole country held the great Mahatma, the man who made the name of our motherland great in the world. Our salutation to the revered departed one.’ This was not the usual language the RSS used for Gandhi when he was alive. All through, it had spewed venom against him and had even wished his death when he sat on fast a fortnight ago. Rattled by the people’s fury, the RSS now did a one-eighty and Golwalkar quickly claimed that his organisation believed in the ‘doctrine’ of Gandhi. Even the reaction to the attacks on RSS workers and offices was infused with utmost caution. The statement also placed the responsibility for the assassination in a generalised context and made no reference to Godse — perhaps the assassin’s parent organisation lacked the courage to own up to the fact that he was its member. In fact, another statement, also issued on February 1, by the ‘Sangha Chalak of Rashtriya Swayam Sevak Sangh, Bombay’ totally abandoned Godse. It said ‘the alleged assassin of Mahatma Gandhi was never connected in any way’ with the RSS. ‘We have already condemned the dastardly and cowardly attack on Mahatma Gandhi’s life and we mourn this national calamity. We are observing national mourning by closing our centres for 13 days,’ the statement said. V.D. Savarkar’s attitude was no different. Like Golwalkar, he too grew frantic as soon as the fallout of the assassination became visible. Known for being protective of his reputation, the Mahasabha leader, now in his mid-sixties, was equally prompt in deserting Godse the moment mobs attacked his residence in the morning of January 31. By evening, Savarkar issued a brief statement expressing strong denunciation and condemnation of the murder. Stating that ‘the news of the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi was too shocking and sudden’, he appealed to the ‘people to stand by the Central Government of Free India and maintain order in the country’. Like Golwalkar, he too made no specific reference to his protégé and ardent follower. The gravest blow For Godse, the shift in the attitude of the RSS and Savarkar might have been the gravest blow. Since the time he met Savarkar and joined the RSS, he had been nothing but loyal. The shift showed, if at all it was needed, how deceptive and distorted was the image of his mentors that Godse had kept in his heart. Abandonment by those he had prided himself on being associated with was to worsen his miseries in the days to come. N.P. Thakur, deputy superintendent of police on special duty in Nagpur, focused specifically on checking the antecedents of Godse and exploring the many rumours that reached Delhi and Bombay after Gandhi’s assassination. For Thakur, a scrutiny of the papers seized from the RSS headquarters at Nagpur removed much of the confusion, which was apparently sought to be created by the Sangh leadership when it declared that Godse had never been associated with it. Thakur came out with specific information, through the scrutiny of these papers as well as his own independent investigations, to nail the lie being spread by the RSS in this regard and unearth the truth about Godse’s past. The chargesheet revealed that the prosecution had relied heavily on the notebook entries and this became even more apparent as the trial progressed. Godse’s accomplices knew that the only way they could save themselves was by disproving the charge of conspiracy, for the murder would then be seen as the act of a single man. ‘There was one entry to the effect that some money was given to some “Bandopant”. Now Digambar Ramchandra Badge [who had turned approver] had already made it clear in [his] deposition that “Bandopant” meant “Badge”. There were other entries to the effect that some money was given to Nana Apte (Vinayak Rao), some to Gopal (Godse), and some was kept with him,’ noted Gopal. ‘It was obvious that the prosecution attached great importance to these entries as they seemed to help their attempt at providing the existence of a conspiracy immensely.’ In private parleys outside the courtroom, Godse became the target of attack for the serious ‘mistake’ he had committed. In the given situation, there was only one way that Godse could have rectified his ‘mistake’: by vehemently refuting the existence of a conspiracy. In actual terms, this would involve Godse telling the court that the idea to kill Gandhi was solely his own and he never shared it with any of the co-accused. Such a line of argument would help protect not just Apte and Savarkar, but also Gopal. Excerpted with permission from Penguin Random House||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/disproving-the-charge-of-conspiracy/article38121696.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 00:00 IST,||The hint of a ‘one nation one NGO’ regime||On December 31, 2021, the Ministry of Home Affairs issued another public notice extending the validity of registration certificates that were expiring from September 29, 2020 to March 31, 2022 till the latter date, provided that the request for renewal had not been rejected. What should have been a routine activity of the Ministry has turned out to be a fairly detailed exercise of scrutiny, resulting in a paralysis in granting permissions. The levels of due diligence and the information sought on the one hand and the annual declarations to be given by the board members of civil society organisations on the other have increased significantly. The mandatory opening of bank accounts for foreign contributions has been centralised in one branch of the State Bank of India. The linking of Permanent Account Number (PAN), Aadhaar number and mapping it with the bank account/s of the individual board members are happening with gusto. All this has resulted in a chill settling over the people who are and have been associated with civil society organisations serving a social or cultural cause. The registrations under Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) have been long necessitated in order to undertake due diligence of the causes for which the organisation is working for and also to have a handle on the traceability of funds. Data on cancellations Recently, the Missionaries of Charity established by Nobel Laureate Mother Teresa, was in the news for the cancellation of its permission under the FCRA. A perusal of the statistics available on the website of the Ministry of Home Affairs (https://bit.ly/32Kij6E ) reveals an interesting pattern. Of the 20,675 permissions under the FCRA that were cancelled from 2011 onwards, only 89 have been cancelled on request; the rest have been cancelled on violation. Of these 20,675 cancellations, 80% of the cancellations are after 2014, with a massive purge of around 10,003 permissions in the year 2015. The dashboard (https://bit.ly/3sXfOsu) shows a little under 17,000 active organisations — which have either got permission or will know their fate by March 2022, while around 33,000 organisations have either lost their permission or it has expired. These cancellation numbers do not include the rejection of around 600 applications that have been in the news in the recent past, as the website shows only three cancellations in the year 2021 and none in 2020. There has been a pattern to the organised attack on civil society organisations and this looks like the final shot. In the past, the amendments in the FCRA that restricted the ability to sub-grant, killed many of the niche organisations working in very remote areas which had no direct access to international funding but were doing it through larger non-governmental organisations. The other amendment restricting the proportion of expenses on administration almost choked organisations that worked for the rights of the disposed. The increasing level of surveillance type of data sought has resulted in many organisations losing people on their governance structure and resulting in problems in funding. The level of the purge is alarming on two fronts. If this purge is because of violations that seem to threaten sovereignty because of evidence of money laundering, subversive activities and violation of the laws, then it is worrying that these organisations survived for all these years. This says a bit about the system of scrutiny that we have had in the past. Alternately , if these are organisations that have been purged on xenophobic considerations — because they are activists usually questioning the Government and speaking for the marginalised — organisations working on issues such as human rights, and organisations serving the people whom the state is unable to reach, then it is even more alarming. That is because it is suppressing the concept of antyodaya — reaching the last person with rights, services and entitlements. Organisations that are needed Why we need civil society organisations is a moot question. We need them because they usually work on what can be called an unreasonable agenda. This unreasonableness falls in three large verticals. The first is that they ask for greater efficiency, delivery and accountability from the state. Whether is it about rehabilitation and compensation in the case of land acquisition or setting up a great accountability framework as was done through the movement led by the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan for the Right to Information. The second vertical is in correcting the extractive nature of markets. The groups asking for environmental accountability are looking at inter-generational justice on a matter that is not very precisely measurable but is palpable. The third is basically picking up causes that are so niche that it is beyond the capability of the state to come up with such initiatives such as a school of drama set up by NINASAM (Nilakanteshwara Natyaseva Samgha) in a village called Heggodu, Karnataka, or an idea of distributing clothing for work as done by Goonj. These initiatives cannot be put into specific business plans, spreadsheets or government schemes. They, therefore, need a grant-based, cause-based revenue stream model. Issue of funding Why foreign funding? As we know, “causes” have no boundaries and funding for such socially desirable belief systems could come from beyond borders. Some causes carried out by organisations such as Doctors Without Borders, or Reporters Without Borders are by definition international in nature. Similar is the case with the Jaipur foot provided by the Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Samiti. The humanitarian work by the Missionaries of Charity is beyond the capability of a state. Such causes do not have a rational basis to be explained in terms of a financial model; how do you put a price tag to press freedom? The niche funding will happen from agencies that may be beyond the borders. They need to be encouraged. In general, past regimes have been tolerant of all developmental and cultural causes; somewhat wary and tolerant of rights-based causes; and largely suspicious of civil society organisations working for human rights and environmental causes. Both human rights and environmental causes put these civil society organisations directly in confrontation with the job of policing/internal security and “development” or economic growth. That is a fight that the civil society organisations were used to. Deeper study needed However, the current purge seems to be indiscriminate. The depth and the variety of the work of a civil society organisation cannot be captured in the annual returns filed on the FCRA portal, where there is no scope for explaining something beyond the binary. There needs to be a study on how many civil society organisations lost their permissions on “expiry” only because the pre-populated dropdowns given by the FCRA portal were unable to capture the work of the organisations. The duality of welcoming foreign investments (which takes away capital gains and dividends) while actively discouraging foreign aid to charities is staring us in the face. The definition of what is foreign in the case of electoral bonds and donations to political parties is dodgy at best. This duality is the signature of the current dispensation. Its appetite to collect data is matched only by its reluctance to share data. If the hope, therefore, for civil society organisations is corporate social responsibility funding and funding from Indian philanthropists, watch this space. As cartoonist P. Mahamud indicated in a cartoon, we are moving towards a ‘One Nation One NGO’ regime. (The writer is on the boards of non-governmental organisations, or NGOs that have applied for FCRA permission. None of those NGOs is mentioned in the article.) M.S. Sriram is Faculty member, Centre for Public Policy, Indian Institute of Management Bangalore. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-hint-of-a-one-nation-one-ngo-regime/article38121687.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 00:00 IST,||The bottom line in Blinken’s foray into Southeast Asia||The visit by United States Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken to Southeast Asia in December 2021 — his first since becoming Secretary — underscores the importance that is being accorded to this region by the Joe Biden administration. While Mr. Blinken visited Indonesia and Malaysia, he could not go to Thailand after a COVID-19 case was detected in the press corps accompanying him (He landed there, spoke to the Thailand Deputy Prime Minister expressing regret, and then left for the U.S.). In his speech at Universitas Indonesia on December 14, Mr. Blinken laid out the five core principles shaping the American strategy of a free and open Indo-Pacific. Alongside, he also underlined the mechanisms that the U.S. is adopting to implement these core principles. On being a reliable partner From Washington’s perspective, the aim of laying out the initiatives pertaining to the region was to drive home the message that America’s Indo-Pacific policy is not just aimed at deterring Chinese aggressiveness and rise. The idea was to present the U.S. as a reliable partner in meeting the challenges that the Indo-Pacific region is facing. For instance, completely aware that the Southeast Asian nations are averse to choosing or taking sides in this U.S.-China competition, Mr. Blinken made it a point to mention that “individual countries will be able to choose their own path and their own partners. He said: “It’s not about a contest between a U.S.-centric region or a China-centric region as the Indo-Pacific is its own region.” China’s shadow But the impending Chinese threat was always lurking in the background, reflected in the suggestion that “there is so much concern, from northeast Asia to southeast Asia, and from the Mekong River to the Pacific Islands, ... about Beijing’s aggressive actions, claiming open seas as their own, distorting open markets through subsidies to its state-run companies, denying the exports or revoking deals for countries whose policies it does not agree with, engaging in illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing activities”. The competition between the U.S. and China in the Indo-Pacific is in full swing, and this competition is here to stay. Given how both China and the U.S. are trying to lure the Association of Southeast Asian Nation (ASEAN) countries to their side — China with its grand economic infrastructure investment deals and the U.S. through recent high profile official visits as well as the promise of investing more in this region under the Build Back Better World initiative and Blue Dot Network — there is evidence that Southeast Asia is the major theatre where this competition will play out. In Southeast Asia, the U.S.-China competition is most visible in two areas; one is the South China Sea and the second is the investment in fulfilling the infrastructure development needs of Southeast Asian countries. The U.S. has continued its Freedom of Navigation operations in the disputed waters of the South China Sea; these operations are meant to challenge “unlawful and sweeping maritime claims in the South China Sea [that] pose a serious threat to the freedom of the seas, including the freedoms of navigation and overflight”. In his remarks in Indonesia, Mr. Blinken stressed America’s determination “to ensure freedom of navigation in the South China Sea, where Beijing’s aggressive actions there threaten the movement of more than $3 trillion worth of commerce every year”. He also brought up the 2016 international tribunal ruling which had rejected the Chinese nine-dash-line claims and asserted that the U.S. and the other South China Sea claimant countries will “continue to pushback on such behaviour”. Beijing is invested here When it comes to investments in infrastructure development, Southeast Asia has been one of the top recipients of Chinese investments under its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). How these investments have driven countries such as Cambodia and Laos to do China’s bidding in the ASEAN even at the cost of compromising ASEAN’s unity is a known fact. Besides this, China has been heavily investing in port and railway connectivity in countries such as Indonesia and Vietnam. Mr. Blinken reiterated that the U.S. remains committed to help close the gap on infrastructure. Recognising that “ports, roads, power grids, broadband — all are building blocks for global trade, for commerce, for connectivity, for opportunity, for prosperity. And they’re essential to the Indo-Pacific’s inclusive growth,” he pointed out that the members of the Quad (Australia, India, Japan and the U.S.) have provided more than $48 billion in government-backed financing for infrastructure for the region. The infrastructure coordination group launched by the Quad members is seeking to catalyse even more investment and is looking to partner with Southeast Asia on infrastructure and many other shared priorities. Washington is promising to do more under the Build Back Better World initiative and the Blue Dot Network. The U.S. is trying to showcase a comprehensive economic framework in the Indo-Pacific focusing on ‘trade and the digital economy, technology, resilient supply chains, decarbonisation and clean energy, infrastructure, worker standards, and other areas of shared interest’. Alternative models are key The alignment between the U.S.’s vision of a Free and Open Indo-Pacific and the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific was underlined. The ASEAN countries, even after the release of the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific, do not have a uniform approach when it comes to dealing with the U.S. and China. These differing approaches are also challenging the much vaunted ASEAN centrality in the Indo-Pacific. Though external players will have a limited role in ensuring that the unity within ASEAN is restored, providing proper alternative models of investments for development in sectors such as infrastructure, digital economy, supply chain, and health for the Southeast Asian nations will be critical. The economic framework, investment plans and promises outlined by Mr. Blinken need to be made operational quickly if Washington is to show that it is indeed serious about sustained commitment toward the Indo-Pacific. Harsh V. Pant is Director, Studies and Head, Strategic Studies Programme, Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi. Premesha Saha is an Associate Fellow with the Observer Research Foundation’s Strategic Studies Programme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-bottom-line-in-blinkens-foray-into-southeast-asia/article38121691.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 03:32 IST,||The eligible denied benefits||Vantala Singanna, from a Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group of G Madugula block of Visakhapatnam district of Andhra Pradesh, set out recently to understand why he doesn’t receive Rythu Bharosa benefits like his fellow farmers. Rythu Bharosa is a scheme of the A.P. Government that provides Rs. 13,500 per agricultural year over three instalments as financial assistance to farmers during a crop season. This is crucial for tribal farmers as they struggle to secure credit through financial institutions and are often looted by private money lenders. Singanna met functionaries ranging from village volunteers (appointed by the Government to improve last-mile public service delivery) to block agriculture and revenue officers, tribal welfare officers, and bank staff. He found that the Government had removed his name from the list of eligible beneficiaries. Bank rejections We at LibTech set out to investigate this phenomenon as the A.P. Government transferred the second instalment of benefits for this agricultural year in October 2021. (It will make the final transfer in January 2022.) We filed multiple Right to Information requests and interviewed implementing agencies. We met 80 farmers and visited banks to document their struggle through the process. In May 2021, nearly 1.09 lakh farmers were identified as beneficiaries from the 11 tribal blocks of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Paderu, and payments were approved by the Government. However, 5,660 farmers’ payments were rejected by the banks due to various technical reasons (bank rejections) across these blocks in the May 2021 transfers. We found that the majority of these bank rejections was due to software mapping failures by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). Of the 5,660 cases, 5,029 remain unresolved. These farmers were also denied benefits in the October 2021 transfers. Collectively these farmers were denied Rs. 4.61 crore in two instalments. And the forest land-cultivating farmers will lose an additional Rs. 40 lakh in the upcoming third instalment. Such experiences are critical for us to understand the structural architecture that creates such sagas. The Union Government’s PM KISAN scheme has also faced similar issues. However, the instalments are paid as soon as the farmers resolve the issue, unlike in Rythu Bharosa. Farmers with bank rejections formerly had one agricultural year to fix the issues and have their benefits transferred. But they only had four to six months to do it for the October 2021 instalment. And failure to do so resulted in the removal of their names from the beneficiary list. No clarity of settlement Given the limited access to banking infrastructure, mobile and road connectivity, tribal farmers find it difficult to resolve bank rejections on their own. There is also a lack of understanding of the settlement procedure among field functionaries and bank employees. Neither the Union Government nor the State Government has published written rules for block- and panchayat-level authorities on how to settle bank rejections. The decision to remove the names of farmers from the beneficiary list appears to have been taken at the State level without considering field realities. It is a violation of a provision of the Provisions of the Panchayats (Extension to the Scheduled Areas) Act that states that “every Gram Sabha shall be responsible for the identification or selection of persons as beneficiaries under the poverty alleviation and other programmes”. The A.P. Government has done well to pay old-age pensions at the doorsteps of rights-holders in cash through the well-established village volunteer system. Given the robustness of the pension transfer mechanism and the maze of problems created by the opaque Aadhaar Payment Bridge System, it would be prudent for the A.P. Government to follow its own success model for the farmers facing bank rejections in Rythu Bharosa. Or it should allow all the farmers the choice of how they wish to get their entitlements. There is no accountability assumed by any agency involved in rectifying bank rejections. The Departments of Agriculture and Tribal Welfare, the Grama Secretariats and Ward Secretariats, and UIDAI and NPCI that handle these transfers should all be willing to accept responsibility in ensuring that these entitlements reach farmers on time. Given the number of institutions and functionaries available, the state should immediately resolve bank rejections. The Government is now preparing to retry payments for all affected farmers. However, farmers like Singanna will be excluded unless the process gaps and complexities involved in the resolution of bank rejections are acknowledged. Venkata Krishna Kagga and Chakradhar Buddha, and Ajay Palle Swaero, who contributed to the article, are researchers with LibTech India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-eligible-denied-benefits/article38121699.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 00:00 IST,||An industrial image makeover||Kerala, where the Left parties have a big say in the way the State is run even when they are out of power, used to be widely perceived as a hotbed of industrial militancy, which scared away investors. But the Left Front Government under Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, which is about a year old in its second consecutive term in office, is striving hard to improve the investment atmosphere. Industries Minister P. Rajeeve, who is leading the charge to attract fresh investments and change the industrial culture, declared 2022 as the ‘Year of Entrepreneurs’. The Government’s target is to help establish a lakh new MSMEs by the end of the year. The powerful Kerala State Small Industries Association, with a membership of around 6,000 enterprises, has backed the Department strongly while also making demands from the Government. Mostly in response to these demands, about a dozen reforms are at different stages of completion. Some of the big reforms include the constitution of a statutory grievances settlement system. The framework for the statutory authority is ready. Under this system, an employee who delays clearing fresh investments proposals through wilfulness or inefficiency can be fined. This is the first time a State in India is contemplating such a measure, Mr. Rajeeve claimed. The Government has drawn up a comprehensive land allotment policy for industrial estates under Government ownership. This is in response to a long-standing demand that entrepreneurs, who have paid the price for the land through a hire-purchase scheme opened in 1969, should get the ownership right over the plot. The Industries Department has also inducted MSMEs with into the Industries Department platform K-Swift (Single Window Interface for Fast and Transparent Clearance). The induction means fresh investment involving up to Rs. 50 crore and not in the Red Category of classification by the Pollution Control Board will stand automatically cleared for operations for three years, six months after which the unit has to get all the clearances. However, the new enterprises will not get any exemption from Union Government rules governing establishment of fresh units. A dashboard will be inaugurated on January 5 to monitor real-time Industries Department activities that include real-time information on status of applications for clearances, status of complaints received by the Department and government schemes. The dashboard will be accessible to all stakeholders, including investors. The other measures being implemented include branding of products from all industrial estates and areas in the State under the ‘Kerala Brand’ provided the products meet the prescribed standards. The programme has already come into effect for the handloom weaving industry. President of the Kerala State Small Industries Association M. Khalid and general secretary K. A. Joseph said they welcomed the new initiatives as the sector had suffered during the pandemic. It is estimated that there were around 1.25 lakh MSMEs in operation in the State, employing an average of seven to eight people. In the midst of these efforts to improve the investment atmosphere, industry sources have complained of the slow pace of decision-making and bureaucratic hurdles to substantially improve the situation in a time-bound manner. They point to long-term pendency of complaints before various stakeholder agencies. But Mr. Rajeeve is confident of industry providing great support to the reforms and of positive results soon. He to Kerala’s high ranking in the Good Governance Index, which also took into consideration the rise in business in a State. Though Kerala is ranked 28th in the Ease of Doing Business index, the State had improved its score from 44.82 to 85.10, he added. martin.ka@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-industrial-image-makeover/article38121701.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 00:00 IST,||Inadequate response||The submission by a Government-appointed committee to the Supreme Court that the annual family income of Rs. 8 lakh is “a reasonable” threshold to determine if someone belongs to economically weaker sections to avail 10% reservations in admissions and jobs does not seem to hold water. The submission rejected the notion that the Government had “mechanically” adopted Rs. 8 lakh as the cut-off because it was used to identify the OBC creamy layer, by asserting that the income criterion was “more stringent” than the one for the OBC creamy layer. This justification, based on a few more criteria that exclude some income and occupational parameters from the OBC creamy layer, however, is not convincing as the Court’s key question remained unanswered satisfactorily. The Court had said that the OBC category is socially and educationally backward, and had therefore additional impediments to overcome, and had asked whether it “would... be arbitrary to provide the same income limit both for the OBC and EWS categories”. The submission does not adequately respond to this question. On whether at all differences in purchasing power across urban/rural regions and per capita income/GDP across States were considered to arrive at this number, the submission suggests that this exercise would be infeasible and complex. But while asserting that an annual family income criterion of Rs. 8 lakh is the right approach, the committee does not present any data on the estimated number of EWS persons in the population based on this. If available consumer expenditure surveys such as the 2011-12 NSSO report, Key Indicators of Household Consumer Expenditure are any indication, a bulk of the population will be eligible for reservations under the “below Rs. 8 lakh” cut-off under the EWS category, rendering the limit irrational. The committee’s assertion that Rs. 8 lakh corresponds to the “effective income tax exemption limit” even as the only income slab exempt from paying taxes was for those earning below Rs. 2.5 lakh, also renders the criteria on “being economically weak” as less stringent. The submission lays emphasis on the fact that outcomes in the recent entrance and recruitment examinations (NEET, UPSC, JEE) showed an even bunching of eligible candidates in different income brackets (0-Rs. 2.5 lakh, Rs. 2.5-Rs. 5 lakh, Rs. 5-Rs. 8 lakh), but it does not explain why marks cut-offs were even lower in recruitment exams than that of the socially and educationally backward OBCs. The validity of the 103rd Constitution Amendment, through which the EWS quota was introduced in 2019, is in any case still before a Constitution Bench. But the apex court must seek more clarity on the criteria adopted by the Government committee to set the income limit for identifying the EWS sections eligible for reservations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/inadequate-response/article38121681.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 00:00 IST,||Transition in peril||The resignation of Sudan’s civilian Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok has pushed the country, already battered by political instability, anti-military protests and violence, into further chaos. Mr. Hamdok, who was ousted in a military coup in October and then reinstated as part of an agreement, failed to convince the protesters that he could form an independent technocratic government that would complete Sudan’s democratic transition. As violent clashes continued, Mr. Hamdok, who was called a “traitor” by the protesters, was left with no other option but to go. The crisis is of the military’s own making. Sudan was on a slow but steady transition towards democracy under the Sovereignty Council, which was formed as part of a power-sharing agreement between the Generals and the civilian leaders. But General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan disbanded the Council and ousted Mr. Hamdok. Ever since mass protests in late 2018, the Generals have tried everything to protect the military’s privileges. They first removed long-time dictator Omar al-Bashir and took power in their hands. They agreed on power sharing only after direct military rule became unsustainable. And when the civilian leaders were consolidating power, the military struck again through the coup. But where they erred was in miscalculating the will of the protesters. The military now has power, but is in a difficult situation. When Gen. Burhan reinstated Mr. Hamdok sans the Sovereignty Council after the coup, he may have calculated that the military could exercise greater control over the civilian government and the transition process, which includes elections. But with Mr. Hamdok’s resignation, this plan seems to have collapsed. A direct takeover of the government by the military would be extremely unpopular. Finding a legitimate Prime Minister would not be easy either. According to the constitutional declaration of 2019, the Prime Minister should be selected by a legislative council and then endorsed by the Sovereignty Council. The legislative council was never formed and the Sovereignty Council was disbanded. The military could appoint another technocrat. But if the protesters did not accept Mr. Hamdok, they are certainly not going to accept anyone the military appoints next. Weeks-long protests have also paralysed an already enfeebled economy. Inflation has soared to over 400%. The UN says at least a third of the country’s nearly 43 million people will need humanitarian assistance in 2022. Sudan needs a stable, responsive government that can address the critical challenges. The military has the moral and political responsibility to resolve the crisis. It should immediately end the crackdown, respect the power-sharing agreement it signed with the civilian leaders in 2019, restore the Sovereignty Council and allow the country’s full transition into democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/transition-in-peril/article38121682.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 03:32 IST,||Awami party leader on C.I.A.||New Delhi, Jan 4: Prof. Muzaffar Ahmed, Chairman of the National Awami Party of Bangla Desh, to-day said that the people of Bangla Desh wanted continuation of the unity forged between different nationalist political parties during the struggle for liberation in the form of a national government. He told UNI that it was for the Government to spell out the mechanism for securing the active co-operation of all political parties. Offering no opposition to the Government in power was just a form of passive co-operation. The people wanted a more energetic and active co-operation of all political parties in the task of national reconstruction at the earliest. It was the people’s desire for complete unanimity that had made him come to Delhi to persuade Maulana Bhashani to return to his motherland. He said, “the invisible government of the C.I.A.” posed the greatest danger to the nation’s future. He thought the U.S. would try to exploit the shattered economic conditions of Bangla Desh and “infiltrate the intellectual and political classes through liberal funds.” He also warned that the U.S. had already begun an anti-India campaign through subtle propaganda in mass media by portraying the “Indian liberation forces as occupation forces.” By its exemplary conduct and friendliness the Indian Army had won the hearts of the people of Bangla Desh. But “many nations had committed the mistake of underestimating the C.I.A. to their woe and neither we nor India can afford to make it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/awami-party-leader-on-cia/article38121692.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:15 IST,||‘Omicron spread may hit Q4 GDP outlook by 20-30 bps’||HDFC Bank economists said the spread of the Omicron coronavirus and resulting curbs could lead to GDP growth coming in lower by 20 to 30 basis points (bps) than their earlier estimate of 6.1% for the fourth quarter ending March 2022. The strong relation between economic activity and the Google Mobility Index in India suggested that with a rise in COVID restrictions — and hence mobility — economic activity was likely to take a hit in Q4, said the economists led by Abheek Barua. Other risks to the original forecast are in the form of States imposing restrictions, and restrictions extending beyond January. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had projected Q4 growth at 6% in its monetary policy meeting in December. The HDFC Bank economists also warned that a slowdown in global recovery could weigh on exports. ‘Uncertainty returns’ “The return of uncertainty around growth and inflation due to the spread of the [Omicron] variant might delay the RBI’s decision to hike the reverse repo rate in February 2022 as well,” they said in the report titled ‘The Omicron Wave: Higher highs, weaker blows, impact on growth, FX and yields.’ “We expect the USD/INR pair to remain range-bound between 74-76 over the coming quarter. While the rise in COVID cases is likely to put pressure on the rupee, the RBI is likely to intervene and prevent sustainable moves beyond 76.” They also estimated 10-year bond yields to trade between 6.4-6.5% over the coming month, ‘pressured by higher inflation, elevated oil prices, and normalising liquidity conditions’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/omicron-spread-may-hit-q4-gdp-outlook-by-20-30-bps/article38121671.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:15 IST,||Availability of cotton, rising prices worry textile industry||High cotton prices this season has become a subject of concern to the domestic textile industry as the units are facing not only spike in raw material prices but also shortage in availability. T. Rajkumar, chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry, said in a press release that the average price of cotton was Rs. 37,000 a candy (355 kg) in September 2020 and it rose to Rs. 60,000 in October 2021, when the new cotton season started. On December 31, the price peaked at Rs. 70,000. Further, only about 120 lakh bales arrived in the market between October 1 and December 31 as against the usual arrival of 170 lakh to 200 lakh bales. The Southern India Mills’ Association chairman Ravi Sam said though the 2021-2022 cotton season started with a comfortable opening stock of 75 lakh bales and estimated crop of 360 lakh bales, the cotton prices started increasing from the beginning. There was a pent-up demand for the cotton in the post-COVID period. The U.S. sanctions on Xinjian cotton, that accounts 10% of the world cotton production, is another factor. “MCX and NCDEX, dominated by the large traders are also fuelling the market.” At present, Indian cotton prices are higher than the international prices, affecting the competitiveness of the industry. The government should immediately remove the import duty on cotton.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/availability-of-cotton-rising-prices-worry-textile-industry/article38121674.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:15 IST,||Bharti withdraws plan for corporate restructuring||Bharti Airtel on Tuesday withdrew the scheme of arrangement for the new corporate structure announced in April last year, stating that it believes that the existing structure is optimal for leveraging emerging opportunities. “The board of directors of Airtel is of the view that the existing corporate structure of the company is, therefore, optimal for leveraging these emerging opportunities and unlocking value while continuing to scale up Airtel’s digital businesses,” it said in a statement. “Therefore, the scheme of arrangement for the new corporate structure announced on April 14, 2021 stands withdrawn.” It added that the telecom sector reforms package announced by the government had significantly boosted the outlook and investor confidence for the industry while simplifying the licence framework. The company had last year said that under the new structure aimed at sharpened focus on digital, Airtel Digital Ltd. would fold into the listed entity, Bharti Airtel, which would house all of the digital assets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-withdraws-plan-for-corporate-restructuring/article38121669.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:15 IST,||IRDAI sets norms for surety cover||Insurance regulator IRDAI has issued guidelines on surety insurance business, which will come into force on April 1 and permit general insurers to pursue the new line of business. In doing so, the insurers would be required to comply with certain requirements, including maintaining a solvency margin of not less than 1.25 times of the control level of solvency specified by the regulator. The guidelines set by the regulator cover different aspects of the business and prescribe a cap on the quantum of business the insurers can conduct.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/irdai-sets-norms-for-surety-cover/article38121661.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:15 IST,||IL&FS closes OTPC sale to Gas Authority||IL&FS Group said it has completed sale of its 26% stake in ONGC Tripura Power Company (OTPC) to Gas Authority of India Ltd. (GAIL) at an aggregate valuation of Rs. 1,227 crore. “With this transaction, IL&FS has resolved a debt of approximately Rs. 3,656 crore that formed part of the overall Group debt of approximately Rs. 99,000 crore, as of October 2018,” IL&FS Group said in a statement. Post this transaction, Gas Authority of India will now be a 26% shareholder in ONGC Tripura Power Company along with ONGC at 50%, Indian Infrastructure Fund II at 23.5%and Government of Tripura at 0.5%, according to the statement on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ilfs-closes-otpc-sale-to-gas-authority/article38121663.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:15 IST,||Online IMPS up to Rs. 5 lakh is free, says SBI||To encourage customers to adopt digital banking, State Bank of India (SBI) has decided to not levy any service charges on IMPS transactions of up to Rs. 5 lakh, done through Internet and mobile banking. “In case of branch channels, there has been no change in the service charges for IMPS done through the branch channel in the existing slabs. However, a new slab for Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh has been added and the proposed service charge for this slab is Rs. 20, plus GST. These are in line with the charges on NEFT/RTGS transactions,” the bank said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/online-imps-up-to-rs-5-lakh-is-free-says-sbi/article38121672.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:15 IST,||Airtel Payments Bank designated as scheduled bank||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday said Airtel Payments Bank Ltd. has been included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. With this, the bank can now pitch for government-issued Requests for Proposals (RFP) and primary auctions and undertake both Central and State Government business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/airtel-payments-bank-designated-as-scheduled-bank/article38121662.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:15 IST,||RBI promotes Kumar, Choudhary as EDs||The Reserve Bank of India has elevated Deepak Kumar and Ajay Kumar Choudhary as Executive Directors (EDs) with effect from January 03. Previously, Dr. Kumar was heading the Department of Information Technology of RBI while Mr. Choudhary was the Chief General Manager-in-Charge, Department of Supervision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-promotes-kumar-choudhary-as-eds/article38121667.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:15 IST,||Medvedev and Zverev impress||Daniil Medvedev and Roman Safiullin won their singles matches before combining to win the doubles on Tuesday to give defending champion Russia a 3-0 sweep of Australia and first place in Group B at the ATP Cup. Russia is 2-0 in the tournament but still has to beat Italy on Thursday in a rematch between last year’s finalists to ensure it advances to the semifinals. Safiullin opened the night session with a 7-6(6), 6-4 win over James Duckworth. Medvedev beat Alex De Minaur 6-4, 6-2 to secure Russia’s victory before the doubles. Italy rebounded from its upset loss to Australia last Sunday to sweep France, with Jannik Sinner beating Arthur Rinderknech 6-3, 7-6(3) and Matteo Berrettini defeating Ugo Humbert 6-4, 7-6(6) in the singles matches. All four teams in Group C have 1-1 records after Germany beat the United States and Canada rallied to beat Britain. Jan-Lennard Struff withstood 34 aces in a 7-6(7), 4-6, 7-5 win over John Isner to give Germany the lead and Alexander Zverev sealed his team’s victory, on his fifth match point, with a 6-4, 6-4 win over Taylor Fritz. Isner and Fritz combined for a 6-0, 6-3 win over Kevin Krawietz and Tim Puetz in the doubles, earning the Americans a point that could prove important in determine the group winners. In the night session, Dan Evans gave Britain an early lead over Canada by beating Denis Shapovalov 6-4, 6-4, but Felix Auger-Aliassime defeated Cameron Norrie 7-6(4), 6-3 and then combined with Shapovalov to beat Jamie Murray and Joe Salisbury 6-4, 6-1 in the deciding doubles match. The results: Group B: Russia bt Australia 3-0 (Roman Safiullin bt James Duckworth 7-6(6), 6-4; Daniil Medvedev bt Alex De Minaur 6-4, 6-2; Safiullin & Medvedev bt John Peers & Luke Saville 7-6(7), 3-6, [10-6]). Italy bt France 3-0 (Jannik Sinner bt Arthur Rinderknech 6-3, 7-6(3); Matteo Berrettini bt Ugo Humbert 6-4, 7-6(6); Berrettini & Sinner bt Fabrice Martin & Edouard Roger-Vasselin 6-3, 6-7(7), [10-8])   Group C: Germany bt USA 2-1 (Jan-Lennard Struff bt John Isner 7-6(7), 4-6, 7-5; Alexander Zverev bt Taylor Fritz 6-4, 6-4; Kevin Krawietz & Tim Puetz lost to Isner & Fritz 0-6, 3-6). Canada bt Great Britain 2-1 (Denis Shapovalov lost to Dan Evans 4-6, 4-6; Felix Auger-Aliassime bt Cameron Norrie 7-6(4), 6-3; Auger-Aliassime & Shapovalov bt Jamie Murray & Joe Salisbury 6-4, 6-1) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/medvedev-and-zverev-impress/article38121957.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:19 IST,||Shardul steps up, keeps India in the hunt at Wanderers||Not for nothing is Shardul Thakur a `breakthrough’ bowler. He’s sharp, focused and full of boyish enthusiasm. He stays in the shadow of his more illustrious compatriots, but, when given an opportunity, comes bounding in and asks questions with ‘effort’ balls. On Tuesday, day two of the second Freedom Test here at the Wanderers, Shardul proved more than a breakthrough seamer. He scalped a career-best seven for 61, taking the centrestage, bowling with venom. On view were rhythm, energy and skill, as the Mumbaikar moved the ball both ways, mixed his length, extracted bounce. Shardul’s rich haul notwithstanding, the Proteas, replying to India’s 202, gained a 27-run first innings lead. Gripping action And in a day of gripping action, incisive left-arm seamer Marco Jansen removed India skipper K.L. Rahul, caught low in the cordon by Aiden Markram, off a back of a length delivery close to off-stump. And Mayank Agarwal (23), who was driving the ball crisply, fell to a Duanne Olivier inswinger. The bowling was often hostile but Cheteshwar Pujara (35 batting) counter-attacked, square-driving and on-driving Jansen, pulling Olivier. And Ajinkya Rahane (11 batting) survived. India was 85 for two at stumps, ahead by 58 runs. The Test is on a knife edge. Cracks are opening up on the surface, the ball is rearing from a length and batters took blows on the body. Impressive Petersen Earlier, Keegan Petersen (62) was impressive while notching up his first Test half-century. The diminutive Petersen has an organised game. He is solid in defence and fluent when he drives or whips off his legs. Importantly, he has footwork and balance. He flicked and on-drove Mohammed Siraj, who pulled up with a hamstring strain on day one but made a quick recovery to bowl on day two, for boundaries. Mohammed Shami was cover-driven. Jasprit Bumrah and Shami were red hot in the morning but Dean Elgar and Petersen weathered the first hour with application, courage and some luck. Elgar, rising on his toes to keep the short-pitched deliveries down with soft hands, was typically dogged. Rahul, captaining with imagination, switched his pacemen. The plan worked. Shardul, with a mean delivery of away movement [from the left-hander] and lift, ended Elgar’s determined tenure. Elgar (28) and Peterson added 74 runs for the second wicket. Shifting his line adeptly to the right-hander, Shardul removed Petersen with a well pitched up outswinger, luring the batter into a fatal drive. And just before lunch, he brought one into Rassie van der Dussen to win a controversial caught-behind verdict. On a day of fortune swings, Temba Bavuma and wicket-keeper batter Kyle Verreynne strung together a partnership. Verreynne, who got firmly behind the line, looked composed. The 60-run fifth wicket association was ended when Shardul brought one back into Verreynne. Bavuma launched into strokes, straight-driving Bumrah, on-driving Ashwin and going right back, shortening the length, and pulling the off-spinner for a six. The aggressive Bavuma (51 off 60) was rather unlucky to be brilliantly held down the leg-side by Rishabh Pant, off that man again, Shardul. In low-scoring duels every run counts and Jansen and Keshav Maharaj produced vital knocks as South Africa gained the lead. Shardul returned to polish off the tail, Pant pouching a flying off-side catch to dismiss Ngidi. The catch complemented the day when Shardul soared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shardul-steps-up-keeps-india-in-the-hunt-at-wanderers/article38121901.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 04:28 IST,||Young but pretty balanced side: Tanmay||The young and exciting talent’s willingness to go the extra distance to showcase their skills should be an advantage for Hyderabad when it plays in the Ranji Trophy, captain Tanmay Agarwal said. The BCCI has put the tournament on hold due to the rising COVID-19 cases and is hoping to have it early next month.  “The preparations have been good and we had a fantastic run in the recent Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day championship. And it was not a surprise as I always believed in my team,” Tanmay said in a chat with The Hindu . “This is a relatively young side but pretty balanced one. We have depth in both batting and bowling.  “For me, the biggest challenge as a captain is to ensure that each and every player shows the kind of attitude that should win matches for us,” the 26-year-old left-handed opener added. “My objective will be to give enough space to express themselves and prove a point every time they get a chance.” Asked if he misses any big player in the team, Tanmay felt the job was to look forward with the team on hand. “The selection panel and Azhar sir (HCA president Mohd. Azharuddin) ensured that the best combination is available for the Ranji season. So, the onus is on the players to perform and keep improving with each match. “We might lack a little bit of experience. But the strength of this team is bonding, the willingness to share thoughts and inputs. “These qualities should help the team’s cause,” said the captain who played 42 First Class games, scoring 2609 runs with eight centuries and 17 fifties since he made his debut in 2014. “We would like to take it session by session in every match. We will target a winning start,” said Tanmay. The players have to now cool their heels, hoping for the COVID-19 situation to improve so that they can go out and express themselves on the field in the Ranji Trophy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/young-but-pretty-balanced-side-tanmay/article38122223.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||Jasprit Bumrah and the transfer of joy that engages the viewer||There is little doubt that India currently field the best fast-bowling combination in their history. They have never had a pack as effective as Bumrah-Shami-Ishant-Siraj-Yadav-Thakur. Earlier generations had only the heroic tales of Mohammed Nissar and Amar Singh who rattled the English batsmen in India’s debut Test in 1932. Nearly half a century later we were still pining for them. We lived off Nissar and Amar Singh for a long time. Nissar was faster than Bodyline’s terror Harold Larwood according to some, while Amar Singh came off the track “like the crack of doom”. When you consider that among our opening bowlers since have been the wicketkeeper Budhi Kunderan, Tiger Pataudi, Ajit Wadekar and Sunil Gavaskar, you can understand the extent of the problem. In the years I was growing up, Nissar and Amar Singh seemed both like a fantasy and a contemporary pair, invoked regularly. This was rather like harking back to a glorious past for lack of anything to boast about in the living present. Now Nissar and Amar Singh can be returned to history. The two questions most urgently asked those years were: Why can’t India produce fast bowlers, and, when can we expect to have an opening pair to match the best? There was Gavaskar of course, the best in the world, but he lacked a partner who was consistent and gave fans the same certainty. And now here we are. A battery of opening batsmen: Rohit, Rahul, Agarwal, Shaw, Gill. How did this come about? It is a fact not always acknowledged that bowlers decide the quality of a country’s batting too. When you have some of the best fast bowlers in the world, you will have some of the best players of fast bowling too. In the years when spinners ruled the roost, and earned India the reputation for being the Land of Spin, they produced the finest batsmen against spin. It is an interesting coincidence that when the Spin Foursome — Bedi, Prasanna, Chandrasekhar, Venkatraghavan — was in its prime, the attack was spearheaded by Chandra, he of the freakish action and effective bounce. Now that the Pace Foursome is in charge, it is spearheaded by Bumrah of the freakish action and effective bounce. Coaches had the wisdom to let the bowlers be. In his delivery stride Chandra brushed his ear as the arm came down ensuring release at the highest point of the arc. Bumrah could deliver the ball with equal comfort at various points in the arc, particularly away from his body which tended to confuse the batsmen. Both bowlers are blessed with supple wrists to control the pace. Control is the fast bowler’s greatest ally; there is nothing so wasteful as speed without control. In the first Test in South Africa, the manner in which Bumrah took the off bail of Rassie van der Dussen who didn’t offer a stroke, and then the leg bail of Keshav Maharaj who couldn’t, was subtle, almost musical. After the Dussen effort, a smiling Bumrah ran towards his teammates, arms spread out, eyes saying, “Did you see that?” The bowler’s joy communicates itself to the viewer; that is the essence of all performance, the transfer of joy. In his early years, Kapil Dev had this quality too, an almost child-like surprise at his own gifts. Subtlety is a speciality of Shami’s too. The ball swings just enough, forcing the batsman to play or beating him just enough for the edge. Sometimes it ignores the bat altogether on its way into the stumps. The seam held upright means the batsmen seldom have an early clue. Both Siraj and Thakur are capable of crossing 140 kmph, but it is at their normal slower speeds that they are dangerous. Part of the reason for the rise of fast bowling in India is the decision by the Board of Control for Cricket in India sometime after the disastrous tours of England and Australia (played eight, lost eight) to instruct groundsmen to retain a minimum grass cover on pitches, between four and five millimetres, sometimes up to eight on hard surfaces. Gradually fast bowlers began to head the domestic averages on a regular basis. Part of the reason is the success of bowlers like Kapil Dev, Srinath and Zaheer. Partly it is due to the decline of spin bowling where competition for places isn’t what it was when the Bedi generation was at its peak. Partly it is due to the recent victories abroad orchestrated by the fast bowlers from Sreesanth to the current lot. Indian fans now believe when their fast bowlers are operating that a wicket is likely any time, just as they feel a measure of confidence when they watch their openers going out to bat. There has been a psychological turnaround thanks to the fast men.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jasprit-bumrah-and-the-transfer-of-joy-that-engages-the-viewer/article38121676.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:14 IST,||Punjab boys, Kerala girls suffer defeats||Defending champions Punjab boys and Kerala girls lost their opening matches in the National junior basketball championships at the Basketball Complex Race Course Road here on Tuesday. Delhi boys stunned Punjab 78-56 in a Group A encounter. In the same group, Tamil Nadu boys staged a remarkable rally to beat Maharashtra 67-60 after trailing 23-33 at half-time. Punjab whipped Kerala 80-44 in a girls’ Group A match. Tamil Nadu girls got off to a winning start with a crushing 86-12 win over Gujarat.  The results: Boys: Group A: Delhi 78 (Himanshu 40, Sishanth Dhadda 18) bt Punjab 56 (Rahul 20, Nawal Singh 17); Tamil Nadu 67 (A. Ajay 21, Hartharasudan 14, Vijayakumar 10) bt Maharashtra 60 (Yash Mane 15, Rajendra Singh 11).   Group B: Uttar Pradesh 80 (Kushal Singh 24, Rishab Jaiswar 15) bt Karnataka 73 (R.M. Manoj 30, Joshua S. Sajith 18); Group D: Telangana 74 (Jasim 20) bt Goa 32.   Girls: Group A: Punjab 80 (Kavya Singla 25, Kanishra Dhir 20) bt Kerala 44 (Aleena Antony 18); Group B: Tamil Nadu 86 (R.Sathya 21, Angel 12) bt Gujarat 12; Group C: Delhi 81 (Abhiya 15, Krithika 12, Sneha 11) bt Goa 6.   Group D: Telangana 64 (Yeswini 18, Bhuvaneswari 13) bt Himachal Pradesh 57 (Poonam Thakur 21, Palak Kumari 10); Karnataka 94 (Mannali Jacob 18, Pavani Sangvan 12, Aiswarya 12) bt Bihar 18.   Group E: Jammu & Kashmir 74 (Chitreshi Gupta 28, Shakshi Sharma 21) bt Puducherry 22; West Bengal 65 (Ananaya Mondal 16, Smriti Kana 15) bt Assam 47 (Jiya 13).   Group F: Odisha 58 (Lizalin Jena 22, Swagatika Saho 12) bt Andhra Pradesh 42 (Aiswarya Devi 12, Venkatalakshmi 10) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/punjab-boys-kerala-girls-suffer-defeats/article38121946.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:14 IST,||Joaquim creates history||Hero MotoSports Team Rally created history as its star rider Joaquim Rodrigues won Stage 3 of the RallyGP 3 class in ongoing Dakar Rally at Al Qaisumah, Saudi Arabia, on Tuesday. This is the first-ever stage win at Dakar, the toughest rally in the world, by an Indian team and an Indian manufacturer. In his sixth straight appearance at Dakar, Joaquim, after a remarkable comeback in Stage 2, following a difficult Stage 1, put up fantastic performance from the start. The capable Hero Rally 450 also withstood the variety of extreme terrains. Mare also does well The team’s other riderAaron Mare enjoyed yet another mistake-free day as well and finished the stage in the 18 th position. He continues to be in top-10 in overall rankings at 10th place. The 255-km special section was lined with long stretches of alternating dune ridges and fast plateaus, and complicated intersections. Navigating through the terrain was indeed a tough task, but both riders aced all hurdles to mark a day in history for Hero MotoSport. Memorable “We’ve made history! It’s amazing to enjoy the first stage win for Hero MotoSports at Dakar today. We’re experiencing the sweet taste of victory after all the hard work a lot of people have put in over the past few months and years. It is also JRod’s first stage win at the Dakar, and he absolutely deserves it,” said Wolfgang Fischer, the Team Manager. “I’m extremely happy with how my day has turned out. Even though the stage was really fast, with a lot of difficulty around alternating dunes and tracks, I was able to push hard right from the very first kilometre. “Thank you, Hero MotoSports, for all the effort they have invested in me, and for putting me through a large number of races this year – this has definitely boosted my confidence by leaps and bounds,” said Joaquim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/joaquim-rodrigues-creates-history/article38121948.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:14 IST,||Wolves put it past United||Wolverhampton Wanderers ended Ralf Rangnick’s unbeaten start as Manchester United interim manager on Monday as Joao Moutinho’s strike earned a deserved 1-0 win at Old Trafford. A first home defeat to Wolves in 42 years leaves United still seventh in the Premier League table, four points adrift of the top four. But it was another lacklustre performance that was just as concerning as the result for Rangnick as the Red Devils were thoroughly outplayed. An injury crisis at centre-back with captain Harry Maguire, Victor Lindelof and Eric Bailly all missing, forced Rangnick to hand Phil Jones his first Premier League appearance in two years. Ragged display But the former England international was one of few United players to emerge with any credit from a ragged display that raises questions over their chances of qualifying for next season’s Champions League. Wolves managed more shots in the first half than they had in their previous three matches combined. But Bruno Lage’s men have scored just 14 goals in 19 league games and again failed to make their control of the game show in the scoreline. Victory lifts Wolves up to eighth, just three points behind United. In the LaLiga, a second half goal from Lucas Ocampos was enough for Sevilla to claim a 1-0 win at Cadiz on Monday and move five points behind the leader Real Madrid. Sancet does the ’trick Oihan Sancet bagged a hat-trick in Athletic Bilbao’s 3-1 win over Osasuna while Villarreal hammered bottom side Levante 5-0. Levante has now mustered just eight points from 19 matches and are eight points away from safety. Bilbao also moved up a place to tenth after Sancet’s hat-trick saw them past Osasuna. Kike put the home side ahead after 10 minutes but 21-year-old Sancet stepped up to steal the show, scoring twice in the first half and completing his hat-trick in the 68th minute.  The results:   Premier League: Manchester United 0 lost to Wolves 1 (Moutinho 82).   LaLiga: Villarreal 5 (Dia 8, Torres 13, Moreno 37, 79, Trigueros 74) bt Levante 0; Osasuna 1 (Kike 10) lost to Athletic Bilbao 3 (Sancet 16, 25, 68); Cadiz 0 lost to Sevilla 1 (Ocampos 58) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wolves-stun-united/article38121949.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:15 IST,||Defending Asia Cup key focus, says Savita||Defending the title at the women’s hockey Asia Cup and sealing a direct berth in the FIH World Cup later will be the key focus for India as it will set the tone for the side ahead of a busy season, said team’s vice-captain Savita. The Indian women will travel to Oman for the Asia Cup, to be held from January 21 to 28. The top eight teams of the continent — India, China, Korea, Japan, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and Singapore — will vie for honours, from where the top four will qualify for the FIH Women’s World Cup 2022 in Spain and the Netherlands in July. “In 2017, we won the Asia Cup to obtain direct qualification for the FIH Women’s World Cup in London.Starting the season with a good show in Asia Cup will give us the right momentum as we play back-to-back tournaments” the goalkeeper said in a Hockey India statement. After the Asia Cup, the Indian women will make their FIH Pro League debut, playing the Netherlands, Spain, Germany and England in Bhubaneswar. The Indians will then travel to Belgium and the Netherlands to take on the host, Argentina and USA in June. “I feel the Pro League matches will provide us with the best exposure ahead of the World Cup (in July).” That follows the Indian women team’s two big assignment of the year — Birmingham Commonwealth Games in July followed by the Asian Games in Hangzhou, where the team will aim for a gold to seal a direct qualification for the the 2024 Paris Olympics. The Indian women will wrap up the season with the FIH Women’s Nations Cup. “Having a good core group in such a hectic year will mean a lot in terms of ensuring our performance doesn’t drop,” added Savita.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/defending-asia-cup-key-focus-says-savita/article38122406.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:15 IST,||Osaka returns with a win||Naomi Osaka is back in a place where she’s won two of her four Grand Slam singles titles and she’s feeling good vibes after some time off trying to rediscover her love for the game. The Australian Open champion opened her 2022 season with a 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 win over Alize Cornet on Tuesday in one of the Summer Set of tournaments in Melbourne. Osaka was returning to Rod Laver Arena for the first time since winning the Australian Open title in February. It was also her first tour-level match since a third-round loss to Leylah Fernandez at the U.S. Open in September. After that loss, Osaka said: “I honestly don’t know when I’m going to play my next tennis match.” Trying times She also took time off earlier last year, a mental health break that began when she withdrew from the French Open before her second-round match. She also sat out Wimbledon, then returned for the Tokyo Olympics, where she lit the cauldron during the opening ceremony. After her opening win in Melbourne, Osaka said she’d set herself one major goal for this year: to enjoy the game. “I’m the type of person that cared a little bit too much about the results and the rankings and I need to find a way to enjoy the game again because that’s the reason I played the game in the first place,” she said. After taking time to hang out with friends and family, she said slowly started to regain the feeling of love for the game. “It’s not like it ever completely went away but it got overshadowed by a lot of emotions that I was feeling just by constantly playing year after year,” Osaka said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/osaka-returns-with-a-win/article38121956.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,||SC East Bengal shares honours with Bengaluru FC||SC East Bengal and Bengaluru FC played out a 1-1 draw at the Bambolim Stadium on Tuesday, but it was the former which emerged with more credit. Semboi Haokip’s first-half goal was cancelled out by an own goal by Saurav Das as a winless East Bengal remained rooted to the bottom of the table. But the spirited performance will lift the mood as interim coach Renedy Singh embarks on a tough rebuilding job. For BFC it was further evidence that one positive result will not clear the fog that has seemingly set over the team. Much was expected after the win over Chennaiyin FC, but on show was yet another disjointed effort. The first-half witnessed some slow and sluggish play from BFC, but it was also because East Bengal’s defensive shape was solid. On 28 minutes, Haokip, formerly of BFC, gave East Bengal a deserved lead through a superb glancing header. Haokip met Wahengbam Luwang’s fine delivery from a free-kick, with marker Cleiton Silva a touch late to react. The Kolkata side almost doubled the lead on 40 minutes, but Daniel Chukwu couldn’t connect with an inch-perfect cross from Lalrinliana Hnamte. Marco Pezzaiuoli introduced Sunil Chhetri at the break and BFC made multiple forays into the box, only to find a match in the towering Adil Khan. But the pressure soon told when Roshan Naorem’s cross from the right was deflected goalward by East Bengal midfielder Sourav Das and goalkeeper Arindam Bhattacharja dived over the ball to let it through. Chhetri could have put BFC ahead in the 72nd minute, but his clean strike off a cut-back from Roshan was kept out by defender Hira Mondal. Soon after at the other end, Haokip could have made it a night to remember but missed a gilt-edged chance, failing to get even a half-decent shot in when he had just the goalie to beat.  The result: Bengaluru FC 1 (Sourav 55-og) drew with SC East Bengal 1 (Haokip 28).   Wednesday’s match: ATK MB vs Hyderabad FC, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sc-east-bengal-shares-honours-with-bengaluru-fc/article38121900.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:19 IST,||It is my best figures, but my best is yet to come: Shardul||Shardul Thakur made history at the Wanderers on Tuesday. His seven for 61 is the best-ever figures by an Indian bowler against South Africa in Test cricket. After the second day’s play, a confident Shardul said, “It is my best figures. But my best is yet to come.” About his gameplan, Shardul said, “I wanted to keep coming hard at the batters. All I did was to hit the crack. There was an area from where the ball kicked up or kept low.” Shardul said it was a team effort. “Shami and Bumrah are the strike bowlers. They bowled well without luck, but created pressure. Today I got the wickets. This is how we play as a pack. “I love playing Test cricket. It is the purest form of the game. My mindset is different when I play Tests. I want to give my best,” he added. Shardul said he was not bothered about the limited opportunities he has been getting. “The selectors and the team management have confidence in me and that is why they are playing me as a genuine bowler. In a large country like India, there is bound to be competition.” About the state of the match, he said, “Cheteshwar Pujara is batting well now. He is feeling comfortable.” On succeeding in overseas conditions, Shardul said, “You need to have a better understanding of the game. Every game is different and presents different challenges.” Shardul said there was help for the seamers at both Centurion and Wanderers. “You have to bowl in good areas,” he said. About the Ranji Trophy getting postponed, he said, “I feel for them [the cricketers]. but you also have to look at the COVID-19 scenario in the country.” Keegan Petersen said the South Africans would like to chase anything below 200. “Over 200, with their bowling on this pitch, it could get difficult for us. The surface is not getting any better. Hopefully, we can get them all out quickly,” he said. Petersen, who came up with his first half-century in Tests on Tuesday, said, “The India pacemen came out guns blazing in the morning. We had to bat through that tough period.” Asked where his solidity and technique came from, Petersen replied, “It came naturally to me. I have been batting like this since I was a kid.” Petersen added, “My dad Dirk was a club cricketer and he would take me along to matches. And he would bowl thousands of deliveries.” The South African was happy with the way the Proteas batted in the first innings. “A couple of us could have gone on to bigger scores, but overall it was a good performance. The quality of bowling was good.” Petersen revealed he had worked on a couple of shortcomings after the first Test. “We identified a couple of areas and addressed them.” He felt a blatantly attacking batting ploy might not succeed on this pitch. “You have to defend the good balls and then the scoring opportunities would come.” Petersen will remember the Wanderers all his life. After all, this is where he came up with his first innings of substance in Tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-is-my-best-figures-but-my-best-is-yet-to-come-shardul/article38121903.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:19 IST,||Jennifer knocks out Archana, creates a flutter||Jennifer Varghese couldn’t control her joy and let out a cry after finishing the match with a forehand cross-court winner. The unseeded 13-year-old from Maharashtra recorded the biggest victory of her fledgling career when she stunned title contender Archana Kamath of PSBB 6-11, 11-9, 11-7, 11-8, 11-9 in a women's first round match of the UTT National-ranking Central Zone table tennis tournament on Tuesday. After losing the first game — she was unable to read Archana’s serves — Jennifer fought back and matched Archana with her forehand topspin spots from the back of the table. “I am thrilled to beat a player like Archana,” said Jennifer, who moved to Chennai in August 2021 to train under coach R. Rajesh.  Meanwhile, the Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) has decided to postpone the under-15, 13 and 11 events which were scheduled to be held here from January 6. The sub-junior and cadet Nationals (from January 11) and the senior Nationals in Shillong (from January 22) have also been postponed due to the COVID-19 situation, M.P. Singh, TTFI Advisor, told The Hindu after the TTFI AGM. However, the u-19 and 17 events will go on as planned.  Ten positive cases of COVID-19, including the parent of a player, were reported on Tuesday after the RT-PCR tests were done.  Important results: Men (second round): Sarth Mishra (UP) bt Payas Jain (Del) 11-8, 6-11, 9-11, 11-6, 11-7, 11-6; Nitin Thiruvengadam (BBSCB) bt Jaydip Das (IA&AD) 11-7, 9-11, 11-5, 11-6, 9-11, 6-11, 13-11; Tamal Ballav (Ben) bt Sachin Hemanth (TNTTA) 11-6, 11-7, 9-11, 8-11, 11-6, 9-11, 11-5; Anirban Nandi (Ben) bt Sushmit Sriram (TTTA) 11-5, 7-11, 8-11, 12-10, 15-13, 11-8.   Women (first round): Madhurika Patkar (PSPB) bt Pritha Vartikar (Mah) 11-4, 11-2, 13-11, 11-9; Suhana Saini (Har) bt Tisha Kohli (Del) 11-9, 11-3, 11-1, 11-7; R. Harshavardhini (RBI) bt Vedhalakshmi Devi (TNTTA) 11-6, 9-11, 11-8, 11-2, 11-8; Amrutha Pushpak (RBI) bt Kavyashree Baskar (TTTA) 2-11, 11-5, 10-12, 8-11, 11-8, 11-8, 11-9; M. Nithyashree (TTTA) bt Tanzia Sharma (Del) 11-6, 11-1, 11-6, 11-6; S. Yashini (TNTTA) bt Risha Mirchandani (Mah) 8-11, 11-9, 11-5, 11-3, 7-11, 11-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jennifer-knocks-out-archana-creates-a-flutter/article38121910.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:11 IST,||ATK MB meets HFC||ATK Mohun Bagan will be looking to carry forward its momentum under new coach Juan Ferrando when it takes on Hyderabad FC, one of the most-improved sides of ISL-8, at Fatorda on Wednesday. Ever since Ferrando arrived to replace Antonio Lopez Habas, under whom ATKMB had remained winless for four rounds, last year’s runner-up has regained its touch. It beat FC Goa 2-1 in its previous match to climb back into the top four. Big challenge Hyderabad will present a big challenge as it has been unbeaten in the last seven rounds and comes into this match after drubbing Odisha FC 6-1. The Manolo Marquez-coached Hyderabad is in the second spot with 15 points from eight matches while ATKMB occupies the fourth spot with 14 from eight. “It will be an amazing game. We have similar styles. Hyderabad, too, likes to play football. “They have good players,” said Ferrando about the upcoming contest. “We are against a good opponent and hope to continue the momentum,” said Marquez about Hyderabad’s chances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atk-mb-meets-hyderabad-fc/article38122219.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:19 IST,||Ranji put on hold||Ranji Trophy’s return is set to be delayed as the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) hierarchy has made up its mind to postpone the tournament due to the third wave of COVID-19. “BCCI does not want to compromise the safety of the players, support staff, match officials and other participants involved and has decided to put the three tournaments on hold till further notice. The BCCI will continue to assess the situation and take a call on the start of the tournaments accordingly,” said BCCI secretary Jay Shah in a media release on Tuesday. Besides the Ranji Trophy, which was scheduled to begin on January 13, the BCCI has also postponed the C.K. Nayudu Trophy (under-25) (January 14) and the senior women’s T20 League (next month). The Hindu understands that the BCCI office-bearers, after holding discussions on Tuesday, also decided to suspend the ongoing Cooch Behar (under-19) Trophy. It effectively means that domestic cricket has been indefinitely put on hold.  The BCCI hierarchy is hoping to start the Ranji by early next month should the Omicron wave subside by mid-month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ranji-put-on-hold/article38121904.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:11 IST,||ITF juniors shifted to Chandigarh||The ITF grade-2 junior tennis tournament, scheduled to be held at the DLTA Complex here from January 9, has been shifted to Chandigarh. “The Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the Capital. We don’t have enough accommodation at the stadium and it’s not easy to have a bubble in hotels. “We requested the International Tennis Federation (ITF) and they agreed last night to shift the event to Chandigarh. In any case, most of them are already playing the tournament in Chandigarh this week,” said Col. Ranbir Chauhan of All India Tennis Association (AITA) on Tuesday. The ‘yellow’ level of Covid restrictions in the Capital does allow training of sports persons for participation in national/ international tournaments as well as for organising such events, without spectators or visitors. The country’s leading juniors Chirag Duhan and Aman Dahiya, along with Danil Panarin of Russia and Amir Milushev of Uzbekistan will be the notable additions in the boys section to the grade-3 event being played this week at the CLTA. In the girls’ section, 104th ranked Shruti Ahlawat is scheduled to join the event next week along with other prominent players like Meshkatolzahra Safi (112) of Iran and Daria Shadchneva (146) of Russia. It may not be that big an unsettling decision for the players as Chandigarh is easily reachable from Delhi by road, rail and air.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/itf-juniors-shifted-to-chandigarh/article38122097.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:15 IST,||Aditi credits Tornqvist for making a difference||Training under new strength and conditioning coach Jane Tornqvist of Sweden for the past two months has paid rich dividends to the Indian women’s football team ahead of the upcoming AFC Asian Cup, feels goalkeeper Aditi Chauhan. Tornqvist is a former Sweden international and she has played under current India head coach Thomas Dennerby at the club level as well as in the national team. After retirement she became a strength and conditioning coach. Aditi believes that morning sessions in the gym with Tornqvist have helped her become a lot more agile on the pitch. “Ever since Jane has joined, it’s made a huge difference. As a goalkeeper, I can see the change in my movements on the pitch. I feel stronger, my jumps are higher, and my kicks are longer,” said Chauhan. “It’s all about knowing which parts of your body to work on to gain the extra yard on the pitch, and she really brings in that knowledge,” she was quoted as saying in a release issued by the All India Football Federation. “And these things really matter in tournaments where you have back-to-back matches with little time for recovery.” Tornqvist, on her part, said the Indian players have become stronger and more agile. “I think the players have started to understand the importance of strength and conditioning, once they started seeing the results on the pitch,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aditi-credits-tornqvist-for-making-a-difference/article38122048.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:15 IST,||Anil Mukhi passes away||Anil Mukhi’s passing away will leave a void in Indian racing that will not be filled. He succumbed to an illness that he had fought with all the vitality and grit which was so symbolic of the way he lived his life. He’s gone far too soon and well before his time. Anil is survived by wife Sreedevi and sons Rajiv, Karun and Akshay. The family had migrated to Canada many years ago, where Anil set up and established the very successful Galaxy Bloodstock Services, with clientele across the globe. Passionate  He was a bloodstock agent, journalist (columnist for The Hindu ), author, statistician for whom horse racing and breeding was a passion.  I was fortunate to have been associated with Anil in the early 1980s in Mumbai. It cemented a friendship that would last decades. Few people will remember that it was Anil who arranged one of the largest consignments of mares and stallions for breeding to come into India on a single jumbo jet in the early 1980s.  Anil’s love for facts, figures and statistics, saw the emergence of a publication called the Indian Turf Statistical Review which was a veritable encyclopaedia on breeding and racing stats in India.  In fact, when the Turf Authorities Of India introduced the ‘Classic Racing Awards’ in 1998, to honour the champions of the Indian turf, it was Anil who was requisitioned to provide all the data in compiling the details that would determine the winners each year. It was a service he would continue to provide until October 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anil-mukhi-passes-away/article38121953.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:11 IST,||Easwaran to lead Bengal||Abhimanyu Easwaran will lead a 21-member Bengal squad in its forthcoming Ranji Trophy opener against Tripura in Bengaluru. Five out of six players who have tested positive for COVID-19 have been named in the squad. Bengal will begin its campaign against Tripura (January 13 to 16) before meeting Kerala (January 20 to 23), Haryana (January 27 to 30), Rajasthan (February 3 to 6) and Vidarbha (February 10 to 13). Dalmiya, Shukla test positive for COVID-19 CAB president Avishek Dalmiya has been admitted to a hospital after testing positive for COVID-19. Former India player Laxmi Ratan Shukla, who is the coach of the Bengal under-23 side, has also tested positive for the virus.  The squad: Abhimanyu Easwaran (Capt), Manoj Tiwary, Sudip Chatterjee, Anustup Majumdar, Abhishek Raman, Sudip Gharami, Abhishek Das, Writtick Chatterjee, Ritwik Roy Chowdhury, Abhishek Porel (wk), Shahbaz Ahmed, Sayan Sekhar Mondal, Akash Deep, Ishan Porel, Mukesh Kumar, Kazi Junaid Saifi, Sakir Habib Gandhi (wk), Pradipta Pramanik, Geet Puri, Nilkantha Das and Karan Lal .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/easwaran-to-lead-bengal/article38122402.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:19 IST,||Bhambri gets direct entry||India’s Yuki Bhambri received a direct entry into the men’s singles main draw of the Tata Open Maharashtra, which will see some of the top players vying for honours here from January 31. The 29-year-old is currently preparing for the Australian Open after recovering from an injury and will kick start his campaign with a protected ranking at the prestigious event which is making a return after a COVID-19 induced break. World No. 18 Aslan Karatsev and defending champion Jiri Vesely will also be seen in action alongside seven other top-100 players as South Asia’s only ATP Tour tournament gears up for a much-awaited comeback at the Balewadi Stadium. With a stiff cut-off at 149, the ATP 250 event will also see the participation of some of the experienced names as well as promising young guns such as Australia’s John Millman, Portugal’s Joao Sousa and teenage sensation Lorenzo Musetti of Italy. Among others, Egor Gerasimov, Ricardas Berankis, World No. 49 James Duckworth and Italian star Stefano Travaglia, who clinched his first ATP challenger title in Sibiu recently, will also make a return.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhambri-gets-direct-entry/article38121908.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:52 IST,||Varsities football feast begins today||A 12-day varsities football festival, which promises to throw up many stars of the future, begins at the Mar Athanasius College here on Wednesday. The South Zone inter-university men’s championship, organised by the Mahatma Gandhi University and hosted by Mar Athanasius College, will be held from January 5 to 10 and this will be followed by the varsities National from Jan. 12 to 16. Ninety-two teams, divided into four bunches, will be in knockout action in the South Zone event with the top four playing a league to pick the champion. The top four finishers will also qualify for the National event and will be joined by four teams from each of the other three zones. The South Zone matches will be held at three venues — Kothamangalam’s Mar Athanasius College, Muvattupuzha’s Municipal Stadium and Chelad’s T.V. Joseph School. The quarterfinals and the league matches begin on Jan. 9. Calicut University won the South Zone title in the last edition while Kerala finished runner-up with Kannur and SRM (Chennai) taking the next two spots. Dr. Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor, Mahatma Gandhi University, will inaugurate the South Zone championship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/varsities-football-feast-begins-today/article38122280.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:15 IST,||Strong start for Sania, Bopanna & Ramkumar||Sania Mirza and Nadia Kichenok of Ukraine knocked out second seeds Gabriela Dabrowski and Giuliana Olmos 1-6, 6-3, [10-8] in the doubles first round of the WTA tennis tournament in Adelaide on Tuesday. In the men’s ATP event in Adelaide, Rohan Bopanna and Ramkumar Ramanathan got off to a flying start as they won their doubles first round 6-2, 6-1 against Jamie Cerretani and Fernando Romboli. In the second round, Bopanna and Ramkumar will play the eighth seeds Nathaniel Lammons and Jackson Withrow of the USA.  The results (doubles, first round):   $703,580 WTA, Adelaide: Nadia Kichenok (Ukr) & Sania Mirza bt Gabriela Dabrowski (Can) & Giuliana Olmos (Mex) 1-6, 6-3, [10-8].   $521,000 ATP, Adelaide: Rohan Bopanna & Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Jamie Cerretani (USA) & Fernando Romboli (Bra) 6-2, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/strong-start-for-sania-bopanna-ramkumar/article38121958.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:16 IST,||Bangladesh eyes historic victory||Bangladesh looked to be closing in on a shock victory over World Test champion New Zealand after Ebadot Hossain’s three wickets in the final session of the fourth day reduced the host to 147 for five in its second innings, a lead of only 17, in the opening match in Mount Maunganui on Tuesday. Bangladesh was all out for 458.  The scores: New Zealand 328 & 147/5 in 63 overs (Will Young 69, Ebadot 4/39) vs. Bangladesh 458 in 176.2 overs (Mahmudul Hasan Joy 78, Najmul Hossain Shanto 64, Mominul Haque 88, Liton Das 86, Mehidy Hasan Miraz 47, Boult 4/85, Wagner 3/101).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-eyes-historic-victory/article38121677.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,||Australia looks to sustain momentum||Scott Boland has retained his spot in Australia’s bowling attack for the fourth Ashes Test after his starring role on debut in the series-deciding victory over England last week. Boland took six for seven as England collapsed for 68 in the second innings in Melbourne, helping Australia to retain the Ashes with two games to go. Australia replaced the injured Travis Head with Usman Khawaja.  The teams (from): Australia: Pat Cummins (Capt.), David Warner, Marcus Harris, Marnus Labuschagne, Steve Smith, Usman Khawaja, Cameron Green, Alex Carey, Mitchell Starc, Nathan Lyon and Scott Boland.   England: Joe Root (Capt.), Haseeb Hameed, Zak Crawley, Dawid Malan, Ben Stokes, Jonny Bairstow, Jos Buttler, Mark Wood, Jack Leach, Stuart Broad and Jimmy Anderson .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-looks-to-sustain-momentum/article38121897.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:18 IST,||A dismissal that raised eyebrows||The incident happened just before lunch. Shardul Thakur brought one back into Rassie van der Dussen. The ball found the inside edge and Rishabh Pant completed an acrobatic catch diving forward. van der Dussen ‘walked’ and the players trooped off for lunch. Then came the shocker. The replays from the front and straight angles showed Pant taking the ball off the grass. Everyone in the press box and the former cricketers this correspondent spoke to were convinced it was a bump-ball catch. The next question was, would van der Dussen be ‘recalled’ to the crease since the next delivery had not been bowled, the next batsman had not come in, and the Indians too had departed to the pavilion with the dismissed batter for lunch. Apparently, the umpires and the third umpire had to come to an agreement about “conclusive” evidence about the legality of the catch before requesting the Indians to withdraw the appeal. It came to light that the umpires did not find that ‘conclusive’ evidence despite the replays indicating otherwise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-dismissal-that-raised-eyebrows/article38121898.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:00 IST,||Sharvari nets hat-trick||Sharvari Donkar starred with a hat-trick as Pacangan FC, Satara registered a 10-0 win over Next Sports Academy, Palghar in the sixth round of the WIFA Women’s Football League at the Cooperage. This is the qualifying tournament for the AIFF Indian Women’s Football League.  The results: Pacangan, Satara 10 (Sharvari Donkar 3, Kumari Shikalgar 2, Arya More 2, Ambika Dange, Shivani Dhanawade, Hritika Bandsode) bt Next SA, Palghar 0; Snigmay, Pune 0 drew with India Rush, Mumbai 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharvari-nets-hat-trick/article38122380.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:52 IST,||Elshaddai fires in five||Ghana’s Elshaddai Acheampong scored five goals while Jyothi and Win Theingi Tun had a hat-trick each as Gokulam Kerala thrashed Luca SC 14-0 in the Kerala Women’s League football at the Corporation Stadium on Tuesday. It was Gokulam’s fourth straight win.  The result:   Gokulam Kerala 14 (Jyothi 2, 30, 38, Win Theingi Tun 5, 19, 59, Elshaddai Acheampong 10, 14, 31, 35, 47, Sonali 13, Samiksha 56, 77) bt Luca 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/elshaddai-fires-in-five/article38122279.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 06:15 IST,||Shooting trials postponed||The National selection trials in pistol events, scheduled to be hosted at the Dr. Karni Singh Range, Tughlakabad, here from January 13 to 25, have been postponed by the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI), owing to the weekend curfew announced by the Delhi government. NRAI has also postponed the rifle and shotgun selection trials scheduled in Bhopal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shooting-trials-postponed/article38121954.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 08:28 IST,||Relief from sorrow||Human birth is far superior to others since man is gifted with the capacity to analyse the purpose of his existence. He can hence try to seek a way out of samsara. Generally, pratyaksha, anumana and experience are some of the means by which we understand the world around us. But to know about the highest truth, the Supreme Brahman, the sastras are the only means and the sastra study is not easy for a majority of people. In this context, it is a fact that the Puranas and the Itihasas are rich in the profound knowledge of the sastras and that by simply listening to the narratives many are able to move towards God realisation, pointed out Sri B. Damodhara Dikshitar in a discourse. Sacred literature has the power to influence the human mind to think and contemplate on matters more subtle than the mere material world of existence. This is exemplified in the case of Narayana Bhattatiri who took up the vow to do Bhagavata Parayana in the temple premises at Guruvayur to get rid of his disease. When thus engaged, he was inspired to compose the Narayaneeyam, a unique devotional work which is a concise version of the Bhagavata Purana in 1036 verses. It is known as Narayaneeyam for two reasons. It describes the glories of the Supreme Lord Narayana and also it is composed by Narayana Bhattatiri. He accepts that this composition was possible only through God’s grace. Above all, it inspires the highest kind of devotion, for, in the course of the narration, it is clear that Bhattatiri evolves in bhakti to ascend to the highest level when he is blessed with the vision of the very Supreme Brahman who is the indweller in each and every aspect of the entire creation. It is the belief that people can find relief from all kinds of distress by reciting the verses with great faith.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/relief-from-sorrow/article38121863.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 08:31 IST,||Sudoku — January 5, 2022||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-5-2022/article38122674.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:01 IST,||Startups take on the pandemic||Krishna Reddy G lost his diabetic father to COVID-19 during the first wave. Travelling from their village to nearby Tadripati in the Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh to pick up his diabetes medicine, his father fell ill and within days, was gone. The sudden loss sent Krishna into depression. But months later, after witnessing people in the nearby villages struggling to procure essentials in the midst of the pandemic, Krishna decided to create something in his father’s memory. Krishna and long-time colleague Paramesh Gandlu left their Big Tech jobs and founded KarryNow in April 2021 to create a seamless line of transportation between villages and nearby towns. Through multiple experiments with village leaders and word-of-mouth grassroots marketing, KarryNow was able to scale up quickly. Since its inception, the startup has partnered with 130 villages across the State. In the same ‘quick commerce’ realm of KarryNow, Chennai-based Boonbox has also stepped up to deliver essential goods and provide rural aid to rural areas; the startup had already established a considerable and trusting network across Tamil Nadu, and 15 other states. Meanwhile in Gujarat, vegetable farmer-vendor Sarojben from Bhuteshwari village of Gandhinagar district was eager to make profits from a bumper harvest of produce which she started selling in February 2020. But then the lockdowns brought about transport shutdowns and endless red tape of permissions to sell vegetables at Agriculture Produce Market, Dehgam, which closed for many days. Refusing to give up, she approached Padma Shri awardee Reema Nanavaty’s NGO Self Employed Women’s Association (SEWA), which partnered with WhatsApp to facilitate an end-to-end effective business model, connecting women farmers to customers in urban areas without physical contact. The goal was to ensure that farmers get market rates for their produce, and to create a business model that is easy to understand by everyone involved. While the pandemic highlighted the massive digital divide between urban and rural India, technologists (startups, incubators and Big Tech) have been working diligently to close this gap, choosing to work with neighbouring villages, explaining why India was named the third largest startup ecosystem in the world — just this year, Indian startups bagged a record US$36 billion in funding this year alone. Krishna is certain that the solution he and his partner Paramesh came up with would not be possible without the current state of Internet penetration across the country; a model like this would not have been viable 10 years ago. Similarly, Reema explains, “For the informal working women sector, innovation is a coping strategy for survival. Part of that is using more technology they are already comfortable with and for millions, in our context, this meant using WhatsApp. We started with a WhatsApp group with farmers working near Ahmedabad and potential customers. This helped connect the two and create an enterprise. Now, the model has evolved to see 200 vegetable growers selling directly to customers.” “In our early research we found that around 60% of the villagers in Anantapur use smartphones while a large portion of the rest use a keypad phone,” says Krishna. “Through our chats with residents, we found out that a vernacular app would best serve everyone, so at the end of December 2021, we are launching the app officially.” Trumping the distance The pandemic ensured that even the smallest distances between cities and nearby settlements felt vast. But companies like WhatsApp, Haryana-based fintech startup RBP Finivis and KarryNow as well as NGOs like SEWA make sure that this is addressed. Sam Gupta, CEO and founder of RBP Finivis, explains, “Often times, people in rural areas depend on cash-in-hand, and during the pandemic, it is not easy to travel to nearby towns for withdrawals and not a lot of people in these areas have confidence to use digital payment apps or use a debit card. To help them through a stressful time, we eliminate that pressure.” The machines are across the Northeast, North and Delhi-NCR to set some grounding, but they have plans to expand nationally. SEWA wanted to make sure that the produce of cherry, strawberry and apple farmers in Kashmir produce did not go waste due to the halted central supply chains. They helped women farmers build their own decentralised supply chain and build relationships with customers. “We sent customers pictures of women farmers plucking and sorting the various fresh fruits. This was a great motivator to get a new market going and also be transparent about the fruits’ state,” says Reema. This growing trust has seen SEWA help bring 2,000 kilograms of cherries and strawberries and 15,000 kilograms of apples to Ahmedabad. By 2030, KarryNow hopes to work with 6,00,000 villages in India, creating more rural entrepreneurs and employees. “Startup founders in the last year have had to be problem solvers,” concludes Krishna, “and the pandemic presented countless different problems for everyone. Startups now solve two or three problems at the same time — the new norm for business and tech.”  Future forward||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/startups-take-on-the-pandemic/article38122314.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:12 IST,||Of opulence and heirlooms||From reviving heirlooms to working across more than 50 handloom clusters in the country, Visakhapatnam-based Mavuri Silks blends tradition with modern trends with an aim to infuse new life into the handloom sector. The brand was launched seven months ago with the core purpose revol-ving around improving the lives of the artisans from rural India by making the market more accessible to them. Today, it has a wide collection of handlooms handpicked from remote weaving clusters of the country. In addition, the brand also wants to promote the idea of keeping past garments alive by recreating heirloom sarees passed on to generations. “The main idea behind Mavuri is to empower the handloom weavers’ community who are struggling to keep the craftsmanship alive. The sector was already ailing and the pandemic has made things a lot of more challenging,” says Hema Harika, director of Mavuri. The origin of the brand Mavuri can be traced back to decades when in the 1930s Mavuri Veeramma, the great grandmother-in-law of Harika, would curate and sell the finest handwoven sarees for weddings. Dressed in a Kaasta saree (a style of saree draping), she would go from door to door selling the handwoven sarees in the small town of Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh. “Be it her unique dressing style or her eternal love for handloom products, there are countless little things about her from which we gain immense inspiration from. Above all, it was her undying spirit to be bold and fiercely independent, which makes her the muse of Mavuri,” says Harika. Mavuri Silks seamlessly interlinks the traditional rich Indian heritage with the modern-day elements of fashion, trends, paletes and patterns.  Speaking about the heirloom sarees and recreating the weaves, Harika says there are intense emotions attached to the idea of reviving century-old weaves. “Working on those weaves is equally challenging as it involves a lot of effort by the weavers. Hence, the price goes up. There is a growing demand for reviving heirloom sarees now,” she adds. Harika is currently working towards recreating her mother’s wedding saree to keep it as a part of her priced collection. A kanjeevaram with the rudraksha and annapakshi motifs all over the weave, the saree holds a special place in her heart. “It is currently in the loom and will take more than a month to recreate it,” she adds. Sharing tips on ways to keep the heavy silks safe, Harika says: “I usually roll them to a stick and cover it with muslin cloth. If the sari is folded it has more tendency to tear in the area where creases are formed. If the sari is folded, keep changing the fold every now and then just to ensure that the creases are not formed,” she adds. Mavuri has collections from various handloom clusters of India from regions like Gujarat, West Bengal, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu. “It takes months of dedicated work and immense artisanship of our master weavers to craft six yards of elegance.” says Harika.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/of-opulence-and-heirlooms/article38122316.ece
05 January 2022||January 05 2022 05:12 IST,||Empathy in the sunset years||“In our country, with the culture of the joint family disappearing due to various reasons, the percentage of elderly parents living by themselves has increased drastically. The pandemic has further aggravated their plight, and added another dimension to this issue,” says Sanjay Dattatri, author of The Home Stretch: Family Caregiver’s Handbook , (Penguin).  Sanjay, a software engineer, in the last seven years has been working on various initiatives to make the lives of the elderly in India better. He has been running Old is Gold, a store exclusively for senior citizens, in Chennai for the past five years. He adds, “There was already a certain amount of isolation and with the pandemic they became completely left to themselves, with no visitors and they could not even seek any assistance from relatives or friends either.” “The pandemic has taken away the social life of the geriatric population and further isolated them in their twilight years. I observed that their interpersonal skills were affected and depression among the elders is now common,” he says. The author had spent many years taking care of his bed-ridden mother; the book reflects his caregiving experience and interactions with doctors, counsellors, senior citizens and other caregivers. Sanjay’s book is an empathetic, useful guide that seeks to simplify caregiving and equip readers with the tools and guidance required to build a safer, happier and more comfortable life for the elders around them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/empathy-in-the-sunset-years/article38122403.ece
